We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Pit bulls killed after mauling dog
The city put down three pit bulls after they were accused of 
mauling an emotional support dog to death, pg. 5
Lettuce not be scared
Florida-grown lettuce is safe to eat, pg. 4GATORS DOWN OSPREYS AT HOME
The Florida men’s basketball team defeated UNF 98-66 
on Tuesday in a game it was trailing in at one point. Find 
out who gave UF the spark it needed, pg. 14
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 39
ABOUT 35 STUDENTS
 CAME TO HIS FIRST PUBLIC 
MEETING AT UF. 
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Older generations often criticize col-
lege students for whining about diver-
sity. 
UF Chief Diversity Ofﬁ  cer Antonio 
Farias told about 35 students Tuesday 
night in Pugh Hall that despite the criti-
cism, Generation Z and millennials are 
the most diverse generations ever. 
“We are absolutely terriﬁ  ed of you,” 
he said. “You have capacity that we’ve 
never had.”
This was the ﬁ  rst time Farias has 
publically met with students since he 
was hired four months ago to help the 
university become more inclusive for students from different races and in-
come levels.  
Even in other top 10 public univer-
sities, institutions are struggling with 
creating a diverse environment of pro-
fessors, faculty and students who are 
from different backgrounds, Farias said. 
Only 7 percent of UF’s faculty is African 
American. 
“When we don’t include people from 
all different races, we miss out on inﬁ  -
nite potential,” he said. 
Diversity leads to new ideas and ways 
to create a more inclusive culture, Farias 
said. Through his new position, he said 
he hopes to create a network that will 
allow students, faculty and administra-
tion to work together to solve problems 
of mistreatment with race, gender and 
ethnicity. 
Diversity was not a concept Farias New UF diversity oﬃ   cer 
discusses lack of inclusion
SEE DIVERSITY,  PAGE 3Christopher King / Alligator Staff
PUPPY LOVE
Nathan Cereceda, a 19-year-old UF animal sciences sophomore, gets a kiss from Marty, a 4-year-old American 
bulldog and boxer mix, at the AMA Puppy Kissing Booth Fundraiser. The fundraiser was held Tuesday afternoon 
on Turlington Plaza to raise money for the American Marketing Association at UF and to give out some puppy love.
ST. FRANCIS HOUSE 
AND GRACE 
MARKETPLACE OPEN 
THEIR DOORS.
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Local shelters have opened 
to provide warmth for the 
homeless as temperatures ap-
proach freezing.
Gainesville activated its 
Cold Night Shelter Program 
from Tuesday night to Thurs-
day night because of the 
weather, according to a press 
release. 
Overnight temperatures in 
Gainesville are expected to 
dip as low as 32 degrees with a freeze warning in effect as 
near as Lake City, said Nate 
McGinnis, a meteorologist at 
the National Weather Service 
Forecast Ofﬁ  ce in Jackson-
ville. 
There was a sharp decrease 
in temperature between Mon-
day and Tuesday, with tem-
peratures dropping from 41 to 
32 degrees, McGinnis said. 
St. Francis House, at 413 S. 
Main St., and Grace Market-
place, at 3055 NE 28th Drive, 
are offering services during 
the Cold Night Program. Jon 
DeCarmine, the Grace direc-
tor, said he expected more 
than 30 people to seek warmth 
at the shelter Tuesday night. 
Families, women and chil-
dren can ﬁ  nd shelter at St. Francis House, while Grace 
Marketplace provides relief 
for individual adults, the re-
lease said. Both locations will 
provide food, showers, laun-
dry services and a place to 
sleep.
The temperature threshold 
for the Cold Night Shelter is 45 
degrees, the release said. The 
program is typically available 
from early November through 
the end of March. 
The low tonight is 33 de-
grees and 43 for Thursday, 
McGinnis said. The tempera-
ture will be a high of 57 Fri-
day. 
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgShelters open as temperatures 
drop in GainesvilleBy Aaron Ritter
Alligator Staff Writer
Austin Decker sat in The Swamp Restaurant’s bar 
Tuesday night surrounded by dozens of his friends. But 
he was thinking about the one friend who couldn’t make 
it. 
About a month ago, Decker laid awake when he heard 
strange noises coming from the other side of his bedroom 
at 2 a.m.
He got out of bed and found his roommate, Wyatt Ful-
ghum, convulsing in a nocturnal seizure.
Decker drove him to UF Health Shands Hospital where 
doctors found a ﬁ  st-sized tumor on the left side of Ful-
ghum’s brain. 
Fulghum, a 23-year-old UF international relations mas-
ters student, was diagnosed with stage four glioblastoma 
brain cancer. 
“One day we are ﬁ  ne and the next day this kid has a 
year to live,” Decker said.
Decker, a 23-year-old UF international business and 
management masters student, hosted a bar crawl at Mid-
town to raise money for Fulghum’s medical expenses. 
Fulghum’s friends, fellow students and Gainesville UF students 
drink for cancer 
treatment
SEE CANCER,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
HIGH  55° LOW  36°
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Union Street Farmer’s Market 
(Hosted by USFM & Bo Diddly 
Plaza)
The weekly farmer’s market 
will have more than 40 vendors. 
There will also be live music 
and a family-friendly atmo-
sphere. It will take place at 4-7 
p.m. at Bo Diddly Plaza, at 111 
E. University Ave. 
Women in STEM Forum
The Classy and Oh! So Sassy 
ladies of Gamma Eta Sorority’s 
Alpha Chapter have teamed up 
with organizations on campus 
working on empowering women 
to thrive in all aspects of life, in-
cluding academic and profession-
al success. At 6-7:30 p.m. in Reitz 
Union room 2335, a panel and 
networking session will be dedi-
cated to women in the fields of 
science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics. The panelists 
are women in the Gainesville and 
UF community who are dedicated 
to enhancing not only the worlds 
of STEM but also providing op-
portunities for women to thrive 
in such. There will be free food.
 
THURSDAY
Consent is Global
Students can join the Consent 
is Global panel at 6:30-8:30 
p.m. in the Reitz Union to shed 
light on sexual assault in differ-
ent communities. Panelists in-
clude Maddy Coy, a UF Center 
for Gender, Sexualities, and 
Women’s Studies Research lec-turer; Debra King, a UF English 
professor; and Karina Vado, a 
UF English professor.
FRIDAY
The 1975 Listening Party
Celebrate the release of 
The 1975’s new album “A 
Brief Inquiry Into Online 
Relationships” at 4-6 p.m. at 
Hear Again Records, at 201 SE 
First St. Suite 105. It is one of 
31 official UMusic Experience 
listening parties in the coun-
try. Attendees will receive a 
limited-edition poster only 
available at these official lis-
tening events (while supplies 
last). Plus, attendees will be 
able to enter to win a limited 
edition “A Brief Inquiry Into 
Online Relationships” mani-
festo package. Vinyl copies of 
“A Brief Inquiry Into Online 
Relationships” will be avail-
able for purchase at Hear Again 
Records. Note: The 1975 will 
not be in attendance.
Florida Museum to host 20th an-
nual ‘Trashformations’ event
See how Alachua County middle 
school, high school and college 
students transform “waste” into 
creative works of art at 6-8 p.m. 
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will display winning 
entries from the 20th annual 
Trashformations through Dec. 
10. 
Gay Movie Night 
The Pride Community Center, 
at 3131 NW 13th St., is host-
ing Gay Movie Night at 7:30 
p.m. This month the center will be showing “Call Me By Your 
Name.” Gay Movie Night is on 
the last Friday of every month 
and is a free service of the Pride 
Community Center. A $2 dona-
tion is requested to help cover 
the cost of snacks.
MORE
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting art-
ists, artisans and performers for 
SoulMakes, an immersive art 
show and holiday market, at 
1-6 p.m. Dec. 9 at Cypress and 
Grove. DreamQuilt will be ac-
cepting performers for the show 
up to Nov. 30. All types of art-
ists are welcome, and present-
ing artists are encouraged to do 
demonstrations, talk with guests 
and work on projects in the 
space. To sell art or craft items, 
a booth fee of $15 (student rate) 
applies. Learn more by emailing 
booking@dreamquilt.org or tex-
ting 352-872-2620.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 39
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan Salguero, Annika SefferLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
residents wore gold wristbands 
and enjoyed a $2,000 bar tab at 
Fat Daddy’s, JJ’s Tavern and The 
Rowdy Reptile. Appetizers and 
drinks were discounted at The 
Swamp Restaurant, Decker said. 
Decker raised $1,750 by selling 
presale bands and negotiated 10 
percent of Tuesday night’s sales 
from participating restaurants.
All proceeds from the event 
will go toward Fulghum’s medical 
costs, Decker said.
Tommy Shields, a 22-year-old 
UF political science senior, drank 
beer in The Swamp and remem-
bered working out with Fulghum 
outside of the UF ROTC building.  
Shields aspired to emulate Ful-
ghum’s commitment to helping 
others, even if that meant consol-
ing his friends and family about 
his condition, he said.
“He’s not going to be able to 
help the world like he wanted to,” 
Shields said.
Fulghum impacts the lives of 
everyone he interacts with, said 
Briana Bazail, the 21-year-old 
president of UF Cicerones. 
Bazail said Fulghum gave her 
the advice she needed to excel in 
the organization. His knowledge 
of the organization and stoic con-
ﬁ  dence inspired her to go from a 
student member to president. 
“His heart is gold,” Bazail said. 
“And his words are near and dear 
to my heart.”
@AaronRitter18
aritter@alligator.org
COLLEGE 
NIGHT
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595Free Wells 
for Ladies
with college ID
$6.99 
Mac n’ Cheese
Loaded or  
Pesto Chicken   WEDNESDAY NIGHTS
In the Creekside Mall Plaza
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Visit us at Bo Diddley Plaza  
Farmers Market  Wed. 4-7 pm
954-882-2879
@Emma Jeens Pies
considered when growing up in the Bronx 
in New York City since he was constantly 
surrounded by different ethnicities. 
“There was no such thing as a white 
person,” he said. “We were Puerto Rican, 
Irish, Mexican and much more.”
However, at the collegiate level, there 
is not equal representation of different eth-
nicities and socio-economic backgrounds, 
Farias said. This is mainly due to people 
from lower income levels not receiving the 
same opportunities. 
It’s more important to think about the 
diversity of thought, said Sarah Long, 
the president of the UF chapter of Young 
Americans for Freedom. 
“It’s more important to have class-
rooms ﬁ  lled with students that think dif-
ferently than look differently,” said Long, 
a 20-year-old UF economics junior. DIVERSITY,  from pg. 1He wants to create a 
diverse environment.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Grant Howard, a 21-year-old UF statistics junior, and Thomas DePaola, a 21-year-old UF 
applied physiology and kinesiology junior, drink at Fat Daddy’s Tuesday night during the 
pub crawl for Wyatt Fulghum. Although neither student knows Fulghum personally, they 
were happy that they could contribute to the treatment for Fulghum’s stage four brain 
cancer. “It’s a great reason to go out, ” Howard said. 
CANCER,  from pg. 1They raised $1,750 by selling presale bands.  
T aylor Roth / Alligator Contributor
UF Chief Diversity Ofﬁ  cer Antonio 
Farias met with about 35 students 
in Pugh Hall Tuesday night to talk 
about the importance of promoting 
inclusion on campus. 
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018THERE IS NO CONFIRMATION 
WHY HE LEFT.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Without a given reason, the city of 
Gainesville will be losing a high-ranking 
staff member next year.
On a letter dated Nov. 17, Gainesville As-
sistant City Manager Fred Murry sent in his 
resignation for his position effective March 
1.
The city official thanked Anthony Lyons, 
the Gainesville City Manager, for the oppor-
tunities given during his tenure, according 
to the letter.
“I am more than grateful to have had 
the opportunity of working with such great 
teams,” Murry wrote.
Murry declined to comment further on 
the matter, said city of Gainesville spokes-
person Chip Skinner. There was no speci-
fied reason behind the departure, Skinner said.
No relevant disciplinary records regard-
ing Fred Murry as Assistant City Manager 
are on file, wrote Christopher Beatty, the 
city’s senior executive assistant, in an email.
It’s possible Murry was ready to move on 
to his next career step, said City Commis-
sioner David Arreola. 
“I’m sad to see Fred go, but I fully expect 
him to find a wonderful opportunity,” Arre-
ola said. “He’s always been a really fantastic 
assistant city manager.”
During Murry’s tenure, the commission-
ers appreciated his help with putting more 
staff on a project to help with the city’s af-
fordable housing issue, Arreola said. Mur-
ry’s ambition and approachability made him 
excellent at his job, he said.
“He’s got to make a choice about what’s 
next in his career, and I wish him all the 
best,” Arreola said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGainesville Assistant City 
Manager resigns
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Florida-grown romaine 
lettuce is safe to eat after a 
week of uncertainty among 
health officials, according 
to the Florida Department 
of Agriculture. 
The U.S. Food and Drug 
Association requested the 
removal of the leafy green 
from grocery store shelves 
on Nov. 20 after romaine 
lettuce led to an E.coli out-
break across multiple states 
and Canada. The Centers 
for Disease Control and Pre-
vention urged the public to 
avoid eating it, according to a press release sent out by 
the Florida Department of 
Agriculture. 
On Tuesday, Florida 
Commissioner of Agricul-
ture Adam Putnam declared 
romaine lettuce grown 
in Florida to be safe after 
speaking with the FDA. The 
administration determined 
that the tainted lettuce orig-
inated in California. 
For Alachua County 
Public Schools, the na-
tional E. coli outbreak was 
not concerning because the 
romaine lettuce served in 
cafeterias is grown locally 
in The Family Garden farm, 
said Jackie Johnson, the school district’s spokesper-
son.
Florida is one of the pri-
mary growing regions for 
romaine lettuce in the win-
ter, in addition to Arizona, 
Mexico and California’s Im-
perial Valley, according to 
the Associated Press. How-
ever, these regions had not 
yet shipped lettuce when 
the outbreak began.
The outbreak has had no 
fatalities but has affected 
43 people in 12 states and 
22 people in Canada. When 
purchasing lettuce, the As-
sociated Press said to check 
the label for the harvest 
date and region. Romaine lettuce from 
Florida safe to eat, FDA says
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Daron Dean sensed something 
was wrong when he couldn’t hear 
his feel-good country music Mon-
day morning.
After he realized his laptop was unplugged from his classroom’s 
projector and stolen, the UF photo-
journalism adjunct professor called 
University Police. 
At around 9 a.m. every Mon-
day, Dean sets up his laptop in his 
Weimer Hall classroom to play mu-
sic before his students come in for Advanced Photojournalism. 
On Monday, he left the class-
room unlocked for about 10 min-
utes when he went to go pick up 
a cup of coffee at the Reitz Union 
Starbucks. When he came back, his 
$3,300 personal 15-inch MacBook 
Pro was gone. 
Students who were in the room 
five minutes before class started 
did not see anything, he said. UPD officers are still investigat-
ing the case, UPD spokesperson 
Major Brad Barber said. 
Police did not reveal the sus-
pect’s name but have identified 
him through security camera foot-
age, Barber said. Officers have not 
retrieved the laptop. 
He backed up his personal pho-
tos, but Dean said he lost his the-
sis. He’s supposed to graduate in Spring from the Savannah College 
of Art and Design, he said.
On Tuesday, he drove to the 
nearest Apple store in Jacksonville 
to buy a new laptop. 
“It’s the end of the semester, 
and I’ve got kids counting on me,” 
Dean said.  
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Weimer bandit steals faculty laptop, University Police saidCourtesy of The Alligator
Palm Springs Community Middle School students in West Palm Beach smile after 
receiving a box of Gator shirts. UF was the only school of 20 to respond to the 
students’ request for shirts to celebrate their weekly College Friday.
UF THE ONL Y SCHOOL OF 20 TO 
RESPOND TO A CLASS LETTER 
FOR FREE SHIRTS
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
The students at Palm Springs Communi-
ty Middle School often hear the word “no.”
The group of about 2,000 students at 
the West Palm Beach school come from a 
predominantly low-income background and 
can’t afford basic needs, said Devon Mel-
lul, a 26-year-old language arts teacher at 
the school.  
“They’re so used to rejection,” Mellul 
said.
But two weeks ago, the students got a 
“yes” from the UF University Athletic Asso-
ciation. Mellul and her homeroom students 
wrote a letter explaining that the school is 
a Title I school, and many of the students 
can’t afford college gear.
The letter said: “We are an avid school 
with many keen minds and very bright stu-
dents who want nothing more than to some-
day attend a college or university.”
Mellul sent the letter to 20 universities, 
including Florida State University, the Uni-
versity of Central Florida and Florida Atlan-
tic University, she said.  
The only school that responded to the 
request was UF. The university sent 30 
bright orange shirts in an oversized brown 
box to Mellul’s students so they could par-
ticipate in the school’s weekly College Fri-
day, which encourages students and staff 
to wear college attire to class to promote 
higher education.
Only a few students dress up because about 90 percent of them can’t afford to 
spend money on new clothes, Mellul said, 
which is why she led the effort to be gifted 
free attire.
Before students walked into their home-
room class, Mellul was up early to fold 
the shirts neatly over her students’ desks. 
Smiles stretched across their faces as the 
surprise sank in, Mellul said. The students 
put on the shirts without even asking where 
they came from.  
A video of the students walking into 
class has since gone viral, receiving more 
than 500,000 views.
Most of Mellul’s nearly 25 students will 
wear their shirts every Friday, she said. For 
many, she said, it is the only college shirt 
they own.
“This gets them excited about the college 
process and future,” she said. “I really think 
that UF will forever stick in their minds.”  
Although Julie Hackney, the University 
Atheltic Association executive assistant for 
marketing and promotions, said she re-
ceives letters every day from schools, fami-
lies and charity organizations, it is a goal 
of UF employees to respond to as many as 
possible, especially when the requests are 
made for children.
There are times when the association 
is limited on supplies, Hackney wrote in 
an email. But employees often try to send 
along shirts and promotional items that are 
leftover.  
“It is a very warm and humbling feeling 
when you can brighten their day,” Hackney 
said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgMiddle school students celebrate 
college in true Gator fashion
The laptop cost $3,300.NUMBER OF CASES OF ROMAINE OUTBREAKS:
Information from Centers for Disease Control and PreventionCalifornia (11)
Connecticut (1)
Illinois (2)
Massachusetts (2)Maryland (1)
Michigan (7)
New Hampshire (2)
New Jersey (9)New York (5)
Ohio (1)
Rhode Island (1)
Wisconsin (1)WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
ABOUT 60 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
People tend to focus on racism, homopho-
bia and sexism, but UF history professor Ste-
ven Noll says no one talks about ableism.
Monday night, Noll, a master lecturer in 
UF’s history department, told about 60 people 
in the Reitz Union about disability in the U.S. 
and the contributions of disability advocate Ed 
Roberts.
Roberts contracted polio in 1953 at age 14. 
He was forced to be in an iron lung, Noll said. 
During the spring of 1962, African Americans 
were ﬁ  ghting for equality and inclusion, while 
Roberts fought for the same rights for people 
with disabilities.
The lecture was hosted by Delta Alpha 
Pi, a UF honor society that provides a com-
munity to high-achieving students with dis-
abilities. The event was held to commemorate 
the organization’s ﬁ  rst year on campus and 
to celebrate diversity, said Carrie Hartnett, the 
secretary of Delta Alpha Pi.
Hartnett, a 23-year-old UF political science 
and history senior, said the organization’s 
members plan to host more lecture-style 
events for students.
“We’re trying to be more than an honors 
society,” Hartnett said. “We’re trying to focus 
on advocacy as well.”
Noll was chosen because he is an advocate 
for individuals with disabilities and because 
he teaches a class on the history of disability 
in America, Hartnett said.
During the history lecture, Noll said when 
Roberts graduated from high school at 20 years old, he wanted to go to college. Despite 
being accepted into the University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, the university said college 
wasn’t for him. He decided to go anyway.
“He was told by a dean — and hopefully 
deans don’t say these things today — ‘We 
tried cripples before, and it didn’t work’, and 
Roberts said, ‘Too bad, I’m coming here,’” 
Noll said.
Roberts then became an activist on cam-
pus and inspired other students with disabili-
ties to come to the university and make an 
activist group, Noll said.
After Roberts graduated with his bache-
lor’s and masters degrees, people wanted him 
to go into academia, Noll said.
“He wanted to be an advocate and an ac-
tivist for his life,” Noll said.
Roberts later established the Center For 
Independent Living, a community disabil-
ity resource center. He sparked a movement, 
enabling protests that eventually forced then-
president Jimmy Carter to sign and pass Sec-
tion 504 of the Disabilities Act, which pro-
hibited any organization associated with the 
Federal Government to discriminate on the 
basis of disability.
Carissa Madden, a 31-year-old UF spe-
cial education masters student, came to the 
event to get more information on the history 
of prominent ﬁ  gures affected by disabilities 
to help her make a difference in the lives of 
people with disabilities.
Madden, a member of Delta Alpha Pi, said 
she was diagnosed with autism at the age of 4.
“I always wanted to help people with dis-
abilities, especially in higher education,” she 
said.UF professor discusses disability STUDENT GOVERNMENT TO 
ALLOCATE ABOUT $405K FOR 
REITZ UNION UPDATES.  
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government might invest more 
than $400,000 to make the Reitz Union more 
accessible.  
The SG Student Senate unanimously 
passed a bill Tuesday night that would allo-
cate $405,023 from the UF SG reserve to fund 
three projects within the Reitz Union. 
More than 50 percent of the funding, 
$296,310, will be used to renovate the Stu-
dent Legal Services ofﬁ  ces. Additional fund-
ing will be used to update the auditorium’s 
audiovisual system with a new projector for 
$98,312. The funds will also be used to install 
an accessible lift in a Reitz Union restroom for $10,400, according to the bill. 
There is about $2.5 million sitting in the 
SG reserve account prior to the transfer. Any 
money not used for the project will be re-
turned to the account, SG Budget and Appro-
priations Chairwoman Emily Dunson (Impact, 
District A) said at the meeting. The money in 
the account comes from SG funds that were 
not spent in previous years and is used to 
fund expenses that only occur once. 
“These renovations really are necessary in 
creating an inclusive, accessible and an up-to-
date environment,” Dunson said. 
The bill will be brought before the Senate 
for a second time next week for a ﬁ  nal vote, 
Senate President Michael Murphy (Impact, 
District A) said. The start date for the projects 
is yet to be determined.
“I think that all of these are absolutely criti-
cal,” Murphy said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSG will fund Reitz Union projects
By Valerie Lyons
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lev Ettinger knelt on one knee while hold-
ing his phone in his right hand and a marker 
in his left on Plaza of the Americas Tuesday 
afternoon. 
During the ﬁ  rst “I Am More” event, host-
ed by the UF Freshman Leadership Council, 
which works with freshmen in education, 
leadership and service, the 18-year-old dem-
onstrated his hidden talent on a board. 
He drew the Pepe the Frog meme. 
The two-day event, which ends today, en-
courages students to express their talents and 
personalities instead of focusing on profes-
sional branding associated with their majors, 
said Max Chesnes, the council’s internal mar-
keting director.  
Students wrote on the board while the 
group handed them blank T-shirts to write 
their majors on one line of the shirt and a 
hobby or interest on another. Chesnes offered 
to take Polaroid photos of students in front of 
the board after they ﬁ  lled out their shirts. 
“It’s to celebrate that in this life we’re more 
than just one title or one person,” Chesnes 
said.The campaign, which is funded by Student 
Government, was scheduled to begin Monday 
but was rescheduled due to heavy rain, said 
Julia Cordover, a council committee member. 
Ettinger said he was walking toward Li-
brary West when he saw dozens of students 
crowding around the 8-foot board ﬁ  lled with 
drawings of music notes, cameras and ﬂ  ow-
ers. 
As a UF computer science freshman, Et-
tinger’s passion for drawing and graphic de-
sign isn’t always recognized, he said. 
“I thought it was a really cool idea to 
showcase students’ talents and interests and 
show that they’re more than just their major 
is,” he said.
Michelle Darling, a 19-year-old UF health 
education and behavior sophomore, wrote 
“athlete” underneath her major on her T-shirt. 
She said freshmen sometimes try to deﬁ  ne 
themselves through their majors. The event 
helped students embrace who they are. 
“They look at their grades like, ‘that’s who 
I am, I’m just a number,’” she said. “But re-
ally, they’re a lot more than that.”
Editor’s note: Max Chesnes worked for The 
Alligator as a staff member in Spring 2017.Students embrace personality, 
passion at ‘I Am More’ event
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Animal 
Services put down three 
pit bulls Tuesday afternoon 
that mauled a woman’s ser-
vice dog in September. 
The pit bulls, Rousey, 
Yokai and Akuma, were 
humanely euthanized after 
they were declared danger-
ous dogs in October, accord-
ing to an Alachua County 
press release. 
Nathaniel Thomas Petti-
ford Jr., the pit bulls’ own-
er, is charged with inﬂ  icting 
injury and animal cruelty 
after the dogs attacked his 
neighbor, Linda Swinburn, 
50, and her dog, Bella, ac-
cording to online court re-
cords. 
Swinburn was walking Bella down Northwest 29th 
Terrace when the pit bulls 
escaped from Pettiford’s 
yard and attacked her, ac-
cording to a Gainesville Po-
lice arrest report. Swinburn 
suffered two broken ﬁ  ngers, 
bruised ribs and post-trau-
matic stress after she tried 
to protect Bella.
Pettiford, 42, said the de-
cision left him unsettled. 
“They were like family 
— you have to be a dog per-
son to understand,” Petti-
ford said. “The whole thing 
was completely unfair.” 
The county conﬁ  scated 
the dogs in October, said 
Mark Sexton, the Alachua 
County spokesperson.  
At that time, to get 
his dogs back, Pettiford 
would’ve had to pay a 
$500,000 insurance policy for each dog and post a 
warning sign on his prop-
erty, Sexton said. 
Pettiford had 30 days 
and two opportunities to 
appeal to a hearing ofﬁ  cer 
and the circuit court, Sexton 
said. Pettiford chose not to 
appeal in time. 
The county claimed 
ownership of the dogs at 5 
p.m. Monday. Sexton said 
the ruling was based on 
the dogs’ actions, not their 
breed. 
Swinburn feels that the 
ruling came two months 
and four days too long, she 
wrote in a text message. 
“Those dogs had a sec-
ond chance when Bella nev-
er did,” Swinburn said.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Pit bulls euthanized months after 
killing emotional support dogThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORMany UF students are proud to call Miami home. In the 
land of sun-drenched beaches, Cuban sandwiches and 
Mr. Worldwide, it’s almost impossible to imagine the 
“Magic City” without brightly colored clothing, smiles 
and Gloria Estefan playing in the background. But all 
that might change according to a new report from the U.S. Global 
Change Research Program. Coastal towns like Miami are square-
ly in the crosshairs of sea level rise caused by climate change. 
The land of warm people and culture may soon be ankle-deep 
in seawater. The report illustrates what Floridians already know: 
We cannot further delay decisive action against the climate crisis. 
It is both literally and ﬁ  guratively at our doorsteps.
The city of Miami Beach is a great tourist destination. For 
now. It’s home to plenty of famous landmarks, world-renowned 
restaurants and ﬁ  ve-star hotels. Its real estate is worth billions of 
dollars. It also ﬂ  oods at high tide. Miami Beach has been forced 
to install pumps to clear ﬂ  ood water from the streets. Pumping 
water out of the street is not normal for the city. This is not an 
ancient problem that is ﬁ  nally being ﬁ  xed. The average sea level 
in the area has been rising steadily since 1995. The pumps were 
installed in 2014 because the ﬂ  ooding became too troublesome 
to ignore.
The pumps will not be enough to save the beach from rising 
seas — they are the infrastructure equivalent of bailing out a sink-
ing ship with a plastic bucket. Both the city’s estimates and the 
newly released report predict that it will require far more drastic 
measures than pumps to save the beach’s condominiums and 
hotels from sinking beneath the waves. Miami Beach is investing 
heavily in raising the level of its roads and building seawalls to 
reduce ﬂ  ooding, according to the report.
There are already areas of Miami where the streets ﬂ  ood 
without rain. Where usually a clogged storm drain turns Miami 
homes into temporary lakefront properties, the most regular of-
fender for the ﬂ  ooding is now the moon and tides. During espe-
cially high tides, known as king tides, knee-deep water creeps up 
into some neighborhoods with regularity. For some residents, the 
waters cover their lawns and come up to their houses. For others, 
it comes up through their drains and into their bathrooms.
A wide range of federal agencies including NASA authored the 
report that foretells of ﬂ  ooding, disruption and unavoidable re-
treat from some parts of the U.S. coastline. But even this coalition 
was not a reliable enough source for President Donald Trump. He 
remained unconvinced that climate change is real. When asked 
about the drastic, harmful economic effect of climate change pre-
dicted by the report, Trump said, “I don’t believe it.”
Whether we believe it or not, Florida is at risk of economic 
and ecological disaster. Trump may want to turn a blind eye, but 
Florida cannot. The report predicts that property values in at-risk 
areas will drop dramatically, which will spell drastically lower tax 
revenues. Those same towns and cities will already be dealing 
with the costs of additional infrastructure, like the cost of elevat-
ing and retroﬁ  tting major commercial ports. A single port could 
cost upward of $9 billion dollars. Florida has 11 of them. 
The economic realities facing Florida are not a matter of be-
lief. This kind of ﬂ  at-earth, science denial will cripple Florida’s 
economy if we do not act now. Hurricanes and tropical cyclones 
will only become stronger, the seas will only rise higher and more 
of Miami will become a wading pool the longer we deny the obvi-
ous.
The report outlines ﬁ  ve stages of adaptation that the U.S. must 
take to avoid disaster. Simple awareness is the ﬁ  rst — we must 
get past this initial stage, with or without the president. Florida cannot aﬀ  ord 
to follow Trump’s 
lead on climate
Upon returning from Thanksgiving 
Break, I went through the typical re-
ceiving line of friends asking about 
each other’s brief holiday. Despite be-
ing excited to return to campus and 
share some of the funny stories from my week 
at home, I quickly realized many of my conver-
sations and the conversations of others revolved 
around things that went wrong over break: get-
ting stuck in trafﬁ  c, catching a cold, feeling 
stressed about ﬁ  nal projects — the list goes on.
More often than not, we complain when we don’t have 
anything else to say. If there’s a lull in the conversation, 
complaining about the weather or how much work we 
have to do before the end of the semester are reliable-but-
boring talking points. “How are you?” often leads to sigh-
ﬁ  lled responses like “tired” or “busy.”
The reality is that everyone — especially in the col-
lege environment — is likely stressed about something, 
whether it’s related to academics, a living situation, family 
or navigating the next move after graduation. We could 
all deﬁ  nitely use more sleep. We all have things to do and 
uncertainties on our mind. But in a culture where so many 
of our conversations are centered around complaints, how 
do we escape the negativity and allow ourselves to cel-
ebrate and truly, honestly feel and accept when we are 
happy?
For one thing, I think it’s important to recognize that 
it’s OK to be content, even amid a college environment 
where busy = successful = happy. I think it’s also easy 
for many students to feel a sort of happiness guilt, or a 
feeling that we aren’t “allowed” to be happy or excited 
or to look forward to something — perhaps due to ex-
pectations that fulﬁ  llment stems from overachievement, 
or if the people around us aren’t exactly onboard our same 
happiness train.After all, there’s something off-putting about 
wanting to share something overly positive, 
like an exciting moment, a funny story or an 
achievement, when the people around us aren’t 
exactly on the same page because we don’t want 
to come across as “braggy” or inconsiderate.
However, though so many people bond over 
commiserating — which is perhaps just human 
nature — there are times when we complain or 
take on a negative tone simply to match the feel-
ings of those around us, maybe in an attempt to be more 
empathetic or relatable.
I think we should remember it’s still possible to be an 
understanding and supportive friend without fueling the 
ﬁ  re in complaint-ﬁ  lled conversations. Just by listening to 
those around us and letting them know we’re there for 
them — and knowing they would do the same for us — is 
a way to show support without throwing ourselves on a 
mutual complaint-clad bandwagon.
Plus, how refreshing would it be if instead of throwing 
blanket-statement complaints in our conversations just for 
the sake of not knowing what else to say, we actually ad-
mit or share when and why we’re happy (and when we’re 
not)?
There’s a lot at stake for so many of us as we think 
about our next moves — whether it’s looking toward 
future semesters or new phases of our lives — but that 
doesn’t mean we should feel ashamed for being happy 
in the moment or excited about something to come. And 
if the people we surround ourselves with can’t celebrate 
our triumphs, maybe we shouldn’t worry too much about 
what they think of us anyway.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Smile without shame: don’t feel guilty for being happy
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
In my apartment, 
I have a little pic-
ture wall my room-
mates and I like to 
call the “Wall of 
Infamy,” and it’s solely 
dedicated to document-
ing any precarious situ-
ations we may have 
found ourselves in.
My roommates 
and I were scrolling 
through our social media ac-
counts when one of them piped 
up and said, “We don’t have any 
pictures together.” We all collec-
tively looked to the wall — with 
nearly every picture featuring us 
together. But those pictures are 
ones that will never be posted 
anywhere, and the only people 
who will ever see them are those 
invited to our apartment. Yet, 
those pictures mean more to me 
than any we’ve taken where we 
all looked perfectly posed in front 
of some downtown mural. 
They’re real pictures, captur-
ing our real lives. I’ve often heard 
people describe social media as 
the life we want people to see. It’s 
our brand to the world, a small 
glimpse into a perfectly curated 
life. I’ve always grappled with 
this idea of planned-out posts. It’s 
one of the ﬁ  rst things we learn in 
the College of Journalism and 
Communications — think about 
your brand. 
We’re taught from an early 
age to be careful what you post. 
In the j-school, you’re taught 
to ﬁ  gure out how you want the 
world to perceive you on social 
media. If you want to be a come-
dian, you better be clever. If you 
want to work in business, post 
any achievement you’ve ever 
had. If you want to be a reporter, 
never post your biased beliefs. 
Every post means something, 
even if you don’t think it does, 
because it’s how the world per-
ceives you. Most people under-
stand that there are different 
versions of ourselves on differ-ent platforms, from 
Twitter to Facebook to 
Instagram. We change 
how we showcase our-
selves because each 
social media calls for a 
different approach. 
We have more ac-
cess to cameras than 
any other generation. 
We have the availabil-
ity to post anything at 
any given time, yet we still take 
hours deciding when is the best 
time to post or what kind of cap-
tion would work best. There are 
nearly a hundred pictures on my 
wall, and they all make me laugh, 
cringe or at least feel something. 
However, I would never post 
them because they don’t fall 
within the brand that I created of 
myself. 
Whether I knew it or not, I 
created an online proﬁ  le that is 
only a sliver of my life. Adults es-
pecially will say that people put 
everything on the internet, but 
that’s rarely the case. We have 
access to cameras in every wak-
ing moment of our lives, and we 
get to record every bit of it. We 
don’t have to put it out on our so-
cial media accounts to appreciate 
that those moments happened. 
We were there, we know how 
much those moments mean to us. 
We owe it to ourselves to doc-
ument our lives and the people in 
them. We get to make any memo-
ries we want, and we get to post 
them if we want. We can follow 
the brand we’ve built for our-
selves, or we can it.
We just have to remember 
that the pictures we post don’t 
make the ones we save for our-
selves any less valid. Those are 
still memories that we can cher-
ish, and maybe even more be-
cause they’re just our own.  
Michaela Mulligan is a UF 
journalism sophomore. Her col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.Photos are not just 
for Instagram, they 
immortalize memoriesColumnLifeless JoeyBy Michael Smith
Michaela
Mulligan
opinions@alligator.orgI hope you Gators all had a great Thanks-
giving holiday with your friends and family! 
I am writing to you today with some updates 
on what your Student Government has been 
up to lately. I’ll touch on some new initiatives 
we’ve been working on as well as a summary 
of what else SG has accomplished so far this 
year.
First, I’m happy to announce that the SG 
printing network has been expanded to Fiﬁ  eld 
Hall on the southwest corner of campus. This 
computer and printer are located on the second ﬂ  oor of 
the Fiﬁ  eld lobby. Here you can use your balance of 250 
free sheets of paper provided every semester by SG.
Next, I was so happy to see a sold-out crowd at our 
most recent show hosted by the Accent Speakers Bu-
reau. On Nov. 6, Aly Raisman spoke to students and the 
community about her experiences as an Olympic gold 
medalist and within the #MeToo movement. Addition-
ally, several students were chosen to meet Raisman as 
a part of a Fall platform point and the All-Access Pass. 
We wanted to give students the chance to meet with 
speakers, and this was a great opportunity to make that 
happen. We look forward to continuing this opportunity 
for future shows.
We've been busy working for students and I couldn’t 
be happier with all that has been accomplished by all 
the students within SG.
This year, I created two new agencies to serve the 
UF community through incredible programming. First is 
the Class Councils, led by Senior Class President Trevor 
Pope. The purpose of the Councils is to create traditions 
for students to remember after their time here on cam-
pus as well as to work with the University Alumni As-
sociation to add even more value to our degrees. This 
started with the #WearBlue campaign for the Lousiana 
State University game. This is an awesome tradition that 
I’m looking forward to seeing in the future!
Second is the Bridges Minority Outreach Program. 
Bridges looks to bring minority high school students 
from all across the state to UF. The program focuses on 
academic support and mentorship and works to facili-
tate free visitation days so potential students can see UF 
ﬁ  rsthand. In our inaugural year, we are proud to partner 
with six high schools from across the state.
Additionally, SG is working with the largest cultural 
organizations on campus to better serve all students 
through the Diversity Programming Committee. These 
meetings serve to create an open dialogue with the pres-
idents of different organizations and to give SG more 
insight as to what students want to see. Plus, this gives 
organizations the chance to co-sponsor with not only 
entities within SG but with one another to help build 
strong relationships.
Keeping with the theme of great programming, SG 
has been working with the Student Financial Affairs Of-
ﬁ  ce to host ﬁ  nancial literacy classes using the toolkit 
called “CashCourse.” Themes range from budgeting to 
ﬁ  nancial aid and scholarships, so students have the re-
sources they need to make solid ﬁ  nancial decisions.
SG is constantly working on projects that directly 
beneﬁ  t all Gators. This includes funding water stations 
that are provided at home football games outside gates 8 
and 15, as well as providing backpack rain covers when 
Gainesville turns into Rainsville. SG has expanded the 
Kosher and Halal-friendly food options at the six P.O.D. 
Markets on campus and partnered with RecSports to 
create capacity counters for the campus gyms so stu-dents can always ﬁ  nd the best time to get a 
workout in. Or let’s say you really want to 
share a great idea, voice a concern or simply 
want to get to know your elected ofﬁ  cials a 
little better. Now you can schedule a meet-
ing with myself; David Enriquez, your Stu-
dent Body vice president; or Stefan Sanguyo, 
your Student Body treasurer, online with 
MeetingU. This is a digital platform that lets 
you video call with us from around campus 
or even if you’re halfway around the world.
If you’ve been keeping up with the SG Facebook 
page, which I recommend you do, you’ll also have seen 
some of the incredible shows put on by Student Govern-
ment Productions and Accent. Speakers Bureau brought 
Young the Giant and Joywave to campus in October for 
the Rock The Vote concert. This was a packed event 
where students enjoyed free, live music while also get-
ting registered to vote. Accent has been busy as well, 
bringing speakers like SNL’s Jay Pharoah and Mr. 305 
himself, Pitbull, in partnership with Hispanic Heritage 
Month.
But of course, there is more to SG than shows and 
programming. We’re also working to make positive 
changes for students after us. That’s why my adminis-
tration worked with Provost Joseph Glover to provide a 
long-term solution to fund Library West 24/7 for an ad-
ditional three years without using Student Activity Fees. 
Also, in Library West on the fourth  ﬂ  oor, we’ve worked 
with the UF Disability and Resource Center to not only 
expand the ProctorU rooms already in place but also to 
ensure they are accessible to all users, in order to allevi-
ate the pressure of so many students taking exams.
Outside of the classroom, I worked personally with 
RecSports to bring an accessible boat launch ramp to 
the North Shore of Lake Wauberg. This launcher lifts 
the boat out of the water itself and up to the dock. This 
allows for easier access so that more Gators can enjoy a 
day on the water.
Lastly, I want to touch on the outreach SG has done 
outside of Gainesville. Over the summer, members of 
SG met with the student governments of all the other 
SEC schools at the University of Kentucky. There we 
exchanged ideas for new projects that could better serve 
our students. One idea that SG is currently working on 
actually came from this conference. Internal Affairs 
Chairman, Brett Oehrle, is working with Business Ser-
vices to add different hotlines and resources on the back 
of Gator 1 Cards and expanding accessibility to these re-
sources online. Additionally, members of SG traveled to 
Washington D.C. to meet with the entire Florida delega-
tion in Congress as well as members of the Department 
of Education to discuss issues facing college students 
at UF. Topics included textbook affordability, continued 
funding of Pell Grants year-round, addressing sexual 
assault and the future of our undocumented students, 
among other topics.
This has been a busy but incredibly productive year 
so far. I am so honored to serve as your Student Body 
president, and I am looking forward to all the incredible 
things we can accomplish in the remainder of my ad-
ministration. I wish you all the best on your ﬁ  nal exams 
and that you all have a safe and enjoyable winter break. 
Thank you all and as always… Go Gators!
Ian Green is UF Student Body President. His column 
appears monthly.An SG update from your Student Body PresidentColumn
Ian Green
opinions@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Buying Gifts?
Find out what to get your loved ones for the holidays 
based on their zodiac sign on page 10!Trend Report:
Flip over to page 9 for a closer look into the “clout goggles” 
trend.By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
As Thanksgiving ended, millions around 
the country cozied up with family and be-
gan putting up their Christmas decorations. 
And with that, the season began. Those 
who love the holiday are now eager to in-
gest Christmas-themed content, including 
movies.
Thankfully, Lifetime, Hallmark and Free-
form, which was once ABC Family, broad-
cast original ﬁ  lms from now to Dec. 25 to 
keep up the holiday spirit. Here is a list of 
some of your favorite movies and some 
classics you may have not seen before, and 
when they ﬁ  rst air on television, as well as 
some new premieres to get you in that fes-
tive mood.
*Note many of these movies reair 
throughout all of December. For the full 
schedules check: 
tinyurl.com/yc72vx52
tinyurl.com/y73xno6s
Nov. 30 on Lifetime:
8 p.m. “A Very Nutty Christmas” - Kate 
(Melissa Joan Hart) is a baker who must 
fulﬁ  ll a huge order of Christmas cookies, 
with the help of a man who might be a nut-
cracker.
Dec. 1 on Freeform:
5:25 p.m. “The Santa Clause 3: The 
Escape Clause” - Scott Calvin, otherwise 
known as Santa, battles Jack Frost and his in-laws.
7:35 p.m. “The Nightmare Before 
Christmas” - In Tim Burton’s Christmas 
musical Jack Skellington plots to steal 
Christmas.
9:15 p.m. “Dr. Seuss’ How the Grinch 
Stole Christmas” - An age-old tale that will 
make your heart grow three sizes.
Dec. 2 on Freeform:
9 p.m. “Life-Size 2: A Christmas Eve” -  
In this long-awaited sequel, Eve, played by 
Tyra Banks, is back to shine bright during 
the holiday season.
Dec. 4 on Freeform:6:50 p.m. “The Santa Clause” - Di-
vorced dad Scott Calvin accidentally kills 
Santa and must take his place.
8:55 p.m. “The Santa Clause 3: The 
Escape Clause”- Scott Calvin, otherwise 
known as Santa, battles Jack Frost and his 
in-laws.
Dec. 9 on Lifetime:
8 p.m. “A Christmas in Tennessee”- A 
baker and an unexpected visitor team up to 
save a small town from the threat of a real 
estate developer. 
Dec. 10 on Freeform:
Midnight “Holiday in Handcuffs” - A 
struggling artsit will go to any length to bring home a nice boy for Christmas.
9 p.m.  “No Sleep ‘Til Christmas” - Two 
single insomniacs run into each other and 
ﬁ  nd out that the only way for them to get 
a good night’s rest is if they fall asleep next 
to each other.
Dec. 16 on Freeform
6:35 p.m. “Dr. Seuss’ How the Grinch 
Stole Christmas” - An age old tale that will 
make your heart grow three sizes.
9:15 p.m. Disney’s “A Christmas Carol” 
- Disney’s take on the age-old tale.
11:20 p.m. “A Miracle on Christmas 
Lake” (Freeform premiere) -  This ﬁ  lm is 
about friendship, hockey and a little magic.
Dec. 21 on Freeform
10 a.m. “The Doc McStufﬁ  ns Christmas 
Special” (Freeform premiere) - Doc and 
her furry friends travel through time to save 
Christmas.
10:30 a.m. “Winnie the Pooh and 
Christmas Too” - Poo and friends learn that 
the true meaning of Christmas is not gifts 
but the time you spend with those you love.
11 a.m. “Mickey’s Christmas Carol” 
- Scrooge McDuck goes on a life-changing 
journey that forces him to change his self-
ish ways.
Dec. 22 on Freeform
2:25 p.m. Disney’s “Prep & Landing” -  
Wayne learns that there is more to being a 
one of Santa’s elves than just hard work. 
2:55 p.m. Disney’s “Prep & Landing: 
Naughty vs. Nice” - Santa’s elves Wayne 
and Lanny must embark on an adventure to 
recover the lost conduct calculator.the Avenue Watchlist: TV’s Countdown to Christmas
TV
Courtesy to The Alligator
‘The Nightmare Before Christmas’ airs at 7:35 p.m. December 1 on Freeform.
By Emma Witmer 
Avenue Editor
“It’s a loving, extremely farci-
cal take on all the things about 
Christmas that make us happy,” 
said director Stephanie Lynge. 
“It’s hot chocolate and snowﬂ  akes 
and Christmas trees if they were 
all mixed up and doing an improv 
sketch.”
Lynge is a UF adjunct professor 
who has worked extensively with 
the Hippodrome acting, directing, 
choreographing and more. This hol-
iday season, Lynge is directing ‘Ev-
ery Christmas Story Ever Told (And 
Then Some!)’ at the Hippodrome 
Theatre.
The play is a comedic, almost sketch-like production written by 
Michael Carleton, James FitzGerald 
and John K. Alvare. 
The writers were members of an 
improv group, much like the char-
acters in the play. Lynge said that 
this gives the script a quality of hu-
mor and authenticity.
“It’s got that wonderful, fun feel-
ing of them making it up as they go 
along,” Lynge said.
The show is centered around 
three characters, played by actors 
Mark Chambers, Logan Wolfe and 
Ali Foley, who are attempting to 
put on a production of ‘A Christ-
mas Carol.’ When the group gets 
fed up with the project, they dive 
into a variety of Christmas stories 
and traditions, looking for the true meaning of Christmas, Lynge said. 
This endeavor unfolds into a series 
of improvised skits showing stories 
from ‘Rudolph the Red-Nosed Rein-
deer’ to ‘It’s a Wonderful Life’ and, 
of course, ‘A Christmas Carol.’
“(It’s) humor is based on all 
these wonderful memories that 
we have,” Lynge said. “That and 
watching three people desperately 
try to play about 12 characters”
Both ‘Every Christmas Story 
Ever Told (And Then Some!)’ and 
‘A Christmas Carol’ will be running 
at The Hippodrome through Dec. 
23.
“We get to give this beautiful 
rendition of our ‘A Christmas Carol’ 
every year,” Lynge said. “It’s some-
thing that we have with the com-munity that we share that people 
come to year after year, and this 
year we’re giving them a different 
option If they want to laugh a little bit more, then they should come to 
the evening show as well. Gosh, 
they just seem like the perfect pair-
ing to me.”Humor comes to The Hippodrome with ‘Every Christmas 
Story Ever Told (And Then Some!)’
THEATRE
Rachel Jones
Logan Wolfe (left) and Mark Chambers (right) perform.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Maggie Dong, a 19-year-old UF Digital 
Arts and Sciences major, wanted to escape 
the hustle and bustle of her rigorous col-
lege workload by spending the weekend at 
Disney’s Animal Kingdom sporting her go-
to outﬁ  t: a bright yellow fanny pack, tan 
polo hat, ripped blue jeans and a grey T-
shirt. Dong was ready to have a fun-ﬁ  lled 
day in the park with her friend. The sun 
beat down on the two while they roamed 
through jungle trails and rode high-speed 
adventure rides.
Dong thought it was the perfect time 
to bring out her favorite accessory: “Clout 
Goggles.” 
She quickly unzipped her fanny pack 
and pulled out one of the three pairs of 
clout goggles she keeps with her at all 
times. They were a large, oval-shaped ru-
by-red frame with dark lenses. This varia-
tion of the trendy eyewear is a statement 
piece that Dong loves to wear around her 
friends. 
“It’s a fun way to express myself,” Dong 
said. “When I put them on for the ﬁ  rst time 
they just made me really happy.” From gameday tailgates to Midtown 
outings, Clout Goggles can be found all 
over UF.
The iconic white, oval sunglasses 
are well-known eyewear from designer 
Christian Roth’s 6558 series. Nirvana 
musician Kurt Cobain sported the look 
in the early ‘90s before he died in 1994. 
Now, the trend is making a comeback 
thanks to well-known brands such as 
Acne Studios, Saint Laurent, Le Specs and 
Urban Outﬁ  tters. 
Famous rappers are also contributing 
to the comeback of this trend. Last year, 
Wiz Khalifa wore the classic white sun-
glasses during his onstage performance for 
the Spotify Best New Artist Nominees cel-
ebration in Los Angeles. The eyewear even 
made an appearance on the runway for the 
Saint Laurent Menswear 2016 collection 
during Paris Fashion Week. 
Some UF students would rather keep 
the style to themselves. 
Veronica Quesenberry, a 22-year-old UF 
journalism senior, believes the style used 
to be rare before it became a popular trend 
last summer.
“I’m actually kind of a snob about it,” 
Quesenberry said. “I really like Nirvana, and so you know Kurt Cobain was the one 
who had that speciﬁ  c style of glasses, and 
he was the one who popularized it. So, 
when I saw actors like Harry Styles and In-
stagram accounts for the ‘clout,’ I actually 
got kind of mad, you know.”
Quesenberry is a brand ambassador for 
Blue Planet Eyewear, an eco-friendly eye-
wear company that designs quality, low-
cost sunglasses, sports eyewear and read-
ers. 
She said one of the reasons she became 
an ambassador for the company two years 
ago was because of its Visualize Change 
program. For every pair of glasses bought from Blue Planet Eyewear in the United 
States, the company donates a pair to 
someone who is in need in developing na-
tions. 
Quesenberry bought her ﬁ  rst pair of 
clout goggles from an online shop called 
Giant Vintage, which sells hundreds of 
vintage and retro sunglasses.
She describes “clout” as a way of life, 
a trend that is all about conﬁ  dence and 
being bold with not only your style but 
your lifestyle. Quesenberry wanted to pay 
homage to Cobain because the musician 
revamped the ‘60s-inspired style when he 
was alive in the ‘90s.
“I bought it for the nostalgia before it 
got super popular,” Quesenberry said. 
This versatile look can be worn anytime 
and anywhere, Quesenberry said. 
 “You always have to have that one ac-
cessory that doesn’t make sense with your 
outﬁ  t, and a lot of the time I attribute that 
to sunglasses,” Quesenberry said.
Annisa Setiawan, a 20-year-old UF ge-
ology junior, credits the recent obsession 
with clout goggles to when Urban Outﬁ  t-
ters came out with its own version for $18. 
That is signiﬁ  cantly cheaper compared to 
upscale designer brands like Acne Studios, 
which are selling the popular oval sun-
glasses for $320. 
Setiawan is a brand ambassador for var-
ious clothing and accessory brands, among 
them are I.AM.GIA, Tiger Mist, Monarch 
Tokyo and Lack of Color. Her obligations 
include endorsing promotional codes and 
products on her social media accounts.
At UF, the trend became popular last 
Spring semester and early summer, Se-
tiawan said. 
Setiawan describes clout goggles as a 
classic, empowering look that “gives me 
this feeling like ‘I’m here, I’m ready to stay 
and nobody can tell me otherwise.’” 
She said “clout” declares inﬂ  uence, and 
it’s a position of being unbothered. 
If she had to pick a color, she picks the 
white version because it is more iconic, � 
like the pair rapper Cardi B wore on the 
cover of her debut album, “Invasion of Pri-
vacy.”  
“Well, with black sunglasses I mean, 
typically somebody is not going to glance 
twice because it’s so easily dismissed,” 
Setiawan said. “But with white, it already 
pops out.”
Setiawan urges others to value quality 
over quantity and to remember to invest in 
products that will last for decades. 
Clout goggles have a timeless look that 
keeps coming back throughout the de-
cades, Setiawan said.  
“They have a different feel overall,” 
Setiawan said. “It’s really unique in the 
sense that it’s very simple, it’s white, it’s 
big, it’s really round and it goes well with 
a lot of faces.”Trend Report: Clout Goggles: fad or fashion?
FASHION
Courtesy to The Alligator
Nirvana’s Kurt Cobain made the look famous back in the 1990s as a part of his frequently outlandish rocker style.
outings, Clout Goggles can be found all 
Trend Report: Clout Goggles: fad or 
 fashion?
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange 
pie. Now that is a meal any FL Gator 
can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. 
Only here can you see the legendary 
bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” 
Green, playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm.  
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years 
as an alternative to alcohol used 
for ceremonial, political, medicinal, 
and social purposes. Come try our 
Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas 
in Downtown Gainesville. Open 
weekdays 12pm-12am, weekends 
12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, 
espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or 
outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 
NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available 
Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you Lunch: Mon-Sun 
11a m - 3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pm 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482By Jackie De Freitas
Avenue Contributing Writer
Capricorn – yoga membership
The workaholic of the zodiac 
signs, Capricorn may be in need of 
some R&R after all the ﬁ  nals and 
holiday chaos. Although at ﬁ  rst they 
will hate the relaxing and non-work-
related activity, Capricorn will prob-
ably turn each yoga session into their 
personal competition, making it the 
perfect way to trick them into taking 
a breather.
Aquarius – statement piece 
A nonconformist at heart, Aquar-
ius loves to stand out and be the ﬁ  rst 
to hop on trends. Whether it be a 
chic, designer sweater, a funky pair 
of dad shoes or a limited edition con-
cert t-shirt, Aquarius respects any 
gift outside the norm.
Pisces – poetry book
A whimsical being with their 
emotional head always in the clouds, 
Pisces will appreciate almost any gift 
due to their accepting and carefree 
vibes. A poetry book lets Pisces con-
nect even more to their soulful side. 
If you really want to make this water 
sign emotional, make a bookmark out of a picture of the two of you. 
Naturally, Pisces will be crying for 
days. 
Aries – wireless headphones 
Mars, the planet of war, rules this 
ﬁ  re sign making Aries one passion-
ate ball of intense energy. With all 
that vitality, Aries needs a gift that 
won’t hold them down. Whether 
they’re studying in the middle of the 
night for the fourth time that week or 
getting a quick sweat in at 5 o’clock 
in the morning, Aries will enjoy the 
gift that allows them to blast music 
wherever they go.
Taurus – art print or fancy 
cheese platter
With Taurus’ ruling planet be-
ing Venus, the planet of beauty, this 
earth sign values the ﬁ  ner things in 
life. Give an art piece for Taurus to 
enjoy in their home, and they will 
dedicate that space on the wall to 
you. A cheese platter also pairs well 
with this sign, as they always take 
on the task of entertaining for their 
family and friends.
Gemini – reversible sweater
Known for being quick-witted 
and well-socialized, Gemini is depict-ed as “the twins” due to the sign’s 
sassy yet sweet nature. Bored easily, 
Gemini needs a gift with two sides 
just like them. A reversible sweater 
allows for this air sign to never get 
bored while also having the chance 
to match their sweater to whichever 
persona they’re feeling that day. 
Cancer – oil diffuser
This homebody appreciates 
spending time in their own space. 
Give the gift of great smells and 
calming side effects with an oil dif-
fuser. Bonus points if the diffuser 
changes colors with Cancer’s ever-
changing moods.  
Leo – sunglasses
Sunglasses are the ultimate gift 
for a bold personality, which is Leo’s 
main claim to fame. Also, with the 
sign’s ruling house being the Sun, 
this accessory was basically invent-
ed for Leos. Pick a ﬂ  awless pair of 
shades, and this dramatic ﬁ  re sign 
will love you for paying so much at-
tention to their face shape and over-
all style. 
Virgo – bullet journal
Ruled by the planet Mercury, 
Virgo continuously gets things done and stays on top of their busy sched-
ule. A journal allows for this sign to 
stay true to their perfectionist selves 
while also giving the opportunity for 
them to tap into their creative side 
by writing or drawing. 
Libra – a piece of clothing from 
an ethical and sustainable brand
If you know someone who rocks 
minimalistic, effortless style, they’re 
probably a Libra. The peacekeeper 
of the signs, Libra’s ruling house of 
Venus means this sign enjoys har-
monizing everything around them. 
Gifting a clothing item from an ethi-
cal brand satisﬁ  es this air sign’s de-
sire for both justice and beauty. 
Scorpio – perfume This sensual sign likes to ex-
ude their powerful personality in a 
mysterious way for everyone who 
passes by. Pick out a perfume with a 
scent that speaks to this water sign’s 
independent nature but one that is 
also subtle enough to keep Scorpio’s 
air of secrecy. 
Sagittarius – reusable utensil set 
Known for their adventurous 
nature, Sagittarius is always on the 
move. With a reusable utensil set, 
your favorite Sagittarius can combat 
single-use plastic wherever they go. 
A lover of the outdoors, this ﬁ  re sign 
feels it is their duty to take care of 
the world around them thanks to 
their big-heartedness.Holiday gifts for each zodiac sign
Courtesy to The Alligator
Whats your name? What’s your sign?
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $575/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    12-
3-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-
18-42-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
1. ANATOMY: What are the four 
lobes of the cerebral cortex?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which month is Black History Month?
3. LITERATURE: Which early 
American author wrote the “The Scar -
let Letter”?
4. CHEMISTRY: Which element is 
represented by the designation Cl?
5. MEASUREMENTS: How long is 
a lunar month?
6. SCIENCE: What is the most abun-
dant metal in the Earth’s crust?
7. MUSIC: Who wrote thee 1962 
song “The Loco-Motion”?
8. GEOGRAPHY: Which country is 
home of Great Bear Lake?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state claims 
to be the “birthplace of aviation”?
10. BUSINESS: What law requires 
banks to disclose the interest rates on 
loans?
Answers
1. Frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipi-
tal lobe and temporal lobe 
2. February
3. Nathaniel Hawthorne
4. Chlorine
5. 29.5 days
6. Aluminium
7. Gerry Goffin and Carole King
8. Canada
9. Ohio
10. Truth in Lending Act
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 26, 2018King Features Weekly Service
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.Eyes Up. Phone Off.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16Get your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
LOSE ONE DRESS SIZE
IN 7 DAYS.
GO TO WEBSITE NOW-
https://1644089.site123.me/      12-5-18-5-20SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Gary Cee
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/28/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/28/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, November 28, 2018
ACROSS
1 Mary Oliver, e.g.
5 Tweak
11 Obliterate in a 
flash
14 Prefix with 
sphere
15 Self-moving 
vacuum
16 “I __ you one”
17 High-tech 
classroom
19 Starchy grain
20 Bygone Persian 
rulers
21 Long-jawed fish
22 Present
23 Fighter at the 
Olympics
27 Man-horse hybrid
30 Synagogue 
reading
31 Country between 
Vietnam and 
Thailand
32 Quaint 
contraction
34 Type of coffee or 
whiskey
37 Congressional 
statute
38 Military IDs ... or 
what 17-, 23-, 51- 
and 61-Across 
have
41 Life highlights, 
briefly
42 Moby-Dick, e.g.
44 Hula strings
45 Pungent quality
46 Rice dish
49 “The Shawshank 
Redemption” 
extras
51 Court long shot
54 __ hog
55 Org. whose 
returns were 
never sales
56 Get to
60 Trellis climber
61 Astute attorney
64 Golf peg, or 
where it’s used
65 Long cold spell
66 Image in a 
botanical print
67 Make a typo, say
68 Litter box visitor
69 Pre-Easter 
season
DOWN
1 D.C. influence 
gps.
2 “However,” in 
tweets3 “Handsome, 
clever, and rich” 
Jane Austen 
character
4 Headwear with 
tails
5 Works on walls
6 Stag’s mate
7 Longtime 
Univision news 
anchor Ramos
8 Two dots above 
a vowel
9 Pizza chain in 
many food courts
10 Bar bill
11 Madagascar!, in 
the Bronx
12 In the know
13 Pan in Neverland
18 Inst. with the fight 
song “On, Brave 
Old Army Team”
22 Frost
24 Jay-Z’s “D.O.A. 
(Death of 
__-Tune)”
25 H.S. subject that 
covers all the 
angles?
26 Jewish ritual
27 Jaguar’s weapon
28 Individually
29 “Fat chance!”
33 “The Simpsons” 
disco devotee35 Locale
36 Soil-clearing 
tools
38 Mark for 
omission
39 Related
40 Well-mannered 
man
43 Made up things
45 Reveal 
everything
47 Individually
48 Draw a blank
50 Nothing but51 Done to death
52 Float in the air
53 Actor Oscar __ of 
“Star Wars: The 
Last Jedi”
57 Pulitzer-winning 
author James
58 Close-knit group
59 Test by lifting
61 Backtalk
62 Alternative to JFK 
or EWR
63 Perfecta or 
trifecta
By Jeff Stillman
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/27/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 27, 2018
ACROSS
1 Transvaal treks
8 Quarters
15 Big building
16 Political power 
structure
17 Asian setting 
of a 2017 PBS 
documentary by 
Ken Burns and 
Lynn Novick
18 Not belowdecks
19 Snakelike fish
20 Golf club part
22 Mend one’s sinful 
ways
23 Paul of “Ant-Man”
25 GI entertainers
26 Many soap opera 
meetings
27 Scottish caps
29 Ray of fast food
31 Nuclear pioneer 
Enrico
33 Kickoff aid
34 Physical therapy, 
briefly
39 French __ soup
40 Appt. book blocks
41 Mountains 
between Europe 
and Asia
42 Channel for 
school sports
43 Frequently, in 
verse
44 December temp
45 Skater Lipinski
47 Combat vet’s 
affliction, briefly
48 Bombard with 
noise
52 Tax whiz
54 Spanish “this”
57 Nonresident 
hospital 
employee
58 Gutter locale
60 Party bowlful
61 Brutish
63 Dilapidated digs
65 Contrived 
sentimentality
66 Funded
67 Like the oldest 
bread
68 Emails anew
DOWN
1 Break, as ties
2 French parting
3 *Educational 
outing
4 Toward the stern5 Mark on a table 
from a wet glass
6 Wax-winged flier 
of myth
7 Their winners go 
to the finals
8 The 1% in 1% 
milk
9 Portuguese wine 
city
10 *Social elite
11 Sounding like 
Popeye
12 Tastes
13 “Wish I __ said 
that”
14 Decides to leave 
in the manuscript
21 *Gambler’s stoic 
expression
24 Bourne portrayer
28 *Quick-cook side 
dish
30 Enjoy a recliner
31 Enemy
32 Nav. rank
33 Norse god with a 
hammer
35 Dry-__ board
36 Without a doubt 
... or what the 
starts of the 
answers to 
starred clues are?37 PC key near  
Ctrl
38 Org. with merit 
badges
46 Chronological 
records
47 Stately 
16th-century 
dance
48 Financial 
obligations
49 Wield, as 
influence50 Perplexed
51 __ monitor:  
OB/GYN  
device
53 Peeling device
55 Like many 
shower stalls
56 Opinion  
columns
59 JFK postings
62 Tennis  
do-over
64 Furrow maker
1.  ____ Bay
1.  Notion5.  Minimum 
2.  Personal ____6.  Aristocratic 
3.  High-profile 7.  Backside
4.  ____ Gordon-LevittNAOYBT
FLEIBESEATL
NLBEO
RATEIRN
NTBALEORBEHCE
PSHJEOANSWERS: 1A-Botany  5A-Least  6A-Noble  7A-Breech
1D-Belief  2D-Trainer  3D-Notable  4D-Joseph  B-Jelly beans11-28-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Enough ____ ____ are sold each year to 
encircle the Earth (if laid end to end).
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators enter top 10 of latest poll
The Florida football team came in at No. 9 in the latest College Football Play-
off rankings announced on Tuesday. The team was at No. 11 last week. The 
top 12 teams are guaranteed to play in a New Year's Six bowl game.Florida safety Chauncey Gardner-
Johnson declared for the NFL Draft 
on Monday in a letter he posted on 
Twitter. He is third on the team with 
66 tackles this season.O’B-Wan Kenobi / Column
“I’ll play walk-ons. I don’t care.”
Mike White is fed up. Fed up 
with his team, fed up with los-
ing and probably fed up with the 
media, too.
And I don’t blame him.
The Florida Gators basketball team is 
capable of having a better record than 4-3.
Let me be very clear: As of right now, 
this does not look like an NCAA Tourna-
ment team.
It’s shooting 46.3 percent from the ﬁ  eld 
and 36.2 percent from three. For an offense 
predicated on the three-ball, 36.2 percent is 
simply unacceptable.
I could go into all sorts of stats about 
how the Gators could improve, but their 
biggest problem is intangible: effort.
If you look on the court, you might 
see one player giving maximum effort at 
all times - forward Kevarrius Hayes. And 
White noticed.
“We have one guy on our team that goes 
every time because he’s supposed to go,” 
White said when asked about the team’s 
lack of rebounding. “He’s been asked to 
go, it’s his job - Kevarrius Hayes - and he’s 
hard to block out because he goes 10 out 
of 10 times.”
But everyone else, well, you might have 
more trouble getting consistent heart.
White gave a very frank assessment. Af-
ter speaking on Hayes, he moved on to the 
rest of his players.
“They go when it’s easy. They go when 
the air conditioning is blowing across the 
gym the right way.”
Talk about straightforward. White’s 
done with the lack of effort from his team.
And can you blame him? His two se-
nior guards (Jalen Hudson and KeVaughn 
Allen), prior to last night’s contest against 
North Florida, were shooting 19 percent 
and 23.9 percent from three, respectively. 
Hudson came back to Florida to improve 
his draft stock, yet found himself on the 
bench in favor of freshman guard Noah 
Locke in the Battle 4 Atlantis Tournament 
in the Bahamas last week. Mike White has 
every right to be 
frustrated
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF guard Deaundrae Ballard scored 15 points on 6-of-10 shooting during Florida's 
98-66 win over North Florida on Tuesday at the O'Connell Center. "We just have to 
keep it going every game, " Ballard said. 
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
A soft applause and some smiles came 
from Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium as the Flori-
da Gators volleyball squad found out they 
would be playing arch-rival Florida State 
for the ﬁ  rst round of the 2018 NCAA Tour-
nament during the selection show Sunday 
night.
It wasn’t a surprise at all.
“We saw this coming for a few weeks,” 
coach Mary Wise said Tuesday.This is the ﬁ  rst time since 2011 that the 
Gators are not hosting the ﬁ  rst and sec-
ond rounds of the NCAA Tournament in 
Gainesville. 
Florida (24-6, 15-3 SEC) enters the tour-
nament unseeded for the fourth time in pro-
gram history.
The Gators will face off against the Semi-
noles (19-9, 11-2 ACC) at the University of 
Central Florida on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
The winner of Thursday’s matchup will play 
the winner of the UCF vs. Florida Gulf Coast 
contest Friday evening at 7.
“I think we’re two very evenly matched teams playing on a neutral court,” Wise 
said. “It’s as good of a ﬁ  rst-round matchup 
as there is.”
The Gators defeated the Seminoles earlier 
this season 3-1 on the road in Tallahassee. 
Freshman outside hitter Thayer Hall led the 
team with 12 kills during the match and ju-
nior middle blocker Rachael Kramer led the 
roster with six blocks.
The Seminoles are on a two-game win 
streak coming off road matches against 
North Carolina and NC State. UF prepares for ﬁ  rst round of NCAA tourneyMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
A poor ﬁ  nish against Butler turned into 
a sluggish start for Florida’s basketball team 
against North Florida on Wednesday night.
The Gators found themselves down 10-9 
ﬁ  ve minutes into the game. The Ospreys, af-
fectionately dubbed the “Birds of Trey” for 
their three-point shooting prowess, preyed 
upon the Gators early in the contest.
That is, until Deaundrae Ballard checked 
into the game.
The sophomore guard scored nine-straight 
points for the Gators, including an emphatic 
alley-oop. Ballard’s takeover sparked the 
team to a 16-3 run, wresting back control 
from UNF. He went on to score 15, and UF 
didn't trail again in a convincing 98-66 win.
“It was a big step, big growth,” Ballard 
said. “We just have to keep it going every 
game.”
He was a bit of an afterthought during the 
offseason, with veterans like Kevarrius Hayes 
— who had 12 points on 6-of-7 shooting Tues-
day night — and Jalen Hudson taking center 
stage. Since the season started, however, Bal-
lard has been anything but an afterthought. 
He’s Florida’s leading scorer with 76 points in 
seven games after scoring just 60 points in his 
ﬁ  nal 24 appearances last season.
“He’s playing with a lot of energy, since 
the ﬁ  rst game,” coach Mike White said. “I’m 
proud of his progression.”
His 12 ﬁ  rst-half points fueled the Gators 
(4-3) to a 20-point lead at the half. Florida’s 
53 points at the break were the most it has 
scored in any half this season.
Freshman guard Noah Locke got the start-
ing nod over Hudson for the third straight 
game and continued to be a factor behind the 
arc. He led the team in scoring (18) against 
the Ospreys (2-5), hitting 4-of-6 from deep. 
UF as a team shot 57 percent from the ﬁ  eld, 
its best mark of the year. Ballard, Gators dominate North Florida
Chris O'Brien
@THEChrisOB
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16SEE MEN'S BBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s basketball team 
welcomes Northeastern to the O’Connell 
Center on Wednesday at 7 p.m. for the first 
of a four-game homestand. The Huskies are 
the third-straight undefeated team UF will 
face.
The Gators (0-5) are still seeking their 
first win of the season after they lost to the 
Northwestern Wildcats in overtime on Nov. 
18 and to Indiana three days later.
However, in the midst of all the poor 
play, the Gators’ two veteran guards have 
been the bright spot. Redshirt senior Funda 
Nakkasoglu (19.4) and junior Delicia Wash-
ington (19.2) have the two highest scoring 
averages in the SEC. The duo enters the 
midweek matchup with 25 combined three-
pointers, and the 5-foot-10 Washington leads 
her team in rebounds this season with 39.
“Delicia (Washington) is an incredible re-
bounding guard,” coach Cam Newbauer said 
Tuesday. “That’s just her extreme desire to 
want to get the ball. You’ll see when you 
watch her play. She’ll just get some incred-
ible rebounds every game.”
But what has been missing for Florida is 
clutch play down the stretch of games. In 
the loss against Northwestern, UF’s defense 
allowed the Wildcats to shoot 63 percent in 
the second half and 57.1 percent in overtime. 
As a result, the Gators were outscored 13-2 
in the final 3:14 of regulation and 9-2 in the overtime sequence. 
“We have got to get a lot better defen-
sively,” Newbauer said. “We’re giving up 
way too many points. Way too many easy 
opportunities.”
The undersized team has also struggled 
with rebounds in the first five games, aver-
aging an SEC-worst 30.6 boards per game. Florida will look to have more production 
from its bench and better rebounding from 
its frontcourt players like forwards Zada Wil-
liams and Kristina Moore, who have com-
bined for 37 rebounds so far in 2018. 
UF will meet a Northeastern team (5-0) 
that will make things difficult. The Huskies 
come into the game averaging 42.2 rebounds per game led by forward Ayanna Dublin, 
who averages over seven boards a contest. 
Florida will need to box her out while also 
keying in on guard Jess Genco, who has 
scored 16 points a game and is second on 
her team in total assists with 16. 
Northeastern is also lethal from the char-
ity stripe, something else that Florida has 
struggled with. The Huskies boast an 82.6 
free throw percentage while Florida holds a 
measly 59.4 percent. 
Free throw shooting was a big reason for 
the loss to Indiana. Florida shot just 4-of-12 
from the line while the Hoosiers tallied 15-of-
20. Indiana’s fast-paced offense forced UF to 
commit fouls often and dropped the Gators 
into foul trouble early. Washington missed 
most of the third quarter due to foul trouble.
“We have to keep our hands out of the 
cookie jar,” Newbauer said.
Northeastern runs a similar offense that 
is quick-paced and uses turnovers created by 
its gritty defense to score in transition. Flor-
ida will need to learn from its past mistakes 
before Wednesday’s bout in Gainesville.
“They play together,” Newbauer said of 
Northeastern. “Very feisty defensive team. 
You can tell they take a lot of pride in their 
defense. A very fun team to watch and defi-
nitely a big-time challenge for us (Wednes-
day) night.”
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org.Florida seeks first win of the season over Northeastern
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Delicia Washington leads the Gators with 39 rebounds on the season.
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The next stage of Jeff Driskel’s 
comeback campaign highlighted 
Week 12’s UF-related action in 
the NFL. 
Driskel transferred from UF af-
ter being benched for Treon Har-
ris during the 2014 season. The 
former five-star quarterback ar-
rived at Louisiana Tech and had 
the best season of his college ca-
reer for the Bulldogs, throwing for 
4,033 yards and 27 touchdowns 
with eight interceptions. 
His breakout season paid off 
in the long run. Instead of drop-
ping out of the NFL Draft entirely, 
he fell to the San Francisco 49ers 
with the 207th overall pick in 
2016.
Driskel, however, lost the 
third-string quarterback job to 
Christian Ponder, and he was 
placed on waivers. The quarter-
back was claimed by the Cincin-
nati Bengals, where he sat behind 
starter Andy Dalton and backup 
AJ McCarron. Driskel sat out the 
2017 season on injured reserve 
with a hand injury.
McCarron left for the Bills in 
free agency in the offseason, 
moving Driskel up to the backup 
quarterback position. 
Driskel finally got his big break 
at the NFL level this past Sunday 
during the Bengals’ blowout loss to the Cleveland Browns when 
Dalton suffered a thumb injury 
trying to recover a wayward snap.
The Oviedo, Florida, native 
fired his first NFL touchdown 
pass to Tyler Boyd and finished the game completing 17-of-29 
passes for 155 yards, a touch-
down and no interceptions as the 
Bengals lost to the Browns 35-20. 
Former UF teammate Carlos 
Dunlap also had six tackles (three solo) and a quarterback hit in the 
game. 
The Bengals placed Dalton on 
injured reserve on Monday, so 
Driskel is expected to start for the 
team moving forward as he tries to prove himself in the NFL. 
On the other sideline, Antonio 
Callaway had a strong perfor-
mance for the Browns. Callaway 
caught four passes for 62 yards 
and a touchdown while also han-
dling kick and punt returns. 
Tight end Jordan Reed became 
the favorite target for another for-
mer backup quarterback in the 
NFL. Colt McCoy, filling in for 
Washington’s Alex Smith, con-
nected with Reed early and often. 
Reed hauled in six passes for 75 
yards in a loss against the Cow-
boys on Thanksgiving. 
Center Mike Pouncey played a 
significant role in protecting Phil-
ip Rivers as the quarterback had 
a nearly perfect game, completing 
all but one of his 29 passes for 
259 yards and three touchdowns. 
The Chargers also had 189 rush-
ing yards en route to their 45-10 
win over the Cardinals. 
Middle linebackers Alex Anza-
lone and Antonio Morrison also 
had quality games for their re-
spective teams. Anzalone had six 
solo tackles, a forced fumble and 
defended a pass in New Orleans’ 
win over Atlanta while Morrison 
had three solo tackles and seven 
total in Green Bay’s loss to Min-
nesota. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators in the NFL Week 12: Driskel takes over in Cincy
AP File Photo
Former Florida and Louisiana T ech quarterback Jeff Driskel came in for the injured Andy Dalton in the 
Cincinnati Bengals’ 35-20 loss to the Cleveland Browns. Driskel threw 17-for-29 with a touchdown.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSChris Houston / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker T aelor Kellum (10) recorded eight kills in 
Florida's 3-0 win over South Carolina on Friday.
Hudson played 19 minutes and 
scored six points after averaging 
just 14 minutes per game in the 
Battle 4 Atlantis last week.
Locke wasn’t the only true 
freshman to get in on the action. Forward Keyontae Johnson scored 
11 points, and starting point guard 
Andrew Nembhard had a season-
best 11 assists and zero turnovers. 
It was his ﬁ  rst double-ﬁ  gure assist 
game. Nembhard has started every game this season and has proven 
his value as a passer while his shot 
develops.
“He’s really good,” White said. 
“He’s a terriﬁ  c communicator, he’s 
tough, he cares, he’s competitive.”
Redshirt freshman Isaiah Stokes 
returned to the court after suffer-
ing a knee injury before last week’s tournament, albeit only for nine 
minutes. White will likely ease him 
back into a more prominent role to 
avoid getting injured again. Stokes 
missed all of last season after suf-
fering a torn ACL during his senior 
year of high school.
Forward Chase Johnson missed 
yet another game due to a concus-
sion, and center Gorjok Gak has yet 
to make his season debut after hav-
ing offseason knee surgery.White said that he was encour-
aged with his team’s offensive per-
formance, but is still disappointed 
in a lack of accountability and lead-
ership at this point of the season.
“You can’t have one guy that’s 
vocal on a really good team,” 
White said. “That doesn’t exist.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
 MEN'S BBALL,  from pg. 14Nembhard: 11 assists, no turnoversJunior outside hitter Payton Caffrey leads Florida State’s 
roster with 462 kills on 1,115 swings this season. She also 
leads the roster in service aces at 25 and points at 521.5. 
Caffrey was also named the ACC Volleyball Player of the 
Year on Monday.
“Just because we’re familiar with them doesn’t necessar-
ily mean we can stop them,” Wise said. “They’ve got plenty 
of great arms.”
Some of the other teams in Florida’s bracket include 
12th-seeded Pittsburgh, ﬁ  fth-seeded Texas and fourth-seed-
ed BYU.
However, storied teams like UCLA did not make this 
year’s tournament, proving no spot is guaranteed in the 
bracket of 64.  
“They’re a pretty top-notch team, and we battled them 
to get to the Final Four last year,” senior Taelor Kellum 
said shaking her head. “I think not seeing them in the tour-
nament this year was a big shock, but it just shows that 
anything can happen if you take it for advantage. Things 
happen.”
In the NCAA Tournament, Florida holds a perfect 21-0 
record in the ﬁ  rst round. The Gators are 6-6 against teams 
they faced earlier this season that made it into the tourna-
ment. 
“I think the most important this is one that we’re playing 
and that we’re celebrating the fact that this program is now 
playing in its 28th consecutive tournament,” Wise said. 
“That piece cannot go unstated how great a feat that is.” 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Florida 21-0 in irst round of NCAA tourney
How is it that one of the most NBA-ready play-
ers on the team has a lack of intensity? There’s no 
doubt in my mind White has laid out the expecta-
tion to him.
And it’s not just Hudson.
If you watched the game against Oklahoma, 
the Sooners only won by ﬁ  ve but destroyed the 
Gators on the boards (48-34). Although UF is a 
smaller team, it wasn’t like Oklahoma was huge 
— it simply crashed the boards and showed maxi-
mum effort for 40 minutes. The whole team was 
exposed.
White shouldn’t be having to bench Hudson to 
send a message to the team at all, much less this 
early in the season.
Florida needs to take a page out of Dan Mul-
len’s playbook — “relentless effort” has been his 
season-long slogan.
If I were White and effort was that serious of 
a problem, I can guarantee you walk-ons Mak 
Krause and Drew Fava would be trotting out with 
the starting ﬁ  ve. There’s not a doubt in my mind 
they have given every ounce of energy they have 
every single practice.
The Gators look like they don’t want to be out 
there half the time - that needs to change.
And Mike White has every right to be infuri-
ated because of it.
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer. Follow him 
on Twitter @THEChrisOB and contact him at co-
brien@alligator.org.
 COLUMN,  from pg. 14