By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Regional Transit System buses will be 
harder to catch starting next Monday.
Service from about 15 city and campus 
bus routes will be cut back for the rest of 
Spring semester due to a shortage of drivers, said RTS spokesperson Chip Skinner.
“People will just have to plan accordingly so they aren’t late for work or class,” he said.
The reduced service will mean less buses 
arriving at stops. Five campus buses and 10 
off-campus buses will see a change. Skinner 
said bus stop wait times will increase from 12 
minutes to 24 minutes in some cases.
Details on the speciﬁ  c route changes will 
be announced today on the RTS website.
Skinner said morning and afternoon com-
muters may not notice a difference, but Later Gators’ Wednesday service, which runs from 
8:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. may be canceled with the new changes.
He said the decision to scale back bus ser-
vice was inﬂ  uenced by a lack of available bus 
drivers and declining ridership. 
According to Alligator archives, RTS rider-
ship averaged about 10 million in 2013. In 
2013, the ridership was fewer than that. 
Skinner attributed a decline in ridership to a scooter boom among UF students, cheaper 
gas prices and the rising popularity of Uber 
and other ride-sharing services.
The Gainesville Sun reported the city 
expects to lose about 190,000 riders dur-ing March and April, which would cost RTS 
$52,000 a week in revenue.
RTS would need about 30 more drivers to 
be fully staffed again. Potential drivers under-
go a two- to three-month background check-ing period, followed by at least six weeks of 
training. Many applicants leave during the 
process, Skinner said. Only about 40 percent 
of those interested end up becoming drivers.
The driver shortage RTS is experiencing is 
affecting other transit systems statewide, he said. With lower unemployment rates, peo-
ple can afford to take on better paying jobs. 
RTS drivers currently make $12.75 per hour.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult for us to recruit and 
maintain our workforce,” he said.
Gainesville’s unemployment rate is the 
lowest it has been in the last decade. The rate was 3.2 percent in December, according to 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Romeo Mati Jr., a 20-year-old UF biology 
junior, is anxious ahead of RTS’ announce-ment about which routes will be affected. He 
takes the 20 bus route from his off-campus 
apartment to class.
“Depending on if it’s my routes or not, I 
might not even be able to get on the bus if it’s packed,” he said.
Check alligator.org for updates on RTS route 
changes. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
GATORS ARE GOING DANCING
UF’s men’s basketball team is a No. 6 seed in this year’s NCAA T ournament and will face either St. Bonaventure or UCLA on Thursday, pg. 14
Read about candidates for the city commission
Find out why they are running, pg. 4 and 5
UF researcher studied mosquities to track snakes 
Now, he’s testing his research in the Everglades, pg. 10FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Shelbie Eakines / Alligator Staff
‘WE WANT CHANGE’
Demonstrators chant, “We want change!” as they make the trek from Oaks Mall to Buchholz High School on Saturday. They carried signs supporting gun reform, speciﬁ  cally in regards to AR-15s. See the photo story on pg. 3.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Highway Patrol is trying to identify 
a pedestrian who died Saturday evening after he was hit by two cars near the intersection of U.S. 301 and Southeast 203rd Street.
Both cars were driving north on U.S. 301 
before 9 p.m., according to ofﬁ  cials. The ﬁ  rst car, a 2013 GMC Acadia, was driven by a 56-year-old Palm City resident and hit the man 
on the car’s left side, according to a press re-
lease. The second car, a 2014 Chrysler Town & 
Country, was driven by a 31-year-old Orange 
Park resident.
Both cars pulled over on the east shoulder 
of the road, ofﬁ  cials said. Neither car had pas-sengers, and the drivers were uninjured.
The man was declared dead at the scene. 
Ofﬁ  cials have not been able to identify the man and are looking for his relatives. Authorities 
said the man is white and between 50 to 60 
years old. He had medium-gray hair and was wearing blue jeans, a black shirt and a brown 
leather jacket. He also had a faded tattoo on his right arm, but FHP did not describe the tattoo. 
Ofﬁ  cials ask that anyone with information 
about the man should call FHP at 1-800-387-
1290.
The case is still under investigation, ofﬁ  cials 
said. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgRTS to reduce bus service for the rest of the semester
Identity of man killed Saturday unknown, oﬃ   cials sayThe city will announce what routes change to day
What riders may see this Spring:
• About 15 routes will face cut backs
• Morning and afternoon riders may not see a difference
• Some wait times will double
• Some Later Gator routes may be canceled as a result of the changeVOLUME 112 ISSUE 66
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
HIGH  65° LOW  37°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Practice of Latin American 
Studies: Dilemmas of 
Scholarly Communication
UF professor emerita Carmen 
Diana Deere will speak today from 1 to 2:30 p.m. in Library West, Room 212. Deere will talk 
about recent trends toward con-
vergence in academic practices in the North and South whereby excellence is measured by the visibility and impact of faculty 
publications, particularly those 
in international journals. In Latin America, this has led to a new twist in the old dilemma of 
publish or perish: “publishing 
internationally but perishing lo-cally.” At the same time, to in-crease the visibility of regional scientific production, Latin America has been consolidat-
ing national and regional jour-
nal information and evaluation systems and leading the global Open Access movement.
Fulbright Awareness Month
The UF International Center will hold Fulbright Awareness Month from today to April 12.  
Multiple informational sessions 
for students, scholars, fac-ulty and staff will provide op-portunities to learn about the Fulbright application process 
and to hear about the experi-
ences of past scholars and stu-dents. Additionally this year, information sessions will be led 
by Peter VanDerwater, the di-
rector of outreach at the Council for International Exchange for 
Scholars in Washington, D.C. 
Email canumba@ufic.ufl.edu to schedule an individual consulta-tion with VanDewater. For more information, visit international-
center.ufl.edu and search under 
Faculty Engagement and Global Learning.
Student Government Spring 
Housing Fair Student Government’s Spring Housing Fair is from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Friday on the Reitz Union 
North Lawn. As the largest 
housing event at UF, students can engage with a wide variety of Gainesville community repre-
sentatives and gain a better un-
derstanding of what off-campus housing communities have to offer. This is a way to get famil-iar with off-campus living op-tions. UF resources such as Off Campus Life and Student Legal 
Services will also be on hand to 
help answer questions.
Digital Resources Showcase
George A. Smathers Libraries 
will hold a Libraries’ Digital 
Resources Showcase on Friday on the colonnade outside Library West from 1 to 3 p.m. 
The showcase will bring librar-
ians and students together to highlight steps for finding the best research online and orga-nizing your work quickly. The 
event will also feature the One 
Button Studio, 3-D printing, video streaming access, digital newspapers, mapping tools and 
institutional repository and digi-
tal archival collections.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Can You 
Dig It?’ on March 17
Dig into geology and discover 
the earth at your feet at a free, open-for-all-ages geology event at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History, located at 3215 Hull 
Road, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday. The event is presented in part by the UF Department of Geological Sciences in collabora-
tion with the Gainesville Gem 
and Mineral Society. For more information, visit floridamuse-um.ufl.edu/canyoudigit or call 
352-273-2062.
‘Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops’
The Alachua County Library 
District is partnering with the 
Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil 
Rights Workshops” from 4:30 to 
6 p.m. March 22 at Cone Park Library Branch, located at 2801 E. University Ave., and 5:30 to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road 
Library Branch, located at 3020 
SW 75th St. Attorneys from Josiah T. Walls Bar Association and law students from the Levin 
College of Law will provide one-
on-one assistance to people who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in applying to have their civil rights restored. 
These presentations are free and 
open to the public. Registration is not required. For more infor-mation, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to 
attend and open to all. For more 
information, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org/. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
AP NEWS AROUND THE 
WORLD
Official: At least 2 dead in NYC 
helicopter crash
NEW YORK (AP) — A helicop-
ter crashed into New York City's 
East River around sundown Sunday and flipped on its side, killing at least two people. A 
spokesman for the mayor's of-
fice, Eric Phillips, confirmed the fatalities on Twitter. At least one person was rescued from the water, he said. Authorities did 
not immediately say whether 
there were other people aboard.
China's Xi Jinping gets expand-
ed mandate, may rule for lifeBEIJING (AP) — Xi Jinping, al-ready China's most powerful leader in more than a genera-tion, received a vastly expanded 
mandate as lawmakers Sunday 
abolished presidential term lim-its that had been in place for more than 35 years and wrote 
his political philosophy into the 
country's constitution.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 66
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
‘LET US MARCH’
By Shelbie Eakins
Alligator StaffGainesville students and residents march to protest gun violence
Top Right:  At a Saturday 
march for gun reform that 
lasted for about four hours, event organizers handed out maroon and silver ribbons to participants who wanted to express their support for the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School community. 
Top Left:  Paige Shrewsbury, 
a 15-year-old Buchholz High School sophomore, marched alongside other Buchholz High School students to advocate for gun reform. “I used to live in Miami, so this really hit close to home. Things deﬁ  nitely need to change. I want to get that point across to everybody, ” she said.
Bottom Right:  Gavin Pinto, 
a 16-year-old Buchholz High School junior, gives instructions to demonstrators before the “Let Us March” event. Pinto and other Buchholz students organized the event in which people marched a little more than a mile from the Oaks Mall to Buccholz High School with some stops along the way.
Bottom Left:  David Desautels, 
81, marched alongside the students from Buchholtz High School at their “Let Us March” event Saturday afternoon. Desautels, the grandfather of a Buchholz student, was one of about 150 who attended the march, according to Gavin Pinto, an event organizer.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
Candidates for the District 1 city commission seat
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Tyra Edwards earned her nickname “Ty Loudd” for being 
a prominent voice of District 1. Now she wants to take that 
voice to the City Commission.
“It’s just what our people want to be,” she said. “They 
want to be loud, and so I’m loud.”
The 47-year-old single mother of two said she’s lived in 
Gainesville for the past 25 years.
In 2014, Edwards launched “Loudd Magazine,” an online 
publication about local musicians because she wanted to give them more media exposure, she said. She also held a series of forums called “Voices from the Trenches,” where District 1 residents gathered to talk about the state of their community.
Edwards feels that she would be the best representative 
of her district because she personally knows the struggles her 
community faces.
“I mirror the lives of the people who I am trying to help,” 
she said.
If elected, Edwards hopes to bring affordable housing, pro-
mote small businesses and create resource centers for resi-
dents to better themselves, she said. The centers would offer programs for adults to learn life skills as well as recreational programs to keep children engaged and off the streets.
Repairing the tense relationship between the District 1 res-
idents and law enforcement is also a priority, Edwards said.
“We want the police to have a presence in our neighbor-
hood not only when it’s time to arrest,” she said.
Edwards has dealt with criminal charges herself. In 2007, 
she was charged with unknowingly driving with a suspended license, according to court records. The case was resolved, and Edwards said she isn’t worried about the charge affecting her campaign.
Jessica Martini, Edwards’ campaign manager, believes Ed-
wards is the only candidate who can bring about the radical change District 1 needs.
“Ty comes at it from a very different angle,” Martini said. 
“She’s not looking at it like a politician.”By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gigi Simmons didn’t just want to be a single mother 
without an education. She wasn’t going to be a statistic. 
At 33 years old, she graduated from the University 
of South Florida with a degree in sociology. She raised two sons while she put herself through school after she 
realized she was a number in a system. Simmons is cur-
rently two credits away from earning a master’s in pub-lic administration at USF. 
“She realized that there are people that can predict 
the outcome of where people like her and her sons will end up. It was an eye opener,” said Simmons’ campaign manager, Kristen Young. 
Young said Simmons, now 45, has tried to make the 
best of a bad situation — in her life and community. She 
is running for City Commission District 1 to continue the 
change she has started to make in the area.
Before she became the president of Porters Commu-
nity Neighborhood Crime Watch in 2011, crime rates in the area adjacent to Depot Park were at an all-time high. A year later, rates went down, and she was named a “Neighborhood Hero” by Gainesville Police. Simmons told the Gainesville Sun the crime rates were cut by more than half when she became president.
“It’s not something that I’ve done, it’s something 
we’ve done as a community,” she said.
Simmons has faced her own criminal charges. She 
was convicted of fraudulent use of a credit card, driv-ing with a suspended license and theft in the 1990s and 2000s, according to court records. In 1993, she was charged with assault during a burglary and assault with a deadly weapon.
Young said Simmons has since changed her life for 
the better. Simmons started her own company, Simmons Tax Services, and has served on city boards.
“She shows that everyone can have a second chance,” 
Young said.By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Charles Goston doesn’t care if you remember his name 
in ten years — so long as the effect he had in Gainesville is everlasting.
The 69-year-old incumbent said he’s running to be re-elect-
ed as the District 1 city commissioner not to for the hype or 
recognition, but to further his work to uplift East Gainesville.
He graduated from UF with a journalism degree in 1999. 
He has run “The Black College Monthly,” a magazine, and 
hosted “Black College Football Today,” a local radio show.
Getting elected for his ﬁ  rst term in 2015 allowed him to 
help the marginalized citizens of Gainesville, Goston said.
He said he negotiated a revised plan in 2016 with 
Gainesville Regional Utilities to stop the company from cut-ting off water and electricity to households that didn’t make 
payments on time or at all until the start of the business week.
Goston said he is amid negotiations with the fast-food 
chain Golden Corral to bring a new location east of Waldo 
Road, which is an area he said lacks food options. 
“Now, the east side initiative is real, it’s tangible,” he said.He said he has faced racial targeting by police. He was 
charged with driving with a suspended license multiple times in the 1970s and 1980s. Goston said those charges came while he was working two jobs to support his family and police 
stopped him for being a black man in a nicer-looking car.
Goston said he was also charged multiple times since the 
1970s for writing worthless checks to pay for groceries to feed 
himself and his children.
Goston said he has since not had legal trouble in the last 
20 years, and most of his past charges have been dropped.
Todd Chase, a former city commissioner for District 2, said 
Goston always reminded his peers of the human element in local politics, as well as represented marginalized people.
“We certainly debated over issues,” Chase said. “But in 
my time serving with him, he opened my mind and eyes at times to things that perhaps I couldn’t fully understand or appreciate.”
Sources: Esri, HERE, Garmin, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCAN, GeoBase, IGN, Kadaster NL, Ordnance Survey, Esri Japan, METI,
Esri China (Hong Kong), swisstopo, © OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community
DISTRICT 4DISTRICT 1 DISTRICT 2
DISTRICT 3Tyra Edwards Gigi Simmons Charles Goston — incumbent
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT 
VOTING IN THE UPCOMING ELECTION:
EARL Y VOTING:
Early voting started last 
Saturday and will end this Saturday. Early voting locations are open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, except Tuesday and Thursday, when voting locations are open 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.Election Day is March 20. 
Polling locations will be 
open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.
EARL Y VOTING LOCATIONS:
• SUPERVISOR OF ELECTIONS OFFICE - 515 N. MAIN ST.
• MILLHOPPER BRANCH LIBRARY - 3145 NW 43RD ST.
• CONE PARK LIBRARY - 
      2801 E. UNIVERSITY AVE.
WHAT YOU NEED TO VOTE:
A form of identiﬁ  cation with a picture and signature, such as: Florida Driver’s License,Florida ID Card, U.S. Passport, Debit or Credit Card, Military or Student ID, Puclic Assitance ID, etc.MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Candidates for the At-Large commission seat
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Commissioner at large and Mayor Pro 
Tempore Harvey Budd is running for re-
election because he feels incomplete. 
Budd, who was elected to his ﬁ  rst three-
year term in 2015, said the time he has served hasn’t been enough to make major 
changes. However, the 70-year-old said  he’s ready to use his experience in local 
government to continue serving the people 
as the at large Seat 1 commissioner.
“Who’s ready to go on day one? I be-
lieve I am,” Budd said.
His current term as city commissioner 
was Budd’s ﬁ  rst time in elected ofﬁ  ce. Be-fore that, he worked on the Gainesville City Planning Board and Gainesville’s Cultural 
Commission. He was also on the Alachua 
County Planning Commission and Alachua County School Board One Mill Oversight 
Committee.
“Under Harvey Budd, you can write ‘Ex-
perience that matters,’” Budd said.
Budd graduated from UF in 1969 with a 
degree in business administration and at-tended the Levin College of Law for two 
years. 
During his time at UF, Budd was The 
Alligator’s accountant, he said. 
Budd is a certiﬁ  ed public accountant, 
which gives him ﬁ  nancial insight and a better understanding of the city budget, he said. 
Two and a half years ago, it was the 
messy ﬁ  nances of Gainesville Regional Utilities that inspired Budd to run for of-
ﬁ  ce.
“I wanted to stop the hemorrhaging,” 
Budd said. 
Budd addressed this by helping set up 
the Utility Advisory Board. It was one of 
his proudest accomplishments in his ﬁ  rst 
term, he said.
In his second term, Budd wants to focus 
on creating affordable housing and reduc-ing poverty in the city.
“In order to solve the disparity between 
East and West Gainesville, we have to solve affordable housing,” Budd said. 
Budd also wants to bring new business-
es and developments to East Gainesville. He is currently working to bring a Wawa 
convenience store to the city and plans to create a shopping center on Northeast 
Eighth Avenue and Waldo Road, Budd 
said. 
Gainesville native Ilene Silverman-
Budd, Budd’s wife of 35 years, remembers hugging her husband when he won the runoff election for his ﬁ  rst term.
“That was a moment of pure joy,” Sil-
verman-Budd said. 
Silverman-Budd said a second term 
would be an opportunity for Budd to serve the community by bringing together his years in business and knowledge of local 
government.
“I feel like he has a good understanding 
of this community,” Silverman-Budd said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgBy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Politics wasn’t on Gail Johnson’s radar 
until the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
The 40-year-old single mother said after 
President Donald Trump was elected, she 
felt personally threatened by his agenda so she decided to work against it through local 
government. After serving on the Mayor’s 
Citizens Advisory Board for Big Ideas and the Gainesville For All jobs and families committee in 2017, Johnson is running for the City Commission at-large seat. 
As the owner of a catering business called 
delicious.delivered, Johnson hopes her per-spective as a woman of color and working mother will move Gainesville forward.
“I don’t have the luxury of not being te-
nacious in my life,” she said. “Usually, if 
you’re a woman and a woman of color, you 
need to work four times as hard to get twice as far.”
Johnson, who graduated from UF with 
a degree in English in 2007, is passionate about economic inequality, which includes disparities in broadband internet access and housing. If elected, she said she will work to implement inclusionary zoning, an af-fordable housing tool that sets aside a per-
centage of future residential developments 
for low-income families.
City Commissioners Adrian Hayes-San-
tos and Harvey Ward endorsed Johnson 
over their colleague running for re-election, 
Harvey Budd.
“I think she’s a brilliant person, a self-
made entrepreneur, a single mom,” Ward 
said. “She represents things that we just don’t have on the commission right now.”
Growing up on the east side of 
Gainesville, Johnson was aware of the racial 
and economic inequity her neighborhood 
faced. Her grandfather helped implement 
single-member districts to increase African 
American representation in city government 
and county-wide observance of Martin Lu-
ther King Jr. Day.
Gainesville’s schools and neighborhoods 
still face the same segregation Johnson saw as a teenager at Eastside High School. But 
she said she wants her 8-year-old daughter 
Zora to grow up in a city where everyone 
has the same opportunities to succeed.
Johnson was convicted for driving under 
the inﬂ  uence and property damage in 2007 
and was sentenced to one year probation 
and 100 hours of community service, ac-cording to court records. She said she takes full responsibility for her actions and is glad 
nobody was hurt.
“I have learned from past mistakes, and 
now I’m focused on being the best mother I 
can be,” she said.
Nkwanda Jah, the executive director of 
the Cultural Arts Coalition, met Johnson more than 35 years ago while doing activ-ism work with Johnson’s grandparents. She said leadership runs in Johnson’s family.
“Gail would deﬁ  nitely make history,” 
Jah said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
Harvey Budd — incumbent
 Gail JohnsonThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnMONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
On Friday, Gov. Rick Scott met with the loved ones of the 
17 people who were murdered in the Parkland school shooting last month. After these meetings in Tallahas-see, Scott signed a law that will create stricter measures for gun purchases across the state.
The legislation, Senate Bill 7026, will allow only those 21 
years or older to purchase ﬁ  rearms; require a three-day waiting period for ﬁ  rearm purchases (with some exceptions); ban the sale or possession of bump ﬁ  re stocks; ban people deemed “mentally defective” or who have been committed to a mental institution from owning or possessing ﬁ  rearms until a court grants relief; let law enforcement ofﬁ  cers ask a court to temporarily prohibit someone from possessing or buying ﬁ  rearms or ammunition if there is evidence the person poses a threat to themselves or oth-
ers, and provide additional funding for armed school resource 
ofﬁ  cers and mental health services. 
The bill will also enact the Coach Aaron Feis Guardian Pro-
gram, which would allow some teachers to be armed if both the local school district and sheriff’s department agree. This portion of the bill is named for the coach who heroically lost his life af-ter he shielded students with his own body during the Feb. 14 shooting.
According to NPR, the legislation has generated mixed feel-
ings across the state and the country. Some people believe the bill is not doing enough to restrict gun laws, while other feel the bill is far too restrictive. In our opinion, although we are pleased with the steps taken, this bill is not restrictive enough.
The bill has regulations that are points of success, including 
the increased age restriction on buying guns and the banning of bump stocks were necessary. We are further pleased to see the bill will allow law enforcement ofﬁ  cers to ask a court to tem-porarily prohibit someone from possessing or buying ﬁ  rearms 
or ammunition if there is evidence the person poses a threat to 
themselves or others and there will be increased funding for men-tal health services in schools.
However, we can’t say we feel as excited about the remainder 
of the legislation. We feel deeming members of society “men-tally defective” is vague and will prove challenging when put into action. According to its deﬁ  nition by Florida statutes, a person can only be considered legally “mentally defective” if they have been labeled as such by the court. This means a person who 
may not be mentally ﬁ  t to own a gun could still purchase one so 
long as they have not run into legal trouble in the past. As such, this point seems moot and could further lead to discrimination against the mentally ill, should gun sellers decide to label poten-tial buyers on their own.
The most glaring issue with this bill is the idea of arming some 
teachers and faculty members. We recognize this will be restrict-ed. For example, teachers who are primarily classroom teachers will not be able to carry a gun unless they have military or law 
enforcement training. The program is also voluntary, so no fac-
ulty members or teachers are required to carry a gun and those who are qualiﬁ  ed and want to carry one must take 144 hours of training. However, we cannot get behind the idea of adding more ﬁ  rearms to solve the problems at hand. 
We cannot ﬁ  ght ﬁ  rearms with more ﬁ  rearms, nor can we al-
low students to have an opportunity to be in the same space as ﬁ  rearms. Even if the owner of the gun is well trained, this does not stop a student from taking the gun and using it themselves. 
Overall, we are pleased to see the state moving forward with 
gun control legislation, but there is much more work to be done if we really want to see an end to horriﬁ  c mass shootings like the  one at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Adding more guns 
is not the solution
We must continue our activism eﬀ  orts on gun reform
Two facts. First, last week Gov. Rick 
Scott signed a bill raising the minimum age for purchasing riﬂ  es in Florida from 
18 to 21. The bill also expanded the 
handgun waiting period to cover long 
guns, ban bump stocks and create a program allowing some school personnel to carry guns 
(I guess we can’t have it all).
Second, the National Riﬂ  e Association has 
already sued the Florida government to stop 
what it considers an “unconstitutional” law.
What does this tell us? Well, for starters, Scott can 
only make a good decision if he pairs it with a bad one. Also, if this wasn’t obvious before, the NRA doesn’t care about your safety, my safety, children’s safety, teachers’ safety … All the NRA cares about is selling more guns.
It’s not all bad news, though. My biggest takeaway 
from last week’s decisions is this: Student-led activism works. If we listen when young people talk, our legisla-ture can make progress toward common-sense gun con-trol laws. We can enhance the safety of our schools and 
other public spaces. Education can nurture activism, and 
activism can nurture education.
This conclusion, however, comes with a few impor-
tant caveats. We must add our voices to those who call 
on our elected ofﬁ  cials to take action, through email, so-
cial media, phone calls and — arguably, most impact-fully — our votes. The midterm elections are not as far away as they seem. The election isn’t until Nov. 6, but it’s never too early to ensure you’re registered to vote in 
your state and up-to-date on the issues at hand. Apathy 
and complacency helped get us where we are today, and I for one cannot stand to see our government led in part by an organization as conniving and ill-intentioned as 
the NRA. Can you?
We must also make certain we do not ignore the mes-
sages of other activists in our efforts to support some of them. For example, last week in Baltimore, 
Mayor Catherine Pugh announced the city would spend up to $100,000 funding transpor-
tation for local students to attend the “March 
For Our Lives” protest for gun control in Wash-ington, D.C.
Why? Because Baltimore students have 
been rallying against gun violence for much longer than news organizations have paid at-tention. The public often neglects the outcry from people in areas of lower socioeconomic 
status and students of minority backgrounds. This needs 
to change if we are going to enact real policy shifts to 
protect more people from gun violence.
It’s not just Baltimore, either. Take a look at Chicago, 
where students have yet to receive the same kind of me-
dia spotlight and still experience tragedy after tragedy 
when it comes to gun violence. We need to hear their voices, too, at the Washington, D.C., rally and beyond.
The students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School have ampliﬁ  ed the gun safety movement, forc-
ing the public and our politicians to confront an issue 
long pushed aside in the name of thoughts and prayers. Parkland activists have organized a protest around which other students can rally and express themselves. As sup-
porters and listeners, we cannot forget about the stu-
dents in places like Baltimore, Chicago and beyond who have been calling for this change for years.
Education can help inspire and fortify activism. But 
without activism, it seems as though we cannot have 
safe places for our education. At the end of the day, if 
our children, our students, our parents, our teachers and our friends aren’t safe — if we aren’t safe — what are we really doing here?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column focuses on education.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
This past Friday, four 
people died after a hos-tage situation emerged 
at a home for veterans 
just north of Napa, Cali-
fornia. 
A former resident of the 
home, who had been asked to leave earlier in the week, took three employees hostage, authorities said. According to CNN, the veteran who held the hostages had served 
in the Middle East and suffered from 
post-traumatic stress disorder. After the standoff dragged on throughout the day, the three victims and the shooter were all 
found dead.
Hostage situations may often seem 
larger-than-life or even ﬁ  ctitious. From 
books such as Ann Patchett’s “Bel Canto” to ﬁ  lms like “Paul Blart: Mall Cop,” writ-
ers use these scenarios to heighten drama 
and move the story along. But people don’t just take hostages in entertainment media. People are not only held against their will 
in dramatic scenes in books or movies.
From victims of kidnapping to prison-
ers of war, people are held captive in real 
life every day. They could be under threat of violence, the law or even death. 
This, as I’m sure you can imagine, has 
a myriad of consequences for the mental health of those being held against their will. During their capture, victims likely feel a sense of helplessness. Their captor may not feed them, and even if they do, 
it is at the captor's discretion. The vic-
tim may be unable to shower or go out-side. These small, everyday activities we take for granted are snatched away, and 
it could be for no reason other than they 
were in the wrong place at the wrong time.
As a result, victims may develop a con-
dition called Stockholm syndrome. This manifests as feelings of trust or affection 
felt by a victim toward their captor in a 
case of kidnapping or hostage-taking. Es-sentially, they begin to look at their captor 
as the one giving them life, not the one 
who is taking it away from them.
How could someone actually think this? Humans are predisposed as a species to make sense out of things that don’t  make 
sense to ﬁ  nd a way to survive. 
What is to stop us from giving up if we have nothing to help us make sense of what is hap-
pening to us?
I’d like to touch on a spe-
ciﬁ  c hostage-type situation you 
may not have thought of in this manner 
previously: the Baker Act. 
In 1971, a law was passed stating you 
can be admitted, detained and treated in the hospital against your will. This law, also called the Baker Act, is only acted on  
when authorities consider you a danger to 
yourself or others. This law is known as the Florida Mental Health Act of 1971. A similar act, called the Mental Health Act of 1983, exists in the United Kingdom. 
The purpose of bringing this to your at-
tention is to emphasize the way the pro-cess of involuntary and emergency psy-chiatric examinations can feel like being 
held hostage to someone who does not 
want treatment or who does not believe in it. People with mental illnesses who are taken into hospitals or crisis units against their will are not permitted to leave and 
are told where to go and what to do. 
They generally have no freedom. PTSD is a common condition to befall those who have been held hostage and, admittedly, this is not as likely if the patient is treated properly in the hospital. However, other 
effects, such as difﬁ  culty trusting others, 
anticipating danger, depression and anxi-ety can arise from this situation.
It is important to remember not every-
one has the autonomy most of us do. Next time you consume media that discusses people being held hostage, stop and think about people who have really experienced this. Think about how far and deep the 
mental health implications run.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism 
and psychology junior. Her column focuses 
on mental health.Hostage situations happen in real 
life, not only in books and moviesColumn
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgAs you scrolled through 
social media Thursday, you probably noticed 
a post here and there 
about someone’s moth-
er, sister or best friend. The post likely acknowledged their 
strength, beauty or any of their 
characteristics. 
That's because March 8 
marked International Women’s Day. Al-though many discovered this holiday 
the day of, the celebration dates back to 
1908 with the Women’s Labour Move-ment. Back then, 15,000 women marched through the streets of New York City de-
manding shorter working hours, higher 
wages and the right to vote. One year later, the day was established as a national holi-day and declared an international holiday a few years after. 
International Women’s Day is rooted in 
a movement for women’s rights. Although the title declares itself to be all-inclusive, women of color continuously accuse femi-
nist movements of leaving them out. When 
women try to rectify the situation and ask how to be better inclusive of women of color in feminist movements, they fail to realize they are asking the wrong question. 
Feminism for women of color is more 
complex because there are more intersec-tions and they face different situations of gender oppression due to their race. Rath-
er than focusing on inclusivity, women 
should be focusing on centering the move-ments on all types of women. Women of color should not be included as an after-thought but integrated into the conversa-
tion from the very beginning.
In addition to International Women’s 
Day, the recent #MeToo movement has al-
lowed women all across the spectrum to 
unite. The #MeToo movement started in 
an effort to create solidarity among young women against sexual assault. Despite the increased unity, women of color are still being blindsided. 
Women of color must ﬁ  ght twice as 
hard for their rights because of the extra obstacles they face due to race and can be left behind. Time magazine pub-lished an issue on the #MeToo movement and displayed some 
of its “silence breakers” on the 
cover but left out their black founder, Tarana Burke. Burke founded the campaign 10 years 
ago, but it did not go viral until 
Alyssa Milano tweeted about it recently.
Women of color have been facing ex-
clusion from feminism for years. It is not a 
new issue. The earliest feminist movements 
acknowledged by society did not include women of color in the slightest. The Suf-frage Movement fought for women’s right 
to vote but did not try to include women 
of color; this led to Sojourner Truth to take the podium and give her famous “Ain’t I a Woman” speech. Truth’s speech remind-ed the women of the Suffrage Movement 
to save her a seat at the table and to not 
exclude black women from their ﬁ  ght for equal rights. Her words still resonate to-day and inspire women of color to remain 
steadfast in their ﬁ  ght for gender equality. 
Women of color are fundamental to femi-nism and have been ﬁ  ghting for women’s values before society even conceptualized feminism.
Many women are still wary to declare 
themselves feminists and hold back in fear of a loaded word. They fear being associ-ated with radical actions such as burning 
your bra or being labeled a “man hater.” 
Regardless of race, to declare yourself a feminist takes courage and perseverance. Many people still believe in traditional gender roles, and see nothing wrong with 
gender dynamics as they now are. Yet fem-
inist movements have made great strides and have started the conversation for gen-der equality. But, there is still more work 
to be done. Feminism is a movement start-
ed by women, for women, and all women should feel equally included.
Madisyn Jones is a UF accounting 
sophomore. Her column focuses on black 
culture.Women of color are fundamental to 
feminism, which is for all womenColumn
Madisyn Jones
opinions@alligator.org
east
westmidwest
south
TH
restau rant & roo ftop barE
WATCH THE GATORS IN STYLE
OVER 70 TV’S AND 38 DIFFERENT CRAFT BEERS MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018  ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
Second Round
March 15-16Third Round
March 17-18Sweet Sixteen
March 22-23Elite Eight
March 24-25Final Four
March 31Final Four
March 31Elite Eight
March 24-25Sweet Sixteen
March 22-23Third Round
March 17-18Second Round
March 15-16National Championship
April 2
First Four
First Round    March 13-14
11 Arizona St.
11 Syracuse
March 1316 LIU-Brooklyn
16 Radford
March 1316 N.C. Central
16 T exas Soutern
March 1411 St. Bonaventure
11 UCLA
March 14
MARCH FISHING 
MADNESS
WIN $1,000
St. Pat’s Day
Contact us with Promo Code 
GATOR by March 15 for
FREE ENTRY
Details awfa1.org
404.617.1786
2100 SW 34th ST
352-336-6303
www.gainesvillefish.com
Aquatropics
for 10% off saltwater fish purchase
or 20% off freshwater fish purchaseFIND THE perfect pet  
for your dorm room or apartment!SAVE
MONEY
ALL OVER
MIDTOWN
1  DOWNLOAD   2  SAVE   3  ENJOY
(352)505-5340
Custom TattoosTobacco Gifts
@sacredskinstudiosARCHER 
BEAUTY  
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPEN
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 04/13/17.$10 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE OF $50 OR MORE$10 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE OF $50 OR MORE
Cannot be combined with price matching, 
food or cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 4/30/18.3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
1029 W. UNIVERSITY AVE.
 @CLIMAXSMOKESHOPGAINESVILLE(352) 872-5161
SMOKE WITH
FLAVOR1 Villanova
16 LIU OR Radford 
8 Virginia T ech
9 Alabama
5 West Virginia
12 Murray State
4 Wichita State 13 Marshall
6 Florida
11 St. Bona OR UCLA 
3 T exas T ech
14 S.F. Austin
7 Arkansas10 Butler
2 Purdue15 Cal State Fullerton
1 Xavier16 N.C. Central OR T exas So.
8 Missouri
9 Florida State
5 Ohio State
12 South Dakota State
4 Gonzaga
13 UNC-Greensboro
6 Houston
11 San Diego State
3 Michigan
14 Montana
7 T exas A&M
10 Providence
2 North Carolina
15 Lipscomb1 Kansas
1 Virginia16 Penn
16 UMBC8 Seton Hall
8 Creighton9 N.C. State
9  Kansas State5 Clemson
5 Kentucky12 New Mexico State
12 Davidson4  Auburn
4 Arizona13 Charleston
13 Buffalo6 TCU
6 Miami (Fla.)11 Arizona St. OR Syracuse
11 Loyola-Chicago3 Michigan State
3 T ennessee14 Bucknell
14 Wright State7 Rhode Island
7 Nevada10 Oklahoma
10 T exas2 Duke
2 Cincinnati15 Iona
15 Georgia State10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Laura Uribe won’t forget her high 
school sister’s text about the rumor of a 
school shooter in May.
Her sister huddled in a closet while on 
lockdown at J.P. Taravella High School as Uribe kept getting messages from her friends and former art teacher.
After hours of waiting, no one was 
hurt, and the occurrence ended as a gun 
scare.
“It’s the fear of not knowing,” the UF 
political science junior said.
Only nine months later and about five 
miles away from her sister’s high school, 
a mass shooting occurred at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School.
Uribe, 20, said she knew she had to 
make a change. She helped raise aware-
ness and bring people to a Gainesville 
City Commission meeting on March 1 to 
watch a vote on a gun reform resolution. It recognized gun violence as a public health and safety emergency. It passed unanimously.
“I wasn’t heavily invested in gun re-form when I was in high school,” Uribe said. “I think it’s a by-product of tragedy. 
People step up.”
The resolution will be a part of 
Gainesville’s official records, and a syn-
opsis will be mailed to members of Flor-ida’s legislature, Commissioner Harvey 
Ward said.
The city commission worked together 
to revise the resolution and added points 
such as opposition against arming teach-
ers, Ward said.
“This letter says that we’re watching, 
and we have expectations,” said Ward, 
the commissioner of District 2. “If they don’t do something, then we’ll know 
where they stand.”
Ward, 50, drafted the resolution, 
which has no legal standing, as he tried 
to find some way to respond to the 
shooting in Parkland, which took 17 
lives Feb. 14. Local government in Flori-da is restricted from passing gun reforms because of Florida Statute 790.33.
“I have had concerns about guns for a 
long time,” he said. “I’ve been sick about it since Sandy Hook. I’m happy we, as a society, are ready to make a change.”Gainesville City Commission 
passes gun reform resolution
By Valentina Pinzon 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF was recently ranked as one of the top 
schools with Peace Corps volunteers.
The Peace Corps, a volunteer program run 
by the U.S. government, released its 2018 list of 
the top volunteer-producing colleges and uni-
versities Feb. 20. The list was divided into cat-
egories based on the number of undergraduate 
students. UF ranked No. 5 in the large colleges 
section, which included 25 schools with more 
than 15,000 undergraduate students. 
Judging for the list is solely based on the 
number of people a university sends out, said 
Breton Homewood, the UF Peace Corps campus recruiter. Sixty-eight UF students are currently 
serving as volunteers worldwide, which is 10 
more students than 2017. The top large school was the University of Wisconsin-Madison with 85 volunteers.
UF has been ranked in the top five for eight 
consecutive years, Homewood, 33, said. How-ever, Homewood said the competition with 
other colleges has increased over the years.
This year, the university ranking above UF, 
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is only ahead by two volunteers. The only two 
other Florida universities on the list are the University of South Florida, which ranked No. 19, and Florida State University, which ranked No. 25.
It’s competitive to get into the Peace Corps 
program, Homewood said. Most applicants need a college education or 10 years of career 
experience to get in.
“To be in the top anything on a list like that 
is awesome,” Homewood said. “It tells me a lot 
about Gainesville. I think it really speaks to the 
University of Florida and people’s commitment 
to serve just says a lot about our community.”
Students who walk into Homewood’s office 
and show interest usually get accepted, he said. 
The Peace Corp Prep program, which helps to 
prepare UF students for volunteering, gives UF 
students an advantage.
Douglas Steinbach, a 23-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering senior, said he’s graduat-ing this semester and then moving in June to 
volunteer for the Peace Corps. He will be teach-
ing math in Sierra Leone in West Africa.
Steinbach said he’s unsure if UF got the high 
ranking because students like the specific vol-unteering experience or because they’re hard 
workers.
“Maybe it says that a lot of people dislike 
where they’re going with their life so they just want to take a break and learn about them-selves,” he said, “Or maybe it’s a good thing because UF produces hard workers.”UF ranked as a top school 
with Peace Corps volunteers
By Wyatt Schreiber
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lawrence E. Reeves used 
to spend his mornings in a 
Gainesville enclosure with a handheld vacuum in one hand and a piece of cardboard in the 
other.
He had to be working be-
fore the sun’s heat loosened the 
handmade traps he used to catch his blood-sucking friends, the 35-year-old said. 
Part of his morning routine 
two years ago was checking the cylindrical traps made out of 
wire fencing and a garbage bag, 
and shaking each one like dice in a Yahtzee cup to wake up the mosquitoes buzzing within.
Reeves studied their DNA to 
see if Florida mosquitoes bit in-vasive Burmese pythons. For his research, which was published Jan. 17, he captured mosquitoes 
to see if they had fed on pythons 
in the area. That information would tell him whether or not pythons were in the area to track the species’ location.
Reeves conducted this experi-
ment from the end of 2015 to the end of 2016. By tracking where mosquitoes bite the snakes, he could find where they were liv-ing in the Everglades.
“The python populations are 
expanding northward,” said 
Reeves, “so going into the future, 
it’s going to be really important to monitor their spread and de-termine where they occur.”
The brown snakes arrived in 
the Florida wilderness prior to the 1980s by pet owners releas-ing them into the wild, Reeves said. The invasive species deci-mated local animals by preying on them. 
For example, pythons have 
reduced raccoon populations so much that turtle and alligator eggs, a main food source for rac-coons, are have higher survival rates, he said.
Reeves said it’s hard to deter-
mine an estimate of how many pythons are in the Everglades be-cause they’re hard to find. “There’s definitely at least 
10,” he said. “But people gen-erally agree that there’s a very large number.” 
Jennifer L. Gillett-Kaufman, a 
UF associate extension scientist and one of Reeves’ supervisors, said she discussed the idea with him and helped lay out a time-
line to complete the work for his 
doctorate. Seven members tack-led the project with a team ap-proach, she said.
“The coolest part to me was 
really being able to come up with something that would showcase to the public how important it is to monitor and manage for inva-sive species,” she said.
Now as a postdoctoral re-
searcher at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Florida Medical Entomology Lab in Vero Beach, Reeves is putting his research to the test in the Ev-erglades. He said he’s collected about 1,000 mosquitoes so far. 
“We’re processing to figure 
out what animals they’ve been feeding on,” he said. 
UF researcher uses mosquitoes to track Burmese pythons
Courtesy to The Alligator
Lawrence E. Reeves, 35, spent a little more than a year in a controlled 
studying the DNA of Florida mosquitoes to see if they bit invasive Burmese pythons. He’s now a postdoctoral researcher at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Florida Medical Entomology Lab in Vero Beach, Florida, where he is testing his research in the Everglades. 
By Jonathan Griffin
Alligator Contributing Writer
After 17 years, researchers from 
UF and the Palatka-based St. Johns River Water Management District may have found a new way to de-crease populations of algae that are harmful for plants and animals in water.
The research team studied Lake 
George, a central Florida lake, from 1993 to 2010 in a project that re-ceived more than $2 million from various grants, said Edward J. 
Phlips, a UF fisheries and aquatic 
sciences professor who worked on 
the project.
A study published online Feb. 
24 in a journal called Environmen-
tal Science and Technology sug-
gests reducing the amount of two 
nutrients essential to the growth of algae in Lake George and similar 
bodies of water might control the harmful algae populations, Phlips 
said. The two nutrients are phos-
phorus and nitrogen. One of the 
ways these could be reduced is by 
controlling the use of fertilizers.
Researchers studied a specific 
group of algae called cyanobac-teria, which sometimes produces 
toxins that harm aquatic animals and plants.
Researchers collected measure-
ments including algae counts and 
water temperatures. The dataset 
was analyzed by a team led by Ra-
fael Muñoz-Carpena, a UF agricul-
tural and biological engineering professor.
“We looked at all these different 
components of the (lake),” Muñoz-
Carpena said.Phlips said the water manage-
ment district might use the study’s 
results to develop strategies to bet-
ter manage populations of harmful 
algae.
“We want to, as part of the 
continuing research on the lake, to evaluate whether what they’ve 
been doing has led to success and 
getting the outputs that we think 
they should,” Phlips said.UF researchers find way to possibly reduce harmful algae BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
One bedroom for rent in a three bedroom two bathroom furnished apartment. Private bed-room, shared bathroom. Males Only. Rent is $459 a month which includes utilities/cable/internet. Email jrk12b@my.fsu.edu for more info      3-14-18-3-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Designated drivers are the greatest
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-
441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    
3-14-18-12-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR 
BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  352-256-8370,352-246-86453-12-18-3-2
HOUSE FOR RENT - 3242 N2 11th St. Gvl2BR/1BA, W/D, large separate garage, fenced backyard. $875/mo. Sec dep $900. Pets ok w/ $10/mo + 1x non-refundable $100 fee. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave message.    3-30-18-9-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 159404 or 160560 at www.gatordining.com     3-23-18-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-
ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-21-
25-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Photographer making underwater
Youtube videos at Blue Springs seeks
female models. Gig pays $25 for 90 minutes
plus pictures and park reimbursement.
Call for more info  352-286-4579
3-19-18-5-14
LOOKING FOR
KEYBOARD PLAYER
For 2 Sundays each month. Gospel music.
Call 352-870-8077    3-14-18-3-14
part time help 3 to 4 days a week to help main-
tain Horses and the barn. Must have equine Knowledge Contact Ken at 4077219711 or Najorkaperformancehorses@gmail.com     3-16-18-3-1413 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Medicare section
for doctors’
services
6 Number of sides
on most game
cubes
9 Fit of __: irritated
state
14 Western neighbor
of Wyoming
15 Omelet meat
16 Finnish hot spot
17 Deck
18 Some Little
League eligibilityrules
20 *Samsung
Galaxy, e.g.
22 Aberdeen native23 Salty waters
24 Eastern neighbor
of Wyoming:
Abbr.
26 Sewn loosely29 Put together, as
IKEA furniture
33 Pale34 Urge forward
35 Curtain holder
36 Reggae relative37 *Trick that’s
“pulled”
39 Bit of energy40 Capek sci-fi play41 Jerk42 Taxi meter
amount
43 Tickle the fancy
of
45 Puts up with47 Big name in
banking
48 “So that’s it!”
cries
49 Heavy hammer51 *Optimist’s
perspective
57 Barbra with
Oscars
59 Ballet skirts60 Donates
61 NHL surface
62 Layered cookies63 With 21-Down,
dictation taker’sneed
64 Bobbsey girl65 Group described
by the starts ofthe answers tostarred cluesDOWN
1 Apple seeds
2 “The Voice”
judge Levine
3 Pro __: in
proportion
4 Needing a drink5 Crocheted baby
shoe
6 Persian
monarchs
7 “Othello” villain8 Marvel Comics
mutants
9 Pitchfork-shaped
Greek letter
10 Sean Penn film
with a Seussian
title
11 *Yeast-free
bakery product
12 “Do __ others ... ”
13 Dawn direction
19 Reduce
21 See 63-Across
25 What a stet
cancels
26 Iraqi port27 Invite to one’s
penthouse
28 *Hairpin turn, e.g.29 “Are not!”
response30 Dalmatian mark
31 Sitcom producer
Chuck
32 Boundaries34 “__ just me ... ?”37 Royal decree38 Goes off script42 Narrow crack44 Astronaut Collins45 “That feels good!”46 Inning half48 Poet Nash49 Inbox list: Abbr.50 Going __:
fighting
52 Reason to roll out
the tarp
53 Peruvian native54 Cal.-to-Fla.
highway
55 Couples56 She, in Sicily58 Prefix with -bar or
-tope
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/12/1803/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, March 12, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Steve
McQueen’s 
co-star in 
“The Getaway”
11 Hollow15 It doesn’t include
overtime
16 Can of corn at
the market, say
17 Defect18 Online shopping
option
19 Organic soy milk
brand
20 Org. hacked
during the 2016
presidential
campaign
21 Some edible
plant parts
23 Morally base
26 Vein contents
27 Texas-Louisiana
border river
30 Vein contents34 Red-hot36 Superfan37 “On the Road”
narrator
38 Company with
back-to-schoolbuys
39 Flowery lines
40 Crock-Pot and
Cuisinart: Abbr.
41 News gp.
42 1940s mil. zone43 Excite, with “up”44 Wilde forte46 Sounded right49 Joan of Arc’s
crime
50 Shorten a yard to
mere inches?
51 Crate up
53 Where Excalibur
was forged
56 Buff end
57 Bering Sea port61 Amy’s “Sisters”
co-star
62 One with a lot of
wheels
65 Bands in the East66 It helps you get
up
67 Substantial
content
68 Commercial
challengesDOWN
1 Calais cleric
2 Hog product
3 Understanding
answer
4 Is not to be taken
lightly
5 What it doesn’t
hurt to do
6 Checkout
counter device
7 Sweat __
8 Like bad butter
9 Craft for couples
10 “The Swiss
Family Robinson”author
11 Parish priests12 Portmanteau for
workout clothingworn socially
13 News source,
perhaps
14 Defib specialists22 Places for
piggies?
24 Very few25 End of a
ristorante request
27 Unlit?28 One of the
original PointerSisters29 Passion caused
by strips
31 Fueling device
with an automatic
shut-off feature
32 Cantina fare33 Disreputable
35 Cabaret offering
45 Hurled weapon
47 Bring up the rear
48 Online reminders
52 Appropriate53 Splitting target
54 Hard-to-describe
feeling
55 Tweed’s
caricaturist
58 GM line until 2004
59 Fulfill
60 Throws wildly,
say
63 Hagen of the
stage
64 Down
By Gail Grabowski©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/03/1803/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, March 3, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Boundaries 
1.  ____ up5.  Green ____
2.  Baste6.  Oven feature
3.  ____ radiation 7.  Deer ____
4.  Point makerMLITSI
OSLNEOVEOIL
METRI
IOETNSM
RMTLHEATLEARN
CSRREOANSWERS: 1A-Limits  5A-Olive  6A-Timer  7A-Antler
1D-Loosen  2D-Moisten  3D-Thermal  4D-Scorer  B-One mile3-12-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is equal to 1,760 yards.
BONUS1. When was the last time before 
2016 that the Chicago Cubs lost a 
postseason game by a 1-0 score?
2. How many times did Yankees leg-
end Joe DiMaggio have more home runs than strikeouts in a major-league season?
3. Which Big Ten football team was 
the first to go to the Rose Bowl?
4. Who was the first NBA player to 
officially record a quadruple-double?
5. Name the last NHL player before 
Washington’s Alex Ovechkin to start a season with back-to-back hat tricks.
6. How many consecutive yearly 
Directors’ Cups has Stanford won for having the most success in Division I 
college athletics?
7. Who was heavyweight champion 
Rocky Marciano’s final bout against 
before retiring with a 49-0 record?
Answers
1. It was 1918, when Boston’s Babe 
Ruth shut out the Cubs in the first game of the World Series.
2. Seven times (1937, ‘38, ‘39, ‘40, 
‘41, ‘46 and ‘48).
3. Michigan, in 1902.4. Nate Thurmond, for Chicago 
in 1974 (22 points, 14 rebounds, 13 assists, 12 blocked shots).
5. In 1917, Cy Denneny, Joe Malone 
and Reg Noble all did it.
6. Twenty-three.7. Archie Moore, in 1955.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 5, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesLed by sophomore Sierra 
Brooks , the Florida women's 
golf team won the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Sunday. Florida tennis teams defeat SEC foes
The Gators men's tennis team defeated Auburn 6-1 on the road on Sunday, 
while the UF women's tennis team swept T exas A&M 4-0 in Gainesville. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
If you’ve kept up with the NFL Combine or anything surrounding it in the past couple of weeks, you may have heard LSU running 
back Derrius Guice spill some tea on an unidentiﬁ  ed team after one of its scouts asked Guice a pointed question in a private interview.
“Do you like men?”The inquiry may not have been made in 
as few words, but that’s what it amounted to. 
In 2013, former NFL spokesman Greg 
Aiello went on record after a similar ques-tion was asked of former Colorado tight end Nick Kasa.
“There are speciﬁ  c protections in our 
Collective Bargaining Agreement with the players that prohibit discrimination against any player, including on the basis of sexual orientation,” Aiello said.
Guice’s case wasn’t the 
ﬁ  rst instance of this, and I’d bet top dollar it won’t be the last.
Yes, the question is illegal 
to ask any potential employ-ee. Yes, the question is deeply homophobic. Yes, the inter-viewer ought to be ﬁ  red and the organization he works for 
ﬁ  ned and punished further.
But what motivated the question in the 
ﬁ  rst place?
In 2014, former Missouri defensive end 
Michael Sam became the ﬁ  rst openly gay man drafted by an NFL team when he went in the seventh round to St. Louis. While he didn’t make the ﬁ  nal roster, the fact that he got to that point proves it can be done.
So why does a team ask an illegal ques-Derrius Guice's question is an 
indictment of bigoted NFL fansMorgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan McMullen
Twitter: @MorganMcMufﬁ  n
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Grant Holloway stared at the NCAA tro-
phy in his hands as his teammates jumped into each other’s arms. 
Red, white and blue confetti cascaded all 
around them.
This feeling of triumph was special for 
the Gators men’s track and ﬁ  eld team.
It was a feeling it had just missed out on 
a year ago when it took runner up to Texas A&M by half a point.
Coach Mike Holloway and his athletes 
had trained the entire season to experience that moment.
All of the long hours spent jumping into 
sand pits and leaping over 45-inch hurdles had culminated into this moment of pure emotion after the ﬁ  nal NCAA race.
The stakes were high on Saturday in College Station, Texas, as the 2018 NCAA Indoor Championships were drawing to an end.
UF’s top athletes did what they’d done 
all season. They came up with clutch per-formances when it mattered most, including a ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish in the 60-meter hurdles and runner-up ﬁ  nish in the triple jump to clinch an indoor national title for the ﬁ  rst time since 2012.
Holloway, in his 16th season as Florida’s 
head coach, has instilled a special sense of belief in his athletes all year.
They believe in their talents. They trust 
that execution will breed success. They don’t try to control the intangibles.
“I love my guys,” Holloway said in a re-
lease. “I’m glad they’re on my team.”
That philosophy has seemed to work for 
the 2018 NCAA indoor national champions.Florida wins fourth indoor 
championship, ﬁ  rst since 2012  
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
While most college basketball 
teams gathered around a television 
set, anxiously waiting to hear if they made the cut for the NCAA Tourna-ment, the Gators were stuck inside an airplane on a St. Louis runway.
Florida guard Egor Koulechov’s 
tweet conﬁ  rmed it, as he believed Florida would have to wait until it 
landed in Gainesville to ﬁ  nd out its 
fate.
With their ﬂ  ight still delayed, 
however, the Gators found out in real 
time who they would be facing ﬁ  rst.
For the second consecutive year, 
the Florida men’s basketball team has made the NCAA Tournament, this time as a No. 6 seed. The Gators will play the winner of a First Four game 
between No. 11 seeds St. Bonaven-
ture and UCLA in Dallas on Thursday 
in the East region of the bracket.
“We’re excited to compete in the 
NCAA Tournament again, which is 
one of the most unique and special 
events in all of sports,” Florida coach 
Mike White said.
The winner of that matchup will 
face the winner of No. 3-seed Texas Tech and No. 14-seed Stephen F. Aus-tin in the second round on Saturday.
The Gators are coming off an 80-72 loss in the SEC Tournament quar-terﬁ  nals to Arkansas on Friday, their only game of postseason play thus far.
This is Florida’s second appear-
ance in the NCAA Tournament under White and its 19th overall.
With the NCAA bid, White be-
came the ﬁ  rst coach in UF history to earn a bid in two of his ﬁ  rst three seasons. He is one of two active SEC coaches to accomplish this.
Last year, the Gators defeated 
East Tennessee State 80-65 in the ﬁ  rst round of the tournament before beating Virginia 65-39 in the second GATORS GOING DANCING: UF nabs No. 6 seed for NCAA Tourney     
Dylan Dixon / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza (11) and the Gators men's basketball team are heading to Dallas for the ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA T ournament on Thursday. 
TRACK
The Madness Begins
Who:  Florida (20-12) vs. St. Bo-
naventure (25-7) / UCLA (21-11)
What: First Round of 2018 NCAA 
Division I Men's Basketball Tourna-ment
When: Thursday at 9:57 p.m.Where: American Airlines Center 
in Dallas, Texas
TV: TruTVSEE 
BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
When Jordan Butler hit a ground-
er to the right side of the infield that 
scored Deacon Liput for the game-
winning run, the freshman was 
mobbed by his teammates down the 
first-base line.
Butler had been called on to pinch 
hit moments prior by coach Kevin O’Sullivan. The Tampa native took 
full advantage, smacking a walk-off single to help Florida defeat Rhode 
Island 3-2 on Saturday and complete 
its third weekend sweep of 2018.
“It was like nothing I’ve experi-
enced before,” Butler said. “I haven’t really done anything here to get the 
crowd cheering like that. It was awe-
some.”
Now, the No. 1 Gators (15-3) 
will prepare for their first matchup against No. 4 Florida State (14-2) 
this season — a game scheduled for Tuesday at 6 p.m. in Gainesville.
As for Butler, a two-way player, 
he hasn’t pitched since Wednesday 
when he picked up the first loss of 
his Gator career. The freshman went 
five innings against the UCF Knights, 
giving up two runs on three hits dur-ing the game.“I thought he threw the ball 
good,” O’Sullivan said of Butler.
Now, with plenty of rest for his 
arm and six days in between pitch-ing appearances, it’s a possibility 
that the young righty will be on the 
hill against Florida’s first top-five op-
ponent of the 2018 season.
But Tuesday won’t be a cakewalk 
for the Gators regardless of who’s on 
the mound. FSU comes into the con-
test with a .419 on-base percentage 
and has a pitching staff that is argu-
ably as stellar as the Gators’, posting 
a 2.59 ERA.
However, the Seminoles enter 
Tuesday’s game against Florida hav-ing lost their previous two games at 
the hands of Wake Forest.
FSU was on the opposite end of 
a walk-off on Saturday, losing 4-3 to the Demon Deacons in the bottom 
of the ninth. Wake Forest then blew 
out FSU 8-1 on Sunday.
After Tuesday’s matchup against 
the Seminoles, the schedule intensi-fies for Florida as it opens SEC play. 
UF will travel to Columbia, South 
Carolina, later in the week to open 
a three-game series starting Friday at 
7 p.m.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgAfter walk-off win, Gators set sights on ‘Noles, SEC schedule
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
The UF softball team took the field on Sunday 
without one of its senior leaders and the walk-off hero from Saturday night’s thriller against Ken-
tucky. 
First baseman Kayli Kvistad sat out with the 
flu as normal catcher Janell Wheaton filled in and marshaled the Gators’ defense behind ace Kelly Barnhill, who pitched in her second outing of 
the weekend after no-hitting the Wildcats Friday 
night. 
“They were just working really hard behind 
me today,” Barnhill said. “(Kentucky) did a really 
good job making adjustments from Friday, they 
put the bunts down, but it didn’t end up hurting 
us in the end.”
No. 2 Florida (22-1, 3-0 SEC) completed the 
sweep of the No. 23 Wildcats (15-6, 0-3 SEC) in the weekend series and took a 4-0 victory at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
The junior came back with another complete-
game shutout. She captured her 11th win of the year and struck out nine, allowing only five base runners all afternoon.
Stellar defense behind Barnhill (11-0) kept 
Kentucky off the scoreboard when it got players on. 
Left fielder Amanda Lorenz ran down a fly ball 
in foul territory in the second inning. She kept the ball from sailing over the wall and stole an out for 
her pitcher. 
“It was really cool to see that hard work pay-
ing off because we work on that all the time (in practice),” Lorenz said. “I think that was more 
exciting for me than any home run I’ve hit.”
After Barnhill gave up her only walk of the day 
with one out in the top of the fifth, catcher Jordan Roberts caught UK’s Lauren Johnson stealing to clear up the bases. With one out and a runner on first in the sixth, 
it appeared Kentucky second baseman Alex Mar-tens had a hit up the middle. But UF shortstop 
Sophia Reynoso came out of nowhere to scoop 
up the ball, step on second and fire to Wheaton at first for an outstanding double play. 
UF faced off with Kentucky pitcher Autumn 
Humes for the second time in the three-game se-ries as well, and for the second time, the Gators 
jumped on Humes early. 
Second baseman Hannah Adams led off the 
game with a walk, her seventh leadoff base on 
balls this season. Third baseman Nicole DeWitt followed with a sacrifice bunt to advance the freshman to second and put her in scoring posi-
tion. With two outs, cleanup hitter Jordan Mat-
thews dropped a blooper just inside the left-field line. Adams scored from second and gave the 
Gators a first-inning lead for the 16th game this 
season. 
Florida zeroed in on Humes again in the bot-
tom of the third. 
Adams and center fielder Alex Voss started the 
frame with back-to-back strikeouts, but DeWitt 
sparked a Gator attack with a double to center 
field that just caught the top of the wall. 
Then, Lorenz launched a 2-1 pitch to the op-
posite field, knocking the bright yellow ball off the top of the scoreboard in left-center field and rounding the bases to give UF a three-run lead. 
Reynoso also contributed offensively in the 
bottom of the inning with runners on the corners. 
With one out and a 2-2 count, she laid down a 
sacrifice squeeze bunt, scoring pinch runner Ha-ven Sampson and capping off the contest. 
“Just getting another win in the SEC is a big 
deal. Just getting a sweep in this league is hard to do,” Lorenz said. “We’re just excited about that, going to carry the momentum in practice and fo-
cus on the next game coming up.”UF sweeps No. 23 Kentucky 
in conference-opening series 
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer 
The Florida gymnasts were silent as 
they took their seats in front of the post-
meet press conference Friday night. It 
wasn’t the attitude of a team that had just 
ended its last home competition with its 
second-highest meet total of the season. A somber mood settled over the room like 
a wet blanket. 
Senior Alex McMurtry dominated in 
No. 5 UF’s 197.925-196.700 win over Ne-
braska. She took all five event titles on 
the night. However, the team was more 
focused on what Friday’s meet marked 
the end of. 
The victory fell on the Gators’ Senior 
Night, when the team celebrated the ca-reers of McMurtry, Kennedy Baker, Grace 
McLaughlin and Rachel Slocum.
“It is the meet that is the most emo-
tional over the course of the entire sea-
son,” coach Jenny Rowland said in a re-
lease. “It was a great finish to the regular 
season.” 
Motivated by the bittersweet knowl-
edge that it was the last home meet of 
her collegiate career, McMurtry kept her composure to end the night with a win 
in all five events. Her achievement stands 
alongside Ashanee Dickerson, the last 
Gator to claim each event title at LSU in 
2011.
“I was lucky enough, and I was pre-
pared enough to put on a show in every 
event,” McMurtry said. “That’s the note 
you wanna end on.”
McMurtry’s top scores against Ne-
braska (11-3, 5-0 Big Ten) included an all-around win of 39.825, equaling UF’s 
all-around record set by Alaina Johnson 
and Bridget Sloan in 2014. It was only McMurtry’s third time competing in the 
all-around this year, as a lingering back injury kept her off the floor event for most 
of the season. The 15-time All-American 
showed she hadn’t missed a step when 
she equaled her highest floor score on the season at 9.925, locking in her last two 
titles of the night.
McMurtry has made a significant im-
pact on Gators gymnastics in her career 
at UF. In four short years she has scored a 10.0 in each event and earned SEC 
Gymnast of the Year honors in 2017. Her 
perseverance and excellence throughout 
each season are traits Rowland will miss 
as she says goodbye to McMurtry and her 
fellow seniors. 
“Alex talked about being able to touch 
people’s lives,” Rowland said. “I am not 
the same person (after) working with this 
team this year. Really, this team is better 
together.”
In a meet that celebrated the achieve-
ments of its seniors, the night was also highlighted by freshman Jazmyn Foberg. 
Foberg placed third in vault and second 
in bars with collegiate bests of 9.990 and 
9.950, respectively. Five Gators posted 10 
collegiate or season bests, a confidence 
booster for Florida (8-2, 5-2 SEC) as it 
prepares for the SEC Championships on March 24. 
“I needed that confidence going into 
postseason,” McMurtry said. “We still 
have a lot in us.” 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgFlorida ends regular season 
on McMurtry’s record nightAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Freshman pitcher Jordan Butler came up with a pinch-hit single in the bottom of the ninth inning 
against Rhode Island to secure a walk-off victory. 
BASEBALL
GYMNASTICS SOFTBALL16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2018
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, Baseball
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
tion such as this?
In short, it’s because of the fanbase.
NFL fans as a whole are still the far-
thest away from realizing equality on the 
ﬁ  eld. Some of the old folks who still cling to images of Joe Namath running off the ﬁ  eld after a potentially rigged Super Bowl would have a conniption if they saw their team taking a gay player. 
Heck, when players started taking 
knees en masse during the national an-
them, I’m sure those same folks were 
quick to record a Blair Witch-style mon-
tage video of them burning their team’s merchandise, complete with frantic ram-bling about how the team doesn’t respect veterans.
This isn’t to say that a solid majority of 
NFL fans would care about a gay football player being drafted. Heck, Sam’s jersey became the second-best selling rookie jer-sey behind Johnny Manziel that year. 
However, the lost proﬁ  t from the fans 
on the other side of the fence of decency makes Derrius Guice’s question an entic-ing one for a team. It becomes less, “Do you like men?” and more, “Will any as-pect of your life alienate even our most bigoted supporters?” But it’s still disgust-ing, immoral and illegal no matter how it’s spun.
Morgan McMullen is the Alligator's 
online sports editor. Contact him at mmcmullen@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14It’s what has garnered the program eight com-
bined indoor and outdoor national titles since 2010 — a total that leads all of Division I during that span.
The Gators have also joined Arkansas, UTEP 
and Oregon as the fourth Division I men’s program to capture at least four NCAA indoor titles.
That outlook is why Holloway has become the 
fourth men’s track coach in Division I history with 
at least four indoor and four outdoor national titles. 
It’s why 60-meter hurdles record holder Grant 
Holloway became the ﬁ  fth man in history to suc-
cessfully defend his NCAA title.
That’s what fueled KeAndre Bates and Clayton 
Brown to earn 13 big points in the men’s triple 
jump to put their team in position to win the na-
tional title.
Bates came back from a disappointing SEC 
Championship performance to post a season-best 
mark in the triple jump at nationals.
“He’s a Gator great. That’s all there is to it,” 
Holloway said. “He will go down as one of the best 
jumpers in the history of our school.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgTRACK,  from pg. 14Grant Holloway becomes ifth man to successfully defend NCAA title
Courtesy of UAA Communications
The Florida men's track and ﬁ  eld team won its fourth indoor national championship Saturday in College Station, T exas. 
Grant Holloway posted a time of 7.47 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles while posting a second-place ﬁ  nish in the long jump. 
round. In the Sweet 16, guard Chris Chiozza’s buzzer-beating three-pointer propelled the Gators past Wisconsin 84-83. Florida eventu-ally fell to South Carolina 77-70 on March 26 in the Elite Eight.
Florida will now turn its attention to avoid-
ing a ﬁ  rst-round loss, which would be its ﬁ  rst since 2010 when it lost to BYU in double-over-time 99-92.
But for White, he’s happy his team earned 
the opportunity to play in the tournament. Be-fore the Tennessee game on Feb. 21, White 
stated that at the level Florida was playing, 
there was a chance it could play in the NCAA 
Tournament or be NIT-bound.
“I’m happy for our team to have this op-
portunity,” White said. “We obviously have two really good potential opponents to start 
preparing for.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Mike White: "I'm happy for our 
team to have this opportunity."