We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Voting for SG elections ends today
Find out where to vote. Polls close at 8:30 p.m.,, pg. 4
Heartwood Music Festival returns
Find out who to see and when in The Avenue, pg. 8UF TOPS FAU TO REMAIN 
UNDEFEATED
Florida’s baseball team beat the Owls 6-1 on Tuesday behind the performance of freshman pitcher Jack Leftwich, pg. 13VOLUME 112 ISSUE 61
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Andrew Steele, a 19-year-old UF business sophomore and 2016 alumnus of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, speaks at a memorial event organized by fellow alumnus Zach Xu.Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Zach Xu, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance sophomore and 2016 alumnus of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, spoke about his experiences while at the school and paid his respects to those involved in the shootings on Tuesday night.
By Christina Morales  
Alligator Staff Writer
Although the Student Govern-
ment codes specify the Elections 
Commission should be made up of six members, seven people acting as members discussed and voted on three election code violations at a meeting Monday night.
Early Tuesday, Elections Com-
mission Chair Troy Mainzer con-ﬁ  rmed there were seven voting members. Per election codes, the Election Commission is a non-parti-san group of six law students who hear election violation complaints submitted by SG participants. 
During the Monday meeting, 
commissioners decided Challenge Party violated election codes and voted to recommend the disqualiﬁ  -cation of an Inspire Party candidate 
to the UF Supreme Court. 
Supervisor of Elections Erica 
Baker conﬁ  rmed seven people de-
liberated and voted on the ﬁ  rst two hearings. Baker said she didn’t count how many people were serving as commissioners. 
Baker refused to say whether a 
code violation occurred. She said as 
a non-partisan ofﬁ  cial, commenting 
would be taking a party’s side. She said it’s up to the UF Supreme Court to decide whether a code was violat-ed and if the commission’s decisions were illegal. 
Former commissioners Stefano 
Battistoni and Michael Livers were present in the meeting while the ﬁ  rst two cases of potential election code violations were argued. According to 
the SG website, their terms expired 
in Fall 2017.
Mainzer said when commission-
ers realized Battistoni and Livers’ terms had expired, they were asked to leave. Both left before the third case was argued.
Commissioners Kingman Keat-
ing, David Walsh, Michael Bauman, 
John Reddin and Mainzer were pres-
ent for the all of the cases. 
Judiciary Chairwoman Emily 
Dempsey conﬁ  rmed Battistoni was nominated by former Student Body President Susan Webster in Novem-ber 2016 and Livers was nominated by Smith Meyers when he was Sen-ate president in November 2016. Ke-ating and Mainzer were nominated by UF Supreme Court Chief Justice 
Meagan McCarthy in December 
2017. Reddin and Jacob Peek were both nominated by Meyers. Red-din was nominated in August 2017 and Peek was nominated in Decem-ber 2017. Walsh was nominated by Jackie Phillips when she was Senate president in August 2017. Bauman was nominated by Senate President 
Ian Green in December 2017. 
Mainzer said the codes weren’t 
violated because Battistoni’s and 
Livers’ votes did not count. He said even without them, the ﬁ  rst two cas-es are still 4-0. 
“At most, it was just two other 
people sitting there,” Mainzer said. He said even if they had to re-
hear the cases, the outcome would remain the same because people 
present with current terms voted af-
ﬁ  rmatively.
Here’s a breakdown of each vio-
lation the commission heard at this meeting and how it voted:
IMPACT VS. INSPIRE
UF law student Blake Murphy, 
who served as the legal counsel for Impact, ﬁ  led a complaint on behalf of the party against Patrick Brath-waite, the Inspire law candidate.
Murphy argued Brathwaite cre-
ated a secret Facebook group that SG group didn’t violate rules with extra members, oﬃ   cials say STONEMAN DOUGLAS ALUMNI HOLD VIGIL 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Zach Xu stopped to hug every alum-
nus from his high school clad in ma-roon, silver and burgundy on Turlington Plaza. 
Standing there with him for a vigil he 
organized, the 20-year-old said he felt a sense of comradery. 
The UF ﬁ  nance sophomore brought 
together the candlelight vigil at UF so his peers could express their grief after a shooter killed 17 people in the hallways and classrooms of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.
After spending time with a friend who 
lost his sister in the shooting, Xu made a Facebook event, calling on alumni to come together for a candlelight vigil on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday night. Xu said he heard about the shooting from an online article that said there was a shooting at a South Florida school.
“Nothing can prepare you to see your 
hometown on that camera,” he told 
more than 200 people at the vigil.
Xu organized to have about 10 other 
speakers, including alumni who lost 
friends. Xu said the most important part of the vigil was hearing from the Park-land community at UF.
Xu will also speak at UF’s ofﬁ  cial 
vigil event Wednesday. 
He said he is inspired by the efforts 
of current Stoneman Douglas students to address legislators and change the coun-try’s gun laws.
“It absolutely blows my mind that 
these senators think assault riﬂ  es should be legal,” he said. “I’m waiting for some-one with a brain to take over.”By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
For 10 minutes, Andrew Steele felt  
alone when he found out his former school was under attack.
The 19-year-old UF business sopho-
more was at his girlfriend’s home when 
a friend texted him from the school men-
tioning a school shooting. He checked online and saw nothing.
“The ﬁ  rst time a story showed up, it 
was 2:50 p.m., and it was rudimentary,” he said.
News was slow to come in. It wasn’t 
until later that night he found out he knew one of the 17 killed at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School. It was a 
former swimming and water polo team-mate, Nicholas Dworet.
“I cried, and I cried,” he said.Steele spoke at the Tuesday vigil on 
Turlington Plaza about his connections to the victims of the shooting and his alma mater.
“It’s been weird seeing people have 
to bury their siblings and have to run from a place they thought was safe,” he said.
Wearing his maroon Stoneman 
Douglas water polo shirt, he remem-bered the life of his lost teammate, who he said was one of the best and most de-termined athletes he’d ever seen. 
He told the crowd he visited Dworet’s 
family Saturday and read from a note he found by Dworet’s bed.
“I will give all that I have in my body 
and my mind to achieve this goal I have set,” Steele quoted Dworet, who planned to go to the Tokyo Olympics. “I will let nothing stand in my way.”
SEE COMMISSION,  PAGE 5About 10 speakers participated; about 200 others attended 
Florida’s baseball team beat the Owls 6-1 on 
Tuesday behind the performance of freshman 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
HIGH  86° LOW  61°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 61
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
1236 NW 21st Ave
(off of 13th St.)
OPEN Monday - Saturday
11AM–7PM
Closed Sunday
(352) 260-6958A perfect study & meeting spot...URBAN
THREAD
OPEN  
Monday - Friday 11–7, 
 Sat 11–6, Sun 11–5HARPER’S CORNER
at
URBAN THREAD
2 LOCATIONS:
1236 NW 21ST AVE
(352) 271-1179
802 W. UNIVERSITY AVE
(352) 727-7500WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, February 21, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSAll cooking will take place in the UF Dietetics 
Lab, Building 162 (adjacent to the Reitz Union) 
on the dates below from noon to 1 p.m. Attend-
ees will have a chance to sample food, but should 
bring their own lunches.
Rethinking Root Vegetables, March 16
Spring Snacks and Sauces, April 13
T otally T omatoes, May 18
The Field & Fork  program is a campus-wide re -
source through which individuals can take cours -
es, engage with demonstrations and participate 
in activities that focus on sustainable agriculture 
and food systems. From a home or community 
garden to an urban farm or large-scale produc -
tion, the program explores food production 
at multiple scales and is home to the Alan and 
Cathy Hitchcock Food Pantry. Field & Fork in -
vestigates every aspect of food from food security 
and processing to consumption and nutrition.
Email aprizzia@ufl.edu to register for class no 
later than the Wednesday before the class you are 
interested in attending.This spring, the UF Field & Fork Campus 
Food Program, in partnership with UFHR 
WorkLife, will present a series of monthly 
courses designed to demonstrate that cooking 
vegetables, especially when in season, can be 
easy, fun and delicious. In the Kitchen: Field 
and Fork Cooking Series is free and open to 
faculty, staff and students.
Anna Prizzia, UF campus food systems coor-
dinator, will share tips and tricks for working 
with fresh veggies and provide participants 
with new recipes to take home and try. 
“We’re all about experiential learning,” said  
Prizzia. “We grow fresh foods for our vol-  
unteers and our pantry, and we want to  
provide people with an opportunity to learn how 
they might prepare that food.”Field & Fork 
Cooking Series
The ONE.UF information portal contin-
ues to evolve as UF’s self-service mech-
anism, with a number of new features 
rolling out in March through COMPASS 
(Campus-wide Modernization Program to 
Advance Student Services). Students, facul -
ty and staff can look forward to new func -
tionality related to action items (service 
indicators/holds), financial aid, registra-
tion prep, registration, schedule of cours -
es, and a faculty/staff workspace.  Read 
more in an upcoming article to be pub -
lished in the February issue of COMPASS 
Update, available online as of Feb. 28 at  
compass.ufl.edu.New Features 
Coming to 
One.UFLast summer, UF announced it will hire 500 new 
faculty beginning this year to further enhance 
teaching and research and to continue to grow as 
one of the best research universities in the nation.
To support these efforts, UF Human Resources 
recently partnered with 160over90 and University 
Communications to develop a new recruitment 
brochure and has launched an accompanying pro -
motional website: faculty500.hr.ufl.edu.
In addition, the UF Faculty Search Committee 
toolkit has been redesigned to better support de-
partments undertaking faculty searches. The tool -kit serves as a general guide and includes the steps 
of the faculty search process, as well as resources 
related to attracting the best candidates, under -
standing the market, engaging with and evaluat -
ing candidates, hiring the right candidate and sup -
porting new hires as they transition into their roles.
Many searches are already underway, and the uni -
versity expects to hire 200 new faculty members 
by this fall. Funding for the new hires will come 
from state allocations, alumni and friends, as well 
as university resources. To learn more, please visit 
news.hr.ufl.edu.“Faculty 500” Initiative Aims to 
Hire 200 New Faculty by Fall
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmTHE LAST DAY TO 
VOTE IS TODAY.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Anthony Neher collected four “I 
Voted!” stickers in Marston Science 
Library to take back to his fraternity, Delta Tau Delta, to win a prize. He said it’s normal for Greek life stu-
dents to vote for Impact Party.
The UF electrical engineering 
sophomore said his fraternity told 
him to vote for Impact, but he chose Inspire Party. 
“It’s really not beneﬁ  cial to just 
vote with an organization because the majority of the people believe in something,” the 20-year-old said. “I think you should just vote for what-ever you believe in.” 
Supervisor of Elections Erica 
Baker said 6,484 students cast their votes Tuesday. This is a 2,002 vote increase compared to Spring 2017, when 4,482 votes were cast on the ﬁ  rst day of voting. In Spring 2016, 6,644 votes were cast, according to Alligator archives. 
Today is the last day for students to vote for the Student Body presi-dent, vice president and treasurer as well as 50 senators from each col-lege. 
Reid Hines, 20, said he feels he 
makes a small difference every time he votes in a SG election, which he’s done every Fall and Spring. 
“A lot of those little impacts add 
up,” the UF biology sophomore said. “It’s my duty as a UF student to try and have some input. It feels power-ful because I’m having inﬂ  uence.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org First day of SG elections has high turnout compared to 2017 
• Norman Rooms 171 and 173
• Reitz Union Computer Lab
• Law School (Bruton-Geer)
• Broward Basement 
(Recreation Room)
• Jennings First Floor Library
• Heavener 202
• Marston Science Library 1st Floor
• Murphree Area Commons
• Southwest Recreation 
Center
• Health Science Center 
C2041C
• Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce Room 
C202Student Government Voting LocationsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
UF ofﬁ  cials are still debating the 
future of the corner of 13th Street 
and West University Avenue. 
UF Board of Trustees and Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs are considering op-
tions of what to build on the cor-ner, which is located directly across from campus. 
The 0.4-acre property was 
bought by the UF Foundation in August 2016, according to Alligator archives. Leonardo’s Pizza by the 
Slice and Bistro 1245, both at 1245 
W. University Ave., will close when a plan is ﬁ  nalized. The foundation already owns the next door Kanga-roo Express gas station and conve-nience store.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said UF is considering a number of options, including a music building or ﬁ  tness center. The city consid-ered a proposal for a seven-ﬂ  oor in-ternational center, but UF never did, Orlando said. 
UF does not have a scheduled de-
cision date for a plan or closing date 
for Leonardo’s, Orlando said.
Leonardo’s and the bistro, which 
are privately owned, remain open 
today. 
Nick Johnson, a 23-year-old UF 
class of 2017 graduate, remembers going to Leonardo’s once a week and eating with his former UF Fightin’ Gator Marching bandmates after camp. It was the ﬁ  rst restau-rant he went to when he arrived at UF in Fall 2013. 
“It’s been a Gainesville staple 
for years, and it was always really convenient to go to,” Johnson said. “I personally don’t want to see it close.” UF still considering what 
will replace Leonardo’s 
Pizza by the SliceIT’S BEEN 12 YEARS SINCE THE 
LAST RUNOFF ELECTION.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF Student Government party will have 
to win more than 50 percent of the student 
vote to avoid a second election next week. 
If none of the three parties — Challenge 
Party, Impact Party or Inspire Party — wins a 
majority of the vote Tuesday and Wednesday 
for its executive tickets, no winner will be se-lected. Instead, there would be a runoff elec-tion for Student Body president, vice president and treasurer between the two parties with the most votes Feb. 27 and 28. 
Because the treasurer is voted on separate-
ly from president and vice president, it is pos-sible to have a treasurer runoff election, but 
not a president and vice president runoff — 
and vice versa. 
If there is a runoff, it would be the ﬁ  rst in 
13 years for the presidential and vice presi-dential ticket and the ﬁ  rst in 12 years for the treasurer ticket.
Since 2000, only ﬁ  ve Spring elections have 
had more than two parties with a full execu-tive ticket, including president, vice president 
and treasurer candidates. Of these multiparty 
elections, three of the ﬁ  ve resulted in runoff elections for the president, vice president and treasurer. One resulted in a runoff for treasurer only, according to SG election results records. 
The Student Body Constitution mandates 
a runoff election be held the Tuesday and Wednesday immediately following the Spring general election in the event no party wins a majority of the vote, according to Article VI 
Section 4. Ballots in the runoff would not 
count write-ins, according to the constitution. The supervisor of elections would send ab-sentee ballots to everyone who requested one in the general election, according to elections codes.
This Spring is the ﬁ  rst election since 2009 
there has been more than two parties running executive candidates. 
Jamal Sowell, UF’s most recent black Stu-
dent Body president in 2004, won in a runoff race between the independent party he start-ed, Access Party (which has no afﬁ  liation with the Access Party formed in 2015), and the ma-jority party Innovate Party. 
In 2005, there was a full runoff election in-
cluding all three executive positions. In 2006, there was a runoff for treasurer only.Sowell said he thinks if the race turns into 
a runoff, an endorsement from the losing party to one of the parties advancing could play a big factor in the race. 
On Feb. 25, 2004, when no executive ticket 
won a majority, the losing party, the Keg Par-ty, endorsed Sowell and the Access Party the night results came out, Sowell said.
“I think that’ll be the most intriguing 
thing,” the 35-year-old said. “It’ll show stu-
dents where people’s loyalties are and who 
has the best ideas.” 
Wayne Selogy, Challenge’s campaign man-
ager, said the party has not discussed who it would endorse in the event of a runoff.
“The possibility of not winning has not 
crossed our minds,” he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Runoﬀ   election possible if no SG party wins majority vote
reached about 220 law students, which, according to Murphy, is about a quarter of the students in the law school. 
The commission voted unani-
mously Brathwaite violated elec-tion codes because he didn’t report the posts in the group to Baker. According to the SG elec-tion codes, candidates must report every single political ad-vertisement to the Supervisor of Elections.
INSPIRE VS. CHALLENGE
The commission found Chal-
lenge violated the election codes when it used voter data from In-spire to contact students. Com-missioners said they considered 
Challenge’s actions unethical. 
The commission punished 
Challenge by ordering the party 
to put out a Facebook post apolo-gizing for using Inspire’s data. The post must specify how many email addresses or names they obtained, and it should have been posted by midnight Tuesday, 
commissioners said. Commissioners said Inspire’s 
information was not stolen, but 
“given to” Challenge. Inspire and Challenge representatives 
and the commissioners acknowl-
edged Branden Pearson, a sena-tor who disafﬁ  liated from Inspire two weeks ago, was somehow involved in the disclosure of the data. Pearson could not be reached for comment.
However, Mainzer said the 
party doesn’t need to specify 
from whom it got the data so it 
doesn’t damage the party’s cred-
ibility ahead of the elections start-
ing Tuesday. 
“We thought with how close 
it is to elections right now, we 
felt that would be the most fair that we wouldn’t do anything that would impact the election,” Mainzer said.
Grabowski said they wanted 
to respect students’ privacy and 
only communicate with students 
who express they would like that. She said this is why Inspire asked students for their contact informa-tion, rather than going into the UF directory and compiling emails. 
“We do not collect their infor-
mation unless they willingly vol-unteer it to us,” Grabowski said.Wayne Selogy, Challenge’s 
Campaign Manager, said Chal-lenge didn’t know the data was from Inspire when received. 
“When we found out via In-
spire that it was their data, we ceased using it,” Selogy said. “We’ve never used that data again, and we’ve had plenty of opportunity to.” 
IMPACT VS. CHALLENGE
In the ﬁ  nal election complaint, 
Murphy argued Challenge did not register some of its political adver-tisements before posting. 
The commission unanimously 
ruled there were various posts by Challenge on Facebook that were not registered. Murphy said it was 
about seven posts. Commission-
ers punished Challenge with a cease and desist order, telling the party to meet with Baker as soon as possible to discuss how to pre-vent future violations. 
The party was allowed to re-
sume posting further campaign material at 4 p.m. Tuesday. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgImpact  Party iled two complaints 
COMMISSION,  from pg. 5EditorialWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Vote to make a 
diﬀ  erence in this 
Spring SG election 
Last Spring, the results of the Student Government 
Spring elections were decided before students made it to the polls. Only one party was running for the ex-
ecutive ticket, so no matter how many students voted, 
they only had one option.
It’s usual to only see one party participate in the SG elec-
tions. It’s also usual to see a two-party election cycle. 
For the ﬁ  rst time in almost 10 years, we ﬁ  nd ourselves 
voting between more than just two parties. This means, for the ﬁ  rst time in nearly a decade, UF students have the abil-ity to shape the makeup of SG. You have the power to de-cide which party best represents your interests and vote for 
a Student Body president, a vice president, a treasurer and 
senators who will advocate for you. Above others in recent semesters, your vote really matters in this election.
On Monday, The Alligator’s editorial board endorsed 
candidates for SG. While we believe our endorsements will serve the Student Body best, we recognize there’s a greater importance of simply having students’ voices heard. 
It’s worth a reminder that people have fought for the 
right to cast a ballot throughout history, and the progress 
for every individual to have that right has been slow. Even 
now, many students remain voiceless, unable to cast a bal-lot due to the physical distance that separates them from Gainesville. There are resources for these cases, but some 
lack knowledge of how to obtain a physical absentee ballot 
while others may not even know this is an option. 
In the past, only a fraction of the Student Body has ex-
ercised that right. But if you want change to come, you need to make it happen. You have the option to choose who 
among the three parties will spend a $20 million budget in 
a way that best supports you. You have the option to decide who shares your values. As for everyone else, you get to vote them out.
Perhaps there is a party that reﬂ  ects what you wish to 
see in SG. With three choices, the options are there. 
Another reason we at The Alligator encourage voters to 
go to the polls is, in the case of a run-off, it would mean at least another week of campaigning between the two par-
ties who receive the highest percentage of votes. Should 
no party win at least 50 percent of the votes, it could mean another week of dodging campaigners in Turlington Plaza and at the Reitz Union. 
On a more serious note, today, high school students are 
marching on the state capitol, demanding lawmakers be held accountable for their position on gun control in the wake of a shooting that left 17 people dead. Too young to vote, they’re making their voices heard and driving nearly 
seven hours to do so.
All you have to do is walk into the library, the Broward 
Hall basement or one of the other nine locations and vote. 
Column
There was something different about the 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas shooting — something in the coverage and public response that was more emotionally raw than any other shooting aftermath. Re-
porters were breaking down on the scene. Social media was a slew of angst directed at the eternal-ly inept government. Stoneman Douglas students who survived the shooting have been speaking out against gun violence with urgency — as they should — because public ofﬁ  cials have been lack-ing in that department. 
Indeed, the passivity of everything seems to be driving 
people crazy. We are beginning to recognize the pattern: 
mass shooting, obsessive coverage, public sorrow, public an-
ger, talks of change and then everyone forgets until the next national tragedy. Nothing changes. Perhaps what is most maddening about American shootings is the coverage, and I do not make this claim lightly.
I think coverage of national tragedies is a large part of the 
reason why these tragedies frequently occur. It just so hap-pens that nothing changes, which gives shootings the free-dom to happen again. Nothing changes after these events 
because of, or mostly because of, our media. 
I want to argue this social paralysis is built into our media 
today.
The possibility of a national memory is excluded by our 
media; in other words, inactivity and forgetfulness are inevi-
table consequences of news today.
Fifty-eight people died in the Las Vegas shooting less 
than six months ago, but up until last week, you would’ve thought we had already forgotten about it. So much of the 
shooting has been covered since last October. Stephen Pad-
dock could be labeled as old news, and, in today’s times, anything considered old gets thrown away. There’s always been a lot going on in the world, but there hasn’t always been a CNN or New York Times to break the news to us live.
An effect of this constant ﬂ  ow of information is that noth-
ing sticks in our minds. There is a difference between throw-ing one dart at a time and hurling a handful. Too much infor-mation is just as harmful as too little. There’s so much coverage of news it’s impossible to focus on or remember just one event.
This is a major problem. Memory is an essen-
tial ingredient of change. A person who reads 12 
novels in three weeks dips their toes into the sur-
face of each story, but the person who reads one novel in three weeks swims in it. The story has a deeper impact on the person. The same goes for media and social change. 
We can’t remember what happened six 
months ago because there is always more information each day, and because we can’t remember, we don’t care. Nothing changes because nothing has an impact anymore — it’s all 
just news of the day. The Stoneman Douglas shooting, like 
all other shootings, deserves lamentation, but the problem is it won’t get the nation’s focus for more than 10 days. Our media literally cannot afford to dwell on individual events or people for too long, unless, like President Donald Trump, they perpetually manufacture content.
To us, there is no news of yesterday. You typically don’t 
see anchors talk about news from a few weeks ago, or even the day before. They are always discussing the news of the 
day. The same goes for social media. This is why I don’t 
understand how the cycle of passivity people are frustrated with can be solved in the very medium that causes the cycle. Any effort to ﬁ  ght for change from within the system risks becoming a part of the cycle: chewed on, spit out and forgot-ten like a piece of gum.
Trying to spark change through tweets or posts is like try-
ing to lose weight by eating more. The intentions are good, but the methods will inevitably be fruitless. Sadly, and hypo-
critically, I’m not sure what the solution is, and I don’t know 
how the cycle can be broken.
All I know is that two weeks from now, the Stoneman 
Douglas shooting will become mostly forgotten. That is un-acceptable. Real change will start when we dwell on and remember things that deserve to be dwelled upon.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His column fo-
cuses on popular culture.The ﬂ  ood of news makes it easier to forget tragedies
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
One day, my professor brought his 
8-year-old son to class. When the period ended and students ﬁ  led 
out of the room, the boy asked his 
dad, “Why don’t college kids like 
to talk?”
My professor laughed, but his curious 
son wanted an answer — and for a good reason. After all, children are notorious for participating and questioning without in-hibition, so to this elementary school stu-dent, being in a classroom where the same 
three people answered every question was 
likely a form of culture shock.
Why do so many of us really shy away 
from speaking up in class, even if it’s an-
swering an opinion-based question or shar-
ing reactions to a reading or ﬁ  lm? Do we actually lose sleep about what the person next to us will think about our answer?
Losing sleep might be an exaggeration, 
but reﬂ  ected appraisals — our perceptions of how other people see and evaluate us — do impact our behaviors and cause us to either speak up or stay silent.
Sociologists explain this in a concept 
known as the “looking glass self,” which states when we imagine how we’re perceived by others, we start to believe those judgements 
even if they’re false.
This causes us to change how 
we act based on how we think 
other people see us — so if we 
get the sense our classmates are 
annoyed by our frequent hand-raising efforts, we feel negatively reinforced, which makes us less encour-aged to participate.
Psychologists also cite fear of failure 
and judgement as having negative mental, emotional and physical effects on college-aged individuals, especially in academic 
settings.
In a recent study published in the Jour-
nal of Student Leadership, researcher Jacob 
Christian of the Utah Valley University an-alyzed how today’s college students have 
developed cognitive coping mechanisms to 
help them deal with fear of failure.
According to the article, most college 
students use a method called self-handi-
capping, which involves creating a mental 
barrier that essentially protects against the negative emotional impacts of making a mistake.
Self-handicapping cushions 
an individual’s self-esteem in an-ticipation of messing up or doing something he or she considers embarrassing, like answering a 
question incorrectly or not per-
forming as strongly as he or she originally hoped.
Even though fears of failure and judge-
ment certainly pave the path for self-doubt, 
in an era marked by phrases like YOLO and 
the sentiment we should be present and embrace the moment, I ﬁ  nd it contradict-ing and frustrating there is still a sense of 
complacency when it comes to speaking up 
in the classroom.
It’s especially telling when an 8-year-
old makes an observation that rightfully suggests this generation of college students 
has a problem with classroom conversa-
tion.
Of course, it’s likely the fear of speaking 
up in class is made worse by online classes 
and virtual discussion boards where we 
can complete an entire course without any face-to-face conversations.
Even in a fast-paced, digital world, we 
can’t hide behind the screen forever.
Instead of staying silent in the name of 
perfectionism, I think it’s time we trade in our self-handicapping tendencies for feel-ings of self-acceptance. Once we embrace 
the fact we’re not always right nor always 
wrong, we’ll not only become better speak-ers, but also stronger and more empathetic listeners.
It’s okay to be the person who asks the 
question everyone else was secretly think-ing or to say something that wasn’t exactly what the professor had in mind. As an avid hand-raiser myself, I can assure you class 
becomes more relevant, rewarding and, 
dare I say, fun when you share your stories and listen to those of others.
The truth is, in order to ensure the 
classroom is a place for all ideas and genu-
ine conversation, we each have a responsi-
bility to participate.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column focuses on human behavior and 
sociology.
Don't let the fear of failure keep you from participating in discussionsColumn
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Heartwood Music Festival:
Avenue’s must-see artists (pg. 10)“Younger”: 
A Q&A with The Hails about their newest single (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
After High Dive’s epic Battle 
of the Bands, which took place 
last week on Thursday evening, 
The Savants of Soul emerged as 
fan favorite and earned their spot on the Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival lineup. The festi-
val, which conveniently falls over 
UF’s spring break, will kick off in just one short week on Thursday, March 1. 
The Battle of the Bands marked 
the second round of the Destina-tion Okeechobee competition, in which six qualifying bands played their hearts out for what seemed 
to many like the largest crowd 
that High Dive has ever seen.  The group of artists represented a vast group of music genres, from soul to electronic to indie to rock 
‘n’ roll. The huge crowd and the en-
ergy of competition put extra life into The Savants of Soul, whose 
performance exploded on the stage.
“That was one of the most in-
tense audiences, and the whole 
band just brought it,” said front-
man Justin McKenzie. “After our ﬁ  rst break in song, the audience roar was deafening. You know, 
we’ve played several shows with 
crowds that big, but I don’t think I’ve ever heard a bigger roar than that.”
The Savants of Soul are a 
Gainesville staple, bringing their modern Motown sound to the forefront of the local music scene and garnering quite a following in 
their nearly seven years of exis-
tence.
In 2011, John Gray Shermyen, 
a lifelong soul fanatic, convinced his roommate Alex Klausner to start a soul band. The Savants, as 
they were known at the time, was 
born. While the band was still in its conceptual phase, Klausner reached out to McKenzie, offering him the role of lead singer.
“I was kind of waiting for them 
to ask me,” McKenzie said. “It was a bunch of, you know, white dudes playing soul. When are 
they going to ask their only black 
friend? They did. I joined, and it’s been a wild ride ever since.”
Up until about a year before 
joining The Savants of Soul, 
McKenzie was playing guitar in a 
Gainesville ska band called Chu-paskabra. 
Joining The Savants of Soul 
was McKenzie’s ﬁ  rst dive into the genre. While he’d enjoyed the Motown classics before, McK-enzie said the extensive musical study the band did reﬁ  ned his love of the sound.
This study, McKenzie said, 
is what has allowed the group to capture the spirit of soul and Motown without simply repeat-ing the past. The group draws 
inspiration from the music of the 
past but incorporates modern in-ﬂ  uences to create something new yet nostalgic.
“It’s not just an audio thing; 
it’s a visual thing. It gets people really into the groove,” McKen-zie said. “We’re not just like the bands that were around in the 
’60s and ’70s, but I think we do it 
justice. If nothing else, we bring the same amount of energy.”
Visual, indeed. In addition to 
their retro sound, The Savants of Soul are known for their iconic stage presence. The band is al-ways found dressed to the nines: suits, ties and often sunglasses. Most iconic of all is McKenzie’s 
look.
At front and center stage, McK-
enzie, a big guy with a big afro, 
roars out his vocals in a baby blue, polyester bell-bottom suit 
his brother brought home from 
a garage sale when McKenzie was in his early teens. While the choice to make it part of his per-
formance wardrobe was sponta-
neous, the suit has become one of the most recognizable images in Gainesville music.
Okeechobee Music & Arts Fes-
tival will take place from March 1 to 4 at Sunshine Grove in Okeechobee, Florida. Although The Savants of Soul’s timeslot is 
yet to be announced, tickets are 
still available at okeechobeefest.com/tickets/ga/. The festival is expected to sell out. 
Meet Destination Okeechobee winners The Savants of Soul
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Savants of Soul won round two of Destination Okeechobee, in which 
bands competed battle of the bands style for a spot.Photo by Natalie Rao
Justin McKenzie, the frontman and lead singer of The Savants of Soul, belts out the vocals at Thursday’s show. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Gainesville alternative rockers The Hails 
release their newest single, “Younger,” to-
morrow.
I sat down with The Hails’ Robbie Kings-
ley, Dylan McCue, Zach Levy and Franco So-lari for an early listen and to chat about what 
is in store. Here’s what’s coming your way.
The Hails are a ﬁ  ve-piece band that re-
leased their freshman EP, “Impel,” during summer 2017. The six-track set undoubt-edly shows this is a group worth keeping 
an eye on. The release of “Younger” shows 
The Hails’ ability to evolve quickly and the group’s potential for musical longevity.
“Younger” takes the rhythmic quality 
shown in their song “Parking Lot” and adds a clean, strong groove line, giving the track 
full body. Kingsley’s vocals, full of controlled 
emotion, shine their brightest on “Younger.”
“Younger” was produced by 23-year-old 
Northeastern University graduate Matthew Lewin. Read below for The Hails’ comments on their new track.
Q: I noticed that this song is a lot groovier 
than some of the songs on “Impel.” What’s the inspiration behind that sound shift? 
McCue: I’m glad you noticed that. It’s 
partly due to the fact that we want to mod-ernize our sound, really. Infectious grooves 
like that are the future; people want that kind 
of guttural, primal groove to hit them right away. I think this song does that pretty well.
Q: You guys have talked about your writ-
ing process being a bit unstructured, but tell me about “Younger,” is there a story there?
Kingsley: There’s not a story, but, like, 
an overall theme of nostalgia and just looking back on your life. Dylan had a good amount 
of the words coming into the idea.
McCue: Yeah, I don’t normally write lyr-
ics, but for this song I was trying to impro-vise a vocal melody, just like the notes them-
selves, and I was just spontaneously getting these phrases. They just came to me. “Tell me 
how it was when you were younger,” “it’s in 
the light that she left him” and the pre-chorus, “you don’t know me like that.” Random phras-
es that came to me just all seemed to evoke 
this similar image or similar sort of feeling on nostalgia. I think it’s especially relevant to us 
in our lives now because we’re in this sort of mode now where we are transitioning to dif-
ferent chapters. Robbie and Zach just ﬁ  nished college. Franco and I are in our later half of 
college. So, I think it’s like a nostalgic look 
back in a time of transition.
Q: You mentioned that you’ve been per-
forming this song at shows. What kind of reactions have you been getting live?
Kingsley: Good ones.
McCue: Very good ones.
Kingsley: That’s what inspired us to 
make this the ﬁ  rst one we put out. I mean, I remember when we played it here for Zach’s 
birthday. Nick and Hanna, two of our friends were like, “oh my gosh, that song is amaz-ing.”
McCue: I think we should tell the story 
about how the song was born.
Kingsley: Yeah. So, the idea came at a 
house show here, like a spontaneous house 
show…. It was only me, Zach and Dylan.
McCue: We had played, like, six songs, 
and we had no idea what to play next, so we just decided to jam on a couple chords and 
just fool around. I started playing those two chords, Zach laid down a beat, and we just 
sort of improvised it for, like, four and a half 
minutes.Kingsley: That was the bare bones of it.
Levy: The song was completely different.
McCue: Then, after the show, Robbie’s 
friend Logan, who is one of our biggest sup-porters, was like, “you guys have to write that song.”
Q: Is this a single teasing another release, 
or just a single?
Kingsley: I mean, we didn’t record just 
one song. There will be more music, but we don’t know. This is all we have planned for right now.
“Younger” drops Feb. 22. Stream the single 
on Spotify, YouTube and Apple Music. Q&A: Local alt-rock group The Hails discuss their new single, songwriting
MUSIC
Photo by Vanessa Vlandis
(From left) Andre Escobar, Robbie Kingsley, Zachary Levy, Dylan McCue and Franco Solari make up The Hails, a local 
alternative rock group that’s been making waves since their debut EP , “Impel, ” dropped in 2017.
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Despite only opening a year ago, Heart-
wood Soundstage, Gainesville’s multi-stage 
live recording venue, has become a budding hotspot for musicians and concertgoers alike.
Whether it’s the high-end sound equip-
ment, detailed listening room constructed to eliminate any noisy distractions or its devo-tion to providing the best acoustics, Heart-wood strives to provide listeners with the best experience. To celebrate the anniversary of its opening, Heartwood Soundstage will have its second annual family-friendly Heartwood Music Festival on Saturday. The event fea-tures a variety of Florida bands as well as a 
compilation of food trucks, craft vendors and 
art installations. Although there are 24 equal-ly amazing bands that are performing, here are the top six must-hear artists to get you pumped before heading to the festival.
Performing on Heartwood’s Outside 
Stage:
Just Neighbors (Performing at 3:20 
p.m.)
While having only just emerged into 
Gainesville’s local music scene in August  
2015, Just Neighbors have quickly attracted 
fans in droves. This is most likely due to the band’s warm balance of post-rock and math-rock, creating a blend that will instantly get you hooked. The band promotes itself as “just your friendly neighborhood band,” which makes perfect sense as members Dan Lohr, Justice Diamond, Jarrett Haines and Reid Casey, live in Gainesville. Their most recent 
9-track album, “Being Where I Thought I’d 
Be,” includes beautiful artwork by Alfred Phillips and was met with positive reviews. Before the concert Saturday, give a listen to their song “Disconnect,” and be warned: It may just become your new favorite song.
HEDGES (Performing at 9:20 p.m.)
Lead singer Jason Hedges is no stranger to 
the Gainesville music scene. Fans of the lo-
cal Tom Petty cover band, Heavy Petty, will 
be able to experience Hedges’ original music in his second band, HEDGES, where he also collaborates with three other members from the tribute band, Daniel App, Logan Fischer 
and Jonathon McCravy. The band consists of 
Hedges, App, Fischer and McCravy, as well as Jonathan Parker, Matt Rippetoe and Jonathan Barnes. The high-energy rock ’n’ roll group humorously best sums up their music to lis-teners that if Elvis Costello and Tom Petty had a baby, their band’s sound would be the off-spring. Their album, “MIXED SIGNALS,” was mixed, mastered and produced by the legend-
ary Don Zientara, who also worked with art-
ists such as Fugazi, Minor Threat, Foo Fight-ers and Bad Brains. The album is a love letter to classic rock ’n’ roll, successfully creating a tribute to the nostalgic genre that inspires them as artists.
Be sure to stream HEDGES’ “Record 
Turns” from their debut album “MIXED SIG-NALS.”
Flipturn (Performing at 10:20 p.m.)
From being a handful of dreamers playing 
in a hot, Fernandina Beach garage, to win-ning first prize at Impact Gainesville’s 2016 Battle of the Bands, flipturn is quickly mak-ing a name for itself in Florida’s thriving indie scene. The band’s dreamy, feel-good sound is heavily inspired by bands like The Black Keys, Hippo Campus, The Killers and Saint Motel. 
The band, which consists of Dillon Basse, 
Tristan Duncan, Taylor Allen, Madeline Jar-man and Adrian Walker, best describe their sound as a blend of surf-rock, garage, new wave and pop. Their debut EP, “Heavy Col-ors,” which was released in March 2017, con-sists of five songs and impressively achieved more than 180,000 streams on Spotify in less than a year. Flipturn will be playing at The 
Wetlands Music Festival this Sunday along-
side A$AP Ferg, Snakehips and Saint Motel. So after you watch them at Heartwood, make sure to support this up-and-coming band on their steady rise.
Check out their song “Vanilla” from their 
EP “Heavy Colors.”
Locochino (Performing at 11:20 p.m.)
Locochino does the unthinkable in that 
it perfectly blends a variety of genres that should not work well together, but do. In fact, it takes you on a psychedelic whirlwind of sound that makes you feel like you’ve un-earthed something new. Created in Septem-
ber of 2014, Locochino is made up of Benny 
Cannon, Blake Briand, Brian Johnson, Nick Melms, Sam Coplin and Dave Johnson, and they’re the reason why the sound works the way it does. Just by listening to their music you get a taste of rock, funk, jam and psy-chedelic sounds that each reflect a specific member. Perhaps the reason they’ve been so successful is, even in their music, every mem-
ber of the band is equally integral. Locochino 
won’t have to trek too far as they recently recorded their newest song, “On My Feet,” live at the Heartwood Soundstage this month. Give it a listen, and let’s cross our fingers they play it this weekend.
Performing on Heartwood’s Inside Stage:
Blackbird Morning (Performing at 6 
p.m.)
Traveling all the way from St. Petersburg, 
Blackbird Morning consists of Danielle De-Cosmo, Vincent DeCosmo, Richard Jimenez and Anthony Goodwin. The band is a blend of modern and classic rock, touching on hints of Pink Floyd and The Zombies mixed with The Black Keys and My Morning Jacket, ac-cording to their Facebook page. DeCosmo de-livers hauntingly beautiful vocals that are un-apologetically honest in the band’s song “The 
Way” from their album “Horizons.” The band 
announced on Facebook they’re currently working on a new album that will arrive in May, so you won’t have to wait long for more. Stream “The Way,” a perfect example of what you’ll hear this weekend.
Matthew Fowler (Performing at 8 p.m.)Matthew Fowler, a singer-songwriter based 
out of Orlando, has both the lyrical compo-
nents and voice of someone incredibly wise 
beyond his years. Fowler’s music is comfort-able, relatable and makes you feel at home. His album, “Beginning,” released in March 2014, is compiled of nine songs written from the ages of 14 and 19. Fowler lets you into his life, and through his raw storytelling you feel as if you personally know him. Fowler’s music has been steadily gaining a devoted fan base. He was praised in a variety of notable publications including The Bluegrass Situa-tion, CMT Edge and HuffPost. Fowler has also had the opportunity to open for acts such as Richard Thompson, Damien Jurado, Sea Wolf and Angel Olsen. Fowler’s chill, feel-good 
music would be perfectly paired with a hot 
cup of coffee on a long morning drive. Listen to Fowler’s song “Blankets” from his album “Beginning,” which is available for free on his Bandcamp.
Tickets for the all-day festival are $15 
for general admission and $10 for student 
tickets. Tickets are available online at heart -
woodsoundstage.com and at Hear Again Records. Kids 12 and under get in free.
Courtesy to the Alligator
The second annual Heartwood Music Festival returns Saturday.By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer 
The ghost of coffee shop past is returning to 
the heart of downtown Gainesville on Friday.
After closing its Midtown location, Wyatt’s 
Coffee has relocated to 202 SE 2nd Ave. and is 
now welcoming all coffee and tea lovers for its 
grand opening 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Friday.
There are multiple opportunities for cus-
tomers to earn free drinks in exchange for in-
teracting with Wyatt’s social media. More in-
formation can be found on Wyatt’s Facebook 
page at facebook.com/wyattscoffee/. 
General manager Danielle Ballou said Wy-
att’s relocated because the old building lacked space and visibility and was constantly dis-turbed by the Midtown construction.
“At one point, the entire sidewalk was 
ripped up, and there was nowhere for people to park,” she said.
The new space has around 34 seats and is 
in a great location, she said.
Although this change is large, Ballou said 
Wyatt’s mission remains the same.
“The whole vision of Wyatt’s is to be this 
place that combines science with coffee,” she said. “It’s all about how can we make the best cup of coffee possible, starting from the roast of the beans all the way through to the final brewing methods.”
Wyatt’s offers handpicked roasts and six 
brewing methods including drip, immersion brew, French press, pour over, cold brew and espresso, with more information on the web-site at wyattscoffee.com/coffee/.
Ballou said Wyatt’s Japanese-style cold 
brew method is what truly makes them stand out.
Instead of steeping the beans in cold water, they are brewed steaming hot, flash frozen in a 50-foot copper coil submerged in an ice bath and served out of a nitrogen-charged tap, ac-cording to the website.
“It provides the bold flavors of a hot cof-
fee,” she said, “but the nice, smooth, refresh-
ing texture of a normal cold brew.”She emphasized, however, Wyatt’s compli-
cated methods for brewing coffee should not 
intimidate the regular coffee drinker.
“Wyatt’s is for coffee connoisseurs and cof-
fee novices,” she said.
Although Wyatt’s uses a scientific method 
to brew coffee, the atmosphere is just the op-
posite, she said.
Madi Florence, a UF sophomore, could not 
agree more.
After attending Wyatt’s soft opening and 
social media day from 9 to 11 a.m. Sunday, she 
said she was impressed by the baristas’ will-ingness to take questions and offer personal advice.
“If you come and ask questions, they will 
help you figure out what you want to try,” she said. “I know I get flustered when I’m ordering things at new places.”
The downtown regular said compared to  
Maude’s Cafe, Patticakes and Volta Coffee, Tea and Chocolate, Wyatt’s is a good balance, serv-ing high-quality coffee while still maintaining a chill atmosphere.
“I think every coffee shop downtown has a 
different personality to it,” she said. “This is a good (choice) in between the extremes.”
Wyatt’s has a classy and creative vibe, she 
said.
She can see herself sipping a nitro latte and 
doing homework, she said, once the craziness of the grand opening simmers down. 
Photo by Seth Boyce
Wyatt’s, which struggled with visibility and constant construction in its 
Midtown location, made the move to downtown Gainesville this month.10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
Wyatt’s Coffee to host grand opening downtown Friday
Avenue’s must-hear performers at Heartwood Music Festival
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the 
benefits of an abundance of out door life with 
the benefits of nearby cultural activities in 
and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
2003 Honda Element
silver, 157,000 miles, excellent condition, runs great, one owner, $4,500.amorvillar77@gmail.com    2-26-18-5-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
CASH FOR GATORSWe are buying: Coins, Currency, Stamp Collections, Gold Jewelry, Silver, Antiques & Collectibles. Raise Cash easily and quickly.Call: 352-213-3802         2-23-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
Now Hiring PT & FTLloyd Clarke Sports, 1 m N of UF on 13 St. Gainesville's local leader in running and hiking gear for over 42 years. Applications available in store. Serious applicants with consistent availability only. Must work 1 day on weekends.     2-26-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-151For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, W/D, bike to UFNo pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier$1500/mo. 352-256-8370,352-246-86452-19-18-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-12-21-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
My name is Jason. I am 39 years old and looking for a female companion between 28-38 yrs old for a weekend getaway to Disney. I would like a person that is sweet, kind, & has great goals for her life & that is outgoing. I am not looking for any "exchanges" or "hookups".Please call or text me@ 352 225-6429    2-21-18-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/19- 2/22 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-19-18-4-20BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND. NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville UrbanizedArea announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: February 26, 2018, 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website at
www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan Transportation Planning), or appearing in person, during regular business hours, at 2009 NW 67 th Place, Gainesville, Florida. Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Mike Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    2-21-1-21
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21ACROSS
1 Your business is
her business
6 Tiny cut
10 Jeans line
14 Spreadsheet
program
15 Comes to the
rescue of
16 “The Time
Machine” race
17 Like a cowboy in
denial?
20 Emotional wound
21 “At __, soldier!”22 Quartet in
“Whose woodsthese are I think I
know”
23 Fodder for
Forbes, initially
25 Play a part
26 Like an eager
cowboy?
35 Riveting icon
36 Overplay a part37 Mission lead-in38 Potentially
offensive, for
short
39 Tends to the
sauce
40 Nerve
41 Early 16th-
century date
42 Earthquake
43 “Impression,
Sunrise” painter
44 Like a cowboy
out of retirement?
47 Ky. neighbor48 Show stoppers
49 Limoges product
52 Entertainment
show VIP
55 Builder’s map
59 Like a cowboy in
charge?
62 Area behind an
altar
63 Wonder
Woman’s friend
__ Candy
64 Temporary tattoo
dye
65 Get weepy, with
“up”
66 State openly
67 More curious
DOWN
1 Trees that sound
like sheep
2 Corporate VIP3 Final Four letters4 Marvelous5 “Hidden 
Figures” actor
Mahershala __
6 Epic tale
7 They may be fine
points
8 Sit in traffic9 Tire gauge no.
10 Tranquil
11 Periodic table
listing: Abbr.
12 Limited choice
13 Fail to see18 Vegas illuminator19 Nook or cranny
24 Peach dessert
25 Many “Suits”
characters: Abbr.
26 Busser’s target27 Maker of Clarity
alternative fuelcars
28 Jelly made from
meat stock
29 “Capisce?”30 Anabaptist
descendants
31 Velvet-voiced Mel
32 Like most books
33 Recon goal34 Palate39 FedEx, say40 “Safe travels!”42 Egyptian
peninsula43 Satiric magazine
since 1952
45 Less harsh
46 Fill and then
some
49 Converse50 Partner of pray51 Ingrid’s
“Casablanca”role
52 “Tiny House
Hunters” cablechannel53 Bart and Lisa’s
bus driver
54 Professor
Higgins’ creator
56 Swedish soprano
Jenny
57 Hathaway of
“The Intern”(2015)
58 Winter Palace
resident
60 Org. for teachers61 17th Greek letter
By Amy Johnson
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/21/1802/21/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 21, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be not publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm15 Services 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets
ACROSS
1 Hebrew scholar
6 Borden
spokescow
11 With 25-Across,
“Scream” director
14 Watery expanse
15 Double-check, as
totals
16 Shakespearean
prince orBroadwayproducer Prince
17 *“Never!”19 Incoming flight
info
20 Flower parts21 Visit22 Fedora feature23 Valley with wine
cellars and
sellers
25 See 11-Across
27 Rock gently29 “Is this a good
move for me?”
31 Folk singer Phil32 Steeped
beverage
33 Become a pro at36 After “no,” “Not
possible!”
37 *“Not another
problem!”
39 State40 Appetizer
follower
42 That woman43 Tortoise racer44 Carpenter’s
cordless cutter
46 Temper tantrums
47 Tank type
48 Mix
50 Jelly holders51 Turf roll53 Olympic
segments
57 Outback bird
58 *“I don’t need a
second opinion!”
60 Sit-up targets
61 Sporty Chevy62 Angler’s danglers63 “Nope”64 Portfolio part65 Snooty sorts
DOWN
1 Lettered theater
locations
2 Post-workout
soreness3 Warning toot
4 Fruit that grows
in bunches
5 Like catchable
foul balls
6 Physicist’s work
unit
7 Not so pricey
8 Seattle’s __ Field
9 Unsubstantiated
bit of gossip
10 Ice cream maker
Joseph
11 *“Happenin’
scene, man!”
12 Enjoy home
cooking
13 Shut angrily18 Web access co.22 Brief briefs?24 On the water26 “There oughta be
__!”
27 Read quickly
28 *“Cool your
heels!”
30 Yoga system
31 Be in debt32 Things to “do”
after you 12-Down
34 Glasses holders
35 Pumpernickel
grain37 Took one’s turn
38 Latest buzz41 Knocks quickly
43 Joined the staff
45 Skedaddles46 Journalism’s
traditional set of
questions,
obliquely
addressed by theanswers tostarred clues
47 Brazilian dance49 “__War”: Shatner
novel
50 Novelist Auel
52 Time stamp
component
54 “Stoned Soul
Picnic”
songwriter Laura
55 Archaeological
site
56 Figure (out)
58 Harpers Ferry st.59 Jazz gig unit
By John Lampkin
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/20/1802/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, February 20, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.In the Florida softball team's 
doubleheader with Oakland today, sophomore pitcher Katie Chronister is expected to receive playing time, pg. 16Pirreca receives weekly honor
Florida lacrosse player Sydney Pirreca was named Big East Midﬁ  elder of 
the Week on Tuesday. Pirreca recorded career highs in goals (six), points (eight) and draw controls (seven) on Saturday against Maryland.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Feleipe Franks was a lucky 
one. 
Coming out of high 
school, he had everything college coaches look for: 
Elite size, an arm that could double as a rocket launcher, a winning 
team and a great attitude. All those skills — and, let’s be honest, lucky 
breaks — contributed to him being 
ranked the nation’s ﬁ  fth-best pocket passer in 
the class of 2015. 
Franks hasn’t played up to his ranking’s 
expectations at Florida, and because of all the hype he carried when he arrived in Gainesville, 
he has been cruciﬁ  ed for it. 
“I REGRET THIS TWEET,” wrote Twit-
ter user @thenamesroddy, quoting a previous 
tweet thanking God for Franks’ commitment to 
the Gators. “GOD IS STILL GOOD AND SITS ON 
THE THRONE, BUT FELEIPE IS NOT. I REPEAT. 
FELEIPE FRANKS IS BAD AT FOOTBALL.”
Meanwhile, little has been said about the  
equally unsuccessful Kyle Trask, who came to Florida in the same class as Franks 
but, as a three-star recruit, carried 
signiﬁ  cantly less hype. 
Franks’ stars and rankings 
heaped massive expectations and massive amounts of pressure on 
him before he arrived on campus, 
and his case is just one microcosm of the very strange, often absurd 
world of college recruiting. 
This ecosystem starts when recruits are 
young — in some extreme cases, they’re still in 
middle school — and conditions them to base a tremendous amount of self worth on the num-
ber of stars they carry or the number of offers 
they boast. 
Just like you or me if we were looking for 
work, it’s natural to want the most options and 
to have the highest ratings. I get that. But we’re 
talking about a rankings circus, or offer cha-
rades.
In this world, offers mean little, as do pledg-Recruiting is a necessary part of college 
sports. It’s also completely ridiculous.Sweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
Florida men’s basketball coach Mike 
White stripped himself of certain formali-
ties before Monday’s practice.
“I’ll just be very, very clear,” he said. 
“There’s a chance we can play in the NCAA Tournament and there’s a chance we can go to the NIT. Period.”
For a team that held the nation’s No. 5 
ranking in early December and currently boasts a 4-1 record against top-25 oppo-nents, the possibility of ending the season excluded from the 68 programs participat-ing in the NCAA Tournament might seem puzzling.
White would agree.“It’s been a rollercoaster ride,” he said. 
“We’re just very, very inconsistent, offen-sively and defensively.”
While the Gators have seen success 
against some of their tougher opponents, they have struggled in matchups with teams in the bottom half of the SEC’s standings. After last week’s pair of loss-es to Georgia and Vanderbilt, UF is 4-5 against conference foes with a sub-.500 record.
Tonight, Florida (17-10, 8-6 SEC) will 
look to prevent its longest losing streak of the calendar year as it takes on No. 19 Tennessee in Knoxville at 9.
The Volunteers (19-7, 9-5 SEC) are led 
by the physical play of forwards Grant 
Williams and Admiral Schoﬁ  eld. Williams 
leads the team in scoring (15.7 points per game), although he only shot 1 of 8 from the ﬁ  eld in UT’s most recent outing – a 73-
62 loss to Georgia on Saturday.
Schoﬁ  eld is second to Williams in 
scoring, averaging 12.2 points per game, 
and leads Tennessee in rebounds (6.1 per game).UF  facing Volunteers tonight 
in midst of two-game skidCourtesy of UAA Communications
Freshman pitcher Jack Leftwich notched ﬁ  ve strikeouts and gave up one run in his ﬁ  rst career start on Tuesday 
against FAU. The Gators defeated the Owls 6-1 at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Gators pitcher Jack Left-
wich had retired his previous 
12 batters when FAU second 
baseman Eric Rivera stepped 
into the batter's box to lead off the ﬁ  fth inning.
A light breeze intruded 
upon McKethan Stadium from center ﬁ  eld. Leftwich, both ﬁ  guratively and literally, had momentum behind him.
The freshman worked like 
clockwork. When he got his pitches back from catcher JJ Schwarz, he turned, gathered himself and delivered again, 
all in ﬁ  ve seconds or fewer. 
Rivera called for time, loi-tered just outside the batter’s box and kept one foot outside the chalk to try and delay the 
right-hander. 
But it didn’t work.
Rivera chopped a ball softly 
back to Leftwich, who jogged 
toward ﬁ  rst base and under-
handed it to teammate Keenan Bell for his 13th consecutive out.It was that type of aggres-
sion from Leftwich that led the Gators to a 6-1 win over FAU on Tuesday night.
The mindset showed itself 
early. After allowing a leadoff single, Leftwich settled into his streamlined rhythm and started mowing down Owls 
batters.
The freshman ﬂ  amethrow-
er marked his ﬁ  rst career start 
by consistently tossing his fastball in the 94-mph range 
while allowing just three balls 
to leave the inﬁ  eld. He ﬁ  n-ished the night having pitched 4.1 innings, striking out ﬁ  ve 
and allowing one earned run 
on two hits and a walk.
“I really wasn’t trying to 
overthink it,” Leftwich said. “I just like to get the ball and 
go.” 
Florida’s batters showed 
their eagerness early on. Left 
ﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy and 
designated hitter Nelson Mal-
donado each swung at the sec-ond pitch they saw.
Schwarz tempered the ten- Leftwich keeps Gators undefeated in ﬁ  rst career start
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Sierra Brooks’ career at Florida is off 
to an impressive start.
The sophomore transfer from Wake 
Forest won her first tournament with 
the Gators at the Florida Challenge on Jan. 29.
Now, Brooks can 
add a new tournament to her list of wins: the 
Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Championship in New 
Orleans, where she 
finished at the top of the individual leader-
board and propelled Florida to its first 
victory of 2018.
She displayed a masterful three 
rounds of golf, finishing four strokes 
ahead of the competition with a 7 un-der.
Brooks’ emergence appears to be the missing key for Florida, as it had pre-viously finished in the top four in four of five tournaments this season but had yet to win one prior to the Sugar Bowl.
“This is definitely the start to an ex-
citing year for us,” Brooks said in a re-lease.
The final day of the competition 
saw a complete performance from the 
Gators’ entire lineup, which ran away 
from the pack as the round progressed. Florida finished nine strokes ahead of second-place USC and 15 strokes ahead 
of third-place Michigan State.
Behind Brooks was sophomore Marta 
Perez who shot a 2 under on Tuesday, 
the second-best score of the day. This brought her tally down to 2 over, mov-
ing her up 10 spots into a tie for sixth.
Senior Taylor Tomlinson finished 
third on the team at 6 over after shoot-
ing 3 over in the final round.
Sophomore Carlotta Ricolfi ended 
the Sugar Bowl nicely after a rough sec-ond round, closing out with a 2 over on Tuesday. That brought her overall score up to 11 over, tied for 32nd.
Freshman Addie Baggarly also tied 
for 32nd, shot 2 over and finished with 
an overall score of 11 over.
Redshirt freshman Elin Esborn con-
tinued to dazzle on Tuesday. Esborn 
competed as an individual after a rough showing at the Northrop Grumman Re-
gional Challenge in Palos Verdes, Cali-
fornia, in mid-February.
She finished tied for fourth after 
finishing with a third-round score of 1 
under and an overall score of 2 under. 
Had she been inserted into the starting lineup, the Gators would have won by 22 strokes.
“We talked yesterday after the round 
about controlling our emotions and have better attitudes, and they really bought in,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “It paid off today.”
 
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgBrooks dominates, Florida wins first event of the spring
UF’S FINAL INDIVIDUAL SCORES
Sierra Brooks
7 under (First Place)
Elin Esborn
2 under (T-Fourth Place)
Marta Perez
2 over (T-Sixth Place)
Taylor Tomlinson  
6 over (T-11th Place)
Carlotta Ricolfi
11 over (T-32nd Place)
Addie Baggarly 
11 over (T-32nd Place)Brooks
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
es. Schools can change their minds and pull 
those offers, and recruits can commit and de-
commit as much as they want. The fact that 
their commitments are still even called com-
mitments is an insult to the word’s meaning. 
But some people have realized there’s a 
market for that kind of drama. Following re-cruiting betters a fan’s relationship with his/
her team, so fans are willing to pay for insider 
coverage. 
Websites like Rivals, 247Sports and Scout 
know this well. They specialize in recruiting, compiling lists of the top prospects and hosting actual skills camps, which they use to deter-
mine their rankings and acquire recruits’ con-
tact information for their reporters. 
As a result, recruits will often tweet up-
dates on their recruitment with a *NO INTER-
VIEWS* disclaimer.
This can be annoying as a reporter. But as 
a human being, were I one of those players, 
how could I not say no interviews when my 
every tweet unleashes an army of phone calls 
and messages?
I bring this up now because National Sign-
ing Day was less than two weeks ago, but as any coach will tell you, recruiting never stops. Which is why UF is hosting a junior day for top high school talent this weekend. 
The ink is still wet on the 2018 class, but 
2019 and beyond are already very much in 
the works for Dan Mullen and his staff. It’s a 
necessary evil, because the unfortunate truth is 
the system works. 
Sure, there are hits and misses. Former Florida defensive end Ronald Pow-
ell was billed as the top player in the nation, but he didn’t play like it at UF. Jadeveon 
Clowney held the same designation when he 
enrolled at South Carolina, meanwhile, and his 
No. 1 ranking translated to his selection at No. 1 overall in the NFL Draft. But despite the inexact science of rankings, 
there’s an undeniable link between success-
ful recruiting and successful on-ﬁ  eld product, 
which leads coaches to do some truly remark-
able, often embarrassing things. 
It’s all an unfortunate byproduct of an en-
vironment our insatiable fandom has created. 
An environment where a 9-year-old’s mother 
has to worry about agents and top youth teams 
taking advantage of her son.
An environment where offers and commit-
ments mean nothing, but also everything.
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Contact 
him at ebauer@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 13“They’re a strong, tough, physical 
team,” White said. “I think they have a lot 
of character.”
The Gators will need to adopt a more 
efﬁ  cient brand of basketball if they want to 
steal a win on the road tonight. They cur-rently rank in the bottom half of the SEC in 
ﬁ  eld goal percentage. In Saturday’s 71-68 
loss to Vanderbilt, UF attempted 22 more 
shots than the Commodores and still came 
up short of victory.
In stretches of offensive stagnation, the 
Gators turn to senior guard Chris Chiozza as a source of production. His explosive-
ness and ability to ﬁ  nd open teammates 
can single-handedly carry the Gators at times.
However, in his last ﬁ  ve games com-
bined, Chiozza has shot below 30 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld and has seen a decrease in 
his assist-to-turnover ratio.
White understands that if the Gators are 
going to turn things around against Ten-
nessee tonight, it starts with Chiozza.
“He’s got a lot of pressure on him,” 
White said. “He’s got to play well for us to 
have a chance.”
 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgMEN'S B-BALL,  from pg. 13White: Chiozza under 'a lot of pressure'
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF men's basketball coach Mike White is impressed with what he has seen from T ennessee this year. "They're a strong, tough, physical team. "
dency with his at-bat by draw-
ing a 3-2 walk, but he still echoed the game plan when 
he attempted a steal just a 
couple of pitches later.
Though he was eas-
ily gunned down at second, 
the failure didn’t put a dent 
in coach Kevin O’Sullivan’s game plan, as his team had ﬁ  ve stolen base attempts on  the night.
“In the past, I think we've 
made some mistakes where we've kind of relied on our bats,” O'Sullivan said. "And 
you look up in the sixth inning 
and you're having a bad night offensively."
Langworthy answered the 
call for mid-week energy. In 
the third inning, the sopho-
more lined what looked to be a single over the second baseman and into right-center 
ﬁ  eld.Instead of meandering to 
ﬁ  rst, Langworthy turned on the jets and rounded the bag, 
heading full-speed into second ahead of the tag. He scored after a Maldonado line-drive single to left.
Overall, Florida’s offense 
wasn’t as explosive as it was in its opening series with Si-ena.
The six runs it scored were 
the fewest in the Gators’ four games so far.
Still, O’Sullivan said he was 
pleased with the pace of his of-
fense.
“We ran the bases, put a 
couple of hit-and-runs on,” he 
said. “I think forcing the ac-
tion... may ignite our offense 
a little more in these midweek games.”
Florida comes back out to 
McKethan Stadium tonight at 
6 to play Bethune-Cookman.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 13UF scored season-low 
six runs against FAU16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
SOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
One of the most notable fac-
tors about Florida’s softball team 
this season is its deep roster.
In addition to nine juniors and 
seniors, Florida has 10 under-classmen who are at the ready in game-time situations.
As the No. 2 Gators (8-1) go 
into a doubleheader against the Oakland Golden Grizzlies (2-2) today starting 4 p.m. at Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium, freshman 
Natalie Lugo and sophomore Ka-
tie Chronister are expected to get some time in the circle.
Lugo, a right-handed pitcher 
from West Covina, California, made her collegiate debut on Feb. 10 in Florida’s matchup against Georgia State.
In two innings of work, she 
recorded two strikeouts on 22 pitches.
Chronister, a left-handed 
pitcher and Gainesville native, 
has more experience coming off 
a successful ﬁ  rst year with the Gators in 2017.
Last season, she ﬁ  nished with 
a 2.21 ERA in 19 innings of work. She also threw 15 strikeouts in 
seven appearances.
Upperclassmen pitchers Kelly 
Barnhill and Aleshia Ocasio have 
set a strong standard in the bull-pen for the Gators.
Coach Tim Walton notices 
the gap between the No. 1 and 2 pitchers and the No. 3 and 4 pitchers, saying the disparity this 
year is larger than it has been in 
the past.
But that isn’t deterring his 
conﬁ  dence in Chronister and Lu-go’s pitching abilities for today’s 
games against the Golden Griz-
zlies.
“I’m looking forward to them 
going out and getting the chance 
to compete here at home,” he 
said. “To go out and just show me and the rest of the club that they have been working really hard in the weight room and in the bull-
pen.”
Walton said the underclass-
men have been working on their pitch arsenal, speciﬁ  cally with 
their location and velocity.
When Chronister and Lugo 
were recruited by the Gators, 
Walton said he was looking for 
more depth in the bullpen.
With only three ofﬁ  cial pitch-
ers on the roster (Ocasio being listed as a utility player), it’s im-
portant now more than ever that 
they’re managed well enough to tackle a long season.
“The only thing I worry about 
is that we become a little bit one- or two-dimensional,” Walton said. “That’s the one thing you’ll try to see us do a better job of is getting them more innings.”  
With the Gators using Chronis-
ter and Lugo more as they move deeper into the season, this will give the team more opportunities 
to create a tougher environment.
“They got to get a chance to 
step their game up,” Walton 
said. “And we’re gonna give it to them.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org Underclassmen expected to make an impact today against Oakland
MEN’S TENNIS
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team left Seattle 
with a bad taste in its mouth after dropping 
two of three matches at the ITA National Team Indoor Championships between Friday and Sunday.
Although many issues stuck out, none were more apparent than the problems UF (5-4) faced during doubles play, as the team dropped all three doubles points during the weekend tournament.
Florida has lost the doubles point in ﬁ  ve of 
its last six contests and is 1-4 in matches that it has lost the doubles point.
“Our doubles play has not been our best,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said in release.The team will have time to make adjust-
ments as it gets a much-needed break before taking on No. 4 Georgia on March 2.
The Bulldogs have one of the best doubles 
teams in the nation in the No. 12-ranked duo of junior Jan Zielinski and sophomore Robert Loeb.
UF sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and ju-
nior Alfredo Perez make up the nation’s No. 1-ranked duo and has never lost a set together.
The pair has not played together since Feb. 
3 against Florida State, but Shelton might look for that consistency to return heading into SEC play.
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgFlorida’s doubles-play woes persisting as season progresses Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Katie Chronister will see time in the circle today during UF’s doubleheader against Oakland, according to coach Tim Walton.
