We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Two Gilchrist County deputies shot, killed
Their names and the shooter’s have been released, pg. 13
UF Student Body president denies ties to group
Turning Point USA used his photo in a brochure, pg. 3INDIA’S STREAK ENDS AGAINST UK
Florida third baseman Jonathan India’s 24-game 
hitting streak came to an end on Thursday during UF’s win over Kentucky, , pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 83
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
When Desmond Grimes heard the 
fuzzy voice of control center from his 
bus radio, he told himself he would 
still ﬁ  nd time for his daughter.
“Check your schedule,” the voice 
said.
Grimes, a Regional Transit Sys-
tem bus operator, instantly knew what that was code for: another eight-hour shift away from his 14-year-old. A shift he didn’t ask for. 
“I made it known that I wasn’t 
happy about it,” he said. “I asked them ‘why do I need to check the schedule?’ even though I knew.”
Still driving in the bus, Grimes 
learned he wouldn’t get the Friday off he requested. Because of RTS’s driver shortage, he had been called in for a mandatory 12-hour shift.
So the next day, before his forced 
overtime shift began, he took his daughter to the shooting range and bought her ice cream. He came in an hour late to work, angry he had to go 
at all. His daughter only has a limited 
number of days off school, and he tries to take advantage of that time to spend time with her.
“She’s a teenager and in high 
school, so it won’t be long before she’s going off to college,” he said.
Grimes, who has worked for RTS 
for six years as a driver, plans to tell the city that bus operators are tired 
of working double shifts and tired of 
low pay. On May 16, he and other RTS employees represented by the Amalgamated Transit Union will sit across from city employees to de-mand higher wages and less forced 
overtime. 
“I did all I could take to make 
sure I was on the negotiations team this year, to make sure that I could 
have a seat at the table,” he said.
Since 20 bus operators left for 
various reasons this Fall, the remain-ing 186 RTS drivers have had to han-
dle unexpected shifts added to their 
schedules.
City spokesperson Chip Skinner 
said many drivers leave because of 
the pay. Other regional bus systems 
pay more than the $12.75 to $17.95 an hour offered by RTS. Skinner said the rate of pay for RTS workers is the pay agreed upon by the city and the 
labor union.
Zefnia Durham III, the bus 
union’s president, said cities like 
Jacksonville and Orlando draw RTS drivers away with higher pay. Or-
lando’s Lynx bus system said it pays 
trained drivers $15.24 to $21.77 an hour. Jacksonville Transit Authority has an upper range of around $21 to 
$22. 
Bus operators’ last pay increase 
was in 2017, when all city workers 
making under $12.75 were given a raise, Skinner said. Before, the mini-
mum bus operator pay was $11.75 
an hour.
The city is conducting a study to  
ﬁ  nd whether they are competitively Bus driver shortage leads to forced overtime, low pay
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
Desmond Grimes, 38, welcomes students onto the 117 Bus at the Reitz Union. Grimes’ route, “Park-N-
Ride 2, ” circulates through 34th Street back to the Reitz Union.  
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
THE CONTRACT TO BUY 
THE CAMERAS WILL COST
 THE CITY ABOUT $610,000.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
The City Commission approved a contract 
Thursday to equip more than 100 Gainesville 
Police Department ofﬁ  cers with body-worn 
cameras. 
The city commission decided to approve 
a $610,000 contract with Axon — a company 
that makes technology and weapons for law 
enforcement — to provide GPD with 107 body-worn cameras and accompanying sig-
nal units in Thursday’s meeting. The signal 
units will turn on the cameras if the patrol 
vehicle’s sirens or ofﬁ  cer’s stun gun are ac-
tivated, said Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. The department will also get 190 Taser guns to replace their current 
ones.
“Part of it is we know that the public de-
mands as much transparency as possible, 
and these are a vehicle to that transparency,” Tobias said of the cameras. 
The funding for the contract comes from 
the city’s general and Capital Improvement 
Plan funds, according to the city commission 
meeting agenda. 
Not every ofﬁ  cer will get a body-worn 
camera, so GPD will distribute them to road patrol units that don’t already have a vehicle 
dash camera, he said. 
About 10 to 15 GPD ofﬁ  cers have already 
been wearing body cameras for the past few 
months as part of a testing and evaluation 
period. 
GPD policy prohibits ofﬁ  cers from turn-
ing off the cameras when interacting with the public minus a few exceptions, which in-
clude when ofﬁ  cers are completing reports, 
having personal discussions with other ofﬁ  -
cers, on breaks or on the scene of a bomb 
threat or explosive device to ensure there is 
no electronic interference. 
“If, you know, they encounter a situation 
during these details that warrants the body-worn camera to be activated, then they’ll do 
so,” he said. 
Footage from body cameras that need to 
be blurred for conﬁ  dentiality reasons, like 
when interviewing the victim of a sexual as-sault, will be done only by evidence custo-
dians, he said. Road patrol ofﬁ  cers will not 
have the authority to blur footage. 
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos 
expects some of the cameras and stun guns 
to roll out within the next few months. He 
said it was only a matter of time before 
Gainesville joined the growing number of cit-ies equipping their ofﬁ  cers with body-worn 
cameras. 
“I think it’s what the residents of 
Gainesville expect,” Hayes-Santos said.  
He hopes the cameras will hold ofﬁ  cers 
accountable, reduce the number of false re-ports made against police ofﬁ  cers and en-
courage residents to behave better, he said. 
“I think when people know that they’re 
kind of on camera, I don’t think they will act 
as aggressively as they do sometimes against 
ofﬁ  cers,” Hayes-Santos said. 
He believes once more funding becomes 
available, the city will expand the number of ofﬁ  cers wearing body cameras, he said. 
“It’s my goal to ensure, I think, that every 
ofﬁ  cer on the street has a camera,”  he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCity oﬃ   cials approve body cameras for 107 GPD oﬃ   cersFEATURE FRIDAY
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
HIGH  72° LOW  57°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Save the Swamp GatorNights
The Reitz Union will host an 
Earth Day-themed Save the 
Swamp GatorNights. Activities 
include a do-it-yourself eco-friendly water bottle and starry night painting classes. Gators 
Going Green will have plant tie-
dye. Catch the award-winning movie “Lady Bird,” showing in the auditorium at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Create a birdhouse 
in the arts & crafts center from 
9 to 11 p.m. Treat yourself at the end of the night with na-chos at midnight munchies. 
GatorNights is always Friday, 
always free for UF students with a Gator 1 card.
Florida Museum gala
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will hold a “Passport 
to the Galapagos” gala from 7 to 11 p.m. Saturday. The evening will include a dinner, entertainment and dancing. 
Proceeds from the event will 
support museum educational programs. For more informa-tion, to purchase tickets or to 
make a donation, call 352-273-
2047.
Florida Museum photography 
workshop 
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will host a photogra-phy workshop from 9 a.m. to noon Sunday in the “Butterfly 
Rainforest” exhibit, which fea-
tures 60 to 80 species at any given time. Attendees will be 
able to use tripods and other 
photographic equipment not usually permitted. The fee is $40, or $35 for museum mem-bers, and includes exhibit ad-
mission. Pre-registration is re-
quired, and participants must be 18 years or older. For more information or to register, call 
352-273-2057.
Gallery Talk: The Life 
and Image of Toussaint 
L’Ouverture
Join David Geggus, a UF pro-
fessor of history, will be at the Harn Museum of Art 3 p.m.  Sunday, for a discussion of the 
dramatic career of Toussaint 
L’Ouverture, the slave who became a leader of Haiti’s in-dependence movement. This talk will address some of the controversies surrounding his life and public image in rela-tion to the series “The Life of 
Toussaint L’Ouverture,” 15 
silkscreen prints on view in the exhibition “History, Labor, Life: The Prints of Jacob Lawrence.” Admission is free.
Computing Program
UF is accepting applica-tion from 9th and 10th grade 
high school students for the 
Gator Computing Pre-College Program summer 2018.  The  program will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. starting June 
4 to June 15 at UF.  Program 
attendees will explore the role of computers in society, re-search and the economy with 
faculty from engineering, so-
cial sciences, medical research and biotechnology disciplines, as well as university staff with expertise in emerging technol-
ogies, such as 3-D printing and 
virtual reality.  Visit cpet.ufl.edu for more information and to access the application por-
tal.  The cost is $500. Need-
based scholarships are avail-able.  
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage MonthApril commemorates the first Japanese immigration to the U.S. on May 7, 1853. It also 
honors the Chinese immigrants 
who worked to complete the transcontinental railroad May 10, 1869. Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs will celebrate 
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month with events until Monday. The 2018 theme is the Japanese concept 
of ikigai, meaning “a reason to 
live.”
Midnight Fun Run 
UF RecSports is calling all su-
perheroes for a Midnight Fun 
Run on Wednesday. The event is open to faculty, staff, stu-dents and guests. Each par-
ticipant will receive an event 
T-shirt and breakfast follow-ing the race. Registration ends April 24 on RS Connect.
‘What Were You Wearing?’ art 
exhibitThe “What Were You Wearing?” art exhibit is being 
displayed until April 30 on the third floor of the Ustler Hall 
Library. STRIVE at GatorWell and the American Student Medical Association have col-
laborated with anonymous UF 
student survivors to show the outfits they wore during their attacks. For more info, call 352-273-4450.
Runoff election early voting 
Early voting sites for the 2018 City of Gainesville runoff elec-
tion will be open from start-
ing Saturday through April 28. Hours of operation are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., except Tuesday and Thursday, when locations will 
open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Early voting locations: Cone Park Branch Library at 2801 E. University Ave., Millhopper 
Branch Library at 3145 NW 
43rd St. and the Supervisor of Elections Office at the Josiah T. Walls Building 515 N. Main St.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters, which helps people get more 
comfortable speaking in pub-
lic, meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in Steinmetz Hall, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to all. For 
more information, visit talking-
gators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 83
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Engagement Managing Editor  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,    
  Grace Kenny,  Katie Marshall,    
  Sabrina Conza, Jill Chabot, Alain  Harb
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
INVOLVEMENTAWARDSON BEHALF OF STUDENT
ACTIVITIES & INVOLVEMENT
CONGRATULATIONS
AWARD RECIPIENTS
THANK YOU FOR AN EXCEPTIONAL YEAR OF INVOLVEMENT
Student Organization Advisor of the Year
Dr. John Krigbaum, Undergraduate Florida
Anthropology Student Association
Gator Connect
Southwest Florida Research and Education
Center Graduate Student OrganizationGreater Good
American Pharmacists Association,
Academy of Student PharmacistsStudent Organization Oﬃcer of the Year
Harold Lemoine, Latino Law 
Student Association
Student Organization of the Year
Center for Undergraduate Research 
Board of Students
Impact
Delta Sigma Theta
Inclusive Excellence
Reitz Programming BoardStudent Organization Member of the Year
Lizbeth Rubio, Society for Viral StudiesNew Student Organization of the Year
Student Chapter of the National
Association of Teachers of Singing
Campus Collaborator
Gator for Refugee Medical Relief
Innovative Event
Collegiate Veterans Society
Professional Development
Engineering Graduate Student Council
LEARN MORE: bit.ly/i-awards 2018
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President Smith Meyers 
has denied being involved with a conservative 
nonproﬁ  t after his photo appeared in one of the organization’s brochures. 
The photo of Meyers was 
published in a 28-page bro-chure for Turning Point, as reported by The Chronicle of Higher Education on April 6. 
An article from The 
Chronicle in May 2017 de-scribed Turning Point USA as a conservative group that tries to inﬂ  uence Student 
Government elections at colleges and universi-
ties nationwide. The article reported the orga-nization was offering to pay for the campaigns of conservative students running to help them get into higher leadership positions as part of Turning Point USA’s Campus Victory Project. 
The Chronicle reported that the group has 
funded candidates at UF but did not say which ones.
Meyers, who has served as the Student 
Body president since April 2017, wrote in an emailed statement April 10 the group took a photo of him from social media without his permission. He said this has happened to other Student Body presidents across the country. 
Meyers said he does not have a relationship 
with the organization.
“Student Government is a non-partisan 
platform with members from every side of the aisle,” he said in the statement. “I am proud of the work we have accomplished this year, and I believe our work reﬂ  ects a commitment to working with students across the political spectrum.”
Meyers declined to comment further. The Alligator tried to contact the national 
branch of Turning Point USA multiple times. Nobody responded to the requests for com-ment. 
SG adviser James Tyger, whose role is to 
advise, collaborate and train members of SG, did not return any of The Alligator’s multiple requests for comment. 
According to the brochure on The Chroni-
cle’s story, Turning Point USA has successfully 
elected 54 Student Body presidents. SG races 
in Florida funded by Turning Point are esti-mated to cost about $2,206,000, according to The Chronicle. 
The pamphlet said the group recruits stu-
dents in Greek and residential life. Meyers is a former chapter president of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. “Turning Point USA has embarked on mak-
ing the largest strategic impact for taking back and ﬁ  ghting the entrenched institution that has 
hijacked billions of public dollars to promote 
anti-capitalist, anti-American, anti-Semitic and pro-globalist themes,” the pamphlet reads.  
Alia DeLong, a UF interdisciplinary ecology 
doctoral student, said she was disappointed to see Meyers’ photo on the brochure. She said she wished he would’ve taken a stronger stance against the organization in his response.
“I think that’s a pretty weak response be-
cause the organization’s views are extreme,” the 29-year-old said. “I just don’t understand why he wouldn’t come out and stand up against those kinds of views because they’re harmful and oppressive views.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
UF Student Body president denies Turning Point USA ties
Meyers
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Gilchrist County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputies eating lunch in a Chinese restau-rant in Trenton, Florida, were shot and killed Thursday afternoon, authorities said. The shooter was found dead outside.
The shooter was iden-
tiﬁ  ed Thursday night by authorities as John Hu-bert Highnote, 59, of Bell, Florida.
The two deputies, Sgt. 
Noel Ramirez and Deputy 
Sheriff Taylor Lindsey, were eating in the restau-rant Ace China, located at 1122 E Wade St. in down-town Trenton, at about 3 p.m. when the shooter walked up to the restau-rant and shot both dep-
uty sheriffs through the 
window, GCSO Deputy 
Chief Darry Lloyd said. Trenton is about 45 min-utes west of Gainesville. 
Deputies who arrived to the scene found the shooter dead outside the restaurant and 
both deputies dead from their injuries in-
side, according to the release. 
The shooting is still an ongoing inves-
tigation and there is no apparent motive, Lloyd said. The type of weapon used and how many rounds were ﬁ  red has not been released, he said.
Ofﬁ  cials from the Levy County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, 
the Florida Department of Law Enforcement 
and the State Attorney’s Ofﬁ  ce have all re-sponded to the area to help, according to the release.
President Donald Trump tweeted, “My 
thoughts, prayers and condolences are with the families, friends and colleagues of the two @GCSOFlorida deputies (HEROES) who lost their lives in the line of duty today.”
Florida Governor Rick Scott announced 
over Twitter he had offered state help to Gil-christ.
Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi con-
ﬁ  rmed the deaths and gave her condolences in a statement.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgTwo Gilchrist County Sheriﬀ  ’s 
Oﬃ   ce deputies shot, killed
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
CONCERT LOVING
Matthew Dunbrack, a 20-year-old nuclear engineering sophomore, plays the ukulele 
while fellow members of The Staff perform their rendition of “T ake On Me” by A-ha at their spring concert Thursday night. 
Lindsey
Ramirez
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
4 pc Chicken Tenders Snack 
with Buttermilk Biscuit 
only $3.99
Choose from Supremes or Homestyle Tenders
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner • Open Daily: 6 AM - 10 PM
www.bojangles.com • 3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Target supermarket 
store is making it easier to avoid binge 
shopping.  
On Monday, the Target at 3970 SW 
Archer Road became one of nearly 270 
stores in the South and Southeast to of-
fer “Drive Up,” which allows customers to order items from the Target app to be brought to their car by an employee. 
Orders take about an hour to com-
plete, and customers can wait in the store’s designated “Drive Up” parking spaces, according to a news release. 
Target plans to expand the service it 
piloted in the Minneapolis area last fall to 1,000 stores by the end of 2018, ac-cording to the release.
Stephanie Campbell, the Archer 
Road Target front-end manager, said the store has received three orders from moms in a hurry picking up a few items since it began offering the service Mon-day. The feedback has been positive, she said. 
The Archer location’s parking lot 
has four “Drive Up” parking spaces, she said.  
When Diana Brown walked into 
Target on Wednesday morning to buy Keurig coffee pods, she ended up leav-ing with cat litter, clothing hangers, wine, coffee and a birthday gift for her friend. 
Brown said the Target app would be 
useful when she needs to pick up essen-tials but doesn’t want to be tempted by the dollar-bin section.
“Target is addicting,” the 26-year-old 
UF veterinary graduate student said. “I enjoy my experience, but I spend way too much.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGainesville Target now 
oﬀ  ering ‘Drive Up’ service
By Camille Graham
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County may have to look to neighbor-
ing counties to house foster children. 
Partnership for Strong Families, a community-
based child welfare agency that cares for about 
5,000 children in 13 counties, including Alach-
ua, reports there are about 80 children in need 
of homes in Alachua, said Patty Carroll, director 
of community relations and recruitment for the agency. There are about 55 licensed foster homes 
in the county, and many of these homes have a 
one-to-two child limit.
Carroll said the shortage is due to a rising 
number of children in need of placement in a fos-
ter home in recent years. The shortage could lead 
to children being placed in neighboring counties 
like Levy and Bradford based on availability in 
homes.
 “They’re not only leaving their home, they’re 
leaving their school, their friends, their peer groups, the sports team they’re on or the extra-
curricular activity they’ve been participating in,” Carroll said. “They’re leaving everything that they knew.” 
Valerie Stonerook, a 34-year-old stay-at-home 
mom in Gainesville, said she and her husband 
knew there was a need in the community for fos-ter homes, prompting them to get licensed in No-
vember despite their hesitations. 
After completing necessary background 
checks, home inspections and a nine-week prepa-
ration course, the Stonerooks were approved in November and have since fostered three children.
“We were nervous it would take our time and 
attention away from our four biological kids,” Stonerook said. “But it’s ultimately helped to bond us as a family.”
Carroll said there is an even  n    higher need 
for homes for teenagers and groups of siblings. 
She said if a family is unable to foster a child, they 
can still help by raising awareness and encourag-ing others to learn more about it.  
“As a community, when we can rally around 
those families that are taking in our kids, we 
strengthen that family and child, and we strength-
en the whole community too,” Carroll said. Alachua County struggling to ﬁ  nd  
local families for foster children THE 1-YEAR-OLD 
AVOIDED A HEART 
TRANSPLANT.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time in more than 
seven months, 1-year-old Valeria 
Ocampo’s heart beat on its own.
The baby’s family, along with 
her team of surgeons and nurses at 
UF Health Shands Hospital,  were 
stunned when on April 2, Valeria’s Berlin Heart, the artiﬁ  cial heart pump that maintained blood ﬂ  ow to her heart, was successfully re-moved. The pump had kept her alive for nearly half of her life.
But by early March, hospital 
staff grew conﬁ  dent they could 
start weaning her off the Berlin 
Heart. Over the course of three weeks, doctors gradually decreased the machine’s pump rate, said car-
diac surgeon Mark Bleiweis.
Valeria is UF Health’s ﬁ  rst pa-
tient to ever come off the Berlin 
Heart, a device for end-stage heart 
failure. The machine fed four tubes 
into the different chambers of her heart and is normally a transition toward a heart transplant, Bleiweis said. 
“It’s probably one of the great-
est experiences in our group’s his-tory,”  he said. “She has been given a chance to live a normal life.” 
Victoria Escobar, Valeria’s 
mother, said the road to healing has 
been stressful. Valeria, less than a 
year old, fought complications like strokes, seizures and a collapsed lung.
“It’s extremely painful for a par-
ent to watch their child go through something like that,” Escobar said.
Since her youngest daughter 
was transferred to Shands, Esco-
bar, 34, said she practically lived 
at the hospital, often sleeping on a hospital-provided sofa bed.
She said everyone agreed to 
be strong for Valeria, who rarely stopped smiling.
“She’s a very happy baby,” Es-
cobar said.
When Valeria celebrated her 
ﬁ  rst birthday on January 6, Escobar organized a photoshoot. She and her husband, Carlos Ocampo, and several nurses decorated the hospi-tal bed with pink and gold pillows. They gave Valeria a pink dress and chocolate birthday cake — which Valeria dug into, covering her face and hands in frosting.
“I needed to keep that face smil-
ing,” Escobar said. “That was my goal — keep that face smiling.”
Every day, Escobar and Ocampo 
clung to the hope that Valeria’s heart might improve, she said.
About 30 doctors, nurses, family 
and friends crowded around Vale-ria’s bed when the doctor stopped the artiﬁ  cial heart. Nearly everyone cried.
Escobar couldn’t believe Vale-
ria’s heart was beating on its own. She wouldn’t have to see her daughter, only about eight pounds, 
hooked up to a machine the size of 
a small refrigerator anymore. 
On April 13, Valeria left the hos-
pital.
Escobar said even small things 
are more meaningful now.
During that ﬁ  rst bath, Valeria 
was startled by the rushing water as her mother gingerly soaped over 
the ridge of newly formed scars. 
“Those scars, I love them. I’m 
going to take care of them,” Esco-
bar said. “Those are the proof of god’s miracle.”In historic operation, baby given new chance at life
Courtesy to The Alligator
Carlos Ocampo, left, and Victoria Escobar, right, kiss their 1-year-old 
daughter Valeria Ocampo, who was released from UF Health Shands hospital last Friday.
FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
1236 NW 21st Ave
(off of 13th St.)
OPEN Monday - Saturday
11AM–7PM
Closed Sunday
(352) 260-6958A perfect study & meeting spot...URBAN
THREAD
OPEN  
Monday - Friday 11–7, 
 Sat 11–6, Sun 11–5HARPER’S CORNER
at
URBAN THREAD
2 LOCATIONS:
1236 NW 21ST AVE
(352) 271-1179
802 W. UNIVERSITY AVE
(352) 727-7500
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Contributing Writer
Florida voters will decide whether victims’ 
rights will become part of the state’s constitu-
tion in November’s general election.
Voters will be able to vote on Marsy’s Law, 
which would guarantee victims receive timely notiﬁ  cations when there are changes in wheth-
er an offender is in custody or major develop-
ments in a criminal case, said Jennifer Fennell, 
a spokesperson for the proposal. It will also guarantee the right of victims and their families to be present and speak at court proceedings.
The proposal has received support from 
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell, as well 
as 23 out of 66 other state sheriffs.
On Monday, the Florida Constitution Revi-
sion Commission voted 34-3 in favor of plac-
ing Marsy’s Law on the 2018 general election ballot on November 6, Fennell said. The com-mission is made up of 37 commissioners who meet once every 20 years to examine the Flori-
da Constitution and propose changes for voter 
consideration.
In order for it to pass and become part of the 
state’s constitution, it will need 60 percent of 
the votes in the general election, Fennell said.
Florida is one of 15 states that does not pro-
vide clear and enforceable rights for victims of 
crimes in its constitution, Fennell said.
“I think everybody who is involved in the criminal justice process is concerned with making sure victims have a voice and they are treated with dignity and respect,” Fennell said. “That’s what Marsy’s Law for Florida would 
do.”
Marsy’s Law was named after Marsalee 
“Marsy” Nicholas, of California, who was 
killed by her ex-boyfriend in 1983, Fennell said. One week after her death, the victim’s mother 
and brother, Henry T. Nicholas, walked into a 
grocery store and were confronted by the ac-cused murderer. 
The family was unaware he had been re-
leased on bail. In an effort to honor his sister, Nicholas wanted to provide victims and their 
families with constitutional protections. He 
formed Marsy’s Law for All in 2008, which gives expertise and resources to victims’ rights organizations nationwide.
Sheriff Darnell was not immediately avail-
able for comment. Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesperson Sgt. Brett Rhodenizer said the rights of the victims are not currently speci-ﬁ  ed in Florida state law.
Rhodenizer said the support from Darnell 
and two dozen other sheriffs shows that law enforcement ofﬁ  cials will continue to promote 
and protect victims’ rights.
“We can, should and must protect the rights 
of the accused up to and through their convic-
tion, but we also have to protect the rights of our victims in crime,” he said.Florida voters to decide crime 
victims’ rights in constitution
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents who live in Dis-
trict 1 will be able to cast their votes for 
either incumbent City Commissioner 
Charles Goston or challenger Gigi Sim-mons starting Saturday.
The City of Gainesville announced 
Monday the 2018 District 1 Runoff Elec-
tion early voting sites will be open from 
Saturday to April 28 for registered vot-
ers within the district, said TJ Pyche, 
outreach director for the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections. The general elec-
tion day for District 1 residents is May 1.
“We encourage any and all registered 
citizens who live within District 1 in the City of Gainesville to take advantage of early voting and to make sure their voice 
is heard in this election,” Pyche said. 
When votes came in during the origi-
nal election on March 20, the District 1 race was only separated by 85 votes, with 
Simmons leading, so it went to a runoff, according to Alligator archives. 
The early voting locations, selected by 
the City of Gainesville, include Cone Park Library, Millhopper Branch Library and 
the Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce in the 
Josiah T. Walls Building, Pyche said.
All voting sites’ hours of operation are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., except Tuesday and Thursday when locations will open from 
10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Pyche said.  
Voters are required to present photo 
and signature identiﬁ  cation before vot-ing, Pyche said.
Pyche said some accepted forms of 
identiﬁ  cation include a Florida driver’s 
license, Florida identiﬁ  cation cards, 
United States passports and debit or 
credit cards. Voters are allowed to use 
two forms of identiﬁ  cation to meet the 
requirement. 
The deadline to request a vote-by-mail 
ballot is 5 p.m. April 25. Vote-by-mail 
ballots can be requested online, in per-
son, by phone, fax, mail or email. 
District 1 resident Juliun Kinsey said 
he always participates in early voting at the Cone Park Library location because 
of the convenience. 
“There is not a lot of trafﬁ  c,” the 
26-year-old said. “The hours are pretty 
broad, so I can get in and get out and not 
have to stand in a long line to vote.”
Kinsey said he has never missed an 
election. 
“Voting in elections is important to 
me,” Kinsey said. “I care about decisions 
that are made in city hall just as I care 
about the ones that are made in Tallahas-
see and Washington D.C.”Early voting dates released 
for District 1 runoﬀ   electionBy Bailey Wingate
Alligator Contributing Writer
The threat of salmonella has caused 
several supermarkets to pull eggs from 
their shelves, but  Publix Super Markets in Gainesville didn’t have to pull any because they were already expired. 
Publix 18-pack brand Grade A extra large 
eggs were recalled by Cal-Maine Foods Inc. because of possible contamination from Rose Acre Farms in Hyde County, North 
Carolina, according to Dwaine Stevens, a 
Publix spokesperson of the North Florida, South Alabama and South Georgia region. 
Stevens wrote in an email that Publix 
Super Markets in Gainesville had these eggs at one point, but the eggs had already been taken off the shelves before the recall due to being expired. Salmonella is a bacteria that when con-
sumed in contaminated food can cause di-
arrhea, fever, chills and abdominal pain.
“If customers have any questions about 
the Publix XL 18-pack eggs that might be in 
their refrigerator, they can return them for a refund,” he said, adding people should refrain from eating potential contaminated eggs. 
Elise Tutton, a UF nutritional sciences sophomore, said she goes to Publix every other week and occasionally buys Publix 
eggs. She said she wants to avoid salmo-
nella at all costs, so she will pay more at-tention to the brands she purchases. 
“I would probably avoid buying that 
brand of eggs, or stop buying eggs from Publix altogether until the recall is over,” the 19-year-old said. Possible salmonella outbreak results in recall on Publix eggsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Trying to explain the success of Fortnite 
It was revealed this past week that the new 
mobile version of Fortnite is reeling in $2 million a day, usurping the insanely lucra-tive Candy Crush and Pokemon Go. If you’ve been living under a rock the last two months 
and do not know what Fortnite is, I will do my best to explain it here.
Fortnite is the most recent success story in the 
video game genre known as battle royale games. Deﬁ  ned as a blending of “the survival, explora-tion and scavenging elements of a survival game with last man standing gameplay,” battle royale games es-sentially all have the same formula: A large number of play-ers are dropped into a deﬁ  ned area with little to no supplies 
or weapons. It is every man for himself, with players search-
ing for supplies and engaging in skirmishes with each other as the map shrinks, bringing everyone closer to the danger-ous core. The game goes on until there is one sole survivor, who is then deemed the winner.
To give a sense of just how popular Fortnite and the battle 
royale genre is right now, Fortnite recently broke the record for most people playing at one time — 3.4 million. Who pre-viously held that record? A game called PlayerUnknown’s 
Battlegrounds, another battle royale title.
What makes these games so wildly popular is their sim-
plicity and various factors dangerously feeding into their ad-
dictiveness. Loading and waiting times for Fortnite are very short, making the time between a ﬁ  nished game and a brand new one almost nonexistent. The result of this immediacy in matchmaking is the age-old video game trap of “one more game,” except even worse. Now, you can start a new game without even having to wait and potentially think, “Hey, I 
wonder if this is the wisest thing to be doing right now.”
Over the last couple decades, gaming has steadily become 
more and more social, with multiplayer gaming becoming 
the centerpiece and primary money-maker for the industry. It makes complete sense, too. Playing games alongside friends, no matter where they are located geographically, enhances the experience for all.
For a while, it appeared that “bigger is better” when it comes to multiplayer, but that has turned out not to be the case. Fornite’s 100-player servers are impressive and truly make it feel like you are on your own in a massive world, populated by real players. However, it is not the game’s size 
that sets it apart and keeps players scratching and 
clawing for more. Instead, Fornite shines on the individual level with its quality squad gameplay and ease of playing with friends.
Fortnite is a gigantic and daunting experience, 
but it is entirely squad-based. The fact that you 
are grouped up into small teams with your friends retains the closeness and personal chemistry elements that make games interesting. Like real life, wandering through the world alone 
can quickly become boring, however, doing it alongside your 
friends enhances the experience.
In 2010, an online shooter game called MAG was released. 
The main selling point of the game was its online battles of up to 256 players, a server size that was completely unheard of at the time. While the idea was novel, the game complete-ly ﬂ  opped. Two-hundred and ﬁ  fty-six players is simply too many people, and without the facilities in place for engaging gameplay with your friends, it quickly becomes dull.
What Fortnite and other battle royale games do so well is 
preserve the personal experience of each player, never losing sight of why many people play video games in the ﬁ  rst place. Most casual gamers just want to play with their friends at the end of a long day, so the easier a game makes this possible, and the more central it makes team gameplay, the wider the appeal will be. To succeed in a battle royale game, excellent communication and coordination with your friends is key.
The same thing that is critical for success is also what 
makes these games so much fun: teamwork. What Fortnite and the battle royale genre do so well is facilitate and encour-age the very element of gaming that keeps players coming back. The future of online gaming is not impressive size but instead preserving the personal experience of playing with friends.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
focuses on entertainment.Graduation is a mere few weeks away, and you ﬁ  nd yourself 
thinking, more often than usual, “How the heck did I get here?” You think back to unloading your parent’s car in the front of Bro-ward Hall in the sweltering August heat, and you remember the nerves you felt as you walked into your ﬁ  rst college lecture hall. 
It feels like just yesterday, right? 
As you tie up loose ends and complete your long list of “lasts,” 
you realize you’re really going to miss this place. 
You decide to have one last get-together with your best friends 
and meet up at the usual friend’s apartment a few days before the 
big day with paint, brushes and graduation caps in hand. You all decide to keep it a secret what you’re going to paint on your cap so you can all be surprised later that night.
After a few hours of painting and several cold beers, it’s time 
for the big reveal. One friend’s cap displays a typical “Thanks, mom and dad” surrounded by ﬂ  owers. The next has an alarm-ingly artistic painting of Century Tower. The last friend, however, has gone with a unique design. Their cap reads...
Darts & Laurels
This Monday, Accent Speakers Bureau announced it will 
host a 30-minute Q&A session with Jodi Kantor, the New York Times journalist who was part of the team to break the Harvey Weinstein story and reveal the Hollywood mogul had been paying off his sexual harassment accusers. 
Kantor will talk about her career in journalism and her 
work on the famous story. Unfortunately, one thing she will not do is receive equal pay for speaking. According to Accent Chairwoman Shelby Buchanan, Kantor will be paid $20,000, which is signiﬁ  cantly less than speakers are typically paid.
For reference, Jim Jefferies was paid $125,000 to speak, 
and John Mullaney was set to receive $85,000. Terry Crews was paid $40,000 — double what Kantor will receive.
Before we go into our gripes about the inequity in pay-
ment, we have to award Accent our initial laurel. Bringing in Kantor to speak to UF students grants us all a unique op-portunity to hear from one of the most noteworthy journalists and female professionals of our time, which is invaluable. As journalists ourselves, we each found ourselves elated at the chance to see Kantor, but the number behind her visit brought us back down.
The distinction in pay is something we cannot look past or 
ignore. The inequality is blatant and astounding. As such, we 
award a dart to Accent as well, for their disrespect of Kantor, 
female professionals and the ﬁ  eld of journalism. 
On May 29, many of us will need to run on Dunkin’, be-
cause more than 8,000 Starbucks store locations will be closed. The coffee chain announced Tuesday it will close many of its cafes for the day in order to conduct anti-bias training. The de-cisions comes after two African American men were arrested at one of the stores.
According to the New York Times, ofﬁ  cials reported the 
two men were arrested after they had asked to use the re-stroom without purchasing anything. An employee refused their request and asked them to leave the store. When the men stayed put, the employee called the police and the two men were arrested.
The situation led to signiﬁ  cant upset in the public, as it 
should have. However, we are impressed with the way Star-bucks has chosen to handle the situation. Not only did the CEO issue a formal apology, but the company is choosing to 
do something about the problem and educate their employees. 
We are appalled that the incident ever took place, but we must award a laurel to the Starbucks company for taking preven-tative action so nothing like this happens again.
We realize of course, that the decision to enact this train-
ing was likely, at least in part, a publicity stunt. However, regardless of motives, something good is resulting, and that is something we can be happy about and thankful for.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
DIGITAL 
MANAGING 
EDITORJimena T avel
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING 
EDITOR
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
May 19, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
You know those events that happen 
around the same time every year? As my second year at UF comes to a close, I’ve started to get a sense of when the yearly events happen 
around here. 
Every year in April is the Student Gov-
ernment inaugural banquet, during which the new executive ticket gets inaugurated, SG doles out some awards and outgoing members give farewell speeches. 
Last week, I got a funny “isn’t the ban-
quet supposed to be happening now?” thought. At the same point in time last year, 
I had already received the invite sent to the 
entire Senate listserv and a ﬁ  nal RSVP re-
minder email.
It quickly became apparent the SG ban-
quet this year was not open to all of SG. Putting heads together with some friends, we ﬁ  gured out SG booked the Stephen C. O’Connell Center for this past Wednesday night and had also asked executive branch staffers to help with the decorations.
During our Tuesday night Senate meet-
ing, I asked this question: “What happened to our invites?” I asked the In-formation and Communications chair about it during her weekly report, but the senate president stepped in, saying that it was 
Smith Meyers’ banquet and if 
I had questions, I should email him. I attempted to ask who got an invite during announcements but was quickly shut down by senate leadership.
I resolved to try to go to the 
banquet anyhow. You can’t close off an SG funded event, right?
Turns out, you can. I was stopped at 
the door and told if I wasn’t on the list, I wouldn’t be able to go in. Even the two staffers at the check-in hadn’t been invited, 
nor were they given food (that really pissed 
me off). I scanned the list of those invited: majority party loyalists, their signiﬁ  cant others and administrators. Not only did the full Senate not receive invitations, but also members of the majority party who were 
deemed not important enough to be there.
I stood there, texting folks I could try to have whisk me in as a plus one. 
No luck there. I grappled with the strong desire to walk past the check-in table while the staffers pleaded with me to not cause a 
scene and to pick my battles. (I 
am, in fact, a “chaotic good” dis-guised as a “lawful good,” so I try not to blow my cover for the petty things.)
After around an hour (I arrived 
late), people started to trickle out. 
The staffers at check-in got up to leave, and I followed them inside. To be quite honest, 
the banquet seemed quite small, perhaps 
due to the juxtaposition of the O’Connell 
Center’s vast interior. Almost immediately, people started making comments at me, as 
if everyone knew I hadn’t been invited. I 
bumped into the SG adviser who revealed to me the banquet wasn’t funded using stu-dent fees, rather by external revenue, which was why it was legally permissible to deny students, even SG Senators, entry. He rec-
ommended I leave and I did, slipping away 
into the night like a scorned lover.Okay, so why bother with all the salt and 
pettiness of burning so many words on this? 
I think this is important because, as the say-ing goes, “the ﬁ  sh rots from the head down.” If the banquet for SG’s cream of the crop is 
so exclusive, what does that say about the 
rest of our administration? What kind of in-auguration excludes Senators and the press? I would rather have an event that is accom-modating for a lot of people, than have to pick between inviting members’ signiﬁ  cant others or other SG ofﬁ  cers. If I had my way, 
we’d be having the SG banquet in the Reitz 
Union food court so we could instead use 
the banquet money, source of which be 
damned, to beneﬁ  t the Student Body.
SG shouldn’t be run like a private club, 
and even if it is, they should at least feed the 
people manning check-in at the door.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email 
me at: zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
sophomore and Murphree Area Senator. His 
column focuses on Student Government.
Inﬁ  ltration mission failure: my attempt to attend the SG banquetColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
paying drivers, said Christopher Be-
atty, an executive assistant in the 
city’s human resources department.
Grimes said he can’t afford to live 
in Gainesville, where he’s lived since 
he was a teenager, on his RTS salary. 
He moved to Ocala from Gainesville about seven months after starting as a bus operator, where he makes $13.69 an hour. 
“Me, working as a city employee, 
should not feel like it should be a challenge to live in the city,” he said.
Durham said bus drivers should 
be paid enough to meet their skill level. 
“A 16-year-old working part time 
at a pool during the summer is get-ting the same as someone with a state certificate,” Durham said. 
He said some drivers who have 
worked more than 20 years haven’t 
reached the maximum pay. 
There’s only one bonus program 
offered to bus operators, which was 
added two years ago, Skinner said. If drivers are accident-free for at least 
three consecutive years they receive 
a 10-cent per hour raise, and after 15 years, they can get a 50-cent raise. Drivers earn pay and a half for over-
time shifts.
Durham said drafting, the system 
of assigning extra shifts to bus driv-
ers, was less common four years ago when he was a driver. 
“If you used to draft five people, 
that was a problem,” he said. “Now if you draft just five people, that’s a blessing.”
When Grimes gets the call tell-
ing him to “check his schedule,” he either works and misses time with his daughter or skips it and gets in trouble with management. 
When he decides the extra shift 
isn’t worth it, he calls management and hopes his only punishment is paperwork. Drivers who ignore their forced overtime can face punish-
ments ranging from a warning to be-
ing fired, Skinner said. 
Grimes said he plays the game to 
get out of forced overtime. Today, 
his daughter has a dance competi-
tion in Daytona Beach at 4 p.m. In-
stead of taking the day off and even-tually being drafted, he signed up for 
a morning shift to avoid last-minute 
scheduling. 
The Department of Transporta-
tion codes say bus drivers in Florida can work 16 hours a day, as long as 
they only drive for 13 hours — ex-
cluding the 30 minutes they take to drive each way from the bus facility to the first stop.
Eight hours of break are required 
between twelve-hour shifts. A driver who has only worked an eight-hour shift can be asked by management to stay on the bus. RTS bus operators do not drive more than 72 hours a 
week, Skinner said. 
“If they say they are fatigued, 
they won’t be on the road,” he said. 
Durham said drivers are working 
more shifts than ever. Even with the increase in overtime, buses are can-
celed and riders are left deserted at 
stops when management can’t find a 
driver for an extra shift.
In March, RTS cut back service 
for 15 bus routes because of the driv-er shortage.
However, Skinner said RTS was 
able to “easily rectify the driver shortage” with 35 applicants who 
applied after a job fair in the begin-
ning of March. Skinner said RTS will 
be able to return to full service by 
Fall. 
The city changed the standards 
to be an operator, which may have 
contributed to more applicants, Skin-ner said. As of Feb. 26, applicants 
can now be accepted with three con-
secutive years of driving experience rather than five.
With lowered standards, Durham 
worries about safety.
“To me, lowering a standard says 
‘I’m not as concerned with my cus-tomers as I am with filling a quota,’” he said.
Skinner said all drivers go through 
the same training.
“We aren’t worried about a less-
er-quality candidate,” he said. “We are just still trying to fill the candi-date pool.”
Durham said there aren’t enough 
drivers to cover all the buses the city needs. Last Sunday, he said a route 20 bus wasn’t on the road because there wasn’t a driver available.
“You have people standing out-
side waiting for a bus that will never show,” he said.
Amanda Apatow said she can’t 
rely on RTS’s Rider app to tell her correctly when the bus will arrive. 
The 27-year-old said if she misses the bus by a second, she could end 
up waiting half an hour to commute back from her job. 
“It’s just a pain,” she said.
Apatow, who works at the Hub, 
said she needs to be at work by 8 a.m., but as of March, reduced ser-
vice made commuting tricky. The route 29 bus, which she rode every morning to campus, was canceled. She now wakes up 30 minutes ear-
lier, at 5:45 a.m., to catch the 8 bus.
Durham said students should be 
concerned when the service is di-
minished. 
“They aren’t lowering your tu-
ition,” he said. “They are just low-ering your service, and that’s not right.”
UF students pay a $9.44 per credit 
hour transportation fee, and about 
92 percent of that goes to RTS. 
UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
said UF pays RTS based on the hours 
of service. Winick said UF is charged 
less if service is reduced but couldn’t 
comment on if students are charged 
less.
To the students who ride the 118 
with him, Al Holmes is “Uncle Al.”
Holmes, 59, said he has greeted 
every passenger with a hello and a smile for the past 16 years. Even 
though he makes less than $16 an 
hour, Holmes saved up to give kids who rode his downtown bus route a Dum Dums lollipop. 
“I spent money out of my pocket 
to put a smile on a kid’s face,” he said.
The Army veteran said RTS will 
never take away his smile, but he isn’t hopeful about this year’s nego-
tiations. He thinks they won’t give 
a big raise to the drivers, only “pea-nuts.” In the meantime, he’s waiting 
out the last four years he expects to 
work for RTS.
“You just got to weather the 
storm and hope and pray that some-thing happens,” he said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1UF students pay a transportation fee, most of which goes to RTS service
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Al Holmes, 59, greets every passenger with a “good morning” as they board the bus Thursday mornings. 
He gets up early in the morning to work his shift, which begins at 4:30 a.m., and drives the 118 route which goes all the way from the Cultural Plaza to the Hub, traversing from east to west across campus. 
Alligator File Photo
UF students pay a $9.44 per credit hour transportation fee, and about 92 percent of that goes to RTS. UF spokesperson Margot Winick said UF pays RTS based on the hours of service. Winick said UF is charged less if service is reduced but couldn’t comment on if students are charged less.
FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
TODAY from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Writers, Photographers, 
Videographers, Copy Editors, 
and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetLIVE at noon on the Independent Florida 
Alligator’s OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the summer editors and staff 
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground floor, take hallway with single door all the way down to G207 on the left.
$10 eGift Card
DONATE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE OneBlood 
T-shirt & $10 
eGift Card for  
all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!YouMAKE A DIFFERENCE!
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Carolina Sepulveda doesn’t know when 
she’ll die, but she knows what she wants to 
get done beforehand.
Sepulveda, a UF biology junior, sat across 
from a swath of chalkboard titled “Before I 
Die” as she studied between classes next to the Reitz Union POD Market on Tuesday. Before 
walking to her biochemistry class, she read the 
goals written in chalk by her fellow students:  
“Travel the world.”
“Buy my Ma a house.”
“Graduate.”
The 20-year-old stopped in front of the wall, 
grabbed a piece of blue chalk and wrote, “Save lives.”
Sepulveda, who hopes to become a doc-
tor, said she didn’t know the wall is part of 
UF Health’s monthlong initiative to encourage 
students and Gainesville residents to reﬂ  ect on 
life, death and end-of-life health care. 
Wendy Resnick, the UF Health senior di-
rector of ﬁ  nance, said the organization in-
stalled 12 “Before I Die” walls in downtown Gainesville, around UF Health buildings and 
on campus for the second year in a row. The 
walls raise awareness for advance directives, 
which are written statements of a person’s pre-ferred medical treatment if they are too ill or incapacitated to communicate with a doctor. 
About a third of American adults have ad-
vanced directives ﬁ  lled out, according to Re-
uters. 
Resnick said although death is a taboo sub-
ject for many people, the walls are a positive way to start a difﬁ  cult conversation. 
“It takes some of the scariness away from 
it,” she said.
Anyone over 18 years old can ﬁ  ll out an ad-
vance directive and scan it into their medical records in case of a medical emergency, Resn-
ick said. 
Advance directives, including a living will 
or health care surrogate form, designate a spe-
ciﬁ  c person, like a family member or friend, 
to speak on behalf of an incapacitated patient. 
“They could step into your shoes and sign 
for the care you might want,” she said.
Abby Wolz, a 23-year-old UF master of 
health administration graduate student and 
project coordinator, said the Depot Park wall 
was taken down last week because of inappro-
priate language.
The remaining walls will stay up until April 
30, except for the Reitz Union location, which will be taken down today, Wolz said. Student 
Legal Services will offer advance directive as-
sistance from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today in Suite 3500 in the Reitz Union.
Wolz said the walls have received over-
whelmingly positive feedback from the 
Gainesville community.
“The walls almost ﬁ  ll up simultaneously,” 
she said. “I wish I could stop for a day and watch a blank wall ﬁ  ll up.”     
UF Health will also screen “Deﬁ  ning Hope,” 
a nursing documentary, at the McKnight Brain 
Institute on April 28. UF Health is hosting a panel on advance directives at the Alachua 
County Senior Recreation Center on Monday.
Joseph Whelihan Jr., a UF medical student, 
ﬁ  lled out an advance directive form in March. 
He said he’ll be ready when he’s on his death-
bed.
“Tomorrow is not guaranteed, so I think 
that everyone needs to go out and sign one of 
these,” the 23-year-old said.
Whelihan decided to name his mother as 
his health care surrogate after completing a 
class assignment to talk to a family member 
about advance directives. He said he dreaded 
asking his mother about what she would want 
when she dies, but he was pleasantly surprised 
by how open his mother was.
“I think it’s a difﬁ  cult conversation for a lot 
of people,” he said. “Especially given that I’m going to be going into a health care ﬁ  eld, and I 
had difﬁ  culties, I can’t even imagine what the majority of Americans must feel like.”
At the Sun Terrace wall last week, Wheli-
han wrote what he wants to do before he dies. 
In bright yellow chalk, he wrote “graduate 
med school.”
“Three and a half more years,” he said. 
“We’ll see if I can make it.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org‘Before I Die’ walls promote end-of-life care in Gainesville 
“BEFORE I DIE” WALL LOCATIONS:
Alachua County Senior Center
Bo Diddley Community Plaza
Haven Hospice Attic Thrift Store
Possum Creek Park
Santa Fe College
United Church of Gainesville
UF Health Facilities Administration Building
Orthopedic Sports Medicine Institute
Sun Terrace
UF Health Shands Psychiatric and Rehab Hospitals
1329 Building 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
By Will Clewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County commissioners have taken 
a step forward in deciding the future of Camp 
McConnell: They’ve set rules for how the land can be used.
During an April 10 meeting, commissioners 
discussed options for the ownership and man-
agement of the 212-acre land located at 210 
SE 134 Ave. in Micanopy. The commissioners told the Department of Parks and Conserva-tion Lands and the County Attorney’s Office to begin the process of drafting a conservation easement, or rules for how the land can be 
used, said county spokesperson Mark Sexton.
Once finished, the rules will be available 
for the commission to review. Then, the com-
mission will begin looking for buyers. The process could take a couple of months.
The county bought the property last June 
from the YMCA of the Palm Beaches for about 
$1.02 million, using money from the Wild 
Spaces and Public Places fund, which is a half-cent sales tax, he said. Money from the future 
sale will go back into Wild Spaces and Public Places. 
“It’s a valuable piece of property,” Sexton 
said. “There’s a large track of wooded prop-
erty, and there’s a lake.”The commission didn’t want to sell it for 
one purpose and then have someone turn 
around and sell it for another kind of develop-
ment, he said.
“They’re looking for projects that would 
benefit Alachua County residents,” Sexton said. “Its former use as a summer camp or a 
year-round camp for different activities is very 
attractive to the board.”
The easement draft will include restrictions 
like environmental conditions, not splitting up the land in any way and using it for edu-cational, recreational, public service or social purposes, said Charlie Houder, county direc-tor of the Department of Parks and Conserva-
tion Lands. 
County officials and commissioners are 
looking for a buyer who will use the land for 
purposes that fall under the terms of the ease-ment. 
A few organizations have expressed in-
terest in the property, including wilderness-based organizations focused on conservation known as Basecamp Ventures, Embrace Com-munity Center and Jonesville Tennis Center, 
Houder said. 
“If they get an offer from an entity that will 
use it for one of those purposes and is will-
ing to pay a fair price, I think that’s what the 
board is looking for,” he said.Alachua County wants buyer 
of Camp McConnell to use the land for community purposes
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Contributing Writer
Andrew Lim told a group of about 30 peo-
ple the LGBTQ+ community is not safe from 
rape culture.
“The lack of conversation around LG-
BTQ+ survivors makes it difficult for people 
to come forward,” the 21-year-old said.
Lim was one of four speakers at the event, 
“Rape Culture in LGBTQ+ Communities,” 
hosted by UF Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal 
Violence Education and student organiza-tion Pride Awareness Month on Tuesday af-
ternoon at the Matthews Suite of the Reitz Union.
Mark Tracz, a STRIVE lead peer educator, 
said the two organizations collaborated to put on the panel because rape culture is not often 
discussed in the community due to a lack of 
guidance. The event was STRIVE’s first gen-
eral body meeting co-programmed with Pride 
Awareness Month.
Tracz, 24, said the event aimed to dispel 
myths and educate students on interpreting unhealthy and healthy behaviors in the mi-
nority community. The talk was broken up 
into different aspects of how the media por-
trays non-straight relationships.
“We’re relating it back to what UF stu-
dents are going to be most likely exposed to. So current movies, what it is like going out to 
clubs and having that social life,” the second-year UF College of Education graduate stu-
dent said.
Lim, a UF psychology sophomore, said the 
idea of a gay club is seen as a safe place for LGBTQ+ people.
But the presence of drugs and alcohol in 
these environments is an increasing factor in sexual assaults, said Lim, the co-executive di-
rector of Pride Awareness Month and the peer 
educator of STRIVE.
The panel also spoke about what Tracz 
called, “a media approach.” Lim guided the 
discussion about scenes from the films “Blue 
Is The Warmest Colour,” which is a French 
film about two female lovers, and “Call Me by Your Name,” which is about two male lovers.
Some of the scenes in the films, Lim said, 
depict large age gaps in relationships and un-
derage drinking, which can lead to problems 
in relationships.
Students then broke into small groups of 
three or four to discuss questions about the movie scenes before Julia Catuogno discussed 
problematic trends like teacher-student ro-
mantic relationships, portrayed in media.
Catuogno, a UF psychology sophomore, 
grew up seeing these illegal relationships in the media and thought they were attractive 
because it was normalized. The 21-year-old 
acknowledged this was another factor of rape 
culture in the LGBTQ+ community.
“It’s not talked about and needs to be talk-
ed about,” Catuogno said.UF groups discuss rape 
culture in LGBTQ+ spacesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Lake Property LiquidationForeclosure Resale $39,900Before Foreclosure sold for $137,900Financing Available. Being sold off May 5th!Watch Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com877.712.3650Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.      4-20-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     4-20-1-10
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
2 male Grad students seek amale roommate who is clean &studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,own bed/bath, on bus stopclose to UF. Pool, hot tub,tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83705-15-18-21-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Engineering & Arts Day Camp
Hiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
Experienced Swim Lesson Instructors need -
ed beginning in May. Please email resume, hours of availability, and 2 references to jwilby@cox.net     5-17-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    5-15-18-4-14
Makos Aquatics Club of GainesvilleIs looking for swim/lesson coachesfor May &amp; summer work. $11.00 anhour. Send resume/3 references tokraus.leonard@gmail.com      5-15-18-4-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Place for a guard
5 American sports
org.
9 Walk or wind
preceder
14 Suffix for the
wealthy
15 Actor who’s
played a doctorand senator on TV
16 What captions
can capture
17 *Pay back
19 Pay homage, in a
way
20 Basil sauce21 Teed off
23 __ Friday’s24 Hideout26 Like some sale
quantities
28 *Step back32 She played Mia
in “Pulp Fiction”
33 “I did it!”34 Prefix with
thermal
35 “Puss in Boots”
baddie
37 Brown in a Croce
title
39 Houston suburb
named for initialsfrom theMissouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad
43 2018 Super Bowl
designation
45 Compared with
47 Tilling tool
48 *Snap back
53 Buttercup family
member
54 Beat at the
buzzer
55 Benching units:
Abbr.
56 Big name in little
trucks
58 Many a UAE
resident
62 Chain with a dog-
and-cat logo
64 One way to drive
... and what thelast word of eachstarred cluereally means
66 Really dug67 Command to
Rover
68 Mindless
repetition
69 Gumbo server70 Govt. branch
71 PR firm’s forte
DOWN
1 ’90s-’00s NFL
Pro Bowler
Warren
2 Take on
3 Accts. funded
annually, perhaps
4 Prickly plant
5 Chi.-based flier6 Downhill
excursion
7 Bleach feature
8 Rapeseed oil
9 Baking
convenience
10 Winning streak
11 2003 self-titled
folk album
12 Superman 
co-creator Jerry
13 Cones and cubes
18 Doomed, slangily22 Resort near Cape
Cod, with “the”
25 Napoli native27 “It’s just a
scratch”
28 Outkast, for one29 Texter’s
“Shocking!”
30 Damage
31 Magna __36 I, O or U
38 “My goodness!”
40 Rarely served
fish?
41 Low digit
42 Archery wood
44 Uranium-238, e.g.
46 Beersheba’s
locale
48 Female bud49 Still being tested,
as software
50 __ interest51 “Mind your
manners”
52 Irritations
57 Polk’s middle
name
59 Support, with “up”
60 Product of white
Muscat grapes
61 New driver,
usually
63 __-de-sac
65 Continental trade
gp.
By Mike McHugh
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/20/1804/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, April 20, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Space station
wear
7 “Walk Like __”:
Four Seasons 
hit
11 Sharp-tack link
14 Stage of intensity
15 Pitch a fit16 Happened upon17 *Look for a
specific passage
in, as a book
19 It’s near the
midpoint of theMiss. River
20 Rap sheet data21 Place Sundance
liked to see
22 “Gotcha!”
26 *About 22% of an
average 18-hole
golf course
28 Every time30 Key
31 Salt formula
32 Sprain
application
37 *Point where it
starts to hurt
42 Watch creepily
43 Corn syrup brand45 Chimney plumes
49 Largest cat in the
genus Leopardus
51 *Like baklava
layers
56 Change as
needed
57 Musical meter
maid
58 Exposes, in a
way
60 Gender-neutral
possessive
61 Explorers ... and
ones who can
determine whatthe answers tostarred clueshave incommon?
66 Numeric prefix
67 Tête output68 Canadian dollar
coin
69 Buddhist school
70 Give up71 Con target
DOWN
1 Macroeconomics
abbr.
2 Bering, for one3 Footwear brand
4 Wrath
5 Easily peeved6 Very, to
Schumann
7 Candle
emanation
8 Catcher Joe with
a trio ofconsecutive Gold
Glove Awards
(2008-’10)
9 Fretful feeling
10 Indefinite ordinal
11 Heineken brand
12 Parlor piece13 Finally18 Material flaw
21 LPN workplaces
22 __ for gold
23 Open-handed hit24 Fem. advocacy
group
25 City WSW of
Bogotá
27 Expensive29 Where it’s at33 2008 biopic
starring Beniciodel Toro
34 Blow it35 Arthur with two
Emmys and aTony36 Concerning
38 Met or Nat
39 Signed off on
40 Refrain syllables
41 Stop talking about
44 Legendary Giant
45 Quick squirt
46 __ d’hôtel
47 Decides to join
48 Mauna __
50 “All the Light We
__ See”: 2015Pulitzer novel52 Woodworking,
e.g.
53 Despised54 “With this ring, 
__ ... ”
55 Bad check letters59 Lubricates
61 Photo
62 __-wop
63 Roxy Music 
co-founder
64 Fix badly?
65 Observe
By Mark McClain©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/19/1804/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, April 19, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Elevation 
1.  ____ remedy 5.  Summary
2.  Contain, involve6.  Not qualified 
3.  Optimistic 7.  Coagulated 
4.  Stopped GHIHTE
BAHLERPECRA
FTNUI
CDUINEL
FHLOEUPEEDLGL
ADEHTLANSWERS: 1A-Height  5A-Recap  6A-Unfit  7A-Gelled
1D-Herbal  2D-Include  3D-Hopeful  4D-Halted  B-Carnegie Hall4-20-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This opened in 1891. BONUS16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesTim Walton and the Florida 
softball team are taking on Mississippi State tonight at 7 for the start of a three-game series.GATORS SIT IN FIFTH AFTER DAY 2 OF SEC TOURNEY
Florida's women's golf team shot 13 over on Thursday in the second round of 
the SEC T ournament, putting it in fifth place with an overall score of 23 over. The Gators need to finish in the top eight of the 14-team field during today's final round of stroke play to advance to this weekend's match play.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer 
 
Alicia Boren isn’t one to make predictions.
But as she and her teammates head into the 
2018 National Collegiate Women’s Gymnastics Championships tonight, she has placed her faith in the Gators. 
“I don’t want to jinx anything,” Boren said. 
“But I think that if we are normal, good things will 
come.”
It’s hard to blame her for feeling this way. The 
No. 4 Gators ended their regular-season schedule with only two losses on their resume. After a dis-
appointing third-place finish at the SEC Champion-ships on March 24, they bounced back to come in 
first at the NCAA Regionals on April 7. Now, Boren 
and her team are looking toward a new achieve-
ment: winning an NCAA championship.
Florida needs a top-three finish at the Chaifetz 
Arena in St. Louis, Missouri, tonight to advance to the NCAA Championships’ Super Six team final. 
“I think the hardest team out there is going to 
be (ourselves),” coach Jenny Rowland said. “We just need to go out there and do what we’ve been 
doing.” 
The Gators will begin competition at 7 p.m. on 
bars. Oklahoma, Utah, Washington, California and 
Kentucky are the other five teams in their semifinal 
group.
UF has made it to the Super Six 15 times in pro-
gram history — including each of the last six years 
— and won three consecutive NCAA titles from 2013 to 2015. One senior who remembers what it’s like to win a national title is Alex McMurtry, who was a part of Florida’s most recent championship 
team in 2015. In what could be her last meet with Gators' national title hopes on the line tonight in St. Louis
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Junior Alicia Boren and the Florida gymnastics team are in St. Louis to compete in the NCAA Championships tonight at 7. 
Oklahoma, Utah, Washington, California and Kentucky are the other teams competing in UF's group.
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
BASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Wil Dalton busted the game open in the 
third inning. His three-run homer gave the 
No. 1 Gators an insurmountable six-run 
lead the No. 6 Kentucky Wildcats couldn’t 
touch. But his at-bat wasn’t the night’s most memorable. 
That came in the top of the ninth inning, 
courtesy of Florida third baseman Jonathan India. 
India carried a 24-game hitting streak 
into Lexington, which put him five games 
shy of tying UF’s all-time record. He stepped 
up for one final at-bat to lead off the top of the ninth after going 0-for-3 with a walk to that point on Thursday night. 
India took one ball, then two, then three 
on a pitch in the dirt. UK freshman Trip 
Lockhart finally pumped one into the zone 
to make the count 3-1, but with his fourth ball on the next pitch, India’s streak came to an anticlimactic end. 
He trotted to first base with his 24-game 
streak enshrined as the third-best in Florida history, but also knowing it would go no further. 
On a night where Florida (33-7, 13-3 
SEC) dominated, taking out the Wildcats 11-2, that was the night’s most intriguing mo-ment. But it wasn’t the only one. 
Another immediately followed. Follow-India’s hitting streak ends 
in victory over KentuckyA funny thing happened 
during Tuesday night’s base-
ball game between Florida 
and Jacksonville.
Gators catcher JJ Schwarz 
swung and missed at a pitch 
in the dirt in the bottom of 
the fifth inning for strike 
three. The ball scooted away from Jacksonville catcher Jacob Southern and into the backstop. Schwarz started toward first base, but 
home-plate umpire Derek Mollica de-
clared that Schwarz was out and the play was dead. 
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan was reason-
ably outraged. On a play like this, a bat-ter is allowed to take off for first base. Schwarz was not afforded the opportu-nity. Why?
On the replay, the ball looked like it hit Schwarz on his right foot after his swing. Mollica turned out to be right to call 
Schwarz out since the play 
was over when it struck his foot. Since it wasn’t a review-able play, no other thought 
was given to it by Mollica. 
Though the umpire was 
technically right in this case, 
it brings up a larger point made by one 
of the journalists covering the game: Um-
pires and referees should be made avail-
able for postgame interviews should they be requested.
While they’re technically employees 
of the NCAA, college baseball umps still have an obligation to maintain a bal-anced image. The work that goes into that ought to include setting the record Refs should do postgame interviewsMorgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Morgan McMullen
Twitter: @MorganMcMuffin
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
When Victoria Emma takes the court this 
morning against LSU for the quarterfinal 
round of the SEC Tournament, there won’t 
be a smile on her face.
When she’s standing on the baseline, 
she won’t appear cheerful. She’ll only be fo-
cused on the point about to be played, and 
the next one, and the next one after that. 
And if the ball hits her opponent’s side of 
the court one final time to make the score-board read in her favor, maybe then there will be a change in her visage.
When she places her shot just right and 
her opponents look on in vain, she screams into the air with a fervor. When her ad-versary gets the best of her on a point, she doesn’t forget it.
Since she first picked up a racket at 3 
years old, Victoria has been a competitor. As the daughter of a former NHL forward, Olympian and winner of collegiate hockey’s most prestigious award, Victoria’s ferocity 
on the court isn’t unprecedented.
But when a painful injury almost side-
lined her father, David Emma, during one of 
the most important parts of his career over two decades ago, he refused to let it get in 
the way of his aspirations. 
When the same thing happened to his 
daughter at 14 years old, David helped 
her through a situation all too familiar and watched on as she showcased the same 
competitive spirit he had years ago.
•   •   •
When David stepped on the ice to play 
against Finland ahead of the Winter Olympic 
Games in 1992, nothing seemed out of the ordinary. When he woke up the next morn-
ing and was having a hard time moving and 
breathing, however, it became increasingly 
clear his adrenaline had masked a devastat-
ing secret from him over the course of the previous day’s game. At some point in the 
contest, unbeknownst to him, he tore the 
cartilage in his rib cage. Suddenly, his op-portunity to play in the Olympics was at risk.
David and the rest of the U.S. men’s ice 
hockey team were in Méribel, France, com-peting in a series of exhibitions before they headed to the Olympics in April. David was just one year removed from winning the Hobey Baker Award — given to the NCAA’s top male hockey player — at Boston College.
All was going well until the penultimate 
game before the Olympics, when David suf-fered his injury against Finland.
He was unable to compete in the team’s 
final prelim against Sweden. Dave Peterson, the team’s head coach, was unsure if David would be able to play in the Olympics and wanted to send him home.
David wasn’t having any of it.“I told him, ‘Listen, I’ll be able to play, 
don’t you worry about me,’” David said.
He had been making his way through the 
Olympic ranks since he was 15 years old, and the assistant coaches who knew him well vouched for his toughness, lobbying for Peterson to let him stay on the team as the games began.
“They knew my character and the type of 
person I was,” David said.
When the U.S. finally took to the ice in 
Méribel for the Olympic Games in April, Da-vid returned to the team ahead of its second game against Germany. However, because the Olympics’ standards on drug testing were strict, he wasn’t allowed to be injected with Novocain or any other substance that could alleviate his pain.
If David was going to be an Olympian, he 
would have to play through the rest of the 
competition with torn cartilage in his ribs, 
and that’s exactly what he did.
“That’s part of sports,” David said. “You 
find ways to look on the good side of it.”
The team ended up placing fourth and 
barely missed out on the chance at a medal, 
but David was there every step of the way. 
Over the course of the Olympics, he record-
ed one assist and helped the U.S. finish the competition with a 5-2-1 record.
Twenty-two years later, David’s daughter 
would find herself in a similar situation, but 
she wouldn’t settle for fourth place.
•   •   •
Victoria was 14 years old and the 2014 
National Clay Court Championships, one 
of the top youth tennis tournaments in the United States, was quickly approaching.
She had won the singles championship 
at the event two years prior, so she was no stranger to the tournament.
Victoria was excited to return to the 
competition for the 14-under division, but 
a few months before the tournament began, 
she started to feel an increasing amount of 
discomfort in her right shoulder. When she went to the doctors for an X-ray and an MRI, the source of her pain revealed itself. 
Victoria had separated a growth plate in 
her shoulder, likely resulting from a combi-nation of her growth and intense training regimen. According to the National Insti-tute of Health, it’s a relatively common in-
jury that occurs in adolescents and teens. 
Originally, doctors told Victoria that she was 
looking at a recovery time of two months and would still be able to make the tourna-
ment.
As it turned out, it wasn’t that simple. 
The recovery process took longer than ex-
pected. When she still wasn’t where she 
needed to be, her doctor recommended that 
she skip the tournament.
Because training for her upper body was 
out of the question, Victoria’s workout regi-
men during her injury consisted of running three 400-meter dashes on a track field. 
When she went to do them shortly after her 
injury, she barely made it past the first run 
before she broke down from the pain.
“I was dying,” Victoria recalled. “I told 
my dad to call an ambulance.”
David didn’t call an ambulance, but he 
did present Victoria with two choices: She could leave the track field, or she could fin-
ish her last 400, which she was required to run in under one minute and 30 seconds.
She finished the last 400 that day and, 
by the end of her recovery period, was run-
ning 10 of them in under one minute and 15 
seconds.
Although her running was going well, 
Victoria was still heavily limited in her up-per body training, and it was only a week 
before the tournament when she was able 
to train with a tennis racket. Despite her extremely limited practice time, Victoria 
wasn’t deterred.
“I knew that this was a big tournament 
for me, and that if I put in the work, it was 
going to pay off,” Victoria said.
Read the rest of the story online at alliga-
tor.org/sports
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgLIKE FATHER, LIKE DAUGHTER: Emmas bond over past injuries
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Freshman Victoria Emma and the Florida women’s tennis team are facing LSU this morning at 9 in the quarterfinals of the SEC T ournament in Knoxville, T ennessee.
Courtesy of David Emma
Victoria Emma and her father, David Emma, both played through injuries during  their athletic careers.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2018
the Gators, McMurtry is excited to 
hopefully repeat history and advance to the ﬁ  nal stage of the event.
“This isn’t my last time compet-
ing, these aren’t my last routines,” McMurtry said. “This is just doing 
what I love.”
Last year, UF ﬁ  nished in third 
place at the Super Six. Tonight, the 
Gators will aim for a better place in the lineup, something that is pos-
sible for a team that took each event 
title at the NCAA Regionals, notch-ing wins from senior Rachel Slocum and Boren on ﬂ  oor, Slocum on vault and McMurtry on bars, beam and all-
around. 
“(Rowland) tells us all the time,” 
Boren said, “‘Go into practice, do 
what you do, then just do the same thing on the competition ﬂ  oor.’”
This theme of normality has been 
something UF has lived by these past two weeks between regionals and nationals. In its ﬁ  nal stretch of the postseason, Florida will continue 
that attitude. 
“I just know that we need to go in 
there and be ourselves,” Boren said.
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14McMurtry prepares for 
inal weekend with UF
straight on any controversial 
or close calls during the game they’re overseeing.
The NFL, in its inﬁ  nite wis-
dom, often has to do damage con-trol over objectively terrible calls from its refs. The Jesse James 
catch/no-catch ruling in the Pitts-
burgh-New England game im-mediately comes to mind as one of last season’s most egregious letdowns in football. Whether it 
was a catch or not according to 
the rules as they were written, the people deserve a timely explana-
tion.
Aside from the moral and 
ethical implications of this pipe 
dream of mine, it would go a long 
way toward helping the business 
side of things for these mega-con-glomerates. You know damn well Roger Goodell can’t resist a good ratings boost, especially with the NFL seeing declining viewership 
over the last couple of years.
Maybe it’s the journalist in me 
who wants this. In my profession, 
both in sports and actual news, it’s important to hold powerful 
institutions accountable. While 
postgame talks with game ofﬁ  -cials wouldn’t exactly hold peo-ple like Goodell or NCAA Presi-
dent Mark Emmert to any higher 
standard than they are now, at the very least it would give fans a more clear picture of how the games themselves are governed. 
Gotta learn to crawl before you 
walk. Gotta learn to criticize indi-vidual games before you criticize the game at large. 
Morgan McMullen is the online 
sports editor at The Alligator. Con-
tact him at mmcmullen@alligator.COLUMN,  from pg. 14ing India’s walk, the Gators came 
two batters away from hitting around the order to give India a 
sixth chance. But Deacon Liput 
chopped a grounder to second base and was thrown out to end that possibility. 
Aside from his groundout to 
dash India's dreams of a 25-game 
hit streak, Liput paced the team 
with three RBIs, as did Dalton. Freshman Brady Smith was the other standout with his second home run of the season and a pair of RBIs. 
Ace Brady Singer led the way 
on the mound in unfamiliar ter-
ritory. Usually Florida’s Friday 
night starter, he pitched on a Thursday because UF’s series against the Wildcats (25-13, 7-9 
SEC) runs Thursday through Sat-
urday. The results were the same as usual. 
Singer earned his eighth win 
by pitching seven innings, strik-
ing out 10, walking one and al-
lowing two earned runs. The ﬁ  rst was a little bit of bad luck. 
Singer was up 0-2 on UK’s 
Luke Heyer when a pitch squirted inside and nipped Heyer’s elbow. 
The next hitter, lefty Luke 
Becker, sliced a ﬂ  y ball deep down the left ﬁ  eld line. It landed 
ahead of a sprinting Austin Lang-
worthy, who was shaded toward center ﬁ  eld for the left-handed bat, and danced into the corner.
Langworthy took a while to 
ﬁ  nd it, allowing Heyer to score easily. 
A single from Ben Aklinski 
gave Kentucky its only other run 
on the night, but aside from those 
fourth inning struggles, Singer was untouchable. He only al-lowed one hit outside of that in-
ning. 
Freshman Tommy Mace ﬁ  n-
ished off the Wildcats in two 
scoreless innings. 
The win was Florida’s ﬁ  rst 
of the week after falling to Jack-sonville on Tuesday. The series will continue tonight at 7:30, with Jackson Kowar (6-1) on the 
mound for UF. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14India's hitting streak ends at 24 games
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida third baseman Jonathan India went 0-for-3 with two 
walks on Thursday in UF's 11-2 win over Kentucky.
