We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 93
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College Police arrested a man Tuesday 
afternoon accused of stealing animals from Santa Fe 
College Teaching Zoo in May.
Sedrick Price, 20, was charged with grand theft.
On May 23, four animals, two gopher tortoises and 
two box turtles, were stolen from the teaching zoo, ac-
cording to a Santa Fe media release.
On May 30, seven more animals — three box tur-
tles, two red-foot tortoises, a skink and a squirrel mon-
key — were also stolen. Evidence at the zoo showed 
that the animals were forcefully taken from their enclo-
sures, according to a media release.
SFPD received a tip Monday afternoon that led 
them to the Crossings at Santa Fe apartments, located 
at 3205 NW 83rd St., according to the media release.
Seven animals were recovered from an apartment 
— six from the May 30 burglary and one box turtle 
from the May 23 burglary. Price lived in the apartment 
the animals were found in.
Four other animals are still missing, including Da-
vid Beckham the box turtle, according to the zoo’s 
Facebook post.
According to a SFPD arrest report, Price know-
ingly obtained the nine animals which value at about 
$10,000 to $20,000.
SFPD said even though an arrest was made, the 
investigation continues and more arrests are possible, 
according to the media release.
Price was in Alachua County Jail on Tuesday and a 
judge released him without bail Wednesday afternoon.
Anyone with information regarding the animals 
can call SFPD at 352-395-5519.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgSeven of 11 stolen Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo animals found
Courtesy to The Alligator
David Beckham, a box turtle, is one of four animals still missing after 11 were stolen from the Santa Fe College T eaching 
Zoo. Another box turtle and two gopher tortoises are also still missing. 
THE PROGRAM OFFERS 
MEALS AND ACTIVITIES
By Jacob Kovach
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County School 
Board and Florida Department of 
Agriculture and Consumer Ser-
vices began serving free, nutri-
tious meals and hosting activities 
for children in need through the 
statewide Summer BreakSpot Pro-
gram Monday.
Caron Rowe, the marketing 
and promotions specialist for the 
Alachua County School Board, said several libraries, Boys and 
Girls Clubs and UF Health Clinic 
sites have joined the program to 
keep up with an increase in de-
mand.
“There are families coming 
into (the sites), and they’re hun-
gry,” Rowe said. “They have sib-
lings with them and they didn’t 
have anything for them there pre-
viously.”
Some of the participating sites 
offer recreation-based activities 
and others offer education-based 
programs, Rowe said.
The Star Center Children’s 
Theatre on Northeast 23rd Av-enue is entering its fourth year 
participating in the program, said 
founder and director Rhonda Wil-
son. 
Activities offered include mu-
sical theater and dancing. Wilson 
said the activities allow the stu-
dents to express themselves and 
perhaps even allow them to es-
cape whatever troubles exist out-
side of the program. 
“Life can be a play in the sense 
that it has ups and downs,” Wil-
son said. “There’s drama, there’s 
happiness, and if you look at it 
that way, then you realize that 
it’s not too far off from what you do on-stage.”
She said the effects are pro-
found on the approximately 30 
students who attend.
“Some of the kids in our pro-
gram don’t have lunches or 
breakfast,” Wilson said. “Here, 
they have a chance to eat every 
day.”
The lunches students get are 
similar to those offered during 
the normal school year, including 
pizza, corndogs, French fries and 
chocolate milk.
“From what I see, some of 
our kids deﬁ  nitely do need (the 
lunches),” Wilson said. “From the way they eat it, they either re-
ally love it or they need it.”
As Wilson spoke, the buzz of 
adolescents laughing and scream-
ing could be heard from behind 
a large, black curtain. Somebody 
was confessing a celebrity crush 
on Ariana Grande during a game 
of truth or dare.
Niyin Smith, an 18-year-old 
acting instructor at the theater, 
said one of the most challeng-
ing parts of the job is breaking 
through to the children.
“The ﬁ  rst day when they came 
here, some of them weren’t talk-Summer BreakSpot Program now serving food-insecure families
SEE MEALS,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 93
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
HIGH  88° LOW  70°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 93
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:GATORFeed
Follow our New Spotify PlaylistTweet of the Week
Hurricane Party 
PlaylistThe Avenue
THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Blake Trauschke
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF School of Music is offer-
ing two music ensemble courses as 
part of the Creative B Summer pro-
gram. The ensembles are open to 
all UF students, faculty, staff and 
Gainesville community members 
this Summer B.
Archie Birkner IV, the assistant 
director of music at UF, will be con-
ducting the orchestra. He hopes the 
orchestra will be a full symphony, 
which contains string, brass, wood-
wind and percussion sections. About 33 musicians have expressed interest 
so far, he said.
UF Associate Director of Bands 
John M. Watkins Jr. will be conduct-
ing a concert band this Summer B. 
The concert band will have brass, 
woodwind and percussion sections.
The orchestra will play standard 
orchestra repertoire that will be fun 
to play, Birkner said.
For the concert band, they are 
looking to perform music that a 
wide-ranging audience would enjoy, 
Watkins said. The music will include 
standard marches, movie and show 
tunes, patriotic music and summer-themed songs.
These ensembles are open to 
everyone in Gainesville to include 
those who want to make music over 
the summer, Birkner said. 
Brandon McKinley, public rela-
tions and partnerships specialist at 
the College of the Arts, created Face-
book event pages for both Summer 
B music ensembles. The auditions 
for both the orchestra and band will 
take place July 2. The orchestra audi-
tions will take place in Music Build-
ing, Room 121, and the band audi-
tions are in Steinbrenner Band Hall.
Students can earn academic credit for being in these ensembles, 
Birkner said. Because participants do 
not have to be affiliated with UF to 
participate, students can take it with-
out receiving credit as well.
The orchestra rehearsals will be 
every Tuesday and Thursday night 
of Summer B from 7 to 8:30 in Music 
Building, Room 121, McKinley said. 
The concert band rehearsals will 
be every Monday and Wednesday 
from 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in Stein-
brenner Band Hall.
This is not the first time there has 
been a Summer orchestra, but this 
is the first time the Summer orches-tra has been run by faculty, Birkner 
said.
McKinley said both ensembles 
are being funded by the Office of the 
Provost at UF.
Provost Joseph Glover said the 
Creative B program consists of many 
activities, including ensembles.
“The Office of the Provost has 
funded the Creative B Summer pro-
gram for over five years to enhance 
the cultural atmosphere of the cam-
pus for students during the Summer 
B term,” Glover said.Two new music courses to begin during Summer B semester4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government may have 
more money available to use 
soon.
Changes to the annual budget 
unanimously passed ﬁ  rst read-
ings at Tuesday’s Student Sen-
ate meeting. The newly proposed 
budget is now worth $20,819,571, 
according to Student Senate Bill 
2018-1047.SG Budget and Appropriations 
Committee Chairwoman Em-
ily Dunson said the $408,219 in-
crease from the original budget is 
based on an estimation that stu-
dents will sign up for more credit 
hours in the coming year than 
was originally anticipated when 
the budget was ﬁ  rst written.
“It’s important that we are re-
maining updated in our budgets 
so that we can remain as ﬁ  scally 
responsible as possible and as ac-curate as possible,” Dunson said.
One of the largest increases 
in spending on a single item will 
be awarded to SG projects in the 
new budget, according to the bill. 
This will be a $73,140 increase 
over the original budget, if ap-
proved at the next meeting.
Student Body President Ian 
Green intends to use the new 
funds on a variety of projects, he 
said. These projects include the 
previously announced Bridges, a minority outreach program, and 
new projects like the Bledsoe 
Drive parking lot project. It would 
allow students going to Southwest 
Recreation Center to park for free.
“We are constantly looking for 
innovative ways to enhance the 
student experience,” Green said. 
“And, we always accept differ-
ent suggestions throughout the 
school year.”
The money in the budget 
comes from the Student Activity and Service Fee, Dunson said. 
Students pay $19.06 in fees per 
credit hour they enroll in, a cost 
that hasn’t increased in the past 
four years.
The budget will be heard again 
in second readings at next week’s 
senate meeting Tuesday.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgStudent Government budget increased for 2018 ﬁ  scal year
ing or interacting with one another,” Smith 
said. “But now they’re all singing and danc-
ing and having fun together, and I love it.”
Rowe said the program has become in-
creasingly popular, and at least 17 more 
providing locations will open this year. 
Rowe said that Alachua County has 
been participating in the program for at 
least 22 years and is part of a national cam-
paign – the Summer Food Service Program 
– that launched in 1968. 
She said site attendance locally had 
increased 20 percent for breakfast and 18 percent for lunch last year. More than 
110,000 meals were served last summer. 
The total number of sites has jumped from 
63 to 80 within a year.
“It’s hard to predict how many we will 
serve this summer,” Rowe said. 
The only exception to this may be found 
in a few sites, such as overnight camps, 
according to Summer BreakSpot’s website. 
Parents may be required to ﬁ  ll out a form 
about family income for their children to 
receive meals.
Rowe said a food truck initiative was 
also started last year to provide meals to 
those in remote areas of Alachua County 
without transportation. Rowe said the food truck will be travel-
ing on a Monday to Thursday routine from 
June 5 to July 26. Its locations will be listed 
on the Alachua County website. 
According to a press release by the Flor-
ida Department of Agriculture and Con-
sumer Services, children who are members 
of households receiving assistance for food 
insecurity are automatically eligible to re-
ceive meals at eligible sites.
The program has increased the number 
of meals served from 11 million to over 
15 million statewide since the department 
took over the program in 2012, said Kinley 
Tuten, spokesperson for FDACS said.
“The goal of the program is to bridge the nutritional gap that many kids face 
during the summer months,” Tuten said. 
“Kids who rely on school meals for their 
nutrition really beneﬁ  t from this.”
Tuten said that providing sites are re-
imbursed on an individual basis by the de-
partment. She was unable to provide exact 
costs or estimated costs for the program, 
which lasts until July 27.
“Ultimately, we are looking to help as 
many children as we are able to,” Tuten 
said. “I grew up in Florida and have always 
been interested in being involved in help-
ing those close to home.”MEALS,  from pg 1Children of food-insecure households are automatically eligibleTHURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Michael Knauff
Alligator Contributing Writer
An invasive frog species in north central 
Florida is eating up a native population.
The Cuban tree frog migrated from south 
Florida to Alachua County in the last 20 years, 
said Steven Johnson, an associate professor of 
wildlife ecology at UF.
The frog can grow up to 5 inches in length, 
3 inches more than the native green tree frog, 
Johnson said. Because of the size difference, 
the invasive frogs eat the native frogs.
Johnson said the native population would 
be mostly affected by the invasive species in 
the Gainesville area. This is because Cuban tree 
frogs live primarily in suburban areas due to 
the shelter housing provides.
The document stated that the frogs get into 
homes through open windows, doors and larg-
er crevices. 
Once inside, they may cause trouble by defecating or jumping at people, Johnson said. 
They are attracted to light and may jump out 
when people come home and turn on the lights.
Johnson said there is no data on whether 
the county’s native population has been sig-
niﬁ  cantly affected by the predator, but it is only 
rational to think that it has.
However, the global amphibian population 
has declined by a third, wildlife ecologist Ken-
neth Dodd said.
He said the loss of wetlands due to agri-
culture and urban development has reduced 
breeding grounds and living areas for frogs.
Johnson said this global decrease may not 
have short term effects on humans but could 
pose issues long term. He used a tapestry as a 
metaphor to describe how the loss of a species, 
like frogs, could affect humans.
“Each species plays a unique role,” Johnson 
said, “you can pull out one piece nothing would 
happen, another piece probably still nothing. 
But pull too many, and it would collapse.”By Madison Rubert
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF study suggests cancer survivors who 
consumed a well-balanced diet have a 65 per-
cent lower risk of death from cancer than survi-
vors who ate poor quality diets.
The purpose of the study, published on Tues-
day, was to determine if a diet’s quality is re-
lated to cancer patients’ survival, said Kalyani 
Sonawane, the study’s senior author. 
She said others had considered speciﬁ  c di-
etary components, but none had really ques-
tioned the effect of the entire diet.
“And that is something I thought should be 
answered,” Sonawane, 28, said. 
Researchers examined data from the Nation-
al Health and Nutrition Examination Survey col-
lected between 1988 and 1994 by the National 
Center for Health Statistics to evaluate the health 
and diets of 1,200 cancer survivors. They calculated the quality of survivors’ diets 
using a 10-point scale measuring the consump-
tion of 10 dietary components based on the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture’s Dietary Guidelines 
for Americans.
“What we found is that if you are a cancer 
survivor and have a good score on the Healthy 
Index Scale, then your chances of surviving are 
65 percent greater than someone’s whose qual-
ity of diet is poor,” Sonawane said.
Half of the survivors died within a 17-year 
follow-up period, according to a National Center 
for Health Statistics Linked Mortality File.
The study is a step toward improving cancer 
outcomes, said Ashish Deshmukh, the study’s 
lead author.
“Getting cancer not only decreases your qual-
ity of life, it also leads to signiﬁ  cant trauma and 
ﬁ  nancial burden,” Deshmukh, 30, said. “If these 
cancer outcomes can be improved, then it will 
be beneﬁ  cial to both the patient and society.” 
It’s a frog-eat-frog worldUF study ﬁ  nds diets could lower 
risk of cancer-related death
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
The design elicits a feeling of enchant-
ment: Passengers course through a rainforest 
river on a glass-bottomed raft. They track a 
glowing lizard-like creature. 
The ride design, dubbed “Cryptid Creek,” 
took ﬁ  rst place in the 2018 Cornell Theme 
Park Design Competition. In addition to 
the “Cryptid Creek” team, another UF team 
placed third at the competition.
More than 50 teams competed, and this 
was the ﬁ  rst year UF teams have ever reg-
istered to take part in the competition, said 
Michael Breen, a UF mechanical engineer-
ing senior. The four UF students on the 
ﬁ  rst-place team were Breen, Will Meldrum 
Thush, Christopher Berry and Kristofer Rob-
inson.
Breen said his team spent one month de-
signing the ride. The team designed every-
thing in that time, eventually condensing it 
into a seven-slide presentation and a concept 
video.
“We created an innovative water ride,” 
Breen said. “It had to meet a lot of certain cri-
teria like budget constraints and how could 
we creatively use the land.”
The ride design used new technology like 
OLED screens, Breen said. OLED screens are clear television-like screens that can display 
images in vibrant color.
The screens were part of the glass bottom 
in the raft design, Breen said. It would al-
low for animals to appear on the screen as 
though they were in the moving water be-
low.
Berry, a recent UF architecture gradu-
ate and “Cryptid Creek” team member, said 
the team was challenged by the competition 
guidelines. The team also had to create a 
story for the ride while adhering to a strict 
budget. 
The project must have a budget between 
$15 to $20 million, according to the program 
guidelines. 
The competition win came as a surprise 
to Berry.
“It was just kind of a big shock,” Berry 
said of the win.
Daniel Fishman, a UF senior mechanical 
engineering student, said competitions like 
this allow students to apply their skills and 
get their names out there for large companies 
to see. Fishman organized meetings for the 
students competing.
“It allows them to have fun, take some-
thing new and design it, go crazy,” Fishman 
said of the the competition.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgStudents design park ride
Courtesy of Michael Breen
Four UF students won a national competition in which participants designed 
theme-park rides. “Cryptid Creek, ” their design, ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst among 50 entries.
Editorial
Column
An ode to Kate Spade and her inﬂ  uence on journalism
On Tuesday, the world learned that Kate 
Spade died after taking her own life.
First, I want to start by saying 
please reach out for help in your own 
way whenever you need it. You are 
not alone. If you need help, you can call or 
chat online with the National Suicide Preven-
tion Lifeline or ﬁ  nd resources on campus.
Second, I want to go into the mark Spade 
has made on my life. As materialistic as fashion 
can be, Spade’s designs brought joy, whimsy 
and professionalism all at the same time. Her products 
were often out of my college price range, but I was always 
drawn to them.
In a world where I doubted being a journalist as people 
told me newspapers were a dying breed, her New York 
Journal clutch, tote bag and tumbler assured me news was 
trendy, needed and appreciated. Just like the world may 
doubt the need for $500 purses that I don’t have, Spade’s 
products told their own stories and held value outside of 
a capitalistic society.
One of her lines was an ode to books, a notebook fea-
turing a shelf lined with books including classics “Pride 
and Prejudice” and “Gulliver’s Travels.”
Like newspapers, her brand could be one of tradition 
and creativity. Spade was one of the ﬁ  rst things I saw 
when I came on a UF tour as a high school senior. In the 
bookstore while I waited for my time to view campus, I 
perused the bottom level and saw Spade’s products on the 
shelf among other stationery, lanyards and water bottles. 
My mom got me a notebook that I still have saved to use 
for a special project, when that time comes.
My ﬁ  rst big purchase was saving up my money to 
buy myself a proper wallet versus a square with a money 
slot, a couple of card spaces and Velcro before college. 
Many other shoppers share a connection with Spade and 
their ﬁ  rst purchase, as the Glamour article “My First Kate 
Spade: 12 Women on How the Designer Impacted Their 
Personal Style” highlights.My other graduation gifts were other Spade 
products, a zippered pencil pouch, highlighters 
and a spiral-bound notebook for the journalism 
student-to-be.
Spade also has a Gator collection that seems 
to ironically tie the trail of my journey to UF 
and journalism together. Spade herself once 
wanted to be a journalist.
On the “How I Built This” podcast interview 
with Guy Raz from last year, Spade and her 
husband told their story of hard work, per-
severance and being resourceful to make the company 
work. These same skills can apply to reporting on a story.
She left a mark on many lives, including mine, most of 
which she probably never met. Her combination of sleek, 
modern products and bold, colorful products brought as-
surance and jubilance to many people and probably hid 
the turmoil within herself as a self-described “nervous 
person.”
On the Spade website, a black screen with white type 
reads:
“Kate Spade, the visionary founder of our brand, has 
passed. Our thoughts are with her family at this incredibly 
heartbreaking time. We honor all the beauty she brought 
into this world.”
Regardless of whether you are a fashion fanatic, design 
dabbler or just any old shopper who has never heard of 
Spade, you might be able to appreciate the tale of a wom-
an’s rise to the top of fashion, entrepreneurship, dedica-
tion and loss. The real truth behind this story is everyone 
is just human and though their brand may embody them, 
it doesn’t reveal the sad dualities of them.
In this time, I appreciate Spade’s journey and legacy 
and hope it will help create more change for a world under 
stress and stigma.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
The only thing worse than having to stay in Gainesville 
over the summer is being here while there’s a tropi-
cal storm. Regional Transit System buses are cold 
enough without having wet hair and wearing soaked 
clothes, and unpredictable bus schedules could leave 
you dripping with the icy shards of Mother Nature’s...
Darts and Laurels
However, clingy jeans can’t hold a candle to soggy socks 
(it couldn’t hurt, though). Imagine: you’re walking through 
Plaza of the Americas, reading an article on your phone 
from alligator.org when all of a sudden, you feel it.
Your toes squish as you step forward. An uncomfortable 
feeling grows in your chest. You look down and realize your 
shoes are three shades darker than before. You will now 
have to endure wet socks in the frigid, desolate climate that 
is an RTS bus. 
Therefore, this dart goes to you, Tropical Storm Alber-
to. You disrupted our Memorial Day events, perpetuated the 
stereotype of Florida’s wet season and generally made life 
miserable for all residents in the South. May your plague of 
puddles disappear until the next storm. 
Students may never have realized how literal “Raines-
ville” was until this summer. It seems like it has been rain-
ing every other day, complicating commutes and stressing 
out students. It’s kind of like a nagging cold: You’re going 
to take precautions to avoid the worst of it, but in the end, 
you have to let it run its course. 
However, despite the cold temperatures, a round of ap-
plause needs to be given to the RTS bus drivers.
Having to clean up after soggy shoes is the only thing 
worse than actual soggy shoes, and keeping buses clean is 
an often overlooked part of a bus driver’s job. If it weren’t 
for this part in their daily routine, standing while the bus is 
in motion would become much more slippery.
Sticking to a time schedule is also difﬁ  cult when rain 
starts falling and people suddenly forget how to drive. RTS 
drivers know people have to be at a certain place at a cer-
tain time, and no tropical storm will get in their way! 
It’s also no secret that there’s a shortage of bus drivers. 
Bus drivers are underpaid and underappreciated. It’s one 
of the reasons why there are fewer buses on certain routes. 
The next time you’re sitting on an RTS bus wiggling your 
numb toes, glance at the shoe prints you left on your way 
in. They won’t be there long.
This laurel goes to you, RTS drivers.
Quite honestly the most redeeming quality of Gainesville 
summers is the quiet of Summer A. We grant the sweetest 
of laurels to open library spots, low chances of being hit 
on by frat boys on bikes and short lines at virtually every 
eatery. It truly is sweet, sweet summertime.
Finally, we award food delivery services in Gainesville 
a sharp dart this summer. Mostly, Cookiegazm. In fact, 
we’re going to say only Cookiegazm. The well-branded es-
tablishment closed its doors for the summer and effectively 
ruined our nighttime drunken jaunts around G’ville.  ‘Til we 
meet again, Cookiegazm. Parting is such (un)sweet sorrow.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
OPEN DAILY: 6 AM - 10 PM
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner
3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
www.bojangles.com$5COMBO MEALS
Choose from 2Pc. Leg/Thigh Dinner With 
Biscuit Or Pulled Bbq Pork Sandwich Combo, 
Both Come With Side Item Plus Drink!
In the ‘60s, we were 
thinking about the 
future. We thought 
about how we might 
drive ﬂ  ying cars, 
cherish our housework 
robots and live on freeze-
dried peas like space-
men. What we didn’t 
predict was an app that 
could send a chauffeur 
to your house in under a 
minute and take you wherever you 
wanted, all without the need to vo-
calize any directions or requests.
Ride-hailing apps aren’t as glam-
orous as chrome cities, and this fu-
ture is much more fraught with so-
cial gray area. Uber can be tricky, so 
depending on what you’re like, you 
may ﬁ  nd these tips helpful.
To antisocial people who don’t 
like to talk: Once you greet your 
driver, you’re off the hook. Don’t 
feel pressured to have small talk 
with anybody else in the car. If 
you’re worried you might come off 
as impolite, don’t be. Your driver has 
experienced depths of awkwardness 
you probably couldn’t imagine. 
They likely have overheard 
phone conversations planning pony 
princess parties for someone’s 
37-year-old uncle. They likely have 
had marital disputes play out center 
stage in their backseat. They have 
hosted someone who smelled like 
ponies and not at all like princesses 
in their front seat. 
Your quiet serenity isn’t going to 
offend them. Pretend you’re concen-
trated on a book or on your phone. 
Wear earbuds. Don’t sweat the si-
lence. 
To those of you who are chroni-
cally late to things: The other people 
in your UberPool ride are probably 
peeved at you. When you saunter 
out of your house toward your ride, 
which, much to the chagrin of the 
other passengers, has been patiently 
idling in the street blocking trafﬁ  c for 
three minutes, the least you could do 
is give it some hustle. Put some pep 
in your step. At least pretend that 
you were busy and in a rush. 
This is the information age of lightning-quick responses 
and push notiﬁ  cations. 
If you call an Uber, don’t 
begin to shave or apply 
makeup. Perhaps you may 
want to wait until you’re 
all dolled up to conﬁ  rm 
that ride.
Finally, and most im-
portantly, to those of you 
who haven’t been tipping 
your driver: start. Driving 
for Uber is harder than you think. To 
give you an idea of how much your 
driver might be making, consider 
that the national average is $20 per 
hour. Sound like a lot? 
Consider now the vehicle is be-
ing used for commercial purposes, 
devaluing it at 10 percent per month 
for resale purposes as opposed to 10 
percent per year with personal ve-
hicles (Unless you commit fraud and 
don’t report that to the buyer). 
The service costs on using the 
car every day (driving, braking and 
door-slamming) are steep — eas-
ily more than $1,500 per month in 
maintenance. If you don’t report 
commercial use to your insurer, 
which many drivers do not, you lose 
100 percent of coverage from both 
Uber and your own policy. Drivers 
pay sales tax on each transaction out 
of pocket. 
This is by no means an exhaus-
tive list. In short, you should be tip-
ping your driver because they’re do-
ing a public service, and they’re not 
getting much out of it.
While we may not enjoy the “cit-
ies of tomorrow” the ‘60s promised 
us, we do enjoy a ﬂ  eet of doting taxis 
who provide complimentary mints 
and water. Appreciate what you’ve 
been given by being a good passen-
ger. Be on time. Tip. Don’t smell.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF 
political science junior. His column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.Uber tips for dummiesColumn
“I was raised sex, politics and re-
ligion aren’t party talk.” 
This quote from "Mad Men" 
is one that I don’t particularly 
agree with, but if we don’t talk 
about politics, what else matters?
With people my age, their unwilling-
ness to talk about politics stems from their 
lack of interest, rather than fear of conﬂ  ict. 
If you’re not interested in politics, chances 
are you don’t have anything to lose. 
One key thing that is central to a healthy democ-
racy is the participation of its citizens. Although not 
voting isn’t illegal, it’s shameful to not take a stake in 
the country where people died defending your right 
to self-govern. The only weapon against corruption is 
citizen activism. It’s not that deep. I’m not asking you 
to leave work and go protest or even call your senator 
— all you have to do is care. 
It’s incredibly destructive to have such an indiffer-
ent attitude about government. It minimizes the work 
that activists and reformers do to make sure your life 
is easy, safe and prosperous. 
People should take the time to research the issues 
they see on the news and formulate their own opin-
ions on them. Unfortunately, the root cause for most 
people not caring about legislature is that it doesn’t 
personally affect them. That is just not a good excuse 
at all. For some people, the things we vote on are vital. 
The least you can do is discuss it at the dinner table. 
For the cancer patient who doesn’t have health 
care, for the refugee with no home and for the student who’s afraid to go to school, our public policy 
is a matter of life and death. We all have a 
different idea of how to solve problems, but 
we need to at least try something. Discussion 
and collaboration allow us to reach innova-
tive solutions that would be unreachable on 
our own. We need the push of the left and 
the pull of the right in order to bring us to a 
higher middle ground.
We need to have empathy for other people. 
You might see the excessive tweets about our 
president or Congress as an annoyance, but I see it as 
an amazing opportunity to understand someone else’s 
struggles and their impact on an individual level. 
When I get into a heated debate and someone says, 
“I don’t like to talk about politics,” my eyes roll. That 
type of complacency, or aversion, to ideas other than 
their own is toxic and self-defeating. 
Another thing you should ask yourself is if your 
disinterest in domestic affairs is derived from being 
too lazy to do thorough research. There are a lot more 
fun things to do in your spare time than reading, but 
I can’t imagine living in this huge world and know-
ing little about it. Humans are supposed to be curi-
ous creatures, and the world of journalism depends 
on that. 
Start caring about politics for the sake of others 
because at some point, someone that you don’t know 
could decide your fate.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her col-
umn comes out Tuesday and Thursday.Indiﬀ  erence on taboo topics is a public problemColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
“The Bikinis” review
Our review of the Hippodrome’s newest production 
is on page 9.Indie Flea returns: 
Check page 9 to ﬁ  nd out more about this quarterly Gainesville 
favorite.By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
Raelyn Nelson is a rising princess in coun-
try music. Granddaughter of the world-famous 
country icon Willie Nelson, Raelyn joins forces 
with band members Jonathan Bright, Preach 
Rutherford and Paulie Simmons to create a 
sound that she says is the midpoint between 
Loretta Lynn and Cheap Trick.
“I come up with country melodies, and I 
play my ukulele with this rock band,” Nelson 
said. “It’s just this hybrid.”
Tonight, the Raelyn Nelson Band is com-
ing to High Dive, performing with Company Man and Carey Matthews. Show up at 8 p.m. 
to grab a drink and pick your spot in the crowd 
for the show beginning at 9 p.m. Tickets are 
available for $10 at highdivegville.com, Hear 
Again and High Dive Box Ofﬁ  ce.
Guests under 18 must be accompanied by a 
guardian, and those under 21 pay an additional 
convenience fee of $3 at the door.
Nelson grew up on gospel music and old-
school country — Waylon and Willie. As a 
young mom, Nelson found herself subcon-
sciously writing songs day in and day out. By 
the time her kids were done nursing, Nelson 
said she was dying to record.
Now, eight years later, the Raelyn Nelson Band is touring all over the country and put-
ting out music with a unique sound. Their 
sound ranges from country-rock jams, to slow 
melodies like “Moon Song,” which features vo-
cals from Willie Nelson himself.
“When I ﬁ  rst heard his voice coming 
through, I cried,” Nelson said. “Sometimes I 
still have that surreal moment about it. It’s very 
special to me that he is on that song, a song 
that I wrote, and he found it worthy enough to 
sing on it. It’s a surreal moment every time.”
Like her grandfather, Nelson is an advocate 
for the legalization of both medical and rec-
reational marijuana. She is hopeful about the 
future of marijuana legalization, citing changes that have already come about. Willie Nelson 
now sells his own strain of weed, something 
that would have never happened a short time 
ago.
In addition to touring, the Raelyn Nelson 
Band will be releasing new music with Sweet-
water Studios in late June and early July. Nel-
son is also releasing a new album Friday with 
her acoustic duo, “mmhmm.”
“A live music experience should be happy 
and uplifting, and caffeinated and fun,” Nelson 
said. “Let’s have a party so that we can forget 
about all the crappy things that are happening 
around us.”
By Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Contributor
Gainesville artists are coming to-
gether to transform a batch of retired 
mannequins into works of art — cel-
ebrating the legacy of pride.
If you went to High Dive on 
Sunday evening, you might have 
been confused as to why you were 
surrounded by naked mannequins. 
When Terry Fleming, 56, walked 
into a room full of mannequins of 
all different shapes, sizes and colors 
just over a month ago, he was not 
confused for a second. He called it 
his ﬁ  rst “light bulb over the head” 
eureka moment.
Fleming is the co-president of the 
Pride Community Center of North 
Florida. While shopping the closing 
sale in the former The Oaks Mall 
Macy’s, he was struck with a fund-
raising idea. Adamant he is an not 
artist himself, Fleming quickly called 
his friend Tom Miller, 53.
Miller, a multifaceted artist, told 
his friend to ﬂ  ip the mannequins on 
eBay to make a quick buck and leave 
the artists out of it. But Miller says 
Fleming was insistent. Fleming had 
a vision. 
According to Miller, Fleming said, 
“I want this to be about our com-
munity. I want this to be about art. 
About music. About pride. About 
diversity. About embracing what we 
have in common and appreciating 
our differences for the power they 
give us.”
Miller caved. The two enlisted the 
help of the coordinator of Arts Mar-
ket Family Art & Music, Brian Wil-
son, 52, and together the trio set off 
rounding up artists. 
The idea was simple: there was 
22 mannequins and 22 artists. Each 
artist adopts a mannequin and turns 
it into Rainbow Spirits. There are no rules. The mannequins can come 
back as anything.
On July 21 at 8 p.m., there will 
be a grand unveiling of the Rainbow 
Spirits at the Pride Community Cen-
ter. Amid food, drink, music and en-
tertainment, the public will be able 
to bid to purchase the Spirits. All 
proceeds will go to the Pride Com-
munity Center.
The Pride Center, located at 3131 
NW 13th St., does more than put on 
the annual Gainesville Pride Parade 
and Festival in October. They pro-
vide year-round assistance like HIV testing, women’s health services 
and transgender and youth support 
groups. 
Sunday night was the adoption 
ceremony. Mostly, it was just the 
artists and their loved ones at High 
Dive. It was not a particularly large 
crowd but a lively one. The room 
had an air of familiarity and friend-
ship in it. A theme emerged when 
the artists explained what this meant 
to them: community and accep-
tance.
Some are like Jasmine Hardin, 
26, who is enjoying her ﬁ  rst expe-rience celebrating pride. Hardin 
comes from Vernon, Florida, a town 
of fewer than 700 people. She has 
openly identiﬁ  ed as pansexual for 
years but said that in a small town 
like hers, the LGBTQ+ community 
is generally pretty hidden. This is 
her ﬁ  rst year in a community that 
actually celebrates pride.
Some are like Lizzi Nehls, 46, 
who’s been out as part of the 
Gainesville LGBTQ+ community for 
25 years now. She said the meaning 
of pride has evolved for her. Nehls 
said the LGBTQ+ community has made huge strides since she ﬁ  rst 
came out, but the importance of the 
movement has been renewed in the 
current political climate. 
Alisha Evans, a 40-year-old bi-
sexual burlesque performer from 
Jacksonville, said pride means: “We 
are here. We are part of society. We 
have always been a part of society, 
like it or not. All we care about is 
that we have acceptance and love, 
and that love is universal.” She and 
her husband, Justin Evans, 40, have 
both adopted Rainbow Spirits.
Although most of the artists said 
they needed to get to know their 
mannequins before decorating them, 
there are some aspects you may ex-
pect to see in the July 21 event. 
Wilson’s torso will likely come 
back with wings and crystals. Nehls, 
knew for certain her large, black, 
male mannequin would be wearing 
a pink tutu. Alix Mathia, a 26-year-
old registered nurse, explained her 
idea to incorporate the actual anat-
omy of the human body with her 
typically somewhat abstract style to 
show similarity between all humans.
June has been celebrated as Pride 
Month since the Stonewall riots in 
1969. Plenty of artists were quick 
to celebrate how far the community 
has come. However, all were eager 
to also mention how much hate and 
aggression towards the LGBTQ+ 
community is still present in today’s 
society. Gibson Cash, 27, said that 
events like this are a “way of neuter-
ing the beast.”
In the face of hatred, however, 
this group talked much more of love, 
community and support. Almost 50 
years after the Stonewall riots, the 
pride community in Gainesville will 
honor the memorial with the work of 
talented artists who will craft what 
were department store mannequins 
into vibrant Rainbow Spirits.Raelyn Nelson band comes to High Dive
Macy’s mannequins become rainbow spirits for pride
MUSIC
Lindsey Breneman
Local artist are decorating abandoned mannequins as part of a project to celebrate June as 
annual Pride Month.
THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
What can separate even the 
closest of friends? The future. What 
can reunite them? The past.
In the Hippodwrome’s newest 
production, “The Bikinis,” Kelly 
Atkins, Catherine Fries Vaughn, 
Melanie Souza and Wydetta Carter 
play members of an aspiring girl 
group from years gone by. The 
Bikinis have reunited as their old 
stomping grounds are threatened 
by condominium developers offer-
ing to buy up the land for a hefty 
sum.
Decades after their heyday in 
the age of ﬂ  ower power, Jodi, An-
nie, Karla and Barbara reunite on 
the eve of the year 2000 to perform 
at The Sandy Shores Mobile Home 
Beach Resort, a trailer park com-
munity on the Jersey Shore.
The performance is a show-
within-a-show. The concert sets 
the stage for the women to tell their 
story and, ultimately, for the com-munity to decide whether to keep 
their homes or take the corporate 
payout.
With music dripping in mod and 
Vietnam-era nostalgia, “The Biki-
nis” tells the story of four Jersey 
girls who were on their way to lo-
cal fame. In the ﬁ  rst act, it seems 
like all that stood in their way to 
stardom was teenage girl obsession 
with boys like the hunky “Life-
guard 23” and the funds to record 
their ﬁ  rst 45 rpm (vinyl record). 
The ﬁ  rst act is silly, lighthearted 
and seems a bit frivolous, but it in-
troduces you to the personalities of 
the characters.
By the second act the tone 
shifts, and more serious topics be-
gin to cast a shadow over The Biki-
ni’s aspirations for the Shangri Las-
like fame. The war in Vietnam had 
begun and the girls reminisce on 
how the world seemed to change 
overnight. The subject of teenage 
fantasies and love triangles – “Life-
guard 23” – is drafted along with 
young men all over the country. Now grown women, Jodi, Annie, 
Karla and Barbara discuss how col-
lege, activism and marriage set The 
Bikinis on different paths.
“Act two takes a turn in terms 
of what was going on in our coun-
try during the Vietnam War, and 
some of the most gorgeous songs 
that have ever been written are in 
that act,” said director Lauren War-
hol Caldwell. “We also see a group 
of women come out to those mike 
stands who are more mature and 
who have lived a lot more of life.”
The second act emerges with 
strength after the music-dense ﬁ  rst 
act. Basic individuals blossom into 
relatable characters who, despite 
their stark differences, form a re-
ﬂ  ection of enduring female friend-
ship and a bond that transcends 
circumstance.
“I think the audience can relate 
to the friendship between the four 
women, and because of (Caldwell’s) 
casting, the four of us are very dif-
ferent,” Vaughn said. “The friend-
ship between the women in the 
show when they were a young girl 
group singing those songs in the 
‘60s, up through the serious times 
of their lives, the Vietnam war and 
how the friendship bonded them 
through all of it.”
With an all-female cast and fe-
male director, “The Bikinis” glides 
through themes of female friend-
ship with a natural ease. The wom-
en are ﬂ  awed, but their individual 
relationships as sisters, cousins 
and friends are layered and evolve 
throughout the show.
“The main core of the show is 
these women, what they survived, 
what they created together, who 
they became and the music just 
sort of lifts them as a platform that 
relates to the story of this friend-
ship,” Caldwell said.By Gregory Florez
Avenue Staff Writer
Tampa Indie Flea will host 
an indie ﬂ  ea pop-up market in 
Gainesville this Sunday from 
1 p.m. to 5 p.m. at Depot 
Park.
The event is expected to 
draw in 25 to 30 vendors. At-
tendees can expect vintage 
and remade garments, hand-
crafted jewelry, pottery, suc-
culents and cacti, handcrafted 
food and other locally created 
goods.
The pop-up event, which is 
the second ﬂ  ea market to be 
hosted by Tampa Indie Flea 
in Gainesville this year, is the 
brainchild of a team led by 
Rosey Williams and Seanissey 
Loughlin.
Loughlin, the creative di-
rector for Indie Flea, said 
Gainesville has an especially 
unique atmosphere.
“Bringing Indie Flea to 
Gainesville just felt right,” 
Loughlin said. “It has the 
right vibe. It has the right 
kind of shoppers coming out 
and meeting the right kind of 
makers.”
Tampa Indie Flea expand-
ed into Gainesville two years 
ago. Since then, the Indie Flea 
has reduced its presence in 
the city from being a monthly 
event to being a now quar-
terly event. 
This shift was caused by 
personal changes among the 
team at Indie Flea. However, 
Loughlin said these changes 
do not reﬂ  ect a disinterest in 
the Gainesville community.
“Gainesville has just al-ways been a really fun envi-
ronment for us to work in,” 
Loughlin said. “This project 
in Gainesville has the poten-
tial to do some really awe-
some things for the city and 
the people who live in it.”
Loughlin and Williams, 
who had already launched 
St. Pete Indie Market in 2012, 
ﬁ  rst began collaborating in 
2015. Together, they launched 
Tampa Indie Flea, a monthly  
curated event that showcases 
talent and artistry with the 
Tampa Bay community.
However, because Tampa 
Indie Flea occurs only once 
a month, the curators sought 
to expand their business into 
other cities in Florida, includ-
ing St. Petersburg and Lake-
land. The team is currently 
eyeing other cities, such as 
Orlando.
Loughlin said he feels 
pride in knowing that he and 
his team are making an effort 
to help local businesses. The 
importance of supporting lo-
cal art and creativity is not 
lost on the team at Indie Flea.
“You’re putting money 
into a real person’s hands,” 
Loughlin said. “You’re not 
just throwing money away at 
some corporate entity.”
Loughlin said that no mat-
ter the city, the the local com-
munity has always been the 
focus of Indie Flea. 
“If you’re spending mon-
ey in Gainesville, let’s keep 
that money in Gainesville,” 
Loughlin said. “That’s what 
it’s all about: supporting the 
people who make our com-
munities better.”Review — ‘The Bikinis’ Indie Flea returns 
to Gaiensville 
THEATRE
 LOCAL
Emma Witmer
“The Bikinis” opened on June 1 at the Hippodrome theatre.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Is John F. Kennedy your favorite 
president? Do you think he died be-
fore he could do more great things? 
If you could change the past, would 
you?
If you answered yes to any of the 
questions above, then you’re just 
like character Al Templeton, played 
by Chris Cooper, in the Hulu show 
“11.22.63.”
Hulu’s “11.22.63” is one of the 
most confusing, captivating and 
mind-boggling shows viewers will 
watch.
The show, which premiered on 
Hulu in early 2016, is given mul-
tiple labels for its genre. The show 
is a historical-mystery-thriller-drama 
miniseries with one singular mis-
sion, save Kennedy.
James Franco stars as Jake Ep-
ping, your everyday high school 
teacher in 2016 who happens to be 
going through a divorce.
Life for Epping is ordinary until he 
goes to a diner owned by his friend 
Templeton after work. Templeton 
tells Epping to go into the back of 
his closet, and Epping discovers a 
portal to the past through that closet. Templeton tells him it leads to Oct. 
1,1960. 
The first major plot hole of the se-
ries is this: Why is there a time travel 
portal in this diner in the first place, 
and why does the portal go exactly 
to 1960?
Those questions are never really 
answered, but you digress, as does 
Epping, and continue to listen to 
Templeton who tells Epping he has 
an important mission he must ac-
complish. 
That mission is to go back into 
the portal and save Kennedy from 
dying and make the world a better 
place.
Why is Kennedy important to hu-
manity? Why does Templeton think 
Kennedy’s presidency and life will 
make the world better?
No one and nothing gives you 
a straight answer. The entire series 
is basically built on the conspiracy 
theory that saving Kennedy and hav-
ing him as a long-term president will 
positively affect the world and make 
it better than it is today.
Whether or not that belief holds 
true is somewhat answered in the fi-
nal episode but believing that result 
is up to your own opinion.
The most interesting recurring theme in the series is the fact that Ep-
ping is sent on a mission to change 
the past, but the past may not want 
to be changed.
While Epping is in the past, he 
remembers a series of moments, 
shown as flashbacks, from prepara-
tory conversations with Templeton.
Templeton warned Epping before 
he went through the portal to be 
careful with his actions. He must not 
completely disrupt the past.
To put it in less explicit words, 
Templeton says that if you mess 
with the past, then the past will be-
gin to mess with you.
Once in the ‘60s, Epping quickly 
learns the past does not want to be 
changed. His attempts to alter the 
course of history can quickly turn 
dangerous for him and the people 
around him.
To sum up the series without giv-
ing away spoilers, it could best be 
described as “alright.”
While the suspense and mystery 
behind whether Epping will get dis-
covered as someone watching these 
people or if he will in fact save the 
president is interesting enough, the 
plot itself has too many consistency 
issues to remain captivating. 
Many viewers said they found themselves simply continuing not 
because they were captured by the 
storyline but because they were 
waiting for the series to get better 
and answer the giant question.
This series will really only hold 
the attention of someone who en-joys the thought of alternate reali-
ties, time travel and conspiracies.
Otherwise, I wouldn’t suggest 
diving into the nearly nine hours of 
story unless you want to become ag-
gravated with questions.10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
Series review of the week — ‘11.22.63’
Hulu
Cris Cooper and James Franco join forces in this time-
bending drama.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
The Gainesville community will come to-
gether Saturday to enjoy local artists all while 
supporting a local cause.
Cypress & Grove Brewing Company, locat-
ed at 1001 NW Fourth St., will be hosting its 
first Arts & Vintage Market on Saturday from 
1 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Gainesville citizens who come out can en-
joy the work of local artists, makers and healers 
while grabbing an ice-cold beer or kombucha. Attendees can also enjoy food from Mayflower 
Cellars, a locally sourced company with a fo-
cus on sustainability, and a live performance 
from Florida bluegrass band Dim Lights in the 
evening. 
The cause this event supports is what sets it 
apart. All attendees who make purchases will 
be helping to support the YogaLoka Project, as 
a portion of all proceeds from the market will 
benefit this project. People who want to sup-
port the cause without making a purchase can 
donate while at the market.
YogaLoka volunteer Jaya Holmes-Brew said the organization provides yoga sessions for 
people with mental illnesses and for the mar-
ginalized communities in Gainesville.
“We teach yoga at Grace Marketplace and 
the Gainesville veteran center,” she said. 
Holmes-Brew said the neighborhood brew-
ery is close to her house, and after previously 
trying to plan this same type of event herself, 
she asked the brewery if they would host.
Cypress & Grove Brewing Company owner 
Anna Heinemann said Holmes-Brew intro-
duced them to the YogaLoka Project, which 
was completely new to them.“We’re always open to helping good local 
causes,” Heinemann said.
Holmes-Brew said YogaLoka will soon 
have a website for people to make donations 
throughout the year. In the meantime, will-
ing donors can contact volunteers to donate 
directly.
YogaLoka wants the main Gainesville com-
munity to integrate with the community that 
the project tries to reach, Holmes-Brew said. 
Classes at Grace Marketplace are free and open 
to the public Monday through Friday.Arts & Vintage Market for changeBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers 
only. Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ 
walk to UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. 
CAC/heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 
352-215-4990,  tomdepot@gmail.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
10SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N      6-7-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
2000 BMW 528i silver 4 dr sedan, 1 owner, 
58K mi. manual 5 spd, 6 cyl, cruise, all pow -
er options, sunroof, premium leather int, cd/
cass/radio. Mint cond, no accidents/modi -
fications, reg serviced, garaged, excellent 
tires /spare.$6,000, Call/text 352-214-2512    
6-21-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches. Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
2/2 Corner Condo:
Move-in ready, washer/dryer incl.
Free internet.
10 min to UF. On bus route.
$850/mth. 352-872-3619      6-7-18-5-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$2000/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-3-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://collegeopportunity. fun         6-19-
18-5-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    6-7-
1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
18RETAIL SALES PERSON needed Part time.
Inquire within at
The Floor Store of Gainesville Inc.    
6-21-18-4-14
Installer/Carpenter. Experienced or we 
will train. Must be good with your hands. 
Possibility of some fun travel. Great 
Company. Growth Opportunities. Aaron 770-
406-8175    6-7-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
1. GEOGRAPHY: The island of 
Saipan is a commonwealth of which 
nation?
2. LANGUAGE: How many lines 
are in a limerick?
3. U.S. STATES: What is the only 
U.S. state name that ends in three con-
secutive vowels?
4. ASTRONOMY: Where is the 
Lowell Observatory located?
5. MATH: What is the longest side of 
a right triangle called?
6. HISTORY: Which European 
conflict was ended with the Dayton 
Agreement in 1995?
7. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Mansfield Park”?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident gave the famous Gettysburg 
Address?
9. COMICS: What was the real name 
of the Green Arrow?
10. TELEVISION: What was Kram-
er’s first name on “Seinfeld”?
Answers
1. United States
2. Five
3. Hawaii
4. Flagstaff, Arizona
5. Hypotenuse
6. Bosnian War
7. Jane Austen
8. Abraham Lincoln
9. Oliver Queen
10. Cosmo
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 4, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: http://collegeopportunities.club/     
6-19-18-5-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
20
Astonishing Little-known opportunities 
for students to earn an extra income.
Go To www.ExtraStudentIncome.com    6-19-
18-5-20
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://www.collegeopportunity.fun/    
6-19-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Disheveled
6 __ 180:
skateboarding
trick
11 Piqued
14 Maximally moist
16 Star name
meaning “she-
goat” in Latin
17 Weather-
changing
currents
18 Footless creature
19 Snorkeling spots
21 Letters after Sen.
Schumer’s name
22 Eponymous
brewer Bernhard
24 Adjust one’s
sights
26 Assurance on
certain menus
29 Uzbek neighbor
33 Name prefix for
“son of”
36 Settled
39 U.N. chief after
Boutros
40 How the things in
the circled letters
go
43 Withdraw
gradually
44 Actor Estevez
45 Hot __
46 Numerical
relationship
48 Citrus cuttings
50 Red pool ball
53 Bay of Naples
isle
57 [Shrug]
60 Beer mug with a
hinged lid
63 Believability,
briefly
64 Device that
builds six-packs?
66 Admonish
68 Like some sports
contract clauses
69 Jumps to
conclusions
70 “Hop __”: Dr.
Seuss book
71 Young salmon
DOWN
1 Flaky minerals
2 Not suitable
3 Quality that
affects taste4 Sprinkle with hair,
cat-style
5 Brynner of 
“The Ten
Commandments”
6 Takes full
responsibility
7 Full deck in old
Rome?
8 Allow to use
9 Airs
10 Crafter’s website
12 Southernmost of
the 48 sts.
13 Butter or lard
14 Editorial mark
15 First name in scat
20 Put in order
23 It may be heard
on the street
25 Powerful shark
27 Ancient Persian
28 Email folder
30 Day in Dijon
31 “__ One Will
Listen”: Kelly
Clarkson song
32 Captain hanged
for piracy
33 Bryn __ College
34 Vicinity
35 Nail polish layer
37 Not engaged38 Stand during a
lecture
41 Army outfit
42 Campus mil.
group
47 “Sick burn!”
49 Bone at the base
of the spine
51 Pond plant
52 Cork locale
54 Teaser
55 Glory (in)56 Often-
abbreviated Latin
phrase
57 When repeated
including “a,”
fighting term
58 Black, in verse
59 URL intro
61 Notable time
62 Paris article
65 Top medalla
67 Ltr. addenda
By Mark McClain
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/07/1806/07/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 7, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Feature of
distressed jeans
4 Condé __: Vanity
Fair publisher
8 It may be set on
a smartphone
13 Qualified
15 Dead set against
16 Show with skits
17 Good thing to
bring to the table
20 Strunk and White
topic
21 Colour suffix
22 False front
23 Tailless Atlas
Mountains
monkey
27 Hog heaven
29 Close friend
30 Hang around
34 Hockey trophy
35 Arizona’s third-
largest city
38 Sound from one
with 37-Down,
perhaps
39 SunTrust Park
MLB team
40 Past due salary
... and what’s
literally hidden in
17-, 23-, 52- and
63-Across
42 Big Band __
43 Apartment
agreement
45 Deadly septet
46 Polo or tee
47 Mescaline-
yielding cactus
49 Evian water
51 Day divs.
52 Sugary snack on
a stick
56 “No harm done”
59 Livy’s lucky
number?
60 Sub shops
63 1995 Woody
Allen film
67 Hospital prep
area
68 Orderly
69 From square one
70 Trickles (through)
71 Namesake of the
sports-oriented
Courage Award
72 Ambulance
lettersDOWN
1 Shouts from the
stands
2 “Fat chance!”
3 Detailed sports
commentary
4 “No can do”
5 At all
6 Part of an angled
case
7 Buzzed
8 “Odds __ ... ”
9 Admission
demand
10 Nike competitor
11 Dirt road features
12 Timid
14 “Enchanted”
fantasy film girl
18 U. of Maryland
athlete
19 Big ring
24 “Roll Tide” school
25 Smart ones?
26 Bride’s
throwaway
27 Massage target
28 Daniel LaRusso,
to Mr. Miyagi
31 Follow orders
32 Muffed grounder,
e.g.
33 Harvests36 Take part in a
biathlon
37 Sleep clinic focus
40 __ carotene
41 Often-barked
letters
44 Dance in a gym
48 Reason to go
green?
50 Bun, e.g.
53 __ Prince, Wonder
Woman’s alias
54 “Holy cow!”55 Helen of Troy’s
mother
56 Little tricksters
57 Boggy area
58 Double-curved
arch
61 Tabloid twosome
62 Tends to tears
64 Pulls a Charmin
shenanigan,
briefly
65 “That’s a laugh!”
66 GPS output
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/06/1806/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, June 6, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Blustery, torrid
1.  Separated 5.  Solo
2.  Type of marsupial 6.  Soft material 
3.  Conductor 7.  Force, inflict
4.  Quick lookMOSYTR
CPDESANELAO
TSANI
SUOPMSO
AEORMSTMISOEP
LCNAEGANSWERS: 1A-Stormy  5A-Alone  6A-Satin  7A-Impose
1D-Spaced  2D-Opossum  3D-Maestro  4D-Glance  B-Dolly Parton6-7-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “My songs are the 
door to every dream I've ever had and 
every success I've ever achieved.” BONUS
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets
UF softball coach Tim Walton 
signed a 10-year contract 
extension on Wednesday.New edition of Around the Ben-D
Follow @alligatorSports on Twitter to see our weekly Florida sports recap.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
TRACK & FIELD
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
A tough long-jump competi-
tion left reigning national cham-
pion KeAndre Bates looking for a 
big jump to lift him out of seventh 
place on his last attempt of the 
event's final.
However, unable to improve 
on his mark of 7.86 meters, the 
senior had to settle for seventh, 
collecting just two points for the 
UF men’s track and field team.
Florida's men opened NCAA 
Outdoor Championships in Eu-
gene, Oregon, on Wednesday 
with 13 points to put them at fifth 
place on the leaderboard.
Bates’ points came just af-
ter sophomore Grant Holloway 
slipped out of scoring position to 
ninth overall with a top mark of 
7.83 meters. Holloway will return 
on Friday to defend his title in the 
110-meter hurdles after running 
a second-place time of 13.42 in a 
preliminary race.
The Gators’ trio of throwers 
put up 11 points behind a runner-
up finish from Anders Eriksson.
The junior sat in fourth place 
(71.47 meters) until his last throw 
of the day went 73.76 meters, se-
curing the silver medal and eight 
points for his team.
Redshirt junior AJ McFarland 
and freshman Thomas Mardal 
both opened the competition with 
personal-best throws.
Mardal’s first attempt of 72.20 
meters was initially good for sec-Gators in fifth place with 13 points at NCAA Outdoors
SEE TRACK & FIELD,  PAGE 16
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Over the weekend, the Florida Gators 
advanced from the Gainesville Regional, 
but it wasn’t in dominant fashion, espe-
cially in the final two games.
UF played Florida Atlantic, and the 
Owls pushed the Gators to the wire, win-
ning the first game to force a winner-take-
all rematch.
Florida pulled out a 5-2 win with the 
help of SEC Player of the Year Jonathan In-
dia and powerful right fielder Wil Dalton.
When it was all said and done though, a new name was heralded by Gator fans: 
Jonah Girand.
The former backup catcher was an un-
likely hero as he mashed three home runs 
on the weekend, all at timely instances.
Against Columbia, Girand uncorked a 
ball way past the left-field fence to ice the 
win for UF.
In a grind-it-out game against Jackson-
ville, he put another ball out to left field 
to lift the Gators to a 3-2 win and swung 
momentum in his team's favor.
His final homer against FAU occurred 
at a time when the Gators needed a boost. 
Down 2-1 with the season on the line, Gi-rand hit a two-run bomb that gave his team 
a lead it wouldn’t relinquish.
His homer catalyzed Florida's effort and 
was followed the very next inning by back-
to-back home runs from India and Dalton.
Girand’s performance earned him the 
Gainesville Regional MVP award decided 
by the media members who attended the 
weekend.
The unlikely hero was thrust into a 
starting role when normal catcher/first 
baseman JJ Schwarz was held out with a 
broken hand.
Girand's journey to UF wasn’t the one 
that most college baseball players take.After high school, he attended Santa Fe 
for a year. Following that stint, he returned 
home to Orlando and took a year off and 
landed a job in retail. 
“I just kind of worked and trained for 
an entire year to try and get better,” Girand 
said. “The year off was definitely a wake-
up call to see how much I really wanted 
it.”
He attended Seminole State College in 
Sanford, Florida, and returned to baseball. 
He sent out tapes of himself playing and 
waited for coaches to contact him. Then, 
one did - Florida’s Kevin O’Sullivan.From retail to MVP: Girand carries an unusual backstoryBASEBALLThe Associated Press
Sophomore Grant Holloway took second place in the 110-meter hurdles at the NCAA Outdoor Championships in Eugene, Oregon. He is 
the reigning national champion in the event and will have the chance to defend his title on Friday.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.By Alligator Sports Staff
The end of the 2017-18 NBA season is 
quickly approaching. With three games of 
the Finals already in the books, we can be-
gin to shift our focus to the NBA Awards on 
June 25. Sports writers Chris O’Brien, Skyler 
Lebron, Alanis Thames and Mark Stine pro-
vide their takes on who should win the major 
categories.  
Most Valuable Player
Chris: This is a tough one because I think 
James Harden will win it, but I think LeBron 
James should win it. I mean, seriously, LBJ 
is from another planet. Need evidence? Just 
watch this year’s playoffs. But Harden will 
be the one that walks away with the award.
 
Skyler: Every year we think another player 
might take the throne as best all-around, and 
every year, LeBron James proves us wrong. 
He carried a team that blew itself up at the 
trade deadline to his eighth-consecutive Fi-
nals. ‘Nuff said.
Alanis: LeBron James should win MVP. 
He’s averaging 34.6 points in the playoffs and 
is playing at an insane level. He has carried a 
subpar team to the Finals when it shouldn’t 
have even made it out of the ﬁ  rst round. Not 
to mention he’s doing this at age 33.
Mark: Congratulations to James Harden 
for claiming the scoring title, but LeBron 
James is this year’s MVP. He’s played in ev-
ery game this season and at every position 
for the Cavaliers. He’s also averaged 27.5 
points, 8.6 rebounds and 9.1 assists despite 
swapping out half his team mid-season. 
Rookie of the Year
Chris: Give Jayson Tatum some credit for 
closing the gap between him and the two 
frontrunners in the playoffs, but you just 
can’t ignore Ben Simmons here. Donovan 
Mitchell made a hell of a run, but Simmons 
almost averaged a triple-double with 15.8 
points, 8.1 boards and 8.2 assists per game. 
C’mon now.
Skyler: I look at who was most important 
to their squad in their rookie year. Without 
Simmons, I still believe Philly could make it 
to the playoffs in a weak Eastern Conference. 
Donovan Mitchell took the reins of an aver-
age-at-best Utah squad to the second round 
in the tougher Western Conference.  
Alanis: This should go to Donovan 
Mitchell. There’s no denying that Ben Sim-
mons balled this season. But Mitchell did 
too, and he balled harder than Simmons in 
the playoffs. And with less help, Mitchell 
managed 24.4 points and only 2.9 turnovers 
against tougher competition. Give the true rookie the award.
Mark: In his ﬁ  rst season, Ben Simmons 
put together 12 triple-double performances 
and nearly averaged a triple-double. He also 
had four 15-assist games, and he averaged 
8.1 rebounds. 
Most Improved Player
Chris: In a race that isn’t even close, Vic-
tor Oladipo. Any other year, this would be 
a really tough call because this ﬁ  eld is DEEP 
beyond Oladipo with names like Domantas 
Sabonis, Clint Capela and Spencer Dinwid-
die. But Oladipo will win this one and right-
fully so.
Skyler: Clint Capela is gonna get 
paaaaaid. While Chris Paul was on the side-
lines, Capela provided a good running mate 
for Harden and became a defensive anchor 
and great lob-catcher. For Most Improved, I 
look at who can sustain it past this season, 
and it’s Capela.
Alanis: Without a doubt, this goes to Vic-
tor Oladipo. He has improved almost every 
aspect of his game. And let’s not forget he 
was one game away from knocking LeBron 
out of the playoffs. Oladipo still has so much 
room for growth, and it’s about time people 
start putting some respect on his name.
Mark: Victor Oladipo has this award 
locked up, but look at Nikola Jokic. He 
averaged 1.8 more points than a year ago 
(18.5), 0.9 more rebounds (10.7) and 1.2 
more assists (6.1), all of which are career-
high marks. He also improved his three-point 
percentage from .324 to .396. There’s virtu-
ally no offensive weakness in this 6-foot-10 
center.
Defensive Player of the Year
Chris: If not for injuries, this would be 
Rudy Gobert’s award to lose. But only 56 
games? It feels wrong going against him be-
cause of that, but I am. Can I go with the en-
tire Celtics team here? Horford, Morris, Smart and the gang? No? Dang, give me Anthony 
Davis.
Skyler: Anthony Davis has to win some-
thing after the year he had. Without his part-
ner in crime, DeMarcus Cousins, Davis car-
ried the Pels to the second round. Oh, and he 
also led the league in blocks at 2.6 per game. 
That’s pretty good. 
Alanis: Anthony Davis had an MVP-cal-
iber season and is deserving of this award. 
But defensively, how would he have looked 
if Demarcus Cousins didn’t go down? I like 
Joel Embiid here just because he consis-
tently gave us monster blocks and came back 
from injury to give us more huge rejections 
in the playoffs.
Mark: On March 11 against the Utah 
Jazz, Anthony Davis registered a triple-
double with 10 blocks. He led the NBA with 
2.6 blocks per contest and also averaged 1.5 
steals. Beast.
Sixth Man of the Year
Chris: This is by far the toughest pick for 
me. With all due respect to Eric Gordon, you 
just have to hand it to Lou Williams – 22.6 
points and 5.3 assists per game. Gordon 
might have more of a hand in his team’s suc-
cess, but this is Lou Will’s.
Skyler: I’m under the notion that your 
team has to make the playoffs to win an 
award of this caliber. For that reason, Eric 
Gordon takes the cake. Another player that 
consistently stepped up while Chris Paul was 
gone for a chunk of the season. He works 
beautifully off the ball as well. 
Alanis: Lou Williams’ value off the 
bench this season cannot be stressed enough. 
Minus Blake Grifﬁ  n, he led the Clippers in 
scoring and assists with career-highs in both. 
This could easily go to Eric Gordon or Fred 
VanVleet. But Williams played more regular-
season games, played more minutes, scored 
more and assisted more than both of them. No-brainer.
Mark: How is Lou Williams coming off 
the bench? He averaged 22.6 points per game 
last season along with 5.3 assists. He’ll give 
you quality defensive minutes as well, even 
though he’s not an elite defender like team-
mates Patrick Beverley and Avery Bradley.
 
Coach of the Year
Chris: Call me biased because I’m a Celtics 
fan, but Brad Stevens should win this award 
and it shouldn’t be an argument. Lose your 
best two players and still come four minutes 
and a few missed shots away from beating 
the greatest basketball player ever? That’s the 
Brad Stevens effect.
Skyler: I want to go with Dwayne Casey 
just because he got ﬁ  red despite being a ﬁ  -
nalist, something I haven’t seen since George 
Karl with the Nuggets. Jokes aside, who even 
expected Utah to make the playoffs this sea-
son? No you didn’t, stop lying. Quin Snyder
takes this one home for me. 
Alanis: Dwayne Casey coached his team 
to the best record in the East and its best in 
franchise history. And the man gets ﬁ  red 
because DeMar DeRozan and Kyle Lowry 
couldn’t get it done against arguably the best 
player in the history of the game? C’mon. 
Casey for Coach of the Year.
Mark: Mike D’Antoni’s additions of 
Chris Paul, PJ Tucker and Luc Mbah a Moute 
helped make the Houston Rockets arguably 
the NBA’s best team when healthy. They im-
proved from 55 wins last year to 65 wins in 
2017-18. They also went from the league’s 
18th-best defensive rating to the sixth-highest 
rating and improved from 21st in defensive 
rebounding percentage to 3rd, all while ﬁ  n-
ishing second in points per game.
@THEChrisOB
@SkylerLebron
@alanisthames
@mstinejr Predictions for NBA Awards: alligatorSports Edition
ACTUAL FINALISTS FOR THE NBA AWARDS
Most Valuable Player:
LeBron James, forward, Cleveland Cavaliers
James Harden, guard, Houston Rockets
Anthony Davis, center, New Orleans Pelicans
Rookie of the Year:
Donovan Mitchell, guard, Utah Jazz
Ben Simmons, guard, Philadelphia 76ers
Jayson Tatum, forward, Boston CelticsSixth Man Award:
Eric Gordon, guard, Houston Rockets
Fred VanVleet, guard, Toronto Raptors
Lou Williams, guard, Los Angeles Clippers
Defensive Player of the Year:
Anthony Davis, center, New Orleans Pelicans
Joel Embiid, center, Philadelphia 76ers
Rudy Gobert, center, Utah JazzMost Improved Player:
Clint Capela, center, Houston Rockets
Spencer Dinwiddie, guard, Brooklyn Nets
Victor Oladipo, guard, Indiana Pacers
Coach of the Year: 
Brad Stevens, Boston Celtics
Quin Snyder, Utah Jazz
Dwayne Casey, Toronto Raptors“I saw him in high school and in 
summer ball, but didn’t see him at 
Santa Fe,” O’Sullivan said. “Kind 
of a weird story...he just reached 
out and I knew we were gonna lose 
Mikey (Rivera) and Kolo (Mark 
Kolozsvary).”
O’Sullivan also mentioned that 
Girand attended UF entirely on his 
own and wasn’t even sure if he 
would earn a spot until after the 
2017 MLB Draft.
“I thought he could be a good 
bullpen catcher,” O’Sullivan said. 
“He wasn’t recruited by anybody. 
We had to use a walk-on spot for 
him.”
Teammates have noticed Gi-
rand’s work ethic over the entire 
season.
“It’s awesome,” India said of 
Girand’s breakout. “I think he was 
one of our best hitters in the fall. 
He works at it. He works at his craft 
and it’s paying off for him.”
Girand has warranted consider-
ation to stay in the lineup and to 
move Schwarz over to ﬁ  rst base 
should the senior be ready for the 
Gainesville Super Regional.
“I just don’t know with his hand 
how (Schwarz’s) going to feel be-
hind the plate,” O’Sullivan said. 
“If he can only hit until we get to 
Omaha, of course that’s what he’s 
going to do.”
For the time being though, Gi-
rand has caught his coach’s atten-
tion.
“He’s (Girand) playing the game 
with excitement and he’s not think-
ing about anything besides helping 
his team win,” O’Sullivan said.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Catcher Jonah Girand was initially inserted into the lineup for injured starter JJ 
Schwarz. Coach Kevin O'Sullivan said Girand will likely stay in the starting lineup.
BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Girand named Gainesville Regional MVP
ond place, but he fell to seventh by the con-
clusion of the event. McFarland recorded two 
personal-records on the day, and his best throw 
of 71.29 meters was good enough for eighth 
overall.
The rest of the day consisted of men’s pre-
liminaries to determine who advanced to Fri-
day’s ﬁ  nal races.
The 4x100 relay team of Holloway, juniors 
Michael Timpson Jr. and Ryan Clark and fresh-
man Chantz Sawyers ran a season-best time of 
38.49 to start. It was the best collegiate-time in 
the world this season and advanced Florida to 
the 4x100 ﬁ  nal for the 10th time in the last 11 
years.
The Gators also had four runners who didn’t 
qualify for ﬁ  nals in their respective events.
@alanisthames 
athames@alligator.org  TRACK & FIELD,  from pg. 14Men's 4x100 
team of to inalsGAINESVILLE REGIONAL MVP
3 FOR 11
THREE HOME RUNS
FIVE RBI S
CAUGHT TWO STEALINGGIRAND REGIONAL STATS