We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 99
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Beat the h eat, Sign and Save !
Come CheCk out our preview speC ials while they last!
Over sized kitchens  
with granite counter 
tops and stainless 
steel appliances!3,100 square foot  
tOwn hO mes complete 
with a garage and half 
bathroom!come float with us  
at the O nLY Laz Y river  
in gainesville! 
3718 sw 24th a ve., Gainesville, Fl  32607  / theridG eFl.Com / (352) 792-0102Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff
Music, ﬁ  reworks highlight night out in Gainesville
Spectators watch the ﬁ  reworks display at the end of the Fanfare and Fireworks 2018 event on Flavet Field on Tuesday.
A SIX-WEEK STUDY WAS 
USED AS EVIDENCE AGAINST 
SUSTAINING ITS STATUS.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
The Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost had been fund-
ing Library West’s extended hours for the 
past year, but the cash ﬂ  ow will be cut off 
this fall.
Instead, Newell Hall will continue to be 
open 24/7 in the fall, said Student Senate 
Budget and Appropriations Committee Chair-
woman Emily Dunson. Library West will be 
open from 8 a.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through 
Thursday, from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Fridays 
and 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturdays.
The Provost’s Ofﬁ  ce conducted a six-week 
study to measure usage of both Library West 
and Newell Hall from 1 a.m. to 8 a.m., ac-
cording to a Student Government Facebook 
post. A survey on usage was also distributed 
to students.
The Provost’s Ofﬁ  ce made its decision 
based on the data collected, Student Body 
President Ian Green said.
“I know this can come (as) a shock to 
some students,” Green said. “24/7 libraries 
was something that a lot of students advo-
cated for this past fall and in further elections 
as well.”
The survey found that 96 percent of the 
occupants in Library West and Newell Hall 
can ﬁ  t into Newell Hall, Green said.
With the change, Green intends to better 
equip Newell Hall to satisfy student needs.
Green said he wants to add computer sta-
tions to the Newell Hall building. He is un-
sure of how many computers will be added.
The computers should also be available 
for free SG printing, Green said. Currently, 
the basement of Reitz Union is the only loca-
tion that allows students to use the SG free 
printing service.
Green said adding computers will also en-
sure students have 24/7 access to a computer.
“Instead of harping on the concerns, I’m 
really looking to turning Newell Hall into a 
better student space for all students,” Green 
said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgLibrary West 
to cease 24/7 
status in fallGainesville celebrates Independence DayT oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 99
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
HIGH  90° LOW  73°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 99
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:GATORFeed
Meme of the Week
Tweet of the WeekTHURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Residents spend patriotic evening on Flavet Field
Above:  37-year-old Matt Kron plays with his two sons, 5-year-old Eric (left) and 1-year-
old Robbie (center).
T op Left: Nine-year-old Mike takes a seat during the national anthem.
Left:  Buddy, a 2-year-old Shetland sheepdog, lounges at the event with his owner, Aaron 
Frankel (not pictured).Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Avenue Staff4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.orgBy Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
When a man allegedly broke into a 
Gainesville home Monday, he was confronted 
by a young resident wielding nothing but a 
guitar and a ﬂ  ashlight.
Norman Reid, 52, was arrested by 
Gainesville Police and charged with burglary of an occupied dwelling and grand theft from 
a dwelling. Reid allegedly stole $180 in cash 
from the mother’s jewelry box in her closet, 
according to the report.
Reid walked into a home through the un-
locked back door Monday at 5:06 p.m., ac-
cording to the arrest report. The 14-year-old 
victim was in his room when Reid entered the 
home.When the boy heard the sounds of drawers 
and doors opening and closing in his mother’s 
bedroom, he armed himself with a guitar and 
a ﬂ  ashlight, according to the report.
Reid then reportedly walked into the vic-
tim’s room and was confronted by the boy, 
holding the guitar and ﬂ  ashlight.
He backed up and told the boy that it was 
a misunderstanding and he thought he knew him, according to the report. Reid then left the 
home through the front door and was stopped 
by police on the side of the road at 5900 NW 
23rd Terrace, according to the report.
Reid remained in Alachua County Jail on 
Tuesday and Wednesday in lieu of a $100,000 
bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgGuitar hero: Young boy defends home against burglary By Michael Knauff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Crop-damaging parasites have 
invaded Florida’s hops industry, 
but UF scientists are working on a 
solution. 
Nematologist Johan Desaeger 
said the root-knot nematode is 
causing issues for hops growers by 
infesting the plant’s root system. 
This causes the hops to turn from 
yellow to green and have stunted 
growth. 
This is one of the biggest worm 
problems Desaeger has ever seen in 
his 20 years of studying nematol-
ogy. 
Hops are a ﬂ  ower primarily used 
in beer production as a ﬂ  avoring 
and a stabilizer in the brewing pro-
cess. They can add a bitter, citric or 
even zesty taste to beers, such as in 
India pale ales.
After noticing the crops’ yellow-
ing and stunted growth, he checked 
the plants’ root systems and found 
numerous sores on them, a tell-tale 
sign that the root-knot nematode 
was the culprit, Desaeger said.
This type of worm is a micro-
scopic creature about half a millime-
ter in size, no thicker than a thread. 
Florida’s sandy soil creates an ideal living condition for the nematode, 
and because the temperature in 
Florida is warm year-round, there 
aren’t enough cold spells to periodi-
cally kill the nematodes.
Because there isn’t a way to fully 
get rid of the parasite, they can only 
manage the problem, Desaeger said. 
The key to ensuring that nematodes 
aren’t a problem is eradicating the 
worms beforehand by fumigating 
the soil and spraying pesticides on 
the crop beds.
Along with Desaeger, professor 
Zhanao Deng and assistant pro-
fessor Shinsuke Agehara are also 
working on growing hops in the 
state efﬁ  ciently. 
The hops are being grown at the 
Gulf Coast Research and Educa-
tion Center in Wimauma, Florida. 
The project started in summer 2016 
when the worm problem was ﬁ  rst 
noticed. 
Hops are a relatively new crop to 
Florida, as the climate of the state 
isn’t the best for their growth. In 
the U.S., hops are primarily grown 
in the Paciﬁ  c Northwest.
The goal with growing hops in 
Florida is to possibly be able to get 
two harvests a year, one in June 
and another in November.
The amount of hops produced has steadily increased over the past 
couple harvests, Deng said. The 
Cascade hops have grown best, pro-
ducing four pounds of the ﬂ  ower 
per plant. That equals about 2,000 
pounds an acre, up from the 700 
pounds that were collected in 2016, 
he said.
LED lights standing on 20-foot-
tall poles were placed above the 
hop beds to artiﬁ  cially extend day-
light. Hops need about 16 hours 
of daylight to grow at peak perfor-
mance, Deng said. 
This is another reason why Flor-
ida isn’t the best state for growing 
hops. The longest day in Florida is 
13 hours long, opposed to the 15-
hour days states like Washington 
and Oregon experience.
Since Wimauma is only about 30 
minutes south of Tampa, Desaeger 
said they’ve been receiving support 
from Tampa breweries such as Ci-
gar City Brewing and 3 Daughters 
Brewing. However, there aren’t any 
Gainesville breweries involved in 
the project. 
Cypress & Grove Brewing Com-
pany cellarman Ryan Grifﬁ  th and 
marketing director at Swamp Head 
Brewery Brandon Nappy said both 
breweries use hops from the Paciﬁ  c 
Northwest.The hops industry in Florida 
isn’t up to par with those in the 
northwestern part of the country, 
Nappy said. Swamp Head Brew-
ery uses a large number of hops in 
brewing, and the amount grown in 
Florida at this time is not enough to 
meet demand.
Nappy said he was unaware of the issue hop farmers in the state 
are facing and has not spoken with 
any farmers in awhile. He said the 
brewery has used Florida-grown 
hops before but only in novelty 
beers. 
“We’ve used them in the past,” 
Nappy said, “and would love to 
continue to use them.”UF researchers work to save hops
Courtesy to The Alligator
Professor Zhanao Deng and a pair of UF researchers are working 
on methods of eradicating pests feeding on Florida-grown hops.
THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Soﬁ  a Palacios was petriﬁ  ed. No 
one had come to ask for her side of 
the story as she sat inside a cell of an 
immigration detention center.
No one had asked her any ques-
tions before she was handcuffed and 
escorted into the building she had 
just been protesting outside of earlier 
that day.
“I thought my papers were going 
to get revoked,” Palacios, 25, said. “I 
not only thought that they were go-
ing to deport me, but I also thought, 
‘After this, it’s going to come after 
my family.’ I was getting ready to 
say my goodbyes.”
She was arrested Saturday after-
noon. Palacios had traveled with 
other people from Gainesville to 
protest outside of the Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement Center in 
Baker County. She immigrated to the 
U.S. with her family from Argentina 
18 years ago.
Hannah Gutman, 25, said it was a 
peaceful protest. The crowd of about 
50 people chanted and made noise 
as loudly as possible. The protesters 
wanted the people inside of the cen-
ter to hear them and know they were 
there to speak for them.
Gutman noticed a woman leave 
the building. The woman got into her car and started to leave the park-
ing lot, honking at the protesters as 
she went. The Alligator attempted 
to reach out to the woman via a 
phone number provided in the po-
lice report. A male voice answered 
and said The Alligator had the wrong 
number. 
“We kind of create this path for 
her to go,” Palacios said. “She’s not 
really stopping her car or giving us a 
chance to get out of the way.”
The woman bumped into some 
of the protesters with her red Ford, 
according to witnesses. Palacios was 
hit in the leg and jumped back in 
surprise.
Ofﬁ  cers were told protesters were 
surrounding a car in the parking lot.
Deputies saw about 10 to 15 peo-
ple yelling at the driver, according to 
BCSO’s incident report. When sher-
iffs walked over, one of the protest-
ers told the others to back away.
The woman pointed Palacios out 
to ofﬁ  cers and said she was the main 
person hitting the car. The ofﬁ  cer ar-
rested Palacios for assault and crimi-
nal mischief and began to escort her 
into the building.
Gutman, Palacios’ friend of 13 
years, ran after them, asking ofﬁ  cers 
if she could talk to Palacios. Gutman 
wasn’t able to speak with her, but 
Palacios managed to slip her phone 
to Gutman while she was being ar-rested.
“I was talking to ofﬁ  cers and 
her parents on the phone,” Gutman 
said. “I turned around and one of 
the buckets we were using to make 
noise was on the ground full of mon-
ey. I started crying right away.”
Most protesters left at that point, 
Gutman said, but the people still 
there donated more than $650, just 
in case Palacios needed money to 
post bond. More money was raised 
online and at a march until more 
than $2,000 was collected to help.
In the detention center, Palacios 
got the chance to call her parents. 
They weren’t going to sleep the night 
their daughter was in a cell. She was 
released around 10 a.m. the next day 
on her own recognizance.
All the money collected was do-
nated to Madres Sin Fronteras — a 
Gainesville organization meant to 
protect the rights of immigrants — 
because she didn’t need to post bail. 
“This country has the potential to 
be the great country that it claims to 
be, but not at this rate, not like this,” 
Palacios said. “That’s why I try to go 
to these protests. I may not have a 
loud voice, or I may not have much 
to say, but anything that I can say, I 
will say.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGainesville resident arrested at protest feared deportation
By Ethan Hughes
Alligator Contributing Writer
The University of Chicago an-
nounced June 14 that it will no lon-
ger require applicants to submit ACT 
or SAT scores, but don’t expect UF to 
follow suit anytime soon. 
Chandra Mitchell, UF’s interim di-
rector of freshman and international 
admissions, said the Florida Board of 
Governors sets minimum freshman 
admission requirements for the State 
University System of Florida.
One of the board’s requirements 
is that freshman applicants submit a 
score from the ACT, SAT or both.She said, to her knowledge, the 
board has not discussed overturning 
the test score requirement.
She is pleased with UF’s “holistic 
review process,” which considers an 
applicant’s GPA, test scores, admis-
sion essay and extracurricular ac-
tivities when making a decision. She 
said she doesn’t envision UF straying 
from that process.
“It allows us to look at the to-
tal student,” she said. “It doesn’t 
just base our decision on tests and 
grades. So we’re looking for a well-
rounded student who’s strong aca-
demically as well as excels outside of 
the classroom.”UF telecommunication senior Ty-
ler Williams said he agrees with the 
holistic review process. He thinks no 
single factor should dominate the ad-
missions decision. 
“People should heavily consider 
GPA and extracurricular activities 
and the essay they submit,” he said. 
“You run the risk of dehumanizing 
the applicants, and that is not a fair 
representation of the students that 
you would be accepting into your 
college.”
He said he thinks colleges should 
require test scores because they pro-
vide an objective measure of a stu-
dent’s academic ability.  “I feel like that really helps put 
people on equal playing ﬁ  elds,” he 
said. “Some people’s high school ex-
periences... are wildly different, and 
the GPAs they have can be inﬂ  ated 
or deﬂ  ated because of that.”
However, Williams, who took 
both the ACT and SAT as a student 
at Bishop Kenny High School in 
Jacksonville, said that requiring test 
scores can be unfair to students who 
simply don’t test well.  
Another concern is the cost. The 
ACT with the writing section costs 
$62.50, while the SAT with writing 
costs $64.50.
“I don’t think that it’s ethical to be charging a large sum of money,” 
Williams said. “ Especially when it is 
expected for them to take it multiple 
times.”
Mitchell said low-income stu-
dents who meet certain criteria can 
ﬁ  le waivers to take the tests for free.  
However, not all low-income 
families qualify for waivers, and the 
waivers do not pay for most books 
and other study materials needed to 
prepare for the tests. 
Ultimately, each university acts 
independently to decide which ad-
mission criteria to set as a standard 
for its student body.University of Chicago nixes, UF keeps standardized testingCourtesy of Soﬁ  a Palacios
Soﬁ  a Palacios, 25, protests outside the ofﬁ  ce of the Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement in Baker County, Florida.  
Editorial
Column
Half of dealing with a disability is the feedback
Just like there’s sexism, racism, cisgender-
ism, anti-Semitism or ethnocentrism, there’s 
ableism.
Ableism is a newer term that signiﬁ  es 
discrimination against people with disabili-
ties.
No one should feel less than for being who 
they are. No form of discrimination is OK. How-
ever, in any case, discrimination can be accidental 
or well-intentioned, but also from a place of ha-
tred or misunderstanding.
I can write about ableism from my experience, but what I 
feel might be different from someone else who has a disabil-
ity. Some people even prefer not to use the word disability.
It’s about identity and experience, but it’s more than that, 
too. It’s something that is omnipresent, even though you 
might not realize it.
It can be the way a building is created, how transportation 
runs, how the media tells stories, stereotypes or even pity.
It can be inherent in jobs themselves and show in vocabu-
lary or handicaps in an environment.
A disability can be apparent or not show at all. I don’t 
wear a sticker on my head that says “Disabled, I could use a 
seat at the front of the bus.”
Sometimes, I feel obligated to be OK, to not be sick.
There are buildings or spaces at UF that offer assistance to 
the disabled but actually do the opposite. It can be a broken 
elevator, an uneven sidewalk for people who need to use a 
wheelchair or it can be in the way classrooms are set up.
For me, it can be distrust in the faces of professors when I 
say I’m sick or my own pressure on myself, possibly because 
of the way society is set up: not wanting to feel called out, 
different or a burden. Sometimes, I won’t use an accommo-
dation because of guilt.
People are not their difference. They are not victims or 
labels. In my case, I am not a ulcerative colitis student. I’m 
a student who happens to have colitis, along with other new 
diagnoses I’m working through.
And just because someone has the same diagnosis does 
not necessarily mean they identify as disabled or want pity or help.
How I live my day is my normal, but there are 
obstacles. It can be in the classroom, my dorm or 
just in my different capabilities.
I’ve lived as “abled” and “disabled” since I got 
sick with a chronic illness around the age of 12. I 
can see and feel the differences in my day-to-day 
life.
In the past, I’ve had teachers essentially black-
mail me out of using my aids. For instance, I need 
access to the bathroom, but one teacher would 
give a grade based on if you left the classroom. Others would 
say, “Are you sure you need this accommodation?”
It can be saying “I’m sorry” for someone existing as they 
are with a disability. Sorry for being sick, for being who I am. 
I personally understand, but it can be hurtful to some people. 
What’s most hurtful for me is misunderstanding, even from 
those in the medical ﬁ  eld.
Again, it all depends on the person and what terms or 
treatment they prefer.
I don’t want pity or special applause for doing the same 
things as everyone else.
I hope the takeaway of this is that disability isn’t just a 
wheelchair. It can be mental illness, a learning disability, a 
physical illness, being blind or deaf and even more. Ableism 
is pervasive.
But, like I said in my last column, inclusion and diversity 
are more than a check mark. It’s about making sure people 
are heard and that needs are met with proper accommoda-
tions.
It goes beyond a sign or awareness. No one should be 
called out or treated differently because they have different 
needs or because their needs must be met in a different way.
I think the world needs more understanding in daily life, 
school, work, public spaces, the way stories are told and 
even in the way some doctors do their jobs.
In my writing, I hope to be a part of this change.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Your pets have been cowering in fear ever since the rock-
ets’ red glare roared over Gainesville last night. You debate 
the best cure for your headache and tired eyes.
You could do brunch and try to keep the patriotism going 
by chugging cheap champagne and orange juice. You could 
betray your headache and quivering belly by downing some 
eggs Benedict Arnold.
But this is America. And like Childish Gambino, you plan 
to ride this wave of uncomfortable feelings with blunt fe-
rociousness and embrace the pain of what it means to be 
an American in distress. You summon the strength of our 
forefathers and prepare to face the day armed with nothing 
but the spirit of Americana and…
DARTS AND 
LAURELS
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORSophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
America the beautiful? We think not! With clouds 
overhead and soggy hamburger buns, we here at 
The Alligator award Gainesville weather a dart for 
ruining our respective pool days and barbeques. 
The Fourth of July is meant to be spent outside, not 
awkwardly standing under the only shelter at an apartment 
complex pool. This is unacceptable.
Inclement weather is especially a buzzkill with a 5 p.m. 
staff meeting on the schedule. The rain wiped out The Al-
ligator staff’s chances of a good time before our night of 
copy editing and tweaking layout. Pity that! So we assign a 
dart to staff meetings, this one goes for all types of weather. 
In all types of weather, we have no choice but to stick to-
gether.
On that note, we award a well-earned laurel to the ser-
vice industry this Fourth of July. Serving up Belgian-owned 
Bud Light to ignorant but well-meaning patriots isn’t ex-
actly fulﬁ  lling, but if it pays the rent, we don’t begrudge 
you for doing what you’ve gotta do. In fact, what you ac-
complished last night is the epitome of America: hocking off 
a foreign product that has an American appeal to rubes that 
don’t know any better.
We’re also not shy about bequeathing a laurel to the 
City of Alachua for hosting what it calls “The Largest Small 
Town Fireworks Display in America.” The event is the cata-
lyst for those same rubes occupying local bars and restau-
rants well into the night and spending their hard-earned 
dollars to support local businesses.
The spirit of America can be summed up by a general 
distrust of the government. King George III knew this quite 
well, what with ticking off half of the colonial population 
by withholding elected representation. Much of the news of 
the British Parliament came either from royal decrees from 
His Majesty or from proclamations from regional governors.
But this past Tuesday — as he has done on countless 
other Tuesdays — frequent The Alligator columnist Zachari-
ah Chou streamed the Student Government Senate meeting. 
It’s a noble endeavor and well worth tuning into whenever 
he goes live. You can follow along with him on his Face-
book page weekly.
Chou gets our ﬁ  nal laurel of the week for trying to in-
troduce some modicum of transparency within an organiza-
tion that has had its issues with trust among the student 
population.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
I have recently come across a com-
munity of people who have a unique 
view about diets and veganism. These 
people believe that consuming a more 
plant-based diet is beneﬁ  cial to the 
environment and our bodies, but they are 
open to making exceptions in times of in-
convenience. 
We all know that animal agriculture is 
one of the worst contributors of methane 
into our atmosphere. Not only do animals 
omit natural gases but the process of main-
taining them, processing them and trans-
porting them uses a lot of fossil fuels. 
Veganism is a growing response to this 
threat to our environment —- Vegetarian 
Times reports that more than 1 million 
Americans are vegan. But what happens when you slip up or cheat? As 
humans, we are obsessed with 
perfection. We look for clear-cut 
labels to deﬁ  ne us. If we eat very 
little meat, we want to go all the 
way and become vegan just so 
we can characterize ourselves 
easier. 
The truth is, you don’t have to 
be a vegan to reduce the amount 
of meat you eat. Choose to be-
come a “ﬂ  exitarian” or a “reducetarian.” 
Flexitarians are those who stick to a mostly 
plant-based diet but allow for some ﬂ  ex-
ibility in their lifestyle. A reducetarian is 
someone who commits to just eating less 
meat. Americans consume more meat than 
most cultures (270 pounds per person per year), so reducing our intake 
isn’t difﬁ  cult. 
Preserving the environment 
and keeping your body healthy 
aren’t the only reasons to con-
sider becoming a ﬂ  exitarian. 
Vegans are some of the most cre-
ative people in the food industry 
as of late. Their meals are full of 
color and successfully attempt to 
mimic non-vegan foods. 
A trip to any major foodie city in the 
U.S. right now will reveal our growing fas-
cination with vegan food. You ﬁ  nd restau-
rants serving sofritas, vegan burgers and 
dairy-free ice cream. Many vegans supple-
ment the lack of meat ﬂ  avor with interest-
ing sauces and combinations. This atten-tion to ﬂ  avor is something that non-vegan 
restaurants are missing. 
If you recognize the negative impact of 
animal food products on the environment 
or our bodies, start with a less severe form 
of plant-based diet. If you simply must put 
a label on it, consider being a ﬂ  exitarian or 
reducetarian. Don’t buy into the millennial 
agenda that you must be a full-on vegan or 
vegetarian in order to reduce your carbon 
footprint. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday and Thurs-
day.
Hi there! Are you interested in Stu-
dent Government? I saw you star-
ing at our board and have mental-
ly given you half a second to ﬂ  ee. 
Yes? Fantastic!
I don’t know how I’m going to try ex-
plaining the equivalent of 20 student orga-
nizations in three minutes, but here goes.
SG is pretty rad, here at UF. We have 
three branches like the federal government 
and a $21 million budget. Yes, parent and 
student with the widening eyes, I said mil-
lion. We actually just got an increase in 
our budget, so we can truthfully round the 
number up from $20.8 million, but don’t 
ask me why the tabling board says $25 mil-
lion. Dream big and aim high, I suppose.
Here we have the executive branch, 
*points at Ian Green, David Enriquez, and 
Stefan Sanguyo.* These ﬁ  ne lads are elect-
ed, and everyone else is appointed so there 
are a lot of opportunities for you to get 
involved as a ﬁ  rst year student. We have 
executive liaisons who are appointed every 
Spring to serve as experts in their subject 
area and report directly to Student Body 
President Ian Green to keep him updated.
We also have agencies, which are kind of like large organizations with 
a speciﬁ  c focus. Much of what 
the executive branch does can 
be summed up as programming 
and projects. You have Accent 
Speakers Bureau, which brings 
in speaking talent. You have Ac-
tion SG, which focuses on com-
munications through running 
our Facebook page and making 
promo videos. We have Chomp 
the Vote, which registers voters. 
We have External Affairs, which lobbies on 
our behalf. Look, there’s a bunch, so I’ll 
take this moment to hand you a card with 
our website on it: sg.uﬂ  .edu. You can ﬁ  nd 
an actually good description of all the dif-
ferent agencies there.
There are also cabinets. Reporting to 
David, the Student Body vice president, 
they represent a speciﬁ  c aspect of student 
life. Generally smaller than agencies, cabi-
nets put on programming relating to their 
subject area. They also co-program with or 
co-sponsor student organizations in order 
to make sure they have the resources to 
put on large-scale events. Check the web-
site for more information on cabinets.Every agency and every cabi-
net is kind of like its own orga-
nization, with their own head/
chairs, vice chairs/directors and 
staff. Staff is where you, ﬁ  rst 
year student, come in. We don’t 
typically say no to free labor! 
Later in the Summer, applica-
tions will open up, so “like” 
us on Facebook (“UF Student 
Government” and “UF Student 
Government Senate”) to stay 
updated!
Now that I’ve already gotten you to like 
our Facebook page, it’s time for me to ex-
plain the legislative branch. There are 100 
senators: 50 based off of where you live 
and 50 based off of your classiﬁ  cation. In 
the Fall, 50 Student Senate seat are up for 
grabs, with one for each residence hall or 
area and then multiple in each ZIP code 
around UF with respect to each district’s 
population. In the Spring, 50 seats are 
up for grabs based off of your credits or 
college. If you have between zero and 30 
credits, you can run for a freshman seat. 
If you have 30 to 60 credits, you can run 
for a sophomore seat. After 60 credits, it goes by college (and college population) 
with some seats for graduate students and 
professional schools. One committee in 
the Senate hashes together the $21 million 
budget, the full Senate votes on it and for 
the rest of the year, we engage in advocacy 
beneﬁ  ting whoever we represent.
There’s also a judicial branch, but to 
be on the Supreme Court, you need to be 
a law student and fulﬁ  ll a couple require-
ments (so maybe give it a couple of years if 
that’s your thing). We also have a Supervi-
sor of Elections and Assistant Supervisors 
of Elections, so if it’s been your lifelong 
dream to be a Supervisor of Elections, then 
that’s the place for you.
That’s all folks! See? Easy, short and 
simple.
Questions, comments or concerns? 
Email me at zchou@uﬂ  .edu
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area senator. His 
column focuses on Student Government.If you can’t be a vegan, you should think about being a vegan ally
The Student Government spiel you missed at PreviewColumn
ColumnLayla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Series review of the week: 
Flip over to page 9 to read The Avenue’s review of Hulu’s “The 
Looming T ower. ”Madres Sin Fronteras beneﬁ  t concert
Read about last Tuesday’s beneﬁ  t concert for 
immigrants, by immigrants on page 10.By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
Life, uh, ﬁ  nds a way to make di-
nosaurs uninteresting. 
“Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom” 
roared its way into a $145 million 
opening weekend. Still, with timid 
action sequences, underdeveloped 
characters and a predictable plot, the 
ﬁ  lm failed to evolve past an unneces-
sary addition to a desolate franchise. 
The sun has set on Isla Nublar. 
Three years after the destruction of 
the Jurassic World theme park, Claire 
Dearing (Bryce Dallas Howard) and 
Owen Grady (Chris Pratt) return to 
the island to save the remaining di-
nosaurs from a volcano that is about 
to erupt. They soon discover yet 
another breed of mutant dinosaur, 
while unveiling a sinister conspiracy.
As a ﬁ  lm, “Jurassic World: Fallen 
Kingdom” was remarkably unre-
markable. Director J. A. Bayona ca-
tered to an audience that has been 
fed a healthy summer diet of super-
heroes, explosions and sweaty, one-
dimensional men of action.
Pratt’s return as Grady suggests one thing: Don’t expect any nuance 
from a “Jurassic Park” sequel. While 
the original ﬁ  lm presented audiences 
with multifaceted characters, “Juras-
sic World: Fallen Kingdom” cares 
little about personal growth. Grady 
begins the ﬁ  lm as a stoic recluse and 
ends the ﬁ  lm as a stoic recluse (who 
misses his pet).
The situation is much better for 
the ﬁ  lm’s co-lead. However, How-
ard’s attempts to transform Dearing 
into a sympathetic conservation-
ist still fall short of memorable. Her 
sole purpose in this ﬁ  lm seems to 
revolve around contractional fulﬁ  ll-
ment. Why would the founder of a 
nonproﬁ  t with no discernable sur-
vival skills return to an island of di-
nosaurs? This is yet another question 
the ﬁ  lm refuses to acknowledge. 
Scenes featuring the digitally cre-
ated dinosaurs are plentiful. One 
could even argue that these animals 
have now become the main charac-
ters of these ﬁ  lms. Whether this is 
preferable is a question for the audi-
ence. Although, it seems as if Univer-
sal Pictures already has its answer.
There is also the question of mu-sical accompaniment. Following his 
work in “Jurassic World,” Michael 
Giacchino (“Up,” Ratatouille,” “Clo-
verﬁ  eld,” etc.) returns as the sequel’s 
musical composer. As you can imag-
ine, his score only compliments the 
ﬁ  lm’s embarrassingly gaudish tone. 
Certain aspects of the ﬁ  lm are sur-
prisingly enjoyable. The ﬁ  nal shot of 
Isla Nublar is particularly heartbreak-
ing. Moreso, the circumstances sur-
rounding Maisie Lockwood (Isabella 
Sermon), a newcomer to the fran-
chise, are simply haunting.
“Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom” 
is the perfect summer ﬁ  lm for the 
modern American audience. It lacks 
substance, reeks of futility and ulti-
mately relies on an unsophisticated 
understanding of good and evil.
In 1993, “Jurassic Park” was an 
unsuspecting cultural milestone. 
The ﬁ  lm utilized the most up-to-date 
research of dinosaurs at the time. 
“Fallen Kingdom” has taken this art, 
diluted it from its exceptionalism and 
transformed the ﬁ  nal creation into a 
mutant amalgamation of monsters, 
explosions and feeble attempts of sci-
entiﬁ  c and cinematic progress. ‘Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom’ - Time for extinction?
Universal Studios
‘Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom’ falls victim to the 
repetitive curse of sequels.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
High Dive’s classic rocker 
atmosphere is getting a make-
over from local event company 
Eclectic Electric. From 8 p.m. to 
2 a.m. Friday night, the down-
town venue will be sporting 
live music, limbo contests, live 
painting, photo booths, local 
food trucks and drinks with 
little umbrellas.
Tickets for the event can be 
purchased at ticketﬂ  y.com for 
$8 in advance and $10 on the 
day of the luau. If you purchase 
three tickets together, the third 
is free.
“One thing we like to spe-
cialize in is transforming the 
space,” said Eclectic Electric 
founder Tyler Pierce Hale. 
“We’ll be decking out the whole 
front of High Dive with palm 
fronds and old-school tiki bars.”
Hale eats, sleeps and 
breathes art from his Gainesville 
family home to his work. He said he’s always been drawn 
to the details and secret ingre-
dients that turn the simple into 
something special. It was this 
lifelong fascination and creative 
drive that led Hale to start Eclec-
tic Electric.
“All of it’s art to me … It’s 
all the weird tailored pieces, 
and when they come together 
they can make some really cool 
stuff,” Hale said.
Hale can’t stand the idea of 
an event being just one thing, 
so he brings music, art, per-
formers, a theme and whatever 
details he can imagine to build 
something unique and compel-
ling — a one-time experience 
for all.
“I’m absolutely fascinated 
with what entertains others,” 
Hale said. “You could call them 
experiments, I’m not sure. We 
put everything that we have 
into these things — blood, 
sweat, tears — and it is a huge 
chunk of myself that I’ll put into 
this.”Eclectic Electric says 
‘Aloha!’ with a Friday 
night luauBy Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
You’ve just rolled out of bed — your 
hair is a rat’s nest, your eye makeup is 
all runny, your clothes are inside out. 
Frankly... you look like death. Perhaps 
you were partying a little too hard last 
night? You feel woozy and in need 
of nourishment and wonder ‘What 
could possibly make this incessant 
agony disappear?’ Well, lucky for you, 
Gainesville has some of the best break-
fast places with greasy, fatty dishes to 
cure that hangover. Here are the top 
ﬁ  ve best breakfasts in Gainesville to 
cure your Fourth of July fun.
For all biscuit lovers:
Nothing says ‘dank’ like some bis-
cuits and eggs! A common favorite at 
the one and only Flying Biscuit Cafe is 
the ‘Southern Style Biscuit Benedict,’ 
which is a split biscuit topped with pi-
mento cheese, two over-medium eggs, 
bacon, hollandaise and basil, served 
with grits. No savory dish could be 
more appealing to a victim of the after-
math of a wild night of fraternity hop-
ping than some hot, cheesy eggs with 
chewy bacon and freshly-baked bis-
cuits! This pairs well with a cup of hot 
chocolate — some of the best in town!
Hot off the griddle! 
For anyone with a raging sweet tooth when they wake up with that 
growling hunger, the “House Made 
Thick Cut Brioche French Toast” at 
Daybreak Pleasant Street will put a 
smile on your washed-out face! Don’t 
worry though, the wait staff is really 
sweet and wouldn’t dare judge your 
hickies nor your scent of a brewery. 
The environment is warm and 
friendly — take a down-home kitchen 
diner and bring it into 2018! “Every 
waiter I’ve had there has been so ac-
commodating, so helpful, really wel-
coming,” said recent UF graduate Ni-
cole Cannon. This French toast is made 
from their freshly-baked brioche which 
is made at the beginning of every 
week. “The outside has a really good 
crust, and the inside is really sweet 
and airy, but too heavy. It’s the perfect 
texture,” Cannon said. The chef dusts 
the perfect amount of powdered sugar 
on each slice, and pairs it with a sweet 
strawberry jam and some maple syrup. 
It truly melts in your mouth.
Did somebody say chicken? 
I believe the best cures for hang-
overs are ones that consist of sweet 
carbs and savory protein. There is no 
better place to ﬁ  nd such a combination 
than the Metro Diner on Southwest 
34th Street. Their Fried Chicken and 
Wafﬂ  es is huge, ﬁ  lling and gets you a 
bang for your buck. That’s fried chick-en breasts and chicken wings, topped 
with eight wafﬂ  e pieces that are dusted 
with powdered sugar. On the side you 
get hot sauce, maple syrup and the 
best topper: strawberry butter. 
Just peachy! 
The Peach Valley ‘Picker’s Skillet’ 
is the way to go at Peach Valley Cafe. 
Think a delicious deep-dish egg break-
fast: crispy potatoes mixed with ham, 
cheddar cheese, red and green pep-
pers, onions and mushrooms topped 
with two fried eggs and homemade 
sausage gravy. It has everything you 
could want: grease, fat and cheese. If 
you’re looking to have that sweet and 
savory combo with this egg dish, get 
Peach Valley’s famous fried apple frit-
ters, fried in dough and topped with 
cinnamon sugar… and be sure to dip 
the fritters in their brown sugar-scent-
ed strawberry yogurt!
Hottie cakes! 
If you’re starving and in the mood 
for pancakes, head to 43rd Street Deli 
& Breakfast House on Northwest 25th 
Street and get their 2-2-2 breakfast: 
two ﬂ  uffy buttermilk pancakes, two 
eggs any style and two sausage links 
or bacon strips. It’s a perfect meal for 
someone looking to be frugal but still 
eat something delicious. This break-
fast will ﬁ  ll you up but not to the point 
where you feel sick… again.Top ﬁ  ve greasy breakfasts to cure 
your Fourth of July hangover fast
LOCALTHURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
It was a day that changed America forev-
er, and this show does a great job of coming 
at it from a new angle.
One of Hulu’s most recent original 
shows, called “The Looming Tower,” equal-
ly places viewers in 1998 and 2004, both 
before and after Sept. 11, 2001.
“The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the 
Road to 9/11” is a nonﬁ  ction book by Law-
rence Wright that was released in 2006. 
The book, which this series is based on, 
is a historical novel that looks at the begin-
ning of al-Qaida, the Islamic militant group 
created by Osama bin Laden. As tensions 
increase and various terrorist attacks occur, 
both the novel and the series loom closer to 
that historic day.
As an interesting turn, the series then 
features ﬂ  ashes into the near future after 
the attack. Glimpses of America in 2004 al-
low us to see an interpretation of govern-
ment response and the preventative actions 
they took.
The Hulu series, which premiered in late 
February, is a 10-part series that uses parts 
of Wright’s book as well as “The Black Ban-
ners: The Inside Story of 9/11 and the War 
Against al-Qaeda” by Ali Soufan and the 
9/11 Commission Report to create its plot-
line.
One of the most interesting things this 
series highlights compared with other ac-counts is the consistent rivalry between the 
CIA, FBI and the president as to who is in 
charge of evidence and what action they 
should take in response to threats and at-
tacks.
Rather than recreating the news or creat-
ing their own stories, the show uses actual 
news clips to keep authenticity and accu-
rately portray the ﬂ  ow of events. 
Although the show is seen through the 
lens of multiple people who played an inﬂ  u-
ential role in what occurred, the story main-ly focuses on the professional and private 
lives of the chief of the FBI’s counterterror-
ism unit, John O’Neill, and rookie Muslim-
American agent, Ali Soufan.
As mentioned before, the real Soufan 
wrote the book “The Black Banners,” and 
he was an active member of the FBI during 
the terrorist attacks. In the series, he is por-
trayed by Tahar Rahim.
Rather than just being a 9/11 documen-
tary, I believe this show does a good job of 
retelling actual accounts while also telling a story.
Instead of just having a narrator or single 
voice unraveling the events, “The Looming 
Tower” depicts a more personal narrative 
into the lives of the main character. The 
show has a more humanistic and emotional 
appeal that I believe works well for reﬂ  ect-
ing on this story.
Because of how traumatic 9/11 was, we 
often tend to stick to the government facts 
and any signs that may have led to this. 
What “The Looming Tower” does well is 
show how the attacks and messages from 
bin Laden and al-Qaida left them just as 
confused and unsure.
Every step of the way, each governmen-
tal faction consults with another to ﬁ  gure 
out the most effective and safest course of 
action to take in response to all that occurs.
This show will appeal to anyone who 
enjoys a historic and realistic drama. It de-
livers a source of mystery and suspense by 
leading to an event we all know while re-
vealing new truths and untold stories from 
interesting perspectives.
Through the use of true footage and the 
additional ﬁ  ctional storytelling elements, 
the series takes us back into this period of 
time and helps us both discover and redis-
cover interesting moments.
Due to the nature of the plot, there will 
only be this one 10-episode season, but 
many fans of the show are hoping that Hulu 
may work to produce another event-cen-
tered series.Series Review: Hulu Original ‘The Looming Tower’
TELEVISION
Hulu
Hulu’s ‘The Looming T ower’ approaches one of the darkest days in American 
history with a new light.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
By Lindsey Breneman 
Avenue Writer
Activism combined with music 
Tuesday night after a weekend of na-
tionwide protests against President 
Donald Trump’s “zero tolerance” 
immigration policies.
The Civic Media Center hosted a 
concert beneﬁ  ting Madres Sin Fron-
teras — a local grassroots organiza-
tion led by immigrants for immi-
grants in the area. It was founded by 
Gia Delpino in January 2017.
Delpino works closely with Rev. 
Larry Green from Westminster Pres-
byterian Church. Together, they are 
working to bring the original vision 
for Madres Sin Fronteras to fruition 
including a rapid response hotline 
for immigrants, a community ID pro-
gram, an anti-deportation package 
and a bail fund for detainees.
The beneﬁ  t concert began with 
The Michael Character from Boston. 
James Ikeda, 28, has been releas-
ing albums as The Michael Char-
acter since 2011 on Bandcamp.  He 
wants his audience to always have 
to grapple with his music, which he 
describes as political acoustic punk 
that exists in the tension between in-
crementalism and radicalism.
Ikeda often ﬁ  nds himself in that 
tension. He’s taught history to high 
school students for six years but 
doesn’t teach the average run-of-the-
mill 11th grade history — he teaches black radical thought at Quincy High 
School. He said his primary goal in 
life is to be of use. Ikeda says his-
tory has a unique utility that allows 
people to contextualize the world. 
However, he’s careful to express the 
fact that he does not have all the an-
swers but instead wants to generate 
interest and compassion in individu-
als. Ikeda wants his own experiences 
to open windows into political ideas.
Ikeda’s friend and fellow musi-
cian Cameron LeViere, 25, took the 
stage as well. LeViere is the front 
man for Lawn Care, a math punk 
band from Pittsburg. While studying 
anthropology at a small liberal arts 
school in Wisconsin, he loved doing 
lawn work. LeViere says it was a fun 
way to save on a gym membership 
and get a tan. His friend gave him 
the name Lawn Care as a joke and 
it stuck. Now, under that moniker, 
he likes to write ethnographic songs 
with a lot of weird time signatures.
Without his band behind him, 
LeViere’s set was acoustic. It in-
cluded a song about East Liberty, a 
Pittsburg neighborhood that’s been 
recently gentriﬁ  ed. It ended with a 
song he wrote about his own tension 
from moving in with his partner. Ac-
cording to LeViere, “it’s weird when 
you’re in the leftist politics and stuff 
— to move in with someone, and do 
the whole capitalist settling down 
thing and buy pots and pans.”
Ikeda and LeViere have been touring across the country together 
for most of the summer. Gainesville 
was their last stop before they move 
back up to the Northeast.
The ﬁ  nal act was Maca Reggae 
Samba. Born in Salvador, Brazil, 
pure Brazilian samba meets Jamai-
can reggae in their soulful music. 
They’ve earned Brazilian Press 
Awards for the past two years.
Manu Osorio is the Civic Media 
Center volunteer who organized the 
show. She’s a student at UF and a 
Colombian immigrant. She met 
LeViere through a friend of a friend. 
They had a phone conversation one 
day, ironically, while he was doing 
lawn work. When he asked for help 
getting a gig in Gainesville, Osorio 
came up with the beneﬁ  t concert 
idea. She wanted a Latinx band to 
headline the night, which is why she 
pulled in Maca Reggae Samba.
Osorio is also a part of the 
Gainesville Anti-Fascist Committee 
which is collaborating with MSF to 
create the rapid response immigrant 
hotline. She planned the show as a 
ﬁ  nal push for MSF’s July 4 fundrais-
ing deadline. The original goal was 
$1,760. With the donations from the 
show the group raised over $3,000.
The CMC’s next show has a 
“Black Out” theme July 13. Oso-
rio encourages everyone to follow 
the CMC Facebook page to stay up 
to date and says they are always in  
need of volunteers.Music to unite us - Madres Sin Fronteras beneﬁ  t concert
Lindsey Brenemen
Erik Finlay performs at the Madres Sin Fronteras beneﬁ  t 
concert his past Tuesday.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873          7-10-18-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N    7-5-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
Used 2005 Honda Accord
LX Silver Auto 102K Mil Cruise control 
Cold A/C CD-player Wellmaintaned 31 mpg 
$4400 352-231-3321     7-5-18-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Students can earn extra income
in spare time to
copy and paste on social media.
Go to >>>http://www.v102fm.com/     7-10-
18-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
7-5-18-4-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1. HISTORY: Who was Jesse James’ 
brother and partner in crime?
2. ANATOMY: Where in the human 
body would you find the tympanic 
membrane?
3. MUSIC: Which artist recorded the 
album titled “Blood on the Tracks”?
4. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “The Swiss Family Robinson”?
5. CHEMISTRY: What is the symbol 
for the element magnesium?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Portugal?
7. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of Robert Blake’s cockatoo in 
the TV series “Baretta”?
8. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek prefix “ornitho” refer to?
9. MATH: What does the symbol “r” 
stand for in classic geometry?
10. ADVERTISEMENTS: What 
product’s slogan is “When it rains, it 
pours.”
Answers
1. Frank James
2. Between the outer and middle ear 
(eardrum)
3. Bob Dylan
4. Johann Wyss
5. Mg
6. Lisbon
7. Fred
8. Bird 
9. Radius
10. Morton Salt
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 2, 2018King Features Weekly Service
1.  Make quiet, suppress
1.  Early firearm 5.  Vision
2.  Creation of the mind 6.  Type of heron
3.  Exact, real7.  He succeeded Lenin
4.  Mideast rulerFLUFME
KEUTSMGHITS
REETG
IFNTEGM
TLALREIILSTNA
LUSNATANSWERS: 1A-Muffle  5A-Sight  6A-Egret  7A-Stalin
1D-Musket  2D-Figment  3D-Literal  4D-Sultan  B-Gulf Stream7-5-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The European discovery of the ____ ____ dates back 
to the 1512 expedition of Juan Ponce de León. 
BONUS
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Seeking part-time copy editor/technical writ -
er. Must have prior editorial/copy editing ex -
perience and must have advanced grammar 
knowledge. Rate is $12/hour. Please send 
resume and cover letter to pda@gue.com.  
7-19-18-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.University of Florida
Information Technology
Classification Title:
Application Developer Analyst V
Job Description:
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst 5 
to work in the Enterprise Systems (ES) unit of 
University of Florida Information Technology 
(UFIT). This is a senior, professional-level 
role that (under high-level direction) works 
closely with customers, business analysts, 
developers, and team members to under -
stand business requirements that drive the 
analysis and design to develop quality tech -
nical solutions specific to the Master Data 
Management (MDM) program. Expected to 
instruct and mentor analysts and program -
ming team members. Provide technical 
mentoring for less experienced develop -
ers. Manage software integration, external 
interface development, and technical docu -
mentation. Provide expertise for the design 
and development of information technology 
(IT) systems, within all levels of complexity. 
Provide estimates of the analysis and devel -
opment effort based on requirements. Lead 
feasibility assessments, design options, de -
velopment, testing, quality assurance, and 
documentation efforts. Utilize solid technical 
understanding of MDM and BPM stack and 
how it applies to varied business process -
es and use cases to lead efforts to project 
completion, user satisfaction, and related to 
support. Lead/responsible for software inte -
gration, external interface development, and 
technical documentation. Provide estimates 
of the analysis and development effort based 
on requirements. Recommend development 
of new code or reuse/enhancement of exist -
ing code. Participate or lead in component 
and architecture design, performance moni -
toring, product evaluation. Ensure develop -
ment of technical documentation (designs, 
specifications, processes). Lead definition of 
system scope and objectives based on user
needs. Set and establish standards for the 
organization; champions the processes. 
Foster the use of standards within the orga -
nization. Develop best practices for systems 
integration across the organization.
Position requires a Bachelor’s in Computer 
Science or a closely related field and 8 years 
of experience or a Master’s in Computer 
Science or a closely related field and 6 
years of experience. The required experi -
ence listed above must have involved the 
following: integrating enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) systems with other third 
party or homegrown systems; working IBM 
IIS MDM Individual and Product Hubs - 
Advanced Edition V11+; affiliated application 
technologies, Business Process manager 
(BPM) and Data Stewardship Center (DSC), 
Web Message Queue (WebMQ), Address 
Verification Interface (AVI), etc; issue man -
agement; understanding of InfoSphere MDM 
Probabilistic Matching Engine - matching al -
gorithm; and loading and extending the MDM 
model, customizing the stewardship center, 
developing and troubleshooting MDM com -
posite services for both the individual and 
product models.
To apply, submit a cover letter, resume, 
and at least 3 professional references, 
please email UFIT-BC@ufl.edu. Reference 
“Application Developer Analyst V” on the 
Subject line of the email. UF is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer. The deadline for ap -
plications to be submitted will be August 1, 
2018.  7-5-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    7-5-
1-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Do You need Real Residual income....
Month after Month? 
Earn $20 to $1,000 commissions. 
http://internetlifestyle4u.com/     7-5-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Cristal maker
4 Challenging
8 English town
worth its salt?
13 “Queen of the
South” TV
network
14 Moon of Uranus
16 Goat sound?
17 Got together
18 Target, for one
20 “Goodfellas”
Oscar winner
22 What a muff may
protect
23 Has debts
24 Dairy producer
28 “Cheers” spin-off
29 Hungers
33 Campus official
34 Returning GI’s
diagnosis
36 Crush a test
37 A bit off
38 Ad Council ad
39 18-time MLB 
All-Star Carew
41 Crime scene
letters
42 Bowen of
“Modern Family”
44 Bunny slope lift
46 After that
47 Act that warms
up the crowd
49 Baby bodysuits
51 Instant Pot
function
53 Player on three
FIFA World Cup
champion teams
56 Ballet shoe part
57 “Molly’s Game”
actor Elba
60 Typical annual
meeting
attendee ... or
what 18-, 24-
and 51-Across
each can be, in
a way
64 Words of assent
65 Nation
66 Cluster of small
stars?
67 Fresh
68 Aster family
member
69 Scalawags
70 Pump output
DOWN
1 Road warning
sign2 “It’s clear now”
3 String game
4 Patterns that
repeat
5 “Entourage”
agent Gold
6 Fix
7 “A diamond is
forever”
sloganeer
8 Golfer known as
“The Big Easy”
9 Foggy Bottom
river
10 Winter coat
11 Tyrant
12 Springfield
hangout
15 Sit around
19 Body image,
perhaps
21 Scott of “Hawaii
Five-0”
25 What waiters
wait for
26 Set on
27 Audition (for)
28 Out of patience
30 Distracting
literary device
31 Best-dressed
goal?
32 “American Dad!”
dad33 Karate studio
35 Pipe cleaner
38 Rind
40 Nabisco nibble
43 About 80% of the
world’s species,
according to the
Smithsonian
45 Italian tenor
Andrea
46 Like games
needing extra
innings48 Type of IRA
50 Goes around
52 Mahogany or oak
53 Covert “Over
here!”
54 Vocalist James
55 Balance sheet
liability
58 Creative thought
59 Scatters, as seed
61 Major
62 Low-lit
63 Paranormal claim
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/05/1807/05/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 5, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices
ACROSS
1 Error
5 Place for a panel
9 Chemistry lab
fluids
14 “Gray’s
Anatomy,” for one
15 Austen novel
16 Four-page sheet
17 Wilson of “Father
Figures”
18 Ground corn, e.g.
19 “Poems are
made by fools
like me” poem
20 “What a terrifying
experience!”
23 __ Major:
constellation
24 Fitting
28 “Love to
everyone!”
32 Summer on the
Seine
33 Sch. term
34 Author Joyce
Carol __
35 Arctic deer
38 Org. providing
creature
comfort?
42 Sue Grafton’s “__
for Lawless”
43 “Cats” monogram
46 Leave the firm to
work solo
50 Run
51 “There is __ in
the affairs of
men”: Brutus
53 They’re
“presented” in
20-, 28- and 
46-Across
57 Sprint, e.g.
60 Bearded critter
61 Picket fence
piece
62 First-stringers
63 Quasimodo
creator
64 Head, in Le
Havre
65 Muckety-muck
66 Lose one’s cool
67 River of central
Germany
DOWN
1 Unlikely to
become
overwrought
2 Like a McJob,
typically
3 “This is serious!”4 Thoughtful
5 Sales rep’s aid
6 Iowa college city
7 All-in-one Apple
desktop
8 Arabic for
“peace”
9 Door holder’s
words
10 Andalusian city
11 Martinique, par
exemple
12 Quit working
13 Coast Guard
pickup
21 Chicago-to-
Chattanooga dir.
22 LP’s 331/3
25 Adoptee from the
38-Across,
perhaps
26 Sugar suffix
27 GPS lines
29 Safety org. with
“Travel Tips” blog
posts
30 Part of HMS
31 First name in
American poetry
35 Ancient
underground
tunnel
36 Sci. course
37 Stillwater sch.
38 In the past39 Absorb, with “up”
40 “The Tell-Tale
Heart” author
41 Mai tai liqueur
43 How food may be
salted
44 Moved like a dust
devil
45 Last chance to
catch a live show
47 Baseball legend
Mel
48 Paddock sounds49 Like fish in
ceviche
52 Fragrant
compound
54 Soup or salad
55 Wildly
enthusiastic
(over)
56 Surmounting
57 Khaki kin
58 Landing hr.
calculation
59 Isr. neighbor
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/04/1807/04/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 4, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols LewisWith 42 percent of the vote on 
Twitter, Grant Holloway won 
the last alligatorSports Award 
for Athlete of the Year. Voting 
is now open for Coach of the 
Year.INDIA, BYRNE SIGN WITH REDS
On Tuesday junior third baseman Jonathan India and junior pitcher Michael 
Byrne signed with the Cincinnati Reds. India's signing bonus was worth $5.3 
million, and Byrne's was worth $260,000. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
By alligatorSports Staff
There were 12 University of Florida 
athletics teams that ﬁ  nished in the top ﬁ  ve 
nationally in their respective sports during 
the 2017-18 season. This statistic, a pro-
gram record, begged the question, who is 
the best coach among this crop of talented 
teams? Sports writers Alanis Thames, An-
drew Huang, Chris O’Brien and Mark Stine 
nominated their picks in this alligatorS-
ports Awards installment. 
Alanis: Pick any season over the past 
10 years, and track and ﬁ  eld coach Mike 
Holloway has made a case for Coach of the 
Year in all of them.
This season, he’s led his athletes to 
three team titles (NCAA Indoor Champion-
ships- men, SEC Outdoor Championships- 
men and women) and nine individual 
titles. 
Florida’s men tied Georgia for the most 
First-Team All-Americans during the in-
door season, and the Gators totaled 21 
First-Team All-America honors during out-
doors.
That success garnered Holloway an In-
door Coach of the Year award as well as 
South Region Men’s and Women’s Out-
door Coach of the Year accolades.
But it’s the intangibles that make Hol-
loway my pick for Coach of the Year.
He’s developed trust with his athletes, 
which has translated to success during 
those big moments of the 2018 season.
One of those instances was this year’s 
SEC Outdoor Championships, where both 
of Holloway’s teams sat atop the standings 
heading into the ﬁ  nal events of the com-
petition.
It was time for the women to compete in 
the 4x400 relay, and Holloway decided to 
switch things up. With the title on the line,  alligatorSports Awards: Who is UF's Coach of the Year?
Alligator File Photo
Mary Wise coached the UF volleyball team to the NCAA championship match last season. She was named AVCA National Coach of 
the Year for 2017 and claimed her 23rd SEC Championship with the program. 
In a previous column from June 14, I 
claimed that the World Cup is the great-
est event in sports.
So far, the Russia 2018 installment has 
not disappointed. Germany’s elimination 
in the group stage and the advancement of 
Japan over Senegal on FIFA’s fair play tie-
breaker provided two historical occurrences.
Unfortunately, the World Cup’s biggest 
storyline, the host nation of Russia upsetting 
Spain and moving on to the quarterﬁ  nals, 
may be tainted with the wrongdoings of the 
host country and the organization presiding 
over the festivities.Recent articles from the UK 
publication Daily Mail have un-
covered doping scandals among 
Russian soccer players. On Sun-
day, shortly after No. 70-ranked 
Russia defeated No. 10 Spain 
in the round of 16, the Mail re-
ported that Russian star Denis 
Cheryshev’s father, Dimitri, said 
that his son was injected with 
“growth hormones.” The 27-year-old Chery-
shev denied ever using performance-enhanc-
ing drugs, but the prospect that Russian play-
ers used banned substances could destroy the validity of the entire 2018 tour-
nament.  
And apparently, FIFA has 
known about many of these 
scandals for over a year, but 
hasn’t made any disciplinary ac-
tions.      
This, of course, would not 
be the ﬁ  rst time the Russian 
Sports Ministry and FIFA have 
been involved in major scandals. Obviously, 
Russian olympians have a history of tak-
ing performance-enhancing substances, and 
FIFA has been riddled with corruption, which contributed in awarding the 2022 World Cup 
to Qatar.
However, more doping violations by Rus-
sian athletes should affect their ability to 
participate in world events like World Cup 
and Olympics and the country’s ability host 
them. It’s obvious that FIFA decided not to 
act because it didn’t want to negatively affect 
its greatest revenue-building tournament, as 
accentuated by Richard Pound, former head 
of the WADA.
“They have the matter of billions of dol-We may be witnessing the greatest World Cup of all-time, and it might be a farceMark My Words
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.The Associated Press
NEW YORK (AP) — Joey “Jaws” Chest-
nut extended his reign as champion eater at 
the Nathan’s Famous July Fourth hot dog 
eating contest Wednesday, downing a record 
74 wieners and buns in 10 minutes to take 
home the coveted Mustard Belt for the 11th 
time.
Miki Sudo held on to her title as the top 
women’s competitor at the annual Brooklyn 
eat-off, chomping 37 franks and buns to take 
home the top prize for an unprecedented 
ﬁ  fth consecutive year.
Chestnut said he was “feeling good.”
“I found a vicious rhythm,” the 34-year-old Chestnut said after the stufﬁ  ng session.
But while Chestnut ate 10 more dogs and 
buns than second-place ﬁ  nisher Carmen Cin-
cotti, a judging error cast initial doubt over 
their totals after jurists didn’t see the eaters 
were taking the dogs and buns from two 
plates.
“Frankly, the judging was just off,” said 
George Shea, the longtime Coney Island an-
nouncer. “Joey said, ‘Look at my plates,’ 
and Carmen said, ‘Look at my plates.’ We 
counted the plates that they had eaten and it 
was 64 and 74.”
Eric Gonzalez, the Brooklyn district attor-
ney, certiﬁ  ed the ﬁ  nal tally and Chestnut’s 
record of 74, two more than he consumed last year.
“At the end of the day, Joey Chestnut 
came in here and ate 74 hot dogs, broke a 
world record,” said Cincotti, who celebrated 
his 26th birthday on Wednesday. “Appar-
ently they were good dogs.”
On Tuesday in New York, Nathan’s Fa-
mous held the weigh-in for their annual 4th 
of July hot dog eating contest. (July 3)
A total of $40,000 in prize money was up 
for grabs, with the ﬁ  rst-place winners taking 
home $10,000 each.
Sudo fell short of the 41 hot dogs she con-
sumed last year but easily beat out second-
place ﬁ  nisher Mischelle Lesco, of Tucson, 
Arizona, who chowed down 28 wieners and buns.
Thousands of attendees, many donning 
mustard-colored hot dog caps, braved 83-de-
gree temperatures and a heat index of 91 de-
grees to witness the annual July Fourth com-
petition on the Coney Island boardwalk. The 
outlandish tradition dates to 1972, though 
the company has long promoted what a for-
mer president acknowledged was a legend-
ary start date of 1916.
Fan Martha Pleasant, of Franklin, New 
Jersey, said she was attending the competi-
tive eating competition to support her hus-
band, Dwight Pleasant, who “loves wieners.”
“We are trying to knock something off my 
hubby’s bucket list,” she said.  Defending champ Joey Chestnut sets record with 74 hot dogsThe Associated Press
FREMONT, Ohio (AP) — U.S. 
Rep. Jim Jordan said on Wednesday 
he never knew of sexual abuse by 
a now-dead doctor who examined 
wrestlers Jordan helped coach de-
cades ago at Ohio State University.
Jordan, speaking to reporters at a 
July Fourth rally in Fremont, repeat-
edly denied claims by ex-wrestlers 
Mike DiSabato and Dunyasha Yetts, 
who say the powerful Republican 
congressman from Ohio knew back 
then that Richard Strauss was grop-
ing male athletes.
Jordan acknowledged that 
Strauss was among faculty members 
and other employees who used the 
same open shower area as athletes 
in the building where they practiced, 
but he said he and other coaches 
with whom he has spoken weren’t 
aware of any abuse by Strauss.
“We knew of no abuse. Never 
heard of abuse,” Jordan said. “If we 
had, we’d have reported it.”
Male Ohio State athletes from 14 
sports have alleged sexual miscon-
duct by Strauss, who was on the fac-
ulty and medical staff and published 
a variety of research.
Strauss died in 2005, and his 
death was ruled a suicide. Surviving 
relatives haven’t responded to mes-
sages left by The Associated Press 
seeking comment about allegations 
against him.
The university has urged anyone 
with relevant information to contact 
the law ﬁ  rm Perkins Coie, which 
is conducting an independent in-vestigation. More than 150 former 
students and witnesses have been 
interviewed.
Another law ﬁ  rm representing 
the university in the matter has said 
investigators tried unsuccessfully 
to contact Jordan’s ofﬁ  ce by phone 
and email to seek an interview with 
him. The congressman said his of-
ﬁ  ce has no record of such outreach 
and he is willing to talk with investi-
gators but had nothing scheduled as 
of Wednesday.
He called the timing of the wres-
tlers’ allegations about him “inter-
esting.”
“If there is any type of abuse of 
these folks, we want them to get 
justice, but it’s interesting that the 
timing is what it is in light of things 
that are going on in Washington,” 
Jordan said.
Jordan, a founder of the con-
servative Freedom Caucus, is a 
potential contender for U.S. House 
speaker. He has taken leading roles 
in ﬁ  ghting the Affordable Care Act 
and in pushing back against the 
government’s Russia investigation, 
most recently interrogating Deputy 
Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in 
committee.
A spokesman for Speaker Paul 
Ryan said the university has right-
fully initiated an investigation and 
the speaker will await its ﬁ  ndings.
Jordan on Wednesday also ex-
pressed concern about being among 
recipients of an email from DiSabato 
and said his ofﬁ  ce planned to touch 
base with Capitol police about it, 
but he didn’t elaborate.  US Rep. Jordan denies claims he knew of Ohio State sex abuse
The Associated Press
U.S. Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) denied knowing of sexual abuse by Richard Strauss that occurred while 
he was coaching at Ohio State. “We knew of no abuse, ” he said. “If we had, we’d have reported it. ”
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
he assembled the group of Taylor 
Manson, Nikki Stephens, Sharrika 
Barnett and Taylor Sharpe, which 
hadn’t run the 4x400 together all 
season.
The 11th-year women’s coach 
(16th-year men’s) told his sprint-
ers to believe in him, and the quar-
tet ran the second-fastest time in 
school history to propel UF to its 
ﬁ  rst-ever SEC Outdoors sweep.
But if you ask Holloway about 
his success as a coach, he’ll credit 
his athletes, coaching staff or the 
culture that they’ve built in the 
years leading to this season. Those 
little things don’t show up on the 
stat sheets, but they’re what make 
Holloway one of Florida athletics’ 
most valuable assets.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.org
Andrew: My goodness, where to 
start. Mary Wise has had a truly ex-
ceptional coaching career, one that 
has spanned 31 seasons. But this 
award is for the best UF coach of 
the 2017-2018 academic year, not 
for his or her career. Fortunately, 
her coaching job with this past 
season’s volleyball team is a shin-
ing microcosm of her 27 years in 
Gainesville.
She’s the ultimate trailblazer. 
No other female Division I volley-
ball coach has more career wins 
than Wise. Her 905 victories as a 
head coach is ﬁ  fth all-time in the 
NCAA. No other female Division I 
volleyball coach has led her team 
to the NCAA championship game. 
Wise has done it twice, most re-
cently last season.
Oh, and she was voted the 2017 
AVCA (American Volleyball Coach-es Association) Coach of the Year.
While the Gators fell to Nebras-
ka in the title game, they did get the 
better of the Cornhuskers earlier in 
the season. In all, Florida was 11-2 
against NCAA Tournament-qualiﬁ  -
ers. They ﬁ  nished the season with 
a 30-2 record overall, the most wins 
by the program since 2006. A 17-1 
conference record earned the team 
it’s 23rd SEC Title under Wise.
As a beat writer for this team, 
I can tell you with certainty that 
Mary Wise brings a magnetic pres-
ence into every room she enters. 
Her players adore her; every one 
of them I talked to considers her a 
mother ﬁ  gure. They would never 
have gotten to where they were as 
volleyball players – and this is com-
ing from ﬁ  ve 2017 AVCA All-Amer-
icans – without Wise, they say.
But Wise’s response to this 
praise says everything about her 
character: “This program’s success 
is a reﬂ  ection of the talent that’s 
come through it.”
She won the right way, and she 
won a lot.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Chris: This is an easy one for 
me. I watched him from a distance 
and then had a chance to cover 
him during his team’s postseason 
run, and there’s not a doubt in my 
mind that baseball coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan was the best coach this 
year. Throughout the entire regular 
season, the Gators never dropped 
below No. 2 in the national base-
ball rankings. 
O’Sullivan amassed a 49-21 re-
cord and captained a team that was 
just one game away from the Col-
lege World Series ﬁ  nal. 
Three of his players (pitchers 
Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar plus third baseman Jonathan In-
dia) were drafted in the ﬁ  rst round 
of the 2018 MLB Draft, and he had 
a total of seven Gators hear their 
names called in the event.
Forget all the stats though. Let’s 
focus on one instance of brilliance 
for O’Sullivan.
In Game 3 of the Gainesville Su-
per Regional (an elimination game 
that sent the winner to the CWS) 
against the Auburn Tigers, with 
center ﬁ  elder Nick Horvath at ﬁ  rst 
and the speedy second baseman 
Blake Reese at third, a struggling 
Jonah Girand stepped up to the 
plate with two outs in the bottom 
of the fourth inning. After receiving 
Gainesville Regional MVP honors, 
Girand was abysmal in the Super 
Regional and failed to record a hit.
Rather than watch Girand strike 
out again, O’Sullivan called a dou-
ble steal where Horvath acted as if 
he fell over on the way to second. 
The pitcher stepped off the mound 
and went to tag the center ﬁ  elder, 
failing to realize that Reese took 
off toward home. By the time he 
ﬁ  gured out he’d been duped, Re-
ese crossed the plate and gave the 
Gators a 2-1 lead.
O’Sullivan knew Girand had 
been struggling and that Reese had 
speed, and he executed the risky 
play that put his team through. 
Florida needed the run too, as it 
went on to win on a walk-off home 
run in the 11th inning - plus, Gi-
rand struck out in the same at-bat.
Plays like this make O’Sullivan 
my Coach of the Year.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Mark: Even though head coach 
Tim Walton did a terriﬁ  c job lead-
ing Florida to its fourth-straight 
conference regular-season title and second-straight Women’s College 
World Series appearance, the most 
valuable piece in the Gators’ suc-
cess was pitching coach Jennifer 
Rocha.
Despite the loss of two-time All-
American pitcher Delanie Gourley 
to graduation, Rocha and the UF 
pitching staff posted elite team 
numbers in 2018, her ﬁ  rst season 
as the team’s associate head coach. 
Behind the veteran leadership in 
the circle with senior Aleshia Oca-
sio and junior Kelly Barnhill and 
the pitch calling of Rocha, Florida 
won both the SEC regular season 
and tournament titles. 
The Gators posted elite pitch-
ing numbers as a team last season. 
They led the nation in strikeouts 
with 574. The nearest SEC team 
was Mississippi State at 416. They 
also ﬁ  nished ﬁ  fth in the country in 
strikeout-to-walk ratio (5.04) and 
tied for sixth in ERA with a mark 
of 1.43. 
UF threw 30 shutouts in 2018, 
10 of which were no-hitters. The 
hitless performances included two 
perfect games from Barnhill against 
North Florida on Feb. 14 and Geor-
gia Southern on Feb. 25.  
Florida also threw three com-
bined no-hitters. Barnhill and Oca-
sio combined to no-hit Baylor on 
March 3 and Bethune-Cookman on 
March 18. Freshman Natalie Lugo 
completed Ocasio’s hitless start 
against Hampton on March 30. 
Ocasio also threw six hitless in-
nings in regional play against Ohio 
State on May 20, the only postsea-
son no-hitter in Rocha’s 12 seasons 
at UF. 
Ocasio and Barnhill are two of 
seven All-American pitchers that 
have been coached by Rocha. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org lars at stake in having a hassle-free 
World Cup,” Pound said to the 
Mail. 
On June 23, the Daily Mail re-
ported on the World Anti-Doping 
Agency’s investigation in the Rus-
sian Football Association and 
Sports Ministry. 
Eighteen months ago, the 
WADA cited 155 cases of doping 
among Russian soccer players, 34 
of which had accompanying paper-
work and testimony that the agency 
deemed useful for formal disciplin-
ary proceedings and were brought 
to FIFA. Twenty-three of those 34 
were connected to players on Rus-
sia’s 2014 World Cup squad. 
One case involves Russian in-
ternational Ruslan Kambolov, who 
tested positive for a banned steroid 
in May 2015. The test failure was 
apparently covered up by Russian 
intelligence forces, which switched 
out Kambolov’s tainted sample 
with the urine of another athlete. 
Despite all of this information, 
FIFA has not acted on anything 
provided by the WADA, claim-
ing there’s insufﬁ  cient evidence to 
prosecute Russian players.
If Russian players in fact used 
banned substances to bolster the 
team’s performance at this World 
Cup, it would be bigger than any 
previous scandal that the Russian 
Sports Ministry or FIFA have ever 
been involved with. FIFA’s lack of 
involvement in a situation with so 
many red ﬂ  ags shows that nothing 
has really changed since the organi-
zation’s president Gianni Infantino 
was elected to replace the corrupt 
Sepp Blatter administration. 
Mark Stine is sports writer. 
You can follow him on Twitter @
mstinejr or contact him at mstine@
alligator.org.  COLUMN,  from pg 14
AWARDS,  from pg 14Holloway, Wise earned Coach of the Year honors