We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 113 ISSUE 7 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Painting the town
A new mural was ﬁ  nished downtown by Flaco’s Cuban Bakery,
pg. 8
Horsing around with new medicine
UF offers ﬁ  rst acupuncture for horses in Ocala, pg. 10No. 25 Gators take on Kentucky on Saturday
Florida begins its SEC schedule at the Swamp. Who are the play-
ers you should pay attention to? pg. 14PROVOST OFFICE WILL PICK UP 
THE $160,000 TAB FOR EXTEND-
ED HOURS.
Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Library West may soon be running for 
24 hours again.
The Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost will give Stu-
dent Government $160,000 to fund extend-ed hours at Library West until the end of 
June 2021, if a bill is passed in UF SG Sen-
ate Tuesday night, said Emily Dunson, the 
SG Budget and Appropriations Committee 
chairwoman.
The ofﬁ  ce stopped funding Library 
West’s overnight hours at the end of the 
Spring semester following the release of a 
study on the library’s use, said UF Student 
Body President Ian Green.
The bill stated that $83,200 will go to 
hire more employees, $16,960 to hire more students, $54,400 in security costs and 
$5,440 to pay custodians overtime.
The committee will meet again 9:30 
a.m. Friday in the SG conference room on 
the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union, Dunson 
wrote in an email.
Library West will be funded while a 
research study on its overnight use is being 
conducted, the bill stated. The Provost will 
review the study in 2021 to see if there was 
an increase in use.
The assessment is necessary because classes will become more demanding over 
the next few years, Green said. The rigor 
is expected to increase as UF strives to 
become a top ﬁ  ve public university.
“It’s important to effectively provide a 
library that gives all Gators the necessary 
time and ﬂ  exibility to succeed in all their 
academic endeavors,” Green said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSG to consider funding 24/7 Library West
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2012, Ernell Cook, Jr. sat at the 
Gainesville Police Department brieﬁ  ng room 
grumbling with 18 other ofﬁ  cers. 
They groaned about long hours and under-
stafﬁ  ng. 
Five years later, the drop in morale and lack 
of raises piled up. He looked around the same 
brieﬁ  ng room and saw only eight other people.
Cook didn’t want to leave the family he had 
built at GPD.
He didn’t want to leave the Gator games or 
his childhood friends from Gainesville High 
School. His 7-year-old daughter didn’t want to 
leave her cousins in Ocala or her ﬁ  rst-grade 
friends.
But when a federal agency offered Cook a 
job with better pay, it was too good of an op-
portunity to pass up. Even if it meant leaving 
his hometown and moving his wife and daugh-
ters to Texas. So, in June 2017, he left. 
Cook watched as the city management and 
Gainesville Fraternal Order of Police, the local 
police union, disagreed on contract negotia-
tions that would raise ofﬁ  cer salaries in 2013. 
It happened again three years later.
“You don’t feel appreciated by the city,” he 
said. “They constantly hold out in contract ne-
gotiations, and you’re not going to see a raise 
in three years.”
Police union members and city ofﬁ  cials are 
gearing up for a day-long meeting today to 
settle the contract after two years of disagree-
ment.
Union members are hoping to negotiate 
higher pay, better hours and overtime beneﬁ  ts. 
If the union’s demands aren’t met, the depart-
ment could risk losing more ofﬁ  cers, said po-
lice union spokesperson Matt Goeckel. 
City management wants the Chief of Po-
lice to designate the hours, anywhere between eight to 12 at a time, ofﬁ  cers work for six 
months at a time, according to the proposal. 
City management wants to stop counting paid 
leave, like vacations, toward overtime and pro-
pose a ﬂ  at wage increase for every sworn of-
ﬁ  cer. 
The union wants a “step up” plan that 
would increase ofﬁ  cer wages by about 2 per-
cent every year, according to the union’s pro-
posal. It also wants ofﬁ  cers to be compensated 
overtime for attending mandatory meetings 
while off-duty. 
The City Commission will act as a neutral 
judge during the public hearing, said City Com-
missioner David Arreola. The commissioners 
will make a decision on the contract after lis-
tening to both sides and public comment.
Arreola said he is in a difﬁ  cult position. 
While he respects the police union’s efforts to 
do right by its ofﬁ  cers, Arreola said he must 
keep the entire city in mind.
“At the end of the day, we have to be fair 
and equitable to everybody,” he said.
City management and the local police union 
renegotiate their contract every three years, 
said Goeckel. The most recent contract expired 
Sept. 30, 2016.
As disagreement continued, the union an-
nounced an impasse in May 2017, Goeckel 
said. An independent mediator sided with the 
step up plan in May 2018, but city manage-
ment rejected his opinion. 
GPD sworn ofﬁ  cers have worked for the city 
without a contract since 2016, Goeckel said.
“When we ask for something that we think 
is reasonable and the city balks at it, it’s dis-
heartening,” he said.
After six years at GPD, Cook’s salary in-
creased from $42,000 to about $47,000. After a 
year of working for a federal agency in Texas, 
his upcoming raise will be $11,200.  
The average salary of a GPD ofﬁ  cer is ‘Take care of us:’ Gainesville police 
union and city ready for negotiations
Christopher King/Alligator Staff
This is Disability Advocacy Assembly
Ms. Wheelchair Florida 2018, Shavaughn Barnes, 29, uses American Sign 
Language to perform “This Is Me” from “The Greatest Showman” at the UF 
Disability Advocacy Assembly Thursday night.
SEE POLICE  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
Show off your Gator spirit this 
Friday with our iconic Stuff-
A-Gator (for the first 300 stu-
dents) starting at 8 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union food court. Meet 
Albert at the photo booth and 
eat at the Gator Snack Bar. 
Challenge your friends at trivia 
or on the Mechanical Gator. 
Decorate your own baseball 
cap and tote bag, or play video 
games at the Gaming Zone. 
Enjoy refreshments while 
watching “Jurassic World: 
Fallen Kingdom” in the au-
ditorium with showings at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. There 
will be free bowling and bil-
liards in the Game Room and 
nachos at Midnight Munchies. 
GatorNights is always on 
Fridays and is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card 
from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the 
Reitz. Attendees must be cur-
rent students and are allowed 
to bring one guest.
Free Tango Classes 
Want to learn Argentine 
Tango? Join us from 6:15 p.m. 
to 8:15 p.m. on Sunday at the 
Reitz Union Dance Studio B. 
Dance experience is not nec-
essary. For more information, 
find us on Facebook under 
“UF Argentine Tango Club” for 
schedule and events.
The Path to Fulbright: 
Challenges, Opportunities, 
and Rewards with Marcía 
Porter
The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to in-
vite the UF community to 
the first Fulbright event of 
the semester to be held at 2 
p.m. on Sep. 14 at the Music 
Building in Room 101. Marcía 
Porter, an award-winning so-
prano and professor of voice 
at the Florida State University 
College of Music, is an active 
recitalist who has performed in 
venues and festivals through-
out the United States, Italy, 
Brazil and the Czech Republic. 
Porter was a Fulbright Scholar.  
Her research is the “Bridging 
boundaries through musical 
collaboration and cultural ex-
change: a lecture and recital 
series of contemporary clas-
sical Brazilian and African American vocal literature.” 
There will be a meet and greet 
after the talk. Come meet new 
colleagues and friends as you 
learn about Fulbright Programs 
available at UF. For additional 
information please contact 
Claire Anumba at canumba@
ufic.ufl.edu. 
Local Art
On Sept. 15, Hardback Cafe 
will host “For Overthinkers & 
Artists.” Join them as art and 
hip-hop combine in celebra-
tion of local music producer 
and artist Nxt Lvl’s new proj-
ect, “For Overthinkers.” Local 
art will be on display by some 
of Gainesville’s most talented 
artists, including a live paint-
ing exhibit. Nxt Lvl will be 
performing songs from his lat-
est project, as well as his vast 
library of music. Special guest 
Elixir Flow from Orlando will 
open the show. Doors open at 
7 p.m. The event is free and 
open to those 18 and older. 
Those 21 and older can drink 
with an proper ID. 
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of men and 
women who have a desire to 
recover from their eating dis-
orders. If you can relate to 
feelings of guilt about eating, 
are at times unable to start or 
stop eating even when you re-
ally want to or feel disgusted 
or powerless over your eating 
habits, this group may be for 
you. There is no one “too sick” 
or “not sick enough” to attend. 
Men and women of all ages are 
welcome. For times, locations 
and more information, please 
email GainesvilleEDA@gmail.
com or text/call 954-319-6365. 
You can also visit 4EDA.org 
for more information. 
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of 
journalists advancing diversity 
in the workplace. With mem-
bership, students get access 
to networking opportunities 
and connections to top editors 
in national media organiza-
tions, as well as scholarships 
and mentorships. It is not just 
limited to journalism majors. 
For more information, email 
Alexandria Ng at alexandri-
ang@ufl.edu.UF students receive free ad-
mission to exhibits
UF students with a valid Gator 
1 card receive free admission 
to the “Butterfly Rainforest” 
and other exhibits year-round 
at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, sponsored by 
the UF Student Government. 
The museum is located at 
3215 Hull Road just south of 
the Southwest Rec Center in 
the UF Cultural Plaza. The 
museum is open from 10 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Monday through 
Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. 
Sunday. For more information 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu or 
call 352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 7
Corrections:
In an article published 
Sept. 5, titled “Gameday 
parking offered, ” a parking 
spot purchased via a credit 
card must be done in person 
and the current season tick-
et price for a motorhome 
is $490 but has not consis-
tently been this price. The 
Alligator reported differ-
ently. 
In an article published 
Sept. 5, titled “Delta Chi 
fraternity suspended from 
UF until 2020, ” the frater-
nity is suspended for four 
years until May 9, 2022. 
The national organization's 
interim executive director 
is Jerod Breit. The Alligator 
reported differently. 
•      •      •
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH 87° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Alain Harb, aharb@alligator.org
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
$49,137. For corporals and sergeants, the 
average salaries are $55,390 and $65,692, 
respectively, said GPD spokesperson Ben 
Tobias.
If the cost of living didn’t outpace ofﬁ  cer 
wage increases and if ofﬁ  cers felt appreci-
ated, Cook might have stayed, he said.
“You can’t compete with the feds,” he 
said. “But if the contracts were reasonable, 
I might have taken that sacriﬁ  ce.”
GPD is allotted 307 positions, which in-
clude ofﬁ  cers, corporals and sergeants, To-
bias said. The department has 22 vacancies 
for ofﬁ  cers. Twenty-nine sworn employees 
are in training and are unavailable to work, 
he said.
In the past ﬁ  ve years, GPD lost 128 
sworn ofﬁ  cers to retirement, resignations, 
terminations and transfers to other agen-
cies, Tobias said. In the same amount of 
time, the department hired 116 ofﬁ  cers. 
Goeckel doesn’t believe the ﬂ  at wage in-
crease will be enough to keep ofﬁ  cers long 
term, he said.
“Ofﬁ  cers feel unappreciated, and to 
some extent, disliked by city manage-
ment,” he said.
The city’s general fund is about $126 
million, according to the city manager’s 
budget book. Policing and ﬁ  re rescue ac-
count for almost half of the general fund. 
GPD receives about $34.8 million.
The city has enough money to meet the 
union’s proposal, Tobias wrote in an open 
letter Sunday. He penned the letter as a po-
lice ofﬁ  cer, not the GPD spokesperson.
Tobias is tired of the city holding his fu-
ture salary like a playing card, he wrote. So 
tired that he’s actively looking for employ-ment elsewhere.
Although he says he never imagined 
leaving Gainesville behind, Tobias feels 
ofﬁ  cers are not paid enough for the work 
they do.No matter the ﬁ  nal decision, Gainesville 
residents will still be able to rely on GPD 
ofﬁ  cers, Tobias wrote. They’ll still respond 
to 911 calls and respond to emergencies, 
but he hopes the city will show their ap-preciation for the work they do.
“Please take care of us,” he wrote.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgPOLICE,  from pg. 1The police department has lost 128 sworn oicers in ive years.
William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police Department currently has 22 vacancies for ofﬁ  cers as contract negotiations for ofﬁ  cers on the force are 
underway. The city and police union are meeting today, and salaries and beneﬁ  ts are on the table.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
THIS WILL BE THE 
FRATERNITY’S FIRST TIME 
LIVING ON CAMPUS.
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
For the first time in UF’s Al-
pha Gamma Rho’s 94-year his-
tory, the fraternity has moved 
on campus.
Alpha Gamma Rho Fraterni-
ty recently sold its house, which 
accommodated around 40 live-
in brothers, on Southwest 13th 
Street, and is building a new 
one south of Museum Road, 
said Peter Chaires, the president 
of UF’s chapter of Alpha Gam-
ma Rho.
Property records show it 
was sold to SMLC, LLC, the 
same development company 
who purchased other property 
on West University Avenue in 
2016, for $3.5 million.
This would be the third 
house the fraternity moves into 
since its establishment at UF in 
1924. The sold house was de-
molished a month ago, Chaires 
said.During the 12-month con-
struction, the fraternity will re-
side in the vacant Tau Epsilon 
Phi house on a two-year lease, 
Chaires said. Tau Epsilon Phi 
moved out of its on-campus 
house after being suspended 
by the university for about four 
years following a disciplinary 
hearing in December. The fra-
ternity violated five student 
conduct codes, including serv-
ing alcohol to minors, drug 
possession and causing $3,000 
worth of damages at a hotel. 
Alpha Gamma Rho’s new 
space will be three-stories tall 
and fit 50 beds, which is 10 
more than the previous house 
could hold, Chaires said. 
“The goal for the house is 
to have high efficiency, low 
maintenance,” Chaires said.
The land leased by the fra-
ternity is one of three lots on 
campus across from Hume 
Hall offered to Greek Life, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said. The previous location of 
Alpha Gamma Rho’s house was 
not owned by UF.
W. Bernard Lester, a 60-year 
UF Alpha Gamma Rho alumnus, said he believes the appearance 
of the new house will represent 
the standard the members of 
the chapter hold themselves to.
“As alumni, we’re very 
pleased with the way they’re 
functioning,” Lester, who 
pledged with the fraternity in 
1958 said. “I think it’s a great 
design as far as the exterior and 
interior.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgAlpha Gamma Rho moves into Tau 
Epsilon Phi’s house on Fraternity Row
Status of Greek 
houses:
Gamma Phi Beta’s house 
is currently being built
Delta Gamma’s house is 
currently being built
Zeta T au Alpha’s house 
is being demolished and 
rebuilt
Phi Mu is adding a new 
section to its houseENROLLMENT FROM INDIA HAS 
SEEN ONE OF THE GREATEST 
DROPS IN NUMBERS.
McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
UF hasn’t recovered from a dip in in-
ternational students that happened about 
two years ago. 
The number of international students 
plummeted to 1,043 in the 2017-2018 
school year, compared to the previous 
year’s 1,453. UF saw little improvement 
this year with 1,049 incoming interna-
tional students, said Leonardo Villalón,  
the dean of the International Center. 
“We did not recover from last year’s 
point,” Villalón said. “We haven’t seen it 
go back up.”
The drop in international enrollment 
is a national phenomenon, said UF Pro-
vost Joseph Glover.  
“This is happening all across the 
country,” Glover said. “It is a reflection 
of multiple factors, including the federal 
government’s stance towards immigrants 
and the rhetoric that accompanies this.”
This decline could also be a result 
of improvements in China’s higher 
education system, causing many students 
to pursue postsecondary degrees in their 
home country, he said. Villalón thinks the drop in internation-
al enrollment is caused by a combination 
of factors, including the current political 
climate in the U.S. He believes interna-
tional students might not feel as though 
the U.S. is a welcoming place because of 
President Donald Trump’s efforts to im-
pose travel bans and other political divi-
sion caused by immigration.  
There was a significant decline in stu-
dents enrolling from India, Villalón said. 
In the 2016-2017 school year, UF had 618 
students from India. The number sank to 
266 last year and 253 this year. 
“As we try to become a top-five uni-
versity, we want to attract the best tal-
ent and most gifted students around the 
world, and this means we are attracting 
fewer people here,” Villalón said. 
Amrita Bandopadhyay, 30, an Eng-
lish doctoral student, came to UF in 2015 
from India. She said when she came, the 
political climate was drastically different 
than it is now. 
“When I was applying, I did not feel 
uncomfortable,” she said. “But now, if 
I have to think of remaining here in the 
United States for a long time, that con-
cerns me a little bit.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgFalling trend in international 
enrollment continuesFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
OVER 80,000 DISNEY 
EMPLOYEES CAN RECEIVE 
FREE HIGHER EDUCATION
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Online will become a place 
“where dreams come true” for Walt 
Disney Company employees.
They will be eligible for online 
degrees because of a partnership, 
which was announced Tuesday, 
with the company and university. 
Those accepted by UF would be able 
to start during Spring 2019 with 100 
percent of their tuition covered by 
Disney, said Evangeline Cummings, 
the assistant provost and director of UF Online.
Applications are open until Oct. 
1, said Cummings. 
“We were delighted to hear that 
Disney was interested in not only 
working with the University of Flor-
ida Online, but expanding the pro-
grams that were available to their 
workforce,” Cummings said.
This is the latest addition to Dis-
ney Aspire, an education beneﬁ  ts 
program that focuses on the academ-
ic and career development of Disney 
employees, Cummings said.
A $50 million investment from 
the company was placed into the ed-
ucation investment program, accord-
ing to The Walt Disney Company’s 
website. More than 80,000 employ-
ees are eligible to apply to UF.UF will use the same standards 
they use for all applicants, in which 
they will consider more than aca-
demics and test scores during the 
application process, Cummings said. 
The program will accept applicants 
three times a year for Spring, Sum-
mer and Fall semesters.
The partnership with UF Online 
allows for Disney employees to have 
the ﬂ  exibility to both work and do 
their classwork, Cummings said. 
Disney declined to give a direct 
comment to the Alligator.
In June, UF worked with WalMart 
and Guild Education, an educational 
coaching company, to provide a re-
duced price UF Online program for 
WalMart employees. Guild Educa-
tion will also assist with the Disney partnership, Cummings said. 
Programs similar to this will al-
low high school students to take an 
alternative route in earning a college 
degree while avoiding ﬁ  nancial bar-
riers, said Zachary Rowe, the direc-
tor of strategic partnerships at Guild 
Education.
“Universities (are) interested in 
receiving innovative work and help-
ing Americans access higher educa-
tion and access the skills, the cre-
dentials and the degrees they need 
to advance their career,” Rowe said.
Ryan Jackson, a 30-year-old ser-
vice technician living in Carnegie, 
Pennsylvania, and Walt Disney 
World regular, said he was excit-
ed to hear about the collaboration 
with UF Online. College was ﬁ  nancially difﬁ  cult 
for Jackson. He said having access to 
a program like this would have been 
a huge help for him.
“I think it’s a fantastic idea,” Jack-
son said. “Higher education can only 
help people and not hurt people.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgDisney and UF will oﬀ  er free UF Online degrees in Spring
THE MONEY WILL BE USED FOR 
STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS 
McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Students in the UF Rinker School of 
Construction Management might see 
more scholarship money coming their 
way thanks to a $100,000 donation.
Current Builders, a general contracting 
company based in Pompano Beach, 
Florida, is donating $100,000 to the UF 
College of Design, Construction and 
Planning. The company will donate 
$20,000 each year over the course of 
ﬁ  ve years to a scholarship fund for the 
students, said Rick Colandreo, the chief 
ﬁ  nancial ofﬁ  cer of Current Builders. 
Students admitted to Rinker will be 
considered for this scholarship following 
the guidelines of eligibility, which have 
not yet been released.
The school will set up a selection 
committee to award the scholarship, said 
Dr. Chimay Anumba, the dean of the 
college.
“Every year, we have lots of students 
that need ﬁ  nancial support, and so the more of these scholarships we can set up, 
the more students we can support and 
help out,” Anumba said.
The company made its ﬁ  rst $20,000 
payment on May 2, Colandreo said. They 
will make the next payment around the 
same time next year.
This is the largest contribution Current 
Builders has made to the college, said 
Crystal Binford, director of business 
development at Current Builders.
The company has 22 UF alumni 
within the ﬁ  rm, including CEO Chip Reid, 
Binford said.
“We recruit heavily from the school 
and are always behind anything we can 
do to support the long-term goals of the 
college,” Binford said. 
Patrick Prieto, a 21-year-old UF ju-
nior and architecture major, said current 
scholarship options seem limited. 
“I think this money will have a huge 
impact because architecture is already ex-
pensive,” he said. “I spend about $1,000 
a semester just for my design class in ma-
terials, and any money towards students 
will help them with these costs.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgUF Construction Management 
recieves $100,000 donationDegrees offered: 
Bachelor of Arts 
Bachelor of Science
Majors offered: 
Business Administration
Public Relations
T elecommunication
Sports Management
CITY RESIDENTS IN THE PHONE 
BOOK ARE AUTOMATICALL Y 
ENROLLED
Hannah Beatty
Alligator Contributing Writer
From gameday road closures to hurricane 
preparedness messages, Gainesville residents 
can now receive emergency alerts sent straight 
to their phones. 
The city of Gainesville began rolling 
out its new emergency alert system at the 
beginning of August, said Chip Skinner, city 
spokesperson. The app, called alertGNV, 
allows users to choose among text messages, 
faxes, emails, application notiﬁ  cations and 
phone calls to receive alerts. 
The Gainesville Police Department, 
Gainesville Fire Rescue and the 
Communications Ofﬁ  ce of Gainesville will 
send out notiﬁ  cations about road closures, 
power outages, severe weather, ﬁ  res and 
criminal activity. The app is available on the 
Apple App Store and Google Play.
“It’s a great way for the citizens to sign 
up and pick the notiﬁ  cations they want and 
which medium they prefer,” Skinner said.
The service comes at no cost to residents nor the city because the Florida Division of 
Emergency Management has had a statewide 
contract with Everbridge, the company that 
runs alertGNV, since 2016, Skinner said. City 
residents whose numbers are published in the 
phone book will automatically be enrolled, 
but they can opt out of the service.
Before, the city relied on the website 
SafeGNV.com to share information about 
emergencies, Skinner said. Alerts could 
also be communicated through the reverse 
911 system, which allows the city to send 
messages to phones listed in the 911 directory.
One of the most important features of the 
alert system is a geofence, which allows of-
ﬁ  cials to draw virtual geographic boundaries 
around affected areas, Skinner said. This can 
be used if there is an isolated incident where 
only users in a certain area require updates. 
Anyone with the Everbridge system will get 
notiﬁ  cations once they enter into Gainesville’s 
geofence, he said.
Alachua County resident Victor Ventura, 
28, looks forward to receiving alertGNV 
messages via text. Ventura feels that while 
students already have an alert system through 
UF, it is something the rest of the city lacked. 
“I think the school does a good job at it 
but I’ve been here for a while, and I haven’t 
gotten any alerts of anything,” Ventura said. Gainesville residents can opt into 
new app’s alert system Editorial
Column
SG will ﬁ  nally fund a 24/7 Library West
Tired of all my columns about how Student 
Government doesn’t want to fund Library West? 
Well, this column is about how SG wants to fund 
Library West now.
I woke up to an email sent at 6:23 a.m. 
Surprise, surprise: There is going to be an SG 
budget committee meeting at 8 a.m., in an hour 
and a half. Whatever chain of disasters led to 
no one giving us proper notice of the meeting 
is beyond me.
As always, the SG calendar on our website 
was blank because we love transparency. The 
late email was also in violation of our Senate Rules and Pro-
cedures since the budget chair is supposed to send out to all 
senators any legislation at least a day in advance, so that’s 
disappointing. It’s not surprising though, given we also broke 
the rule earlier in the year during the Smith Meyers veto inci-
dent (the Senate blindly voted to uphold a couple vetoes and 
then we received the actual text of what we voted on the day 
after). Democracy is funny like that.
Anyhow, attached to the email was a reserves transfer to 
be reviewed. In case you’re not familiar, “reserves” are kind 
of like SG’s contingency fund. Every year when we make our 
budget, we set aside money to go toward the reserves and we 
usually use the reserves money toward one-time expenses.
What were we dipping into the reserves to fund this time? 
Ah, a 24/7 Library West.
So ﬂ  ash back to July 18, 2017. A young Zach Chou with 
a lot fewer white hairs gets up to the podium for public 
debate. This was at the very start of the long period of 
Library West woes. 
As recorded by the minutes: “Senator Chou is concerned 
about Library West being compared to Newell Hall with 
these study spaces having different hours. He suggests that 
Library West be funded at least for the Fall for it to be open 
24/7. He suggests a doing a Reserves Transfer to fund it.” 
Former President Smith Meyers came up to speak after me 
and dismissed the idea. What I said was in the initial study comparing 
Newell Hall to Libary West. The haters in the ma-
jority party told me we couldn’t dip into the re-
serves for things of recurring nature. I suggested 
we provide funding in the context of the study, 
since that was more of a one-time thing. But hat-
ers are haters, and I got shot down.
This past summer, we heard a lot about 
how we shouldn’t have SG money going to-
ward libraries.
Now, we’re here. SG wants to go and fund 
Library West with SG money and using the 
method I suggested last year. Is this what it feels like to 
have the last laugh?
Here is the twist: This isn’t SG permanently funding Li-
brary West’s overnight hours; this is us kicking the can a lit-
tle further down the road because we’re going to do another 
study. We’re funding Library West just for this year. Then 
the Provost is providing the funding for two years. 
So, basically we’re good until the end of the 2020-2021 
ﬁ  scal year while we do another study, but if there’s no 
increase of overnight hour usage (which is what the Provost 
is looking for), we’re back to square one.
Look, I’m happy SG has realized its mistake and is kind of 
atoning for it temporarily. It’s just still beyond me why they 
are making such a big deal of funding Library West when it’s 
literally just $160,000 a year. That SG concert tonight? That’ll 
costs $98,000 dollars (to put our spending in perspective).
I’m not saying we shouldn’t have any fun around town, 
but given how much we spend in the grand scheme of things 
on concerts and events, this is a lot of drama for what should 
be a relatively minor budget line item.
But then again, I suppose writing seven columns is a bit 
dramatic too… But I’m a proud drama llama.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Mur-
phree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student Govern-
ment. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
The front entrance to the Reitz Union swims in your vision 
as heat waves radiate off the light gray moonscape. “What bet-
ter treat for a sweltering afternoon than an extra large frozen 
yogurt?” you think to yourself. What better time than now? 
Who more deserving than you, out of breath and minutes from 
heatstroke? A tepid bead of sweat leaves your scalp and wan-
ders down your forehead. It nearly freezes solid when you 
break the airtight seal on the union doors and are blasted with 
chilled air. The delicate scent of Wendy’s fries begs you to 
keep walking, but you marshal your thoughts and step into the 
elevator. It gently pings and sends you downward. 
A waft of freshly baked Subway bread hits you square in 
the nose, but you’ve already fought temptation. You know 
what you need. But as you approach what was once a Fresh-
ens, panic strikes. You see wood paneling. Touch screen dis-
plays. A line of students stretches out of the door where the 
Reitz P.O.D. was once a ghost town. Your heart nearly beats 
out of your chest. When you look to discover what replaced 
your beloved but somewhat run-down froyo dispensary, the 
words printed in bold on the sign read:
Darts And Laurels
It’s been a busy week in the news. Let’s start with what 
everyone is really wondering about: UF’s new graduation-
ceremony procedures. 
In case you haven’t yet heard or read the digital screams 
from your classmates posting to their Facebook feeds, UF is 
eliminating the individual mentions from the graduation cer-
emony. Instead, the degrees will be doled out in a lump sum, 
with every undergraduate getting their degree at the same 
time.
We can understand the frustration. Some of you have 
dreamt about that day for years. We, too, have dreamt of 
sitting in a black gown for several hours in the O’Connell 
Center sandwiched between two people we don’t know. We 
really don’t want to be there for the commencement address, 
UF President Kent Fuchs’ speech or any of the inspiring, 
heartwarming ceremonial parts of a graduation ceremony. 
What we want most is to drag our family members out to 
Gainesville to listen to someone dispassionately read the 
names of a few thousand strangers off of index cards. The 
moment of pure joy when they call out our name will make 
it all worth it. If you couldn’t tell we were being sarcastic, a 
dart to you.
A dart to whoever decided to change the ceremony. You 
upset a lot of students. To all the students whose names 
won’t get read, we can’t ﬁ  x things for you. But we can give 
you this bright shiny laurel to make up for it. 
It saddens us to write that renowned actor Burt Reynolds 
died Thursday. He was 82. He never took himself too se-
riously, and in his memoir said he was more interested in 
having a good time than challenging himself as an actor. In 
his long career, he held many roles, but none we appreciate 
more than that of Nate Scarborough in “The Longest Yard” 
(2005). He somehow made an Adam Sandler movie about 
prison football more enjoyable. That takes skill. A laurel to 
Reynolds for his service.
A dart to Adam Sandler for good measure.
In more uplifting news, an Indian physician, Dr. Moha-
mad Chisti, found a creative and affordable solution for treat-
ing pneumonia by fashioning a respirator out of shampoo 
bottles. Pneumonia kills about one in ﬁ  ve children under 5 
in developing countries, but in Chisti’s hospital, where the 
respirator has been deployed, infant deaths from pneumonia 
have dropped by 75 percent. There are not enough laurels in 
the world for Chisti and his lifesaving work.
Finally and most importantly, Tim Tebow, Gainesville’s 
most beloved man, was in town Thursday to pack boxes with 
food for a Food4Kids charity event. He doesn’t seem to ever 
stop doing heartwarming things, does he? We saved one last 
laurel just for him.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
Hey, UF Class of 2022! 
I spent this last summer as a Preview 
Staffer, working from May to July to welcome 
incoming students like you to our beautiful 
campus. I hope you are loving it just as much 
as I, in my fourth and ﬁ  nal year, still do. 
My experience with Preview and other 
organizations on campus opened my eyes to 
something I have found to be unique about 
our school: involvement culture. Whether 
you are a rebel against the system or love to 
rep the orange and blue wherever you go, no-
body can escape those darn Turlington ﬂ  yer-
ers! Everyone hears about the importance of getting involved, and occasionally, it can feel 
overwhelming and worrisome. "Am I in the 
right clubs?" "I hate this club, but I feel I need 
to stick with it for my resume." "I’m not in 
any clubs, I must be a failure." "I’m in this 
club, but I feel excluded." "I have to be in 
every club and do everything." "I have to be 
in the best clubs."
"I have to be this." "I have to be that."
The culture here is toxic and can get to 
your head. Social media plays a big role in 
this. Through the coming months, you will 
start to see people changing proﬁ  le banners 
and pictures to matching graphics or overlays, with essay-long captions trying to recruit you 
to the hottest organizations on campus. You’ll 
hear about certain things you need to be in if 
you want to progress in your career, make a 
lot of friends or gain power. And you might 
even apply to these things, get turned down 
and feel like a failure.
I promise, while every organization and 
club could hold great potential for you, you 
do not need these things to make you happy. 
I stand by the fact extracurriculars are impor-
tant, but these can come through any means, 
such as smaller clubs, intramural sports, part-
time jobs, internships or research opportuni-ties. I repeat: You do not need to be in the 
hottest organizations to make you happy. If 
you get rejected from something prestigious 
or popular and you see others posting about 
their acceptances, rejoice in the fact you have 
an opportunity to ﬁ  nd something that could 
be just as meaningful, but in a more hidden 
way. 
As long as you are genuine and do things 
because you have a passion for them, I prom-
ise you will ﬁ  nd a place here. 
Livia Ledbetter is a UF sociology and wom-
en’s studies senior and a 2018 Preview Staffer.
I  used to see this girl who 
would giggle under her 
breath and say “mine” to 
me. Now and then, she’d 
ask me something like, 
“Aren’t I yours?” or the inverse. 
But as negligible as it might 
be, it was something I couldn’t 
stand — not because I have any 
issue with monogamy, but rath-
er she wished to take ownership 
of me, albeit still wishing to be owned 
herself.
The conﬂ  ation of romance and own-
ership has been malignant ever since the 
second male property owner invented 
marriage to protect his bloodline after 
“inheriting” — or stealing — everything 
from the ﬁ  rst, which is why people still 
take each other’s names in marriage. We 
get rid of our name, the name we’ve had 
since birth, to show how much we love 
each other and to clearly show who owns 
whom.
This idea that your partner is your prop-
erty is recognizable throughout almost ev-
ery way we talk about our relationships. 
Besides being incredibly sexist, the phrase 
“wearing the pants” comes to mind. Not 
only does it continue to uphold the idea 
of male heteronormative superiority, but it 
also points to someone making more deci-
sions. It gloriﬁ  es the dominance we hold 
over our partner.
But more troublesome is the talk of 
“the one” and “soulmates.” The idea two 
people “belong together” is fetishization. 
And, more importantly, it’s a targeted at-
tack on our insecurity that says “you will 
only be complete with someone else’s 
help.” And then after that, you get into 
how “there will be a singular person who 
we think you should have sex with and 
hang out with forever. And to have the same relationship with others 
is wrong.” These ideas inter-
nalize the psychological re-
straints we commonly put on 
one another.
The most common re-
straint has always been a 
sexual one. And while you 
don’t have to be comfortable 
with the thought of your part-
ner having sex with others or 
fantasizing about it, you do have to accept 
they are their own person with thoughts 
and desires.
Often, when someone’s cheated on, it’s 
not their partner they (or the general pub-
lic) get mad at. Instead, it’s usually the per-
son or persons who their partner cheated 
on them with (such as Monica Lewinsky, 
who was blasted for her involvement with 
former President Bill Clinton). Of course, 
it’s not okay to break trust with others. I’m 
simply acknowledging the reality of why 
we’re mad — it’s because our property 
was infringed upon, not our trust. You 
wouldn’t leave your dog poop in my yard 
so how will you have sex with my partner?
This same idea is why we’ve also  
heard stories of toxic relationships where 
one partner controls who the other goes 
out with or is allowed to see. Heck, that 
makes up most of our sitcoms and mov-
ies. But why do they think they have to do 
this? It's to protect their status. This sounds 
like apologizing for abuse in relationships. 
There’s no excuse for toxicity toward your 
partner. But most relationships are already 
toxic. They are not based out of love. But 
instead, they formulate something like 
love out of constraints toward each other. 
I don’t know what the answer to this is. 
But I know I refuse to be owned or to hold 
ownership over anyone.
Levi Cooper is a UF English Senior. His 
column normally appears on Wednesdays.Your relationship is probably toxicColumn
As a senior, I thought I had 
participated in every ice-
breaker imaginable: two 
truths and a lie, turn to 
the person next to you and 
shake hands, share what you did this 
summer, etc. Until last week, when 
one professor asked each student to 
introduce themselves by brieﬂ  y de-
scribing their personality type.
The cringe-worthy thought of 
standing in front of a group of strangers and 
saying, “Hello, I’m goal-oriented and high-
stress! Nice to meet you!” made me break a 
sweat. I wondered if my introduction would 
scare away potential group project partners 
and how it would measure up to others’ de-
scriptions. I found myself suddenly invested in 
whether the person next to me was an INTJ 
or a Type A, even though I didn’t know their 
name.
While personality assessments have become 
typical ways of categorizing people in career, 
classrooms and even clinical settings, why do 
so many of us still ﬁ  nd such a strong sense of 
self in aligning with a type?
Many of my classmates added disclaim-
ers before sharing their personalities, such as 
apologizing for being one of the ﬁ  rst Type Bs to 
introduce themselves or admitting the closest 
they’ve gotten to discovering their personality 
was by taking a BuzzFeed spirit-animal quiz. 
On the other hand, one peer casually admitted 
they keep a note on their phone listing their 
friends’ Myers-Briggs personality types to have 
for reference.
This showed me while each person thinks 
about his or her personality a little differently, 
the majority of college students do still place an 
emphasis on identifying as some sort of “type.”
I ﬁ  nd this interesting because in an era 
where we have so many ways to craft our iden-
tities creatively, visually or through our work 
— for an audience of both signiﬁ  cant others 
and strangers — we are so much more than an acronym-clad description or a letter 
that supposedly dictates our stress 
levels or our strengths.
One reason I think we cling to 
these personas is that by framing 
ourselves via a relatable, well-known 
category or label, we can take the 
power of how we are presented.
Social psychologists refer to this 
concept of telling stories about our-
selves or describing ourselves in spe-
ciﬁ  c ways to take control of how people per-
ceive us. Positioning ourselves as one “type” of 
personality, whether it’s a Type B, a motivator 
or a debater, is one way of engaging in identity 
work.
Labeling our personality may make us feel 
more in touch with who we are on the surface 
and how we work with the people in our lives, 
but after my class activity, I started to wonder 
if my generation sees these descriptors more 
as status symbols that showcase our apparent 
strengths.
Plus, the black-and-white divide between 
Type A, a notoriously high-stress, ambitious 
personality, and its complete opposite counter-
part, Type B, is cliché and outdated.
We each take on different qualities, even 
from personas we may not identify with all the 
time. For example, on days I feel high-strung, 
I am completely in touch with my Type A side 
— while many other times, I feel more carefree 
and embrace elements of the Type B persona. 
So while personality types may shed light onto 
some behaviors of our friends or classmates, 
they just barely scratch the surface of who we 
are as people and may not always be 100 per-
cent accurate.  
Latching on to a persona means something 
different for each of us, but I think we should 
look beyond the type and embrace all parts of 
our personality — and the uniqueness of those 
around us.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column normally appears on Wednesdays.Don’t cling to an artiﬁ  cial personality labelColumn
Levi Cooper
opinions@alligator.org
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
THE MURAL BLURS 
THE LINE BETWEEN 
BUILDING AND 
PAINTING.
Angela DiMichele 
Alligator staff writer 
As Iryna Kanishcheva 
walked downtown the past 
three years, she would fanta-
size about a mural big enough 
to fill a blank 33-foot-tall wall. 
As of Wednesday, the mural 
she pictured is a reality. Light 
and dark brown and blue acryl-
ic shapes swirl around 13 win-
dows across the 57-foot width 
of the building that houses 
Flaco’s Cuban Bakery, at 6 NW 
Second St. 
Kanishcheva, a 37-year-old 
UF business administration 
master’s student, founded the 
first urban art program in North 
Florida, 352walls, in 2015, she 
said. She now operates and 
owns GNV Urban Art, her inde-
pendent urban art agency. 
She invited internationally 
known artist Manuel Di Rita, 
also known as Peeta, from 
Venice, Italy to create one of 
his signature 3D optical illu-
sion murals downtown to cel-
ebrate the establishment of her 
art agency.
Ryan Frankel, 38, donated 
$12,600 to fund the mural, he 
said. The Community Redevel-
opment Agency will reimburse 
him for half of the money he 
spent, Frankel said.
The mural is not typical be-
cause it combines math, sci-
ence, art and an interaction 
between the environment sur-
rounding the building. 
The blue color at the top of 
the mural and the color of the 
sky are the same shade, mak-
ing the building look transpar-
ent, Kanishcheva said. Di Rita began painting the 
mural Aug. 29. He painted 
the final touch-ups of smooth 
brown lines Wednesday morn-
ing after painting for about six 
hours each day from a lifted 
platform.
Di Rita’s signature 3D ef-
fect, called anamorphic effect, 
plays a perspective game with 
the windows, making them ap-
pear to extrude from the build-
ing and distort the boundaries 
of the building itself, he said. 
“Mostly other artists, they 
use the surface of the wall like 
a canvas,” he said. “For me, 
it’s like looking at the light of 
the environment, looking at the 
colors, trying to match it like to 
blend it with the environment 
as much as possible.” 
The collaboration process 
among Di Rita, Frankel, Kan-
ishcheva, the CRA and building 
owner Joseph Semrani took al-
most a year to manage, Kanish-
cheva said. 
Once everyone saw Di Rita’s 
art, they fully supported the 
project.
“I felt that Iryna had worked 
hard to bring a world-class art-
ist to Gainesville, and all that 
was missing was funding,” 
Frankel said. 
As Di Rita returns home to 
Italy, Thursday morning, Kan-
ishcheva will continue plan-
ning murals to be painted in 
Florida. 
Her next projects will be 
at the Florida Theater and on 
a three-story building in Jack-
sonville.
“There is not any similar 
mural in Gainesville,” she said. 
“There is nothing in Florida 
like this.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org Gainesville gets 33-foot-tall mural on downtown building
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
TOP & BOTTOM: Muralist Manuel Di Rita finished the 3D-painted mural with acrylics Wednesday. The 
optical illusion mural took a week to complete.
Gabrielle Seminara 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Living with a disability is like 
being a mountain climber for Erin 
Waterman.
“Mountains are a part of your 
every day,” said Waterman, a 
23-year-old UF second-year physi-
cal therapy doctoral student. 
“Eventually, you get your moun-
tain legs, and they’re just a part of 
the path.” 
Waterman was the keynote 
speaker at the Disability Resource 
Center’s first Disability Advocacy 
Assembly Thursday night in Cy-
press Hall. About 50 people at-tended and received free pizza 
and T-shirts. 
“The purpose of this event was 
to gather a community together 
that cares about disability inclu-
sion and to celebrate disability 
identity,” said Beth Roland, the 
event organizer and assistant di-
rector and learning specialist at 
the center.
A representative from UF Stu-
dent Government, the Ambassa-
dors for Disability Awareness and 
Delta Alpha Pi, an academic honor 
society that recognizes students 
with disabilities, all spoke about 
disability awareness at the event. 
Ms. Wheelchair Florida 2018, 
Shavaughn Barnes, performed in American Sign Language. She 
came donned in a large tiara and 
white sash, signing the song “This 
is Me” from the movie “The Great-
est Showman.”
“I hope they take away that 
having a disability basically 
doesn’t stop you from doing any-
thing,” Barnes said.
Asha Jackson, a 19-year-old UF 
communications sciences and dis-
orders sophomore, said UF doesn’t 
talk about disability enough. 
“Disabled people are an under-
mined group and we don’t think 
about what they go through,” 
Jackson said. “We need to raise 
awareness.”Disability Resource Center hosts first Advocacy Assembly
About 50 people attended.
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Pins were passed out with words of encouragement at the UF 
Disability Advocacy Assembly Thursday night.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
Come one.  
Come all.  
Come hungry.
Visit us at the Butler Town Center 
3490 SW Archer RoadCold-Pressed Juice on Tap 
Self-Serve Coffee & Espresso 
Sushi & Ramen Station 
Salad Bar and Hot Bar  
Fresh Hand-Tossed Pizza 
1000s of Local & Organic Items 
100s of Wine & Craft Beer Selections
Highest Quality Supplements & Body Care
Indoor & Outdoor Seating with Free Wi-Fi  We have something for everyone.
PLU 300214  Valid 9/17/18–10/26/18 at Whole Foods Market  
Gainesville location only. Must present coupon at time of purchase.  
One per customer. Cannot be combined with any other offer or discount. 
Not valid on alcohol, gift cards or e-store purchases. Void if duplicated. 
No cash value. No change or credit will be given. $5 off $25
9/17/18–10/26/1810   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
BETTY BAKER DIED IN JUNE AT 
THE AGE OF 69. 
Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Deborah Bowie still remembers hud-
dling in the back of the Gainesville Cham-
ber of Commerce meeting room, swap-
ping stories with Betty Baker like they 
had known each other for a lifetime. 
Truthfully, the pair had just met, but 
their friendship was instantaneous. Baker 
had that effect on people, Bowie said. 
“The interesting thing about Betty is 
that every person you meet will say that 
she was their mentor,” Bowie said. “Ev-
eryone was so connected to her.”
To honor the former Alachua County 
Manager, the city of Gainesville and the 
LifeSouth Community Blood Center host-
ed a blood drive Tuesday at City Hall. She 
hopes to make the blood drive an annual 
event. Nine people participated in this 
year’s drive, said Danielle Dodge, a Life-
South mobile team supervisor. 
Baker made those all throughout the 
community, whether she was helping 
the homeless, organizing blood drives 
or serving on community boards, Bowie 
said. Now after her passing, her friends 
and colleagues are working to keep her legacy of public service alive. 
Baker died in June at the age of 69 af-
ter battling cancer, Dodge said. She had 
a long career in local government, start-
ing as the county administrative director 
in 2002 and eventually being promoted 
to county manager in 2013. She was 
both the ﬁ  rst female and the ﬁ  rst African 
American to hold this position, according 
to an Alachua County newsletter. 
Despite the time they spent swapping 
stories, Baker kept the struggles of her 
life private, Bowie said. At Baker’s funer-
al, Bowie learned she had been a single 
mother, who was putting her children 
through school while tackling rigorous 
training herself to pursue a career in city 
government. 
“We wanted to offer people the oppor-
tunity to make a donation in the name of 
someone like Baker, who was the epito-
me of public service,” she said.
Danielle Dodge used to work alongside 
Baker during Gainesville blood drives. 
She remembers how passionate Baker 
was about getting people to donate blood, 
so she felt that organizing a blood drive 
in her honor would do her memory jus-
tice, she said. 
“I feel like Betty is still helping us save 
lives even though she’s gone,” she said.Everyone’s mentor: Gainesville 
hosts blood drive in honor of 
late county manager
By Tyler Nettuno
Contributing Writer
A new high-tech mouthguard developed 
by UF researchers is helping scientists under-
stand the effects of head injuries. 
Named H3, the mouthguard is ﬁ  tted with 
a computer chip that has 11 sensors, includ-
ing devices to measure the force of impacts 
and  head rotation, said Yong-Kyu Yoon, a 
UF Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering associate professor, who devel-
oped the technology.
Using an app via Bluetooth, sensors offer 
real-time measurements of heart stress and 
heat stress as a player participates in prac-
tice, he said. 
Researchers hope to use the information 
sent from the mouthguard to see how im-
pacts affect the body in training, Yoon said. 
“We still don’t know the direct relation-
ship between concussions and impacts,” 
Yoon said. “But we know there’s a chronic relationship between the two.”
It will be available to the public in around 
a year, Yoon said in June. 
Using technology to detect head impacts 
is not a new concept, according to Yoon. 
Impact sensors on helmets have existed 
for years, but UF doctoral researcher Todd 
Schumann said helmet sensor readings are 
not always accurate because the helmet may 
move differently than the head. From its po-
sition inside the mouth, the H3 gives a much 
more direct measurement, he said.
The researchers believe the H3, with its 
ability to measure data over time, will im-
prove society’s understanding of the effects 
that repeated head impacts have on athletes. 
Yoon said the H3 could give researchers new 
insight into the nature of concussions and 
the steps that can be taken to prevent them.
“[The H3] will provide much excellent in-
formation for concussion determination, or for 
any other damage determination,” Yoon said.UF researchers develop 
impact-sensing mouthguardTHE OCALA BARN IS FIRST IN 
FLORIDA TO PROVIDE HORSE 
ACUPUNCTURE.
Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new barn outside Ocala may treat 
several Kentucky Derby winners in a 
seemingly unconventional way: acupunc-
ture. 
UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine 
opened a 6,240-square-foot barn, which 
includes 12 stalls and a treatment area, 
for horse acupuncture Tuesday in Red-
dick, Florida, a town north of Ocala. 
The Equine Acupuncture Center is the 
ﬁ  rst of its kind in Florida, said Alison 
Morton, UF’s clinical associate professor 
and chief of service for large animal sur-
gery. It will likely serve several Kentucky 
Derby winners, she said.
Many performance horses require a 
multimodal approach to treat injuries,  
which incorporates western and eastern 
styles of medicine, she said. 
“Acupuncture combined with ‘west-
ern medicine’ often helps horses perform 
their best,” Morton said. 
In addition to veterinary acupuncture, 
the new center will practice herbal medi-
cine, Morton said. 
“We are also gaining knowledge that 
acupuncture can potentially beneﬁ  t heal-
ing of tendon and ligament injuries which 
are common in our performance horses,” 
Morton said.Pamela Lynn, owner of Paloose Ranch 
in Ocala, has a team of chiropractors, 
massage therapists and acupuncturists 
for the horses at her ranch, but she thinks 
the new center will be beneﬁ  cial to the 
community of horse owners and caregiv-
ers, she said. 
“The fact we are going to have more 
people involved will make it more acces-
sible,” Lynn said. “We like to take differ-
ent approaches to healing.”
The center will be led by Huisheng 
Xie, who is internationally recognized for 
his expertise in the practice and educa-
tion of veterinary acupuncture and herbal 
medicine, Morton said. 
Xie also founded the Chi Institute of 
Traditional Chinese Veterinary Medicine 
in Reddick, which educates veterinary 
students in alternative medicine. 
Despite it still being studied, the bene-
ﬁ  ts of veterinary acupuncture so far range 
from reduction of pain, improving neu-
romuscular function, effects on immune 
function and stem cell activity, modiﬁ  ca-
tion of behavior and more, Morton said. 
Many of the beneﬁ  ts of acupuncture 
have been investigated and validated 
when used on people and other species, 
and increased research in horses has 
started to provide similar evidence, Mor-
ton said. 
For horses, acupuncture is most com-
monly used for musculoskeletal problems 
and lameness. 
“We are hopeful that we can expand 
other sports medicine services for horses, 
too, in the future,” Morton said.UF oﬀ  ers horse acupuncture
THIRTEEN AGENCIES HAVE 
ALREADY JOINED THE SITE.
J. Cameron Davidson 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville is uniting volunteers with lo-
cal nonproﬁ  t agencies with a new website. 
ServeGNV.org, which opened for registra-
tion Aug. 31, matches volunteers with agen-
cies through a survey tailored for people’s in-
terest, city spokesperson Chip Skinner wrote 
in an email. Agencies can publish an unlim-
ited number of programs for volunteers to 
attend. Volunteers can also read agency bi-
ographies and receive event notiﬁ  cations by 
following an organization. 
Background checks will be conducted on 
prospective volunteers, which are free for 
agencies, said Sarah Blanc, a civic engage-
ment and service coordinator at Santa Fe 
College. Blanc’s organization, the Santa Fe 
College Civic Engagement and Service of-
ﬁ  ce, tries to encourage students to volunteer 
more frequently and is one of the ﬁ  rst 13 lo-
cal agencies partnered with the platform.  
These background checks will help agen-
cies save money, Blanc said. Registration is 
free for organizations that want to partici-
pate. 
Caitlin DeYoung, a 21-year-old UF envi-ronmental engineering senior, said the site 
is a good place for people like her to connect 
with agencies they feel passionate about.
“My fraternity does not always focus on 
environmental concerns as much as I would 
like, so I would deﬁ  nitely use this new pro-
gram to get in touch with some environmen-
tal agencies seeking help,” said DeYoung, a 
member of Alpha Phi Omega, a community 
service fraternity.
Start-up agency Communities that Care 
Community Land Trust Board, which aims to 
solve housing inequality in Alachua County, 
is looking for volunteers through the site for 
help in the main ofﬁ  ce and with social me-
dia, said Karen Brown, the board’s recording 
secretary.
“We are looking for volunteers who are 
passionate about connecting underserved 
populations to home-ownership opportuni-
ties and to keep that positive and hopeful 
spirit rolling,” Brown said.  
David Ruiz, a 36-year-old Gainesville 
resident and serveGNV volunteer, said he is 
glad the city created a website for agencies to 
shed light on its organizational needs. 
“Volunteering locally is important be-
cause it is the best way to give back and pay 
it forward,” said Ruiz.  “The greatest place 
you can make a difference is locally.” City of Gainesville launches 
new site to connect volunteers 
Courtesy to The Alligator
A screenshot of serveGNV.org’s website, which connects nonproﬁ  ts and volunteers. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
  Advertise in the 2018 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY!  
352-376-4482GAME  DEADLINE  RUNDATE
Charleston Southern  Aug 29  Aug 31
Kentucky  Sep 05  Sep 07
Colorado State  Sep 12  Sep 14
LSU Oct 03 Oct 05
Georgia  (Jax)  Oct 24 Oct 26
Missouri  (Homecoming)  Oct 26 Nov 02
South Carolina  Nov 07  Nov 09
Idaho  Nov 14  Nov 16
SEC Championship  Nov 28  Nov 30Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of 
running away from po-
lice after he threatened a 
woman with a gun was 
arrested early Wednes-
day.
Michael Martell Jamall 
Smith, 30, of Gainesville, 
pointed a gun at a wom-
an and hit her in the face, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report.Smith was driving a rented Chrysler 200 
Tuesday night while the woman sat in the 
passenger seat, she told police. They were 
arguing over Smith not paying the rent for 
the car when he pulled out a gun from the 
back seat, the report said.  
“You see this s---? We gone die tonight,” 
Smith said, according to the report.
Smith hit her in the face with an open 
hand, and she feared for her life, the report 
said. The relationship between the woman 
and Smith is unknown. 
Smith was found guilty of robbery in 
2009 and had a warrant for not paying child support, according to the arrest report. 
An ofﬁ  cer saw Smith driving the Chrys-
ler near Candlelight Estates, at 1600 NE 12th 
Ave., while patrolling and tried to pull him 
over at about 2 a.m. Wednesday, the report 
said. A different woman was in the car at 
the time, police said. 
Police yelled for Smith to turn the car 
off. Instead, he drove away from police and 
parked on the north side of the complex, the 
report said.
Smith ran out of the car but was found 
by a police dog on Northeast Waldo Road, 
police said.While in custody, Smith did not answer 
questions about assaulting the woman and 
said he ran because of his warrant, the 
report said.
Smith was charged with one count of 
aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, 
one count of battery, one count of possess-
ing a weapon and ammunition as a felon, 
one count of resisting an ofﬁ  cer without 
violence and one count of ﬂ  eeing an ofﬁ  cer. 
He is held in Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $210,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgFelon accused of threatening a woman with gun 
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of threatening to 
cut someone’s eyes out with a piece 
of metal was arrested by Gainesville 
Police Monday night.
Joel Micah 
Wheeler, 36, of 
Gainesville, is ac-
cused of pulling 
out a thin, 5-inch 
wide and 1-foot-
long piece of metal 
twice during an ar-
gument with a man 
by the Miami Grill 
below The Standard, at 50 NW 13th 
St., according to an arrest report.
Wheeler was arguing with the 
man on West University Avenue when he pointed the piece of metal 
an inch away from the man’s face, 
the report said. The man told police 
he thought the metal was a knife, 
police said.
The man ran toward Miami Grill 
in fear, but Wheeler followed him to 
continue arguing. He pulled out the 
metal again and threatened to “cut his 
eyes out,” the report said.
Police searched Wheeler’s backpack 
and found three long pieces of metal. 
While in custody, Wheeler admitted to 
arguing with the man and confronting 
him with the metal, the report said.
Wheeler was charged with aggravat-
ed assault. He is held in Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $50,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgAssault happened near 
The Standard, police saySmith
Wheeler
Bailey LeFever 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A $600-tricycle joyride landed a Gainesville 
man in jail.
Gainesville Police arrested 
Joshua Mimbs, 30, after he 
wandered into a couple’s ga-
rage and stole a specialized 
bike, an arrest report said. 
The man stopped at homes 
around the Northwest 34th 
Terrace neighborhood to ask 
if they could give him a bike.  
A man noticed Mimbs 
looking into the windows of 
his home and heard the doorbell ring, the report 
said. 
Mimbs told the man he was looking for a 
bicycle, and the man said he didn’t have a bike 
for Mimbs, the report said. A witness called police to the area where 
Mimbs was last seen, GPD spokesperson Ben 
Tobias wrote in an email. 
The bike in question was a Schwinn adult 
tricycle outﬁ  tted with an electric motor, Tobias 
said. 
Ofﬁ  cers found Mimbs riding the tricycle and 
tried to pull him over, but he didn’t stop, Tobias 
said. 
Mimbs got off the bike and ran, but ofﬁ  cers 
caught up to him, Tobias said. Mimbs then 
agreed to show the ofﬁ  cers where he “found” 
the tricycle, Tobias said. 
Mimbs was on probation for grand theft auto 
at the time, the report said. 
He was charged with burglary, grand theft 
and resisting without violence and is being held 
in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $25,000 
bond.
@blefever10 
blefever@alligator.orgGPD: Man steals $600 
tricked-out tricycle 
Mimbs
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N      9-7-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
1BR for rent in 2-story house.
Available now for college student. $500/mo 
incl elec. Near UF: 1022 NW 3rd Ave. Call 
352-672-8657    9-14-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration.
 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     9-14-18-
6-14
Learn how to
Make an extra $400/wk
testing apps as a student at:
www.collegeopporturnity.club     9-7-18-3-14
Part-time church secretary needed week -
day afternoons: back up to receptionist on 
phones and interacting with visitors. Looking 
for proficiency in Microsoft Suite, ACS and 
social media updates.    Email resume to 
sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.     9-7-18-3-14
Learn how to
make an extra $300 - $400 per week
doing surveys.
Go to: http://collegecashoffers.club     9-12-
18-5-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
MAKE EXTRA $450 a week
taking surveys as a college student. Go to 
www.collegemakemoneyopportunity.club    
9-10-18-3-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
Swim Lesson Instructors
Need transportation
Weekdays 3-6pm with option of 2x/week
Weekends Sat 9-12 Sun 2-5
Call Jill at (352) 335-0518     9-17-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Part-time office assistant for law office. 
Wed. & Thurs - Noon to 5:00 p.m. Answer 
phones; take information from potential 
clients; schedule appointments; run er -
rands. Reliable transportation necessary. 
Proficiency in Microsoft Word required. 
Email Resume with salary requirements to 
receptionist@millerelderlawfirm.com.     9-7-
18-5-14
Yardwork/some light housecleaning. Student, 
P/T a few hrs/wk. Wanted by retired UF grad. 
Close to UF, all equipment furn. $10-12/hr 
depending on exp/effectiveness. Reply w/ 
sched/ short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com     
9-7-5-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-1414 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
September 15, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.     9-7-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get Paid To Test Apps!
College students can make up to $400 per 
week testing Apps. Get started here: www.
testappsforcash.com     9-12-4-20
Learn how to
make an extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.paidcollegesurveys.com     9-12-
4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Quiet and easy to care for: 
Female Diamond Dove
with cage $10. Can deliver.
Contact nancyivey3@gmail.com    8-2-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: NICE WATCH
In front of Old Florida Gym on Wednesday, 
9/5. Call to identify. Ronald 352-466-3646    
9-12-3-25
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 “__ Told Me  
(Not to Come)”: 
1970 #1 hit
5 Folly
11 “Caught you!”
14 River to the 
Caspian
15 Spacecraft 
section
16 Apprehend
17 Skin tone 
achieved via 
pure will?
19 “__ had enough!”
20 Its contents need 
attention
21 Mont Blanc, e.g.
22 Romances
23 Storied engineer 
Jones
24 Ballet 
performance on 
skis?
26 Extinct bird
28 Forest
29 List-ending abbr.
32 __ sort
34 Tea variety
37 TV show 
destined for early 
cancellation?
42 Protuberance
43 “Glee” 
cheerleading 
coach
44 Small point
45 Purple shade
48 Copious 
quantities
51 Horse chatter?
54 Kitchen light
58 UPS Store 
supply
59 Mined find
60 Road 
construction 
sight
61 Six-pack 
components
62 Lame justification 
for the letter 
substitution 
in four puzzle 
answers?
64 Beluga yield
65 Serious attacks
66 Bone: Pref.
67 Nursery layer
68 Marine group 
that’s well-
armed?
69 Disorder
DOWN
1 Clara Schumann 
works, e.g.2 Large 
performance 
venue
3 Fountain 
creations
4 “Great” ninth-
century English 
monarch
5 “Perhaps”
6 Pentagon org.
7 Perfect
8 Criminal
9 Keep time with 
manually
10 Urge
11 Paper named for 
a vegetable
12 Chaos
13 More than 
rotund
18 BLT basic
22 Cooled one’s 
heels?
24 Waiting room 
piece
25 Figure (out)
27 Medico
29 Wane
30 Commercial 
prefix 
suggestive of 
accuracy
31 Broke down
33 Balaam’s mount
35 Paris agreement36 Health care 
worker, briefly
38 Deft
39 Farmer’s habitat?
40 Elephant tooth
41 Souvenir from a 
concert
46 __ power
47 One may be 
magic
49 Peak
50 “2 Broke Girls,” 
for one51 Garbo and 
Gable, e.g.
52 Like certain 
subjects in 
certain company
53 Free
55 Cad
56 Boots
57 Sources of shade
60 He played Ricky 
in early TV
62 Spanish pronoun
63 “Sure ’nuff”
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/07/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/07/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 7, 2018
ACROSS
1 Seething
6 Jaguar weapons
11 Half a dance
14 Stinger ingredient
15 Superman player 
Cavill
16 “The Last Jedi” 
villain Kylo
17 Alpine airs
18 Broken out, in 
a way
19 Days gone by, in 
days gone by
20 Capital on the 
Volga
21 Suppress, as a 
story
22 Punching tools
23 Suffix with fruct-
24 Hall of Fame 
manager Stengel
25 Sal of “Exodus”
26 Waters down
28 Taiwanese PC 
brand
29 Rita awarded 
the Presidential 
Medal of 
Freedom
30 Hankering
32 Depilatory cream
34 Historic span: 
Abbr.
35 Impediment 
to creativity ... 
and each set of 
puzzle circles
38 Big letters in 
family-owned 
supermarkets
40 Troubadour’s 
strings
41 Uncle __
42 Codes of conduct
44 Christian with 
style
46 Venerated one
50 Adorkable types
51 Lets off steam
52 JFK posting
53 “Psych” finale?
54 Is after
55 Field mice
57 Area 51 craft
58 Singer with 
Lawrence
59 Accept, with “for”
60 Greek org.
61 Lyft passenger
62 Difficult tasks
63 Hosp. parts
64 Mideast bigwigs
65 Will Rogers prop
DOWN
1 Work up
2 Risky proposition3 Turow 
biographical title
4 Not working
5 Fleur-de-__: 
Quebec flag 
image
6 Poolside chair
7 Debate 
equipment
8 Get under one’s 
skin
9 Small songbird
10 Letters on a 
Qantas baggage 
tag
11 Like many tees
12 Greek
13 “... et cetera”
14 How some tickets 
may be sorted
21 Scented pouch
22 Put on
24 Plant in many 
Road Runner 
cartoons
25 Dunderhead
27 What Marcie calls 
Peppermint Patty
29 Distance runners
31 Cultivates
33 Monastic figures
35 Golden State 
team
36 Christ the __: Rio 
landmark37 Crime show with 
several spin-offs
38 “You obviously 
can’t depend on 
me”
39 Fetches
43 Most junk mail
45 Comic book 
personnel
47 Change symbols, 
in math
48 Opera with 
Desdemona49 Alters with a light 
touch?
51 48-Down 
composer
54 “__ told”:  
“That’s the 
rumor”
55 Designer Wang
56 Name in boxy 
cars?
58 Higher ed. test
59 Cardinal’s  
letters
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/06/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, September 6, 2018
1.  Certain spa service
1.  Component 5.  Brittle
2.  ____ food6.  Type of heron
3.  Type of painkiller7.  Popcorn ____
4.  PaleILCFAA
OFARCTRCSPI
ERTEG
SHICEEN
PRNISIALERKNE
SPALETANSWERS: 1A-Facial  5A-Crisp  6A-Egret  7A-Kernel
1D-Factor  2D-Chinese  3D-Aspirin  4D-Pastel  B-Scarface9-7-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This 1983 Brian De Palma film was a remake 
of a 1932 movie with the same title.
BONUS
15 Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Heisman winner Tim 
T ebow stopped by Gainesville 
on Thursday to volunteer for 
Food4Kids, a program to help 
food-insecure families.ESPN's Jeff Darlington joins the alligatorSports podcast
Listen to his takes on Gainesville pizza joints, Rex Grossman's failed Heis-
man campaign and the Gators football team in our new episode of Gator-
Bites on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.FOOTBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
“Licensed to Ill,” the Beastie Boys’ debut 
album, dropped on Nov. 15, 1986. The 
album’s ﬁ  rst track, “Rhymin & Stealin,” is 
relatively provocative as far as early rap 
goes.
“Terrorizing suckers on the seven seas,”  
Ad-Rock, Mike D and MCA start, “and if 
you’ve got beef, you’ll get capped in the 
knees.”
The relevancy of “Licensed to Ill” be-
comes more apparent with each passing 
year. Through the last 31 years since the al-
bum’s debut, Florida has never lost to Ken-
tucky. The No. 25 Gators have done noth-
ing but terrorize the Wildcats on their way 
to accumulating the nation’s longest active 
winning streak.
Here are the three players that will 
determine the result of the high-stakes early 
season matchup.
Van Jefferson
The UF receiver got off to a slow start 
last week against Charleston Southern. He 
didn’t make his ﬁ  rst catch until the last 
play of the ﬁ  rst quarter on a 12-yard gain 
for a ﬁ  rst down. He was targeted twice be-
fore that, but a great defensive play and an 
unsuccessful goal-line fade yielded nothing. 
After that, he started getting better looks 
from Franks on his way to two redzone 
touchdowns
The misses weren’t his fault. There were 
instances where Feleipe Franks could’ve put 
the ball in a better spot or defensive backs 
made outstanding plays. But the focus will shift toward Jefferson to make more plays 
for his young quarterback.
Rayshad Jackson
Gators linebacker David Reese couldn’t 
make his way into the game last week 
due to a lingering ankle injury. Coach Dan 
Mullen said Monday that Reese wouldn’t 
be practicing earlier in the week, saying 
“Hopefully at the end of the week he can 
be ready to go.” That leaves redshirt junior 
Rayshad Jackson to start for the second con-
secutive week. He made ﬁ  ve tackles in his 
2018 debut and looked decent doing so. It’ll 
be interesting to see how he can match up 
against Kentucky’s talented running backs. 
Speaking of…Benny Snell
Snell is entering his junior year as Ken-
tucky’s all-time rushing touchdown leader. 
He led the SEC in rushing touchdowns last 
season with 19. He added two more in the 
Wildcats’ win over Central Michigan. The 
departure of 2017 starting quarterback Ste-
phen Johnson — a dangerous runner in his 
own right — means the team will focus even 
more of its offense through Snell. He carried 
the rock 20 times last week and caught a 
pass out of the backﬁ  eld. If Snell doesn’t get 
at least that amount on Saturday, it means 
something has gone completely wrong in 
the game and UK is airing it out. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org Three players to watch in UF’s game against UK
alligatorSports 
College picks 
column: Week 2
By Alligator Staff
Week 1 of the college football season 
has come and gone, and we’ve learned 
quite a lot. 
Rather, we learned a lot about what 
we already knew. Willie Taggart is a 
fraud, Chip Kelly was a bad choice and 
Hawaii’s Cole McDonald is the Heisman 
frontrunner. 
Now that we’ve gotten the obvious 
out of the way, let’s get down to brass 
tacks. There’s only two top-25 matchups 
this week. A 31-game winning streak 
that you’ve deﬁ  nitely never heard of is 
on the line. And the alligatorSports Picks 
Column is back despite your cries for 
mercy.
Before we meet our competitors for 
this season, writers Alanis Thames and 
Morgan McMullen will debate the highly 
anticipated matchup between Western 
Kentucky and Maine.
Western Kentucky (-9.5) will win 
because...
There’s no way the Hilltoppers are 
as bad as they played in that 34-3 loss 
to Wisconsin last week. Nope. And you 
better believe Western Kentucky will be 
looking for blood when it visits LT Smith 
Stadium to take on the Maine Black 
Bears.
Sure, the Hilltoppers failed to ﬁ  nd the 
endzone last week. And sure their de-
fense struggled mightily. But their offen-
sive line only gave up one sack against 
the Badgers. 
Quarterback Drew Eckels wasn’t that 
bad either, especially given it was his 
ﬁ  rst career start at QB. He ﬁ  nished 15-26 
for 167 yards.
And you know what else? It was 
WISCONSIN. The No. 4 team in the na-
tion. The same team that almost made 
the college football playoff.
It’d be delusional to think that the 
Hilltoppers -- a team that led the coun-PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network / 850 
see PICKS,  page 19
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Rayshad Jackson (44) recorded ﬁ  ve tackles in UF's season opener Saturday.
Streaks are fun.
Especially when it comes to 
sports, streaks are the stuff of leg-
ends. Events like a consecutive-
game hitting streak in baseball 
and a goal-scoring streak in soccer 
are amazing to see.
Streaks can even be excit-
ing for the players. When former 
Florida third baseman Jonathan 
India went on a 24-game hitting 
streak last season, you could see 
the smile on his face widen with 
every swing of the bat.
In most cases, however, 
streaks mean absolutely nothing 
to the players and coaches. It’s 
something only fans care about.
Case in point, Florida football 
vs. Kentucky. The 31-game win 
streak.I wasn’t alive 
last time the Wild-
cats beat the Gators. 
Heck, I wasn’t even 
a thought. My par-
ents hadn’t even 
met in college when 
UK last beat UF in 
1986. 
Sure, it’s cool from 
the fan perspective. 
It’s like Kentucky is 
just destined to lose to Florida for-
ever, and it feels great reminding 
Wildcats fans of their misfortunes 
every year.
There’s a but in here.
But...
Only fans care about that stuff. 
Not the players, not the coaches. 
The fans.“I don’t know 
what that has to do 
with the game this 
week,” Florida coach 
Dan Mullen said on 
the importance of 
the winning streak to 
the team. “Our guys 
didn’t have a whole 
lot to do with that, 
and neither did the 
guys on their team.”
Just because Florida just so 
happens to beat Kentucky every 
time the two teams play doesn’t 
mean they care about what hap-
pened in the past. 
All these players and coaches 
can do is control the outcome of 
this one speciﬁ  c game. 
“I’m deﬁ  nitely aware of it but that’s not something we’re re-
ally focused on,” UF cornerback 
Marco Wilson said. “Most of those 
games we didn’t even play in so it 
doesn’t really matter. It just mat-
ters next game go out there and 
just perform.”
So go ahead Gators fans, keep 
ﬂ  aunting this win streak. The lon-
gest active win streak in college 
football. But keep it to the Ken-
tucky fans.
The players don’t care about 
it, nor do the coaches. They just 
want to go out and earn a win, 
whether there are other implica-
tions on the game or not. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgThat 31-year win streak against Kentucky? It means nothing.Jake's on a Plane / Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
@DreilingerJake16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
(352)727-4730 • 7400 W. NEWBERRY RD.• Trampolines • Laser Tag  • Rope Course
• Arcade Games • Birthday Parties • CafeBOGO $10 GAME CARD!
ONLY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND FRIDAY. Expires 12.31.2018
Must present coupon. One coupon per visit. Cannot be combined with any other offers.
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
There are few college showdowns that 
evoke passion and ire like the longstanding 
conﬂ  ict between Florida and Florida State.
But as the Gators (2-3-1) prepare to face 
off against both FSU and UCF during their 
in-state road trek over the weekend, UF 
forward Parker Roberts isn’t leaving out 
the Knights when it comes to rivalries.
“Every team in Florida that (we) play 
is a rivalry,” she said. “It’s like the battle 
of the states.”
It’s a “battle of the states” that the 
Gators hope to come out of unscathed, and 
both FSU and UCF will present a challenge 
to a UF team that hasn’t scored a goal in 
four games.
The Gators face their greatest hurdle 
ﬁ  rst. Over the course of the six games 
they’ve played, the No. 3 Seminoles (5-0-1) 
have scored 16 goals while only allowing 
a single goal. 
With Florida’s scoring woes -- the four games devoid of a goal is the longest score-
less streak in the team’s history -- it could 
attempt to focus on its lack of offense. But 
according to coach Becky Burleigh, the 
team has been doing quite the opposite.
“Most goals come from disrupting the 
other team and countering off of that,” 
Burleigh said. “It’s more about, ‘Can we 
keep the ball after we win it back and 
create something out of that?’”
Midﬁ  elder Parker Roberts elaborated 
on the tactic, explaining that the team was 
focusing on defending the Seminoles’ high-
powered offense rather than attempting to 
improve its own.
“We’ve been focusing on our defensive 
presence,” Roberts said. “Defense wins 
championships. You can’t just have a good 
offense because people can score on you.”
FSU’s 2.67 goals per match is good for 
26th in the nation and its single goal al-
lowed is matched by just 12 other Division 
I squads. 
“I wouldn’t wanna play any other team 
right now,” Roberts said. “Especially with it being Florida State, it’s really gonna 
pump us up.”
UCF, while a much better candidate for 
Florida to end its scoreless streak against, 
may still cause problems for the Gators.
The Knights (1-2) have scored three 
goals and have three against them, though 
their opponents have included the No. 18 
and No. 2 teams in the nation. 
Something that would aid the Gators 
in both their matches would be the return 
of Deanne Rose, the team’s leading scorer 
from last year. However, Rose’s return 
isn’t certain to play much of a role for UF.
“She’s back, but that doesn’t necessar-
ily mean she’s available,” Burleigh said. 
“We’re in talks with Canada about her 
status.”
The Gators will face off against FSU in 
Tallahassee at 7 p.m on Friday before trav-
eling to Orlando two days later to play UCF 
at 6 p.m.
 @riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org  Gators soccer starts in-state road stretchBy Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
The No. 8 Florida volleyball team trav-
els to Flagstaff, Arizona, to compete in the 
Lumberjack Invitational. The Gators begin 
the tournament with a doubleheader to-
day against California State - Northridge at 
12:30 p.m. and Northern Arizona at 10 p.m. 
The team will then face Southern Illinois on 
Saturday at noon.
Today's back-to-back matches will be 
UF’s sixth and seventh matches through the 
ﬁ  rst two weeks of the season.
“With so many young players, we need 
more matches,” coach Mary Wise said 
Tuesday. “But because our players are as 
physical as they are, it takes more time to 
recover, so we will rely on our depth.”
UF (3-2) has shown that its depth can 
step up when it needs to. Players like senior 
middle blocker Taelor Kellum and redshirt 
sophomore setter Holly Carlton have taken 
their game to the next level while some of 
the starters have struggled.
“I would say offensively I’ve connected 
really well with both setters in the games against Louisville and UCF last week,” Kel-
lum said.
The Chattanooga, Tennessee, native 
tallied 19 total kills against UCF and Louis-
ville along with a seven-block performance 
against the Cardinals. 
The Gators will also look to the right-side 
hitting ability of Carlton, who registered 39 
kills in the three matches last weekend. Her 
6-foot-7 frame, combined with her strong 
hits, made it almost impossible for oppos-
ing defenses to cover her.
“This week we’ll try and get even more 
people involved in the offense,” said Allie 
Monserez, the team’s ﬁ  fth-year setter. “In 
the last match, you could kind of see our 
lineup change a little, so it’s just about get-
ting everyone comfortable.”
Monserez led the roster with 82 of Flori-
da’s assists in the Bubly Invitational.
One player who did not seem to get in-
volved, however, was junior middle block-
er, Rachael Kramer.
The 6-foot-8 Phoenix, Arizona, native 
has yet to log 10 kills in a match this sea-
son and has swung a meager .092 hitting 
percentage.“In Rachael’s case, it’s just a matter of 
reps with both setters and getting her to in-
crease her range,” Wise said. “No concern 
that that’s not going to happen.”
Kramer and company will face a Mata-
dors team (2-4) that presents a spirited of-
fense.
Senior outside hitter Aeryn Owens and 
junior middle blocker Morgan Salone were 
both named to the CSUN/Pepperdine Chal-
lenge All-Tournament team on Sept. 1 after 
their impressive play in the tournament.
Owens led her team in kills in all three 
matches of the CSUN-Pepperdine Chal-
lenge, averaging 4.08 kills per set, while Sa-
lone had a .439 hitting percentage with only 
two attack errors in the tournament. 
Florida’s back-row defense will be the 
key to stopping the Matadors’ offensive 
duo. 
“It’s so hard to kill balls in our own 
gym,” Monserez said. “Our defenders 
are so good, especially the freshmen, 
they are just all-out effort all the time.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org.UF volleyball begins Lumberjack Invitational
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The UF cross country team is coming off a disap-
pointing 2017 season and is looking to surprise the 
SEC and the NCAA South Region in 2018.
The Gators bring back a lot of experience on both 
the men’s and women’s teams this year along with 
some youthful talent that should help contribute right 
away.
For the men, three runners that redshirted a year 
ago will be available.
Redshirt sophomore Colin Schaefer and redshirt ju-
niors Jack Guyton and Magnus Pattersen all impressed 
at the 2016 SEC Championships and 2016 NCAA South 
Regional Championships. The trio went on to ﬁ  nish in 
the top 100 at both events.
Redshirt freshmen Matt Clark and Nick Deal were 
both highly rated out of high school and will look to 
help catapult the UF men up the rankings this season.
Like Clark and Deal, freshman Trevor Foley will be 
hoping to place his stamp on the program in his ﬁ  rst 
college season. The 2017 cross country gold medal-
ist was a ﬁ  ve-time state champion in high school and 
should help improve the team tremendously.
The women also returns a group of strong runners 
from the 2017 campaign. 
For the women’s team, 2016 All-SEC First Team 
runner Elisabeth Bergh returns after redshirting last 
season. Bergh ﬁ  nished in the top 10 at both the 2016 
SEC Championships and the 2016 NCAA South Re-
gional Championships.
Junior Jessica Pascoe, redshirt senior Morgan Hull 
and senior Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell all impressed with 
top-100 ﬁ  nishes at the SEC Championships last sea-
son.
Like the men, the Gators are bringing in some fresh 
faces on the women’s side as well.
Freshman Grace Blair won back-to-back individual 
high school titles in 2016 and 2017, and Redshirt 
freshman Abbie Harrelson ﬁ  nished runner-up for 
Niceville High in the 2016 FHSAA Class 3A Cross 
Country Championship.
Both newcomers should help provide a spark in 
their ﬁ  rst season competing as Gators.
The UF men are projected to ﬁ  nish tied for sixth, 
while the UF women are projected to ﬁ  nish eighth in 
the SEC Cross Country Preseason Coaches’ Poll.
Both teams ﬁ  nished just 10th and 13th last year, 
respectively.
Florida’s ﬁ  rst meet of the season takes place on 
Sept. 7, at the UNF invitational in Jacksonville.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.orgFlorida cross country
begins season today   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Morgan
UFUK @ UF -(14.5)
UGA @ SC -(+9.5)
UFUK @ UFSC
UGAUGA @ SCCLECLE @ TAMU -(+12.5)
CLECLE @ TAMUSTANUSC @ STAN -(-3.5)
STANUSC @ STANASUMSU @ ASU -(+6.5)
ASUMSU @ ASUKSUMSST @ KSU -(+9.5)
MSSTMSST @ KSUNWDuke @ NW -(-3)
DukeDuke @ NWMaineMaine @ WKU -(-9.5)
WKUMaine @ WKUMark L.Jake
UF
UFUGA
SCCLE
TAMUSTAN
STANMSU
ASUKSU
KSUNW
NWMaine
WKUEdgarMark S.
UK
UFUGA
UGACLE
CLESTAN
USCMSU
MSUMSST
MSSTNW
NWWKU
MaineGrahamAlanis
UK
UFUGA
UGACLE
CLESTAN
USCASU
MSUMSST
MSSTNW
NWWKU
WKUNickPICKS alligator meme of the week
INSIDE
Van Jefferson has morphed into a natural leader. How did he rise so quickly within the 
ranks among his teammates?  
ONLINE
Listen to our newest podcast with ESPN’s Jeff Darlington as we quiz him about Heisman 
winners, UF football and Gainesville’s top pizza places.
METAMORPHOSIS
...from a new face to 
an invaluable leaderVan Jeﬀ  erson took 
a strange path...KICK OFF
Editor: Morgan McMullen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Jessie White
Alligator, Friday, September 7, 2018FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR
FLORIDA defense vs. KENTUCKY offense
Drake JacksonCT erry WilsonQBDavid BouvierWRBenny SnellRB
Elijah ConliffeNT
Marco WilsonCB
C.J. HendersonCB
Jabari ZunigaDE
T.J. SlatonDT
Chauncey 
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR
David 
ReeseMIKE
Vosean 
JosephWILLJachai 
PoliteBUCK
Donovan 
StinerS
Jeawon T aylorSLogan StenbergGNaasir WatkinsTLynn Bowden 
Jr.WR
Bunchy 
StallingsGGeorge Asafo-
AdjeiT C.J. ConradTE
T avin 
RichardsonWR
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Tyrie Cleveland’s pupils darted 
over the heads of about a dozen 
reporters who were fashioned 
around him in a semicircle. 
He locked eyes with fellow 
wideout Van Jefferson. Cleve-
land, a junior himself, had just 
been asked a question about Jef-
ferson’s leadership qualities while 
the Ole Miss transfer led fellow 
receivers Trevon Grimes and Josh 
Hammond toward the rear of the 
huddle of journalists. 
Before he could conjure im-
promptu praises of Jefferson’s 
work ethic, Cleveland chuckled 
at the sight of his teammates’ sar-
castically interested faces. It’s a 
prank the corps of pass catchers 
enjoy playing on each other, act-
ing interested in what their team-
mates have to say and sometimes 
raising their hands like they have 
a question. 
The spontaneous comedy skits 
come with a newfound swagger 
among the wide receivers. It’s a 
lineup that includes veteran guys 
like Cleveland, Hammond, junior 
Freddie Swain and redshirt senior 
Dre Massey. But none are argu-
ably more important than Jeffer-
son, a 6-foot-2, 197-pound target 
who compiled 91 catches, 999 
yards and four touchdowns in two 
campaigns with the Rebels. 
His ability to play had been in 
jeopardy from the NCAA and SEC 
after the groups sanctioned Mis-
sissippi. He transferred out of the 
school and applied for immediate 
eligibility. A decision in Jeffer-
son’s and Florida’s favor would’ve 
provided a huge boost in depth for 
the Gators. 
However, Jefferson’s off-the-
field intangibles are what make 
him a special addition for coach 
Dan Mullen in his first season in 
charge. He may turn out to be 
more important than that for the 
team as a vocal presence in the 
locker room despite being on cam-pus for only eight months. 
***
Vanchi LaShawn Jefferson Jr. 
stepped onto the grounds of the 
University of Florida in January 
with uncertainty about whether or 
not he would play during the 2018 
season. His eligibility had to be 
approved by both the NCAA and 
SEC because he was transferring 
from Ole Miss, which was under 
investigation for NCAA violations 
at the time and eventually hit with 
a two-year bowl ban.
But why Florida? Why transfer 
to a team with a first-year head 
coach as opposed to any other 
SEC school?
“When I was leaving Ole Miss, 
I had coach Mullen and coach 
(Billy) Gonzales come talk to me, 
so I just feel like this is the place 
for me,” Jefferson said. “There’s a 
new staff, and I was a new player 
coming in, so I felt like it was a 
win-win situation. It worked out.”
With the new administration, 
Jefferson could come to UF with 
the same knowledge of the play-
book as any other player on the 
team. He’s also closer to most of 
his family, which lives in Jackson-
ville. His 2-year-old daughter, who 
lives in his home state of Tennes-see with her mother, comes down 
to visit him often.
“She is going to be here for all 
the games,” he said. “She’s a good 
girl.”
Of course, any new man on 
campus needs a roommate. 
Jefferson went through the 
vetting process and eventually 
decided to room with redshirt 
sophomore Feleipe Franks, who 
started eight games at quarterback 
in 2017.
The two fostered a friendship, 
hanging out so much that it got to 
the point where Jefferson became 
somewhat annoyed with the stu-
dious, talkative quarterback. 
“He’s always in the film room,” 
Jefferson said. “I would come 
in the house and he’d be on his 
iPad watching practice and coach 
me up. He’d call me and be like, 
‘Why didn’t you catch that skinny 
(post)? Why didn’t you catch that 
fade?’ I’ll be like, ‘My bad.’ He’s 
always looking for the upper edge 
to get better.”
In addition to studying film 
from the spring, the roommates 
took the field in the Swamp over 
the summer and threw the ball 
around. The hard work there also 
came with a little bit of play. He 
recalled one time when Franks 
stood in the end zone and threw 
an 80-yard bomb to the other side 
of the field. 
It’s already evident that the 
extra time the now-former room-
mates put in together is paying 
off. Jefferson caught two touch-
downs from Franks in UF’s 53-6 
victory over Charleston South-
ern on Saturday, both on 
quick slants.
The second scoring play 
came when a CSU defensive 
draped Jefferson on the 
goal line, but the place-
ment on the three-yard 
pass was too perfect and 
the hands of Jefferson too 
strong. UF went up 38-0 
with 1:38 remaining in the 
first half on the reception. 
The payoff didn’t come 
without earlier sacrifice. Jef-
ferson didn’t limit himself by 
just putting in extra time with 
Franks. He has established 
himself as one of the leaders by 
practicing extra with the other 
receivers. He surrounded him-
self with the veteran guys like 
Hammond and Cleveland, who 
showed the transfer the ropes 
and helped him adjust to the new 
school.
Then, with the absence of 
coaches in the summertime, Jef-
ferson began coaching them up. 
According to Cleveland, one of 
the best things Jefferson does is 
lead by example.
“I learned a lot from Van,” he said. “Just being able to see him 
run different routes and how he 
handles himself on and off the 
field. I’m just trying to take up all 
the notes I can from him.”
Jefferson has taken a special 
liking to Grimes, a fellow transfer 
who came to Florida from Ohio 
State. 
The sophomore from Fort Lau-
derdale, Florida, said he learned 
how to polish his footwork from 
the older receiver. He cleaned 
up his ability to get in and out of 
breaks and run his routes more 
smoothly from Jefferson. He also 
said he has learned drills and 
stretches from Jefferson that help 
him move more smoothly. 
“First coming in, I wouldn’t 
say stiff, but just wasn’t as fluid 
as I wanted to be,” Grimes said. “I 
give (Jefferson) the biggest props 
for helping me transition from 
being a 6-(foot)-5 receiver that’s 
kind of stiff to being a 6-(foot)-
5 receiver that plays fluid and 
smooth.”
The extra time Jefferson and 
his fellow position players have 
spent together seems to have fos-
tered a camaraderie in the Gators’ 
receiving corp. 
When Cleveland was taking 
questions from reporters, the oth-
ers weren’t trying to make him 
laugh just for the fun of playing 
a prank. 
They were wait-
ing for him. 
The junior was 
the final player 
talking to the 
media while the 
rest of the team 
was down the 
street to chow-
ing down on 
the post-practice 
meal. Jefferson, 
Hammond and 
Grimes just didn’t 
want him to walk 
and eat alone. 
***
Jefferson hasn’t 
learned his leadership 
qualities from just any-
one. His father, Vanchi 
LaShawn Jefferson Sr., 
better known as Shawn, 
played over a decade in 
the NFL as a receiver for 
four different teams and is 
currently the wide receivers 
coach for the Miami Dol-
phins. And Van will be the 
first to tell you that Shawn 
has been the biggest impact 
on his football life. 
“He taught me everything 
that I know,” Van said. “Down 
the line, I learned things from 
other coaches as well, but my dad instilled in me everything I 
know. Getting out of breaks, cre-
ating separation, I owe it all to my 
dad.”
UF’s co-offensive coordinator 
and wide receivers coach Billy 
Gonzales expressed similar con-
victions. He said Van’s attention 
to detail is impressive and that it’s 
a hallmark of a player who has 
studied under an NFL coach.
“(Van) understands the little 
intricacies and he’s an attention to 
detail guy,” Gonzales said. “(I’d) 
probably say that’s probably one 
of the things that kinda separates 
him is he understands. He’s got 
the playing experience, but under-
stands the little things.”
Yet Van’s mental strength and 
focus haven’t been instilled in him 
by his dad. The work ethic is com-
pletely self-motivated. 
In an interview with The Ath-
letic, Shawn revealed the true way 
his son has been driven by his 
football status and expertise.
“I think what kind of fuels him 
sometimes is that they’ll mention 
him as the son of former NFL play-
er and coach Shawn Jefferson,” he 
said. “Van wants to dispel all of 
that, which I love — I absolutely 
love it. That’s why when I get re-
quests for interviews, I never call 
back. I want them to focus on Van 
and not the fact I’m his father.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org.VAN’S TIME: How UF’s new receiver won over teammates
FLORIDA offense vs. KENTUCKY defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
Jordan ScarlettHBMartez IveyT
Tyler JordanLG
Tyrie ClevelandWRFred JohnsonRG
Jawaan T aylorT
C’yontai LewisTE
Josh HammondWRVan JeffersonWRKash 
DanielMIKE
Quinton 
BohannaNT
Adrian 
MiddletonDTT.J. CarterDELonnie JohnsonCB
Josh AllenBUCK
Derrick BaityCBJamar 
WatsonOLB
Jordan 
JonesOLBDarius WestS
Mike EdwardsStry in yards per carry two years 
ago -- won’t get it done against 
the Black Bears, who went 4-6 
last season. Maine also lost its 
leading rusher from last year in 
Josh Mack, who transferred to 
Liberty after it became an FBS 
team.
So, even though the Black 
Bears picked up an impressive 
win over New Hampshire last 
week, I’m not ready to yell up-
set just yet. 
 
-- Alanis Thames
Maine will win (+10.5) will 
win because…
Have you ever tried to tack-
le a Black Bear? It’s a wonder 
these monsters ever lose. 
Maine brings a truly bal-
anced attack to its home turf. Its 
offense overpowered a helpless 
New Hampshire squad with 24 
first downs last week, including 
11 each via the pass and rush. 
Stud sophomore quarterback 
Chris Ferguson aired the ball 
out 31 times, completing 21 for 
a shade under 200 yards. He 
didn’t throw a pick last week. 
You know who did? The Hilltop-
pers, that’s who.
The Black Bears also bring 
a two-headed monster in run-
ning backs Joe Fitzpatrick and 
Ramon Jefferson. Fitzpatrick 
serves as the thunder. He rum-
bled for 80 yards on 17 car-
ries and a touchdown over the 
Wildcats in Week 1. Jefferson, 
the 5-foot-10 lightning, racked 
up an additional 74 yards on 
12 carries. TWELVE! You know 
who else had a roughly 6.2-yard 
average per carry in Week 1? 
Kentucky’s Benny Snell. You 
know who else is a darkhorse 
Heisman candidate through 
Week 1? Maine’s Ramon Jef-
ferson. 
Bring your bobby pins, Maine 
fans, because this one is a hard 
lock. An easy three-touchdown 
margin of victory tells us what 
we already know: Bears are 
godless killing machines. 
Now onto the picks!
In first, at 7-1, is the Alliga-
tor’s Alanis “No one can pro-
nounce my last name” Thames, 
who can’t seem to get anybody 
to say her last name correctly. 
Not even our Multimedia Czar 
Justin Ahlum got it right on our 
podcast. Hey Alanis, if it’s really 
pronounced “Tims,” why hasn’t 
Justin made a correction yet? 
Checkmate. 
Next, in a tie for second, 
at 6-2, is the Gainesville Sun’s 
Graham “destined to stay in 
Gainesville” Hall, who actu-ally grew up in Gainesville as a 
child. But now that he is fully 
integrated into the Gainesville 
Sun machine, he will slowly 
realize there is no escape. En-
joy your next 50 years in this 
swampish Hell, Graham.
Also at 6-2 is the Alligator’s 
Morgan “I have a closet love 
for the Western Kentucky Hill-
topper” McMullen, who’s pick-
ing Maine just to tease it (the 
Hilltopper’s sex and gender is 
unknowable). Morgan, the first 
time you met the Hilltopper you 
were wasted, why are you keep-
ing it in this commitment? You 
know Hilly can do so much bet-
ter.
We have a five-way tie for 
fourth at 5-3. First is the AP’s 
Mark “Garbage-time substitu-
tion” Long. Long was gracious 
enough to fill in for 247Sports’ 
Thomas Goldcamp last Thurs-
day. We’re sure he thinks he’s 
hot stuff now that 20-some-
things actually want to hang out 
with him (We don’t, but don’t 
tell him).
Still in fourth at 5-3 is the 
Alligator’s Mark “What time is 
media?” Stine, who showed up 
late to Tuesday’s 7:30 p.m. me-
dia opportunity after misread-
ing the time listed on an email. 
Hey Mark, we know we called 
you Benjamin Button last week 
because of your receding hair-
line and taste in music, but we 
didn’t think your eyesight was 
starting to go too.
Up next is the Orlando Senti-
nel’s Edgar “Tell him to lighten 
up” Thompson, who told Mor-
gan on Thursday in no uncer-
tain terms that the games we 
use in our Picks Column suck 
eggs. Edgar thinks Jake is the 
one who picks these games, 
since he’s the one who emails 
everybody. Edgar, your anger 
may be misdirected, but your 
skimpy tripod never is. 
Following Edgar is Gator 
Country’s Nick “Maybe pine-
apple does belong on pizza” de 
la Torre, who left a very vague 
answer when a fan on Twitter 
asked him if that fruit does go 
with pizza. We agree that pizza 
is inherently good, Nick. But 
when it comes to pineapple on 
it, that’s just a crime against 
nature. Just say no next time, 
Nick. Just say no.
Finally, we’ve got the Al-
ligator’s Jake “Lit” Dreilinger, 
who has a new favorite word. 
There’s no joke here. Jake, this 
is an intervention. It’s OK that 
you have a problem. We’re not 
offering our help, but we im-
plore that you seek some. Lit? 
Lit. PICKS,  from pg. 15alligatorSports college foot -
ball picks column: Week 2KICK OFF
Editor: Morgan McMullen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Jessie White
Alligator, Friday, September 7, 2018FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR
FLORIDA defense vs. KENTUCKY offense
Drake JacksonCT erry WilsonQBDavid BouvierWRBenny SnellRB
Elijah ConliffeNT
Marco WilsonCB
C.J. HendersonCB
Jabari ZunigaDE
T.J. SlatonDT
Chauncey 
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR
David 
ReeseMIKE
Vosean 
JosephWILLJachai 
PoliteBUCK
Donovan 
StinerS
Jeawon T aylorSLogan StenbergGNaasir WatkinsTLynn Bowden 
Jr.WR
Bunchy 
StallingsGGeorge Asafo-
AdjeiT C.J. ConradTE
T avin 
RichardsonWR
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Tyrie Cleveland’s pupils darted 
over the heads of about a dozen 
reporters who were fashioned 
around him in a semicircle. 
He locked eyes with fellow 
wideout Van Jefferson. Cleve-
land, a junior himself, had just 
been asked a question about Jef-
ferson’s leadership qualities while 
the Ole Miss transfer led fellow 
receivers Trevon Grimes and Josh 
Hammond toward the rear of the 
huddle of journalists. 
Before he could conjure im-
promptu praises of Jefferson’s 
work ethic, Cleveland chuckled 
at the sight of his teammates’ sar-
castically interested faces. It’s a 
prank the corps of pass catchers 
enjoy playing on each other, act-
ing interested in what their team-
mates have to say and sometimes 
raising their hands like they have 
a question. 
The spontaneous comedy skits 
come with a newfound swagger 
among the wide receivers. It’s a 
lineup that includes veteran guys 
like Cleveland, Hammond, junior 
Freddie Swain and redshirt senior 
Dre Massey. But none are argu-
ably more important than Jeffer-
son, a 6-foot-2, 197-pound target 
who compiled 91 catches, 999 
yards and four touchdowns in two 
campaigns with the Rebels. 
His ability to play had been in 
jeopardy from the NCAA and SEC 
after the groups sanctioned Mis-
sissippi. He transferred out of the 
school and applied for immediate 
eligibility. A decision in Jeffer-
son’s and Florida’s favor would’ve 
provided a huge boost in depth for 
the Gators. 
However, Jefferson’s off-the-
field intangibles are what make 
him a special addition for coach 
Dan Mullen in his first season in 
charge. He may turn out to be 
more important than that for the 
team as a vocal presence in the 
locker room despite being on cam-pus for only eight months. 
***
Vanchi LaShawn Jefferson Jr. 
stepped onto the grounds of the 
University of Florida in January 
with uncertainty about whether or 
not he would play during the 2018 
season. His eligibility had to be 
approved by both the NCAA and 
SEC because he was transferring 
from Ole Miss, which was under 
investigation for NCAA violations 
at the time and eventually hit with 
a two-year bowl ban.
But why Florida? Why transfer 
to a team with a first-year head 
coach as opposed to any other 
SEC school?
“When I was leaving Ole Miss, 
I had coach Mullen and coach 
(Billy) Gonzales come talk to me, 
so I just feel like this is the place 
for me,” Jefferson said. “There’s a 
new staff, and I was a new player 
coming in, so I felt like it was a 
win-win situation. It worked out.”
With the new administration, 
Jefferson could come to UF with 
the same knowledge of the play-
book as any other player on the 
team. He’s also closer to most of 
his family, which lives in Jackson-
ville. His 2-year-old daughter, who 
lives in his home state of Tennes-see with her mother, comes down 
to visit him often.
“She is going to be here for all 
the games,” he said. “She’s a good 
girl.”
Of course, any new man on 
campus needs a roommate. 
Jefferson went through the 
vetting process and eventually 
decided to room with redshirt 
sophomore Feleipe Franks, who 
started eight games at quarterback 
in 2017.
The two fostered a friendship, 
hanging out so much that it got to 
the point where Jefferson became 
somewhat annoyed with the stu-
dious, talkative quarterback. 
“He’s always in the film room,” 
Jefferson said. “I would come 
in the house and he’d be on his 
iPad watching practice and coach 
me up. He’d call me and be like, 
‘Why didn’t you catch that skinny 
(post)? Why didn’t you catch that 
fade?’ I’ll be like, ‘My bad.’ He’s 
always looking for the upper edge 
to get better.”
In addition to studying film 
from the spring, the roommates 
took the field in the Swamp over 
the summer and threw the ball 
around. The hard work there also 
came with a little bit of play. He 
recalled one time when Franks 
stood in the end zone and threw 
an 80-yard bomb to the other side 
of the field. 
It’s already evident that the 
extra time the now-former room-
mates put in together is paying 
off. Jefferson caught two touch-
downs from Franks in UF’s 53-6 
victory over Charleston South-
ern on Saturday, both on 
quick slants.
The second scoring play 
came when a CSU defensive 
draped Jefferson on the 
goal line, but the place-
ment on the three-yard 
pass was too perfect and 
the hands of Jefferson too 
strong. UF went up 38-0 
with 1:38 remaining in the 
first half on the reception. 
The payoff didn’t come 
without earlier sacrifice. Jef-
ferson didn’t limit himself by 
just putting in extra time with 
Franks. He has established 
himself as one of the leaders by 
practicing extra with the other 
receivers. He surrounded him-
self with the veteran guys like 
Hammond and Cleveland, who 
showed the transfer the ropes 
and helped him adjust to the new 
school.
Then, with the absence of 
coaches in the summertime, Jef-
ferson began coaching them up. 
According to Cleveland, one of 
the best things Jefferson does is 
lead by example.
“I learned a lot from Van,” he said. “Just being able to see him 
run different routes and how he 
handles himself on and off the 
field. I’m just trying to take up all 
the notes I can from him.”
Jefferson has taken a special 
liking to Grimes, a fellow transfer 
who came to Florida from Ohio 
State. 
The sophomore from Fort Lau-
derdale, Florida, said he learned 
how to polish his footwork from 
the older receiver. He cleaned 
up his ability to get in and out of 
breaks and run his routes more 
smoothly from Jefferson. He also 
said he has learned drills and 
stretches from Jefferson that help 
him move more smoothly. 
“First coming in, I wouldn’t 
say stiff, but just wasn’t as fluid 
as I wanted to be,” Grimes said. “I 
give (Jefferson) the biggest props 
for helping me transition from 
being a 6-(foot)-5 receiver that’s 
kind of stiff to being a 6-(foot)-
5 receiver that plays fluid and 
smooth.”
The extra time Jefferson and 
his fellow position players have 
spent together seems to have fos-
tered a camaraderie in the Gators’ 
receiving corp. 
When Cleveland was taking 
questions from reporters, the oth-
ers weren’t trying to make him 
laugh just for the fun of playing 
a prank. 
They were wait-
ing for him. 
The junior was 
the final player 
talking to the 
media while the 
rest of the team 
was down the 
street to chow-
ing down on 
the post-practice 
meal. Jefferson, 
Hammond and 
Grimes just didn’t 
want him to walk 
and eat alone. 
***
Jefferson hasn’t 
learned his leadership 
qualities from just any-
one. His father, Vanchi 
LaShawn Jefferson Sr., 
better known as Shawn, 
played over a decade in 
the NFL as a receiver for 
four different teams and is 
currently the wide receivers 
coach for the Miami Dol-
phins. And Van will be the 
first to tell you that Shawn 
has been the biggest impact 
on his football life. 
“He taught me everything 
that I know,” Van said. “Down 
the line, I learned things from 
other coaches as well, but my dad instilled in me everything I 
know. Getting out of breaks, cre-
ating separation, I owe it all to my 
dad.”
UF’s co-offensive coordinator 
and wide receivers coach Billy 
Gonzales expressed similar con-
victions. He said Van’s attention 
to detail is impressive and that it’s 
a hallmark of a player who has 
studied under an NFL coach.
“(Van) understands the little 
intricacies and he’s an attention to 
detail guy,” Gonzales said. “(I’d) 
probably say that’s probably one 
of the things that kinda separates 
him is he understands. He’s got 
the playing experience, but under-
stands the little things.”
Yet Van’s mental strength and 
focus haven’t been instilled in him 
by his dad. The work ethic is com-
pletely self-motivated. 
In an interview with The Ath-
letic, Shawn revealed the true way 
his son has been driven by his 
football status and expertise.
“I think what kind of fuels him 
sometimes is that they’ll mention 
him as the son of former NFL play-
er and coach Shawn Jefferson,” he 
said. “Van wants to dispel all of 
that, which I love — I absolutely 
love it. That’s why when I get re-
quests for interviews, I never call 
back. I want them to focus on Van 
and not the fact I’m his father.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org.VAN’S TIME: How UF’s new receiver won over teammates
FLORIDA offense vs. KENTUCKY defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
Jordan ScarlettHBMartez IveyT
Tyler JordanLG
Tyrie ClevelandWRFred JohnsonRG
Jawaan T aylorT
C’yontai LewisTE
Josh HammondWRVan JeffersonWRKash 
DanielMIKE
Quinton 
BohannaNT
Adrian 
MiddletonDTT.J. CarterDELonnie JohnsonCB
Josh AllenBUCK
Derrick BaityCBJamar 
WatsonOLB
Jordan 
JonesOLBDarius WestS
Mike EdwardsStry in yards per carry two years 
ago -- won’t get it done against 
the Black Bears, who went 4-6 
last season. Maine also lost its 
leading rusher from last year in 
Josh Mack, who transferred to 
Liberty after it became an FBS 
team.
So, even though the Black 
Bears picked up an impressive 
win over New Hampshire last 
week, I’m not ready to yell up-
set just yet. 
 
-- Alanis Thames
Maine will win (+10.5) will 
win because…
Have you ever tried to tack-
le a Black Bear? It’s a wonder 
these monsters ever lose. 
Maine brings a truly bal-
anced attack to its home turf. Its 
offense overpowered a helpless 
New Hampshire squad with 24 
first downs last week, including 
11 each via the pass and rush. 
Stud sophomore quarterback 
Chris Ferguson aired the ball 
out 31 times, completing 21 for 
a shade under 200 yards. He 
didn’t throw a pick last week. 
You know who did? The Hilltop-
pers, that’s who.
The Black Bears also bring 
a two-headed monster in run-
ning backs Joe Fitzpatrick and 
Ramon Jefferson. Fitzpatrick 
serves as the thunder. He rum-
bled for 80 yards on 17 car-
ries and a touchdown over the 
Wildcats in Week 1. Jefferson, 
the 5-foot-10 lightning, racked 
up an additional 74 yards on 
12 carries. TWELVE! You know 
who else had a roughly 6.2-yard 
average per carry in Week 1? 
Kentucky’s Benny Snell. You 
know who else is a darkhorse 
Heisman candidate through 
Week 1? Maine’s Ramon Jef-
ferson. 
Bring your bobby pins, Maine 
fans, because this one is a hard 
lock. An easy three-touchdown 
margin of victory tells us what 
we already know: Bears are 
godless killing machines. 
Now onto the picks!
In first, at 7-1, is the Alliga-
tor’s Alanis “No one can pro-
nounce my last name” Thames, 
who can’t seem to get anybody 
to say her last name correctly. 
Not even our Multimedia Czar 
Justin Ahlum got it right on our 
podcast. Hey Alanis, if it’s really 
pronounced “Tims,” why hasn’t 
Justin made a correction yet? 
Checkmate. 
Next, in a tie for second, 
at 6-2, is the Gainesville Sun’s 
Graham “destined to stay in 
Gainesville” Hall, who actu-ally grew up in Gainesville as a 
child. But now that he is fully 
integrated into the Gainesville 
Sun machine, he will slowly 
realize there is no escape. En-
joy your next 50 years in this 
swampish Hell, Graham.
Also at 6-2 is the Alligator’s 
Morgan “I have a closet love 
for the Western Kentucky Hill-
topper” McMullen, who’s pick-
ing Maine just to tease it (the 
Hilltopper’s sex and gender is 
unknowable). Morgan, the first 
time you met the Hilltopper you 
were wasted, why are you keep-
ing it in this commitment? You 
know Hilly can do so much bet-
ter.
We have a five-way tie for 
fourth at 5-3. First is the AP’s 
Mark “Garbage-time substitu-
tion” Long. Long was gracious 
enough to fill in for 247Sports’ 
Thomas Goldcamp last Thurs-
day. We’re sure he thinks he’s 
hot stuff now that 20-some-
things actually want to hang out 
with him (We don’t, but don’t 
tell him).
Still in fourth at 5-3 is the 
Alligator’s Mark “What time is 
media?” Stine, who showed up 
late to Tuesday’s 7:30 p.m. me-
dia opportunity after misread-
ing the time listed on an email. 
Hey Mark, we know we called 
you Benjamin Button last week 
because of your receding hair-
line and taste in music, but we 
didn’t think your eyesight was 
starting to go too.
Up next is the Orlando Senti-
nel’s Edgar “Tell him to lighten 
up” Thompson, who told Mor-
gan on Thursday in no uncer-
tain terms that the games we 
use in our Picks Column suck 
eggs. Edgar thinks Jake is the 
one who picks these games, 
since he’s the one who emails 
everybody. Edgar, your anger 
may be misdirected, but your 
skimpy tripod never is. 
Following Edgar is Gator 
Country’s Nick “Maybe pine-
apple does belong on pizza” de 
la Torre, who left a very vague 
answer when a fan on Twitter 
asked him if that fruit does go 
with pizza. We agree that pizza 
is inherently good, Nick. But 
when it comes to pineapple on 
it, that’s just a crime against 
nature. Just say no next time, 
Nick. Just say no.
Finally, we’ve got the Al-
ligator’s Jake “Lit” Dreilinger, 
who has a new favorite word. 
There’s no joke here. Jake, this 
is an intervention. It’s OK that 
you have a problem. We’re not 
offering our help, but we im-
plore that you seek some. Lit? 
Lit. PICKS,  from pg. 15alligatorSports college foot -
ball picks column: Week 2