We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Meet the candidates
Find out who is on the Aug 28. ballot and where and when to 
vote early, pg. 16 and 17.
Read Fuchs’ column
Learn more about what planned for the university, pg 7.Football’s breakout stars
Van Jefferson. Malik Davis. Trey Dean. And Marco Wilson. These 
four players are poised for big 2018 campaigns, pg. 34.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 103
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Editor’s note: The ﬁ  rst half of this story 
appeared last week in our New Student 
Edition. Read this story in its entirety 
online at alligator.org
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Lauren committed to play soccer at the 
University of Florida much, much later than 
most high school soccer athletes.
Of the few that do go D-I for soccer, the 
majority usually decide when they’re in their 
sophomore year or, at the latest, their junior year. Lauren instead bet on herself and wait-
ed Florida out because the Gators didn’t offer 
her initially. She committed just before her 
senior year.
Burleigh said the outside back had better 
offers than UF but declined them, which ex-
empliﬁ  ed her lack of egoism. 
“To me, it just showed that she really, re-
ally wanted to be a Gator,” Burleigh said.
Besides possessing exceptional athleti-
cism and talent, Burleigh revealed that one 
of the main reasons behind Lauren’s recruit-
ment was her motor.
She’s incredibly energetic. And not the type of energetic that makes you think, Man, 
this girl never shuts up. 
No, it’s more of the active, enthusiastic 
energy that makes you smile.
So, when she was diagnosed with leuke-
mia, that motor began to sputter a bit.
It was tough to handle. But not impos-
sible. 
“Initially, she had so many questions,” 
Allison explained. “She’s asking me and 
she’s asking her dad.
“We didn’t know!” 
Especially when their daughter would ask 
what bad days were going to feel like.•   •   •
Doctors at Shands had been injecting Lau-
ren’s back with chemotherapy to try and get 
some of the leukemia out of the bone mar-
row hiding in her spine.
Then Jan. 20 arrived.
Lauren woke up with a fever. A really, 
really powerful fever. It was so powerful that 
she blacked out – she doesn’t remember it. 
“Then I woke up…and I couldn’t move 
my legs,” Lauren said. “I was paralyzed.”
Her doctors told her it was because her TOUGHEST WARRIOR: The Lauren Evans Comeback Story
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Welcome to UF
First-year UF transfer students gathered at the O’Connell Center for the annual New Student Convocation Monday morning.
UNIVERSITY 
ADMINISTRATION AND 
THE SUPERVISOR OF 
ELECTIONS OFFICE WILL
 MEET AUG. 30.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
University students and faculty 
can soon walk to the polls to cast their ballots for early voting.
The Reitz Union is designated 
an early voting site for the 2018 
general election from Oct. 22 to 
Nov. 3, the Alachua County Super-
visor of Elections Kim Barton an-
nounced Friday. 
The union won’t be an early 
voting site for the 2018 primary, 
which began Aug. 18 and goes 
through Saturday. It is unknown if 
the student center will be used for future early voting dates because 
the Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce 
only designates early voting sites 
one election at a time, spokesper-
son TJ Pyche wrote in an email. 
In July, U.S. District Judge Mark 
Walker ruled that the Florida De-
partment of State’s 2014 policy ex-
cluding early voting on college and 
university campuses violated the 
First, 14th and 26th Amendments 
of the U.S. Constitution. The ruling came after a lawsuit from ﬁ  ve UF 
students and others against Secre-
tary of State Ken Detzner for pre-
venting early voting, according to 
Alligator archives.
The 2014 state opinion said the 
terms “convention center” and 
“government-owned community 
center” couldn’t be applied to in-
clude the union or other facilities in 
colleges and universities.
“I am beyond excited to hear the news,” said 22-year-old Megan 
Newsome, one of the plaintiffs in 
the ongoing lawsuit and a UF as-
trophysics graduate and research-
er. “It’s been a long time coming. 
I just can’t wait to move forward 
and get students to know about the 
site and deﬁ  nitely use it.”
Following the decision from 
Walker, Barton sent a letter to UF 
President Kent Fuchs requesting Reitz Union now 2018 general election early voting spotWELC OMEBACK!
SEE WARRIOR,  PAGE 35
SEE REITZ,  PAGE 12T oday’s Weather VOLUME 113 ISSUE 1
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
HIGH  91° LOW  73°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org 
 Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin,  
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editors  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org,   
  Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.  
  org , Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org  
 Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mstine@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
  Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Wimer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti, gvalenti2@alligator.org
 Copy Editor Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor BarkerWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fundraising event
Alachua Habitat for Humanity 
will hold a fundraising event 
Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. at Sweetwater Branch 
Inn located at 625 E. University 
Ave. The organization will cele-
brate Habitat homeowners who 
paid off their mortgages over 
the past year, honor Impact 
Partner Award recipients and 
introduce two new events the 
group has planned.
‘Nordic Miniatures: Now and 
Then’ 
Roberta Swedien will perform 
solo piano and spoken word 
7 p.m. Friday at the Thomas 
Center. The performance is a 
journey to Norway, Sweden, 
Denmark, Finland and Iceland. Five commissioned composers’ 
work will also be featured. A 
reception will follow. Tickets 
can be purchased at the door: 
$15 adults, $10 kids aged 7-17, 
cash, credit card or check.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.CORRECTONS
An article in the Aug. 15 issue 
misidentified where the Union 
Street Farmers Market is located. 
It's on Bo Diddley Plaza.
On Aug. 7, an article that ran in 
print provided an incorrect time-
line of the closing of the Institute 
of Hispanic-Latino Cultures and 
Institute for Black Culture. They 
closed Spring 2017, and are ex-
pected to open 2019. The budget 
for the both buildings is about 
$7.8 million. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 1
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
7750 W Newberry Rd
352.727.4619House Margaritas  
and Draft Beers 
2 for 1
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Inside
fl i
Wednesday, August 22, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social: 
   
   
Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSOnline Learning moved to the follow -
ing new navigation August 6: myUFL 
› Main Menu › Student Information 
System › Online Learning . If you have 
bookmarked the previous site (Main 
Menu > Student Financials > UF Cam -
pus Solutions), you will need to do so 
again using the new navigation. 
Online Learning is the module within 
Canvas that houses My Canvas Course 
Management, which enables facul -
ty and staff to add users to courses in 
Canvas, view enrollment transactions, 
and establish user-created sections. For 
more information or assistance, contact 
e-Learning Support at 352-392-4357, 
option 3, or learning-support@ufl.edu.New naviga -
tion for online 
learningThe University of Florida has a new Student Hon-
or Code and Student Code of Conduct.
On June 7, 2018, the UF Board of T rustees 
past extensive revisions to the Student Honor 
and Student Conduct Codes (UF Regulation 
4.040), after an eight-month review process.
Utilizing national expertise and stakeholder 
feedback, the revised codes enhance clarity for 
students, make the process simpler for faculty 
and ensure each phase of the conduct process is 
a separate entity in alignment with best practices. 
“Our goal was to make the process less confusing, 
and allow students to choose greater restorative 
justice-based practices,” said Pamela Malyk, as-
sistant dean and director of Student Conduct 
and Conflict Resolution. “We made sure to en -
gage students and faculty throughout the revi-
sions to make sure the new code is truly our code.”  Drafting of the new conduct code began in  
direct partnership between Student Conduct 
and Conflict Resolution in the Dean of Students 
Office and the UF General Counsel’s Office. In 
addition to engaging a work group comprised 
of students, faculty and staff, and gathering 
feedback from campus stakeholders, such as the 
UF Faculty Senate and the UF academic integ -
rity task force, an external consultant supported 
the revisions of this vital regulation. Ed Stoner, 
National Association of College and University 
Attorneys (NACUA) past president and author 
of the Model Code, brought key insights and 
national expertise to the review.
The new codes reflect an emphasis on both in -
dividual and social responsibility. They uniquely 
position the UF community to hold themselves 
to a higher standard. Learn more and view the 
full codes at sccr.dso.ufl.edu.Accountability expected
University of Florida Online Students pursue 
their bachelor’s degrees from around the world .
As thousands of students descend to campus for the 
Fall semester, about 3,000 students will be starting 
their UF classes from anywhere in the world.
That was the case for Gator alumna Ashley Nicolls, 
who first began her UF coursework while living 
and working in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Nicolls 
was able to stay in the city she had fallen in love 
with while on vacation. Instead of moving to 
Gainesville, she pursued an environmental man -
agement degree in the UF/IFAS College of Ag -
ricultural and Life Sciences through UF Online.
While taking courses, Nicolls would wake up every  
morning and go for a five-mile run. She loved chang  
ing up her routes to see a different part of the city  
every day. Afterwards, she would visit the pastry  
shop next door to her apartment to enjoy a fresh-
made croissant. Nicolls appreciated that her virtual  
classes accommodated her schedule so that she 
could not only explore the area, but also work as 
an English tutor.The flexibility  allowed her to create a routine — she  
would do all of her coursework in the mornings, 
take an hour-long bus ride to the children’s houses,  
then spend the afternoon tutoring them in English.  
On the weekends, she also worked with the city’s 
agricultural department to help revamp local parks 
by planting trees and cleaning up nature trails.
Nicolls graduated in Spring 2018 and is work -
ing part-time at Jonathan Dickinson State Park 
as a fire technician. She hopes to gain more 
experience before going back to school for a 
master’s degree and ultimately working as a bi -
ologist at a national park.
“UF Online was the perfect fit because it was 
close to home, had my major, and I could use 
my in-state scholarships,” Nicolls said. “I’ll get 
recognition for the hard work I did and the 
outstanding school I’m graduating from, and 
I hope the recognizable name will benefit me 
in the future.” Read more about UF Online at 
ufonline.ufl.edu.   
   —Alexandria NgA first day of classes — but not on campus
Nancy E. Paton, a national leader in higher edu -
cation marketing and communications, has been 
named vice president for strategic communica -
tions and marketing at the University of Florida.
She will be responsible for leading the commu-
nication of UF’s accomplishments and goals 
within the university community, nationally and 
globally and guiding UF’s strategic initiatives to 
build its stature and reputation.Named the Higher Education Marketer of the 
Year by the American Marketing Association in 
2017, Paton will assume her role effective Oct. 1.
“Nancy is a strategic communications leader who 
brings exceptional knowledge and experience 
to this position,” said UF President Kent Fuchs. 
“She understands the challenges facing higher 
education, has a proven track record of effective 
leadership and offers a refreshing new perspective on traditional and social media, as well as mar -
keting. She will be a thoughtful and innovative 
addition to our leadership team.”
Paton will head UF’s central communications 
and marketing operations, overseeing marketing 
and branding, media relations and news, issues 
management and public affairs, campus outreach, 
creative services, video and photography services, 
and social and digital media.Nancy E. Paton appointed UF’s vice president  
for strategic communications and marketing
COMPASS Releases 6 and 7 went live on 
August 6 and 20, respectively, and installed 
new functionality for students, as well as fac -
ulty and staff. Via ONE.UF ( one.uf.edu) the 
new services include: withdraw from courses, 
check petition status, request to drop/add 
classes after the published drop/add period, 
apply for degrees, swap courses, check cam -
pus finances, view transfer credit report, Uber – Safe Rides and more.  Future program de -
ployments will continue to bring important 
system and process changes to the UF com -
munity via ONE.UF and the new Student 
Information System. A full and detailed list 
of these important changes is available on 
the COMPASS News Page (Navigate to  
www.compass.ufl.edu › communications 
& support › news and profiles).Compass update for  
students, faculty and staff
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 27 thru 
Friday August 31
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
Stephan Chamberlin is a 20-year-
old UF political science junior and 
the opinions editor this Fall. He 
started setting his ramblings to 
paper in his free time after getting 
off work at a law ﬁ  rm in Miami, sending  
columns to The Alligator scratched onto 
the back of cocktail napkins by certiﬁ  ed 
mail and publishing biweekly during the 
Summer semester thanks to a specialized 
team of monkeys who would compile 
the writings via typewriter. Some of his 
hobbies include pretending to not like 
cats even though they’re soft and pretty 
great and exposing the lies of the Jedi. 
His greatest aspiration is to become an 
attorney specializing in First Amendment 
and speech issues. His second greatest 
aspiration is to be able to eat a Subway 
sandwich foot-long without feeling like 
an arctic seal helpless on a sheet of ﬂ  oat-
ing ice as David Attenborough narrates 
his untimely demise at the hands/ﬂ  ippers 
of an orca.MEET THE EDITORS!
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld is a 21-year-old 
UF journalism senior and the 
editor-in-chief this Fall. She 
ﬁ  rst stumbled into The Alli-
gator ofﬁ  ce for the free pizza 
given out at the newsroom’s open house 
in Fall 2015. She stayed for the journal-
istic experience and sense of family on 
staff. She’s fueled by “Gilmore Girls” 
quotes, Dunkin Donuts french vanilla 
iced coffee and deadlines. This sum-
mer, she interned at the South Florida 
Sun Sentinel, not far from her home-
town of Miami. She managed to not get 
seasick reporting on artiﬁ  cial reefs and 
convinced her editors to let her publish 
“boujee” in the newspaper (and I guess 
now in this paper?). Her biggest fans 
are her mother and her family’s mal-
tese, Chavi. Speaking of pets, she has a 
goat named Cookie who lives in Georgia 
with Meryl’s grandmother. Send your 
best cute goat pictures to editor@alliga-
tor.org.Romy Ellenbogen is a freshly 
21-year-old UF journalism senior 
and the digital managing editor 
this Fall. She’s been at The Al-
ligator since Spring 2017, when 
she began as a UF administration re-
porter. Time ﬂ  ies when you’re constantly 
on deadline. This summer, she was at 
The Palm Beach Post, a hop away from 
her home county, Broward, where she 
learned her way around a crime scene. 
She always has a bottle of sunscreen on 
her and encourages you to use it. Be-
sides avoiding harmful UV rays, Romy 
also loves the new Mitski album (and old 
Mitski), rewatching John Mulaney com-
edy specials and going to coffee shops 
just for pastries. When she’s not at The 
Alligator, she’s trying to go to bed by 10 
p.m. If you have any tips and/or want to 
discuss the Oscar-snubbed “Lady Bird,” 
email her at rellenbogen@alligator.org.Paige Fry is a 20-year-old UF jour-
nalism senior (but will be 21 next 
week!) and the engagement man-
aging editor this Fall. She began at 
UF as a Pathway to Campus En-
rollment (PaCE) student, so she stayed at 
home in the Orlando area during her ﬁ  rst 
year of college. As soon as she moved to 
Gainesville in Summer 2016, she both-
ered the editor at The Alligator until 
she was hired on staff. Since then, she’s 
worked as the university administration 
reporter, Student Government reporter 
and freelance editor. This past summer, 
she became a Midwestern gal while serv-
ing a crime-reporting internship at the 
Chicago Tribune and enjoyed a vegetar-
ian Chicago-style hotdog. She sat in on 
civil and criminal trials, talked to families 
of homicide victims and followed blood-
smeared crime scenes. Now, she’s the 
voice behind The Alligator’s Twitter page 
(follow us @TheAlligator). If you want 
to talk about the criminal justice system 
or social media analytics, email her at 
pfry@alligator.org. Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORPaige Fry 
MANAGING  
EDITORRomy  
Ellenbogen 
MANAGING 
 EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS 
EDITORThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.More welcome home, 
than welcome back
An expert’s guides to the university’s libraries
Gators love their libraries. In fact, Library West alone 
has reported more visitors per year than the UF 
football stadium. Some students even take elaborate 
graduation photos in our spaces and declare their 
love by posting hysterical library related memes 
(yes, we see them). But how much do you really know about 
the resources and services the UF Libraries have to offer?
As the journalism and mass communications librarian at 
UF, the most common complaints I hear from students are, “I 
wish I knew about this sooner!” and “This could have made 
my life so much easier!” So to save you from that level of re-
gret, I am going to list my top five things I think every UF stu-
dent should know about the George A. Smathers Libraries.
#1. There are seven libraries on campus
If you’re not sure where you stand on the West vs. Mar-
ston debate, the good news is you have more than two op-
tions. There are seven libraries across the UF campus, all with 
their own unique study spaces, subject areas and services. 
In addition to Library West (humanities and social sciences) 
and the Marston Science Library, there is Smathers Library 
East (archives and special collections), the Architecture and 
Fine Arts Library, the Legal Information Center, the Health 
Science Center Library and the Education Library in Norman 
Hall. All of these libraries are open to students regardless of 
major or year in school and are worth checking out.
#2.  You have access to a TON of “stuff”
Across the seven libraries you have access to MILLIONS 
of materials that you can borrow with your Gator 1 Card or 
access electronically on a digital device. While this includes 
the usual academic books and e-journals, there are other 
items you may not even think of, such as DVDs. Other items 
in the UF Libraries include graphic novels, cookbooks, sci-
ence fiction, children’s literature, sheet music and textbooks 
on course reserve. You can request titles we don’t own via 
Interlibrary Loan or from other academic libraries in the state 
through our Uborrow system. If you want it, we can usually 
help you get it.
#3. Subject librarians are here for you
Did you know there is a subject librarian for every college 
or major at UF who is an expert on how to find informa-tion in your discipline? Think of this person as a research 
ninja who can connect you with specialized resources for 
your projects and papers. Email them with questions or to 
set up an appointment for one-on-one help. Every subject 
librarian curates online research guides that pull together all 
of the best information resources in a particular area. Find 
the research guide related to your major now to save a lot of 
time and effort down the line.
#4. Tech tools and e-resources
The libraries are an incredible resource for tech tools 
and databases. At Library West we have iPads for check-
out, ProctorU booths and a video recording space called the 
One Button Studio. Many of our libraries have public com-
puters with double monitors, 3D printers and KIC scanners 
that make scanning incredibly fast and easy. Marston has 
a virtual reality space as well as a tool library where you 
can check out everything from sewing machines to drills to 
podcasting equipment. And we also subscribe to over 1,600 
databases, which provide valuable information not available 
on the open web. For example, we have news databases that 
get you behind paywalls for thousands of news sources, digi-
tal archives that connect you to historical documents and a 
streaming video platform called Kanopy that’s like Netflix, 
but with award winning documentaries.
#5. Events for you
The UF Libraries provide more than materials and study 
spaces. We also work hard to put on a wide variety of events 
that such as research workshops, hack-a-thons, exhibits 
and engaging speakers. We’ve recently started doing wildly 
popular Finals Support Week events across all libraries that 
include therapy dogs, yoga, free food and stress buster kits. 
Events like Blind Date With A Book and the Digital Resource 
Fair get bigger every year. How do you keep up with all of 
these events? Follow us on social media @uflib to stay con-
nected.
There you have it. The top 5 things every UF student 
should know about the George A. Smathers Libraries. I’m 
going to suggest that you visit our website at library.ufl.edu 
to find more information about everything outlined above. 
Keep loving those libraries, Gators!As you take this year’s first steps across the Reitz 
Union, through Turlington Plaza or into Library West, 
know that Gainesville, UF and The Alligator welcome 
you home. If this is your first time here, you’ll quickly 
become acquainted with what Gainesville has to offer. 
There’s plenty of it. Prepare for the golden age between child 
and adult known as “college.” To those coming back: We missed 
you. Our town, schools and business are happy to have you back.
As we progress as Gators, Gainesville will seem more and 
more like home. While in school, we spend more time here than 
in our home towns. Its streets ferry us to and from work, class, 
internships, club meetings, socials, parties and parks, delivering 
us to morning exams and late-night jams alike. As graduation ap-
proaches, the walks from class to class, driving on its roads and 
taking the right I-75 exits will become more like muscle memory 
— like memorizing the route between the kitchen and the liv-
ing room. We will more deftly navigate the bus system. We will 
learn the fastest, shadiest route from the New Physics Building, 
in one corner of campus, to the business school in the opposite. 
We grow more familiar with that low roaring cheer which grows 
louder approaching The Swamp on game day.
In addition to time, we spend more money here than we do in 
any other city. Using last year’s numbers to estimate, Fall brings 
about 20,000 additional students to Gainesville compared to its 
Summer population, roughly a 15 percent increase. The Butler 
Plaza Walmart, already buzzing with activity from move-in, will 
see skyrocketing sales in chicken nuggets. Chinese takeout res-
taurants, pizza places and sellers of other late-night fare, while 
loved equally among all residents, will receive more phone calls 
near the witching hour.
Now might be a good time to look forward to what this year 
may hold in store for you.
Freshmen, this year is going to turn what you know about 
school on its head. Teachers will turn into professors, and you’ll 
be in the driver’s seat when it comes to your education. Don’t 
worry. It’s a good thing. This way you’ll be able to take classes 
that let you scuba dive, that release your inner artist or that train 
you to become the razor sharp accountant you were always des-
tined to be. Your classes will likely be more challenging than 
what you’re used to, so do yourself a favor and start studying 
early. As long as you’re paying attention, going to class, doing the 
homework and studying, you should be fine.
But remember to pace yourself. There has to be some recre-
ation built into your work schedule. Go stargazing on the Paynes 
Prairie Preserve State Park observation deck. Sit in the football 
stadium at night with a hot drink from Gator Corner Dining Cen-
ter and think about the gladiatorial spectacle that unfolds Satur-
day afternoons on that darkened field. Lie in your bed watching 
Netflix. Whatever works for you.
If you are a returning student, sophomore, junior, senior or 
beyond, consider that even if you think you know what college 
has in store, that this is the endgame and the wind down, you 
may be surprised. If you’re now a senior, consider how much you 
changed each year you came back. You still have another year to 
go. There are a litany of other things to try, places to go, classes 
to take and professors to meet. Some of those may yet change the 
course of your scholastic career, inspire you to go to grad school 
or break you into a new field. Gainesville, UF and Santa Fe Col-
lege have a lot more to offer you than you can possibly pack into 
four years, so buckle up. Remember also that it is never too late 
to get started on switching your major or career track. Life is too 
short to do something you hate.
This place wouldn’t be the same without us, and we wouldn’t 
be the same without it. So no matter your year, major or school: 
welcome not just back, but home, to your college-town of Span-
ish moss and lofty Florida oaks.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
On Thursday, I will deliver 
the annual State of the 
University address to the 
Faculty Senate. This ad-
dress typically covers the 
university’s milestones and accom-
plishments in the past year and op-
portunities and challenges for the 
current year.
This year, I’m simply asking the 
question “What’s next?”
We have reached a number of signiﬁ  cant 
and transformational milestones:
Our philanthropic campaign crossed the 
halfway mark toward its $3 billion goal. Only 
six public universities have ever had a $3 bil-
lion goal, and UF will blow past its goal ahead 
of schedule.
We had 41,000 applications for 6,600 posi-
tions in this year’s freshmen class, up 18 per-
cent from the record year before.
UF grew its faculty by 250 last year and is 
on schedule to add a total of 500 faculty.  This 
will allow smaller class sizes.
Numerous current faculty members won 
international acclaim last year, including a 
Pulitzer Prize. 
Finally, the university now owns a place 
among the top-10 ranked public research uni-
versities.
In light of such milestones, I am asking, 
how should our university change?
Certainly, we have staked our future on 
becoming ranked as a top-ﬁ  ve public research 
university. We know what that will take and 
have a plan to accomplish it.
In addition, in 2015 we established a set of 
seven university-level goals and an overarch-
ing aspiration: “The University of Florida will 
be a premier university that the state, nation 
and world look to for leadership.” (The “De-
cade Ahead” strategic plan is available on the 
UF president’s website.) We also track dozens of metrics against our peers and 
have plans to enhance UF’s posi-
tion in those metrics – for example, 
increasing the size of our endow-
ment, four-year graduation rates, 
compensation for employees and 
the number of signiﬁ  cant awards 
won by faculty. 
Even with extensive efforts, sig-
niﬁ  cant change often occurs slow-
ly.  In 1947, then UF President J. 
Hillis Miller proclaimed for the ﬁ  rst time that 
UF was destined to “take its place among the 
ten or twelve great state universities of the 
country.” It took 70 years to reach that goal. 
What do each of us want our university 
to accomplish or change in the next year, the 
next ten years or even the next 70 years? And 
what should NOT change about our beloved 
university?
A few things I love about UF and don’t 
want to change include that the students, fac-
ulty and staff care about and love one another. 
I appreciate that we have both world-class 
athletics and academics – and that UF is in-
tentionally and intensely comprehensive, with 
a major academic health center. I also value 
that we have goals, aspirations and dreams.
If you are new to our university family, 
then I extend my warmest welcome. For both 
new and returning students, I ask that you 
consider what you want to accomplish this 
academic year, as well as your goals for the 
next 10 years and even the next 70 years. I be-
lieve UF is a place where our greatest dreams 
and aspirations become reality.
If you have thoughts on what you want UF 
to accomplish or even your own aspirations 
for the future, I would love to hear from you.  
My email is kent.fuchs@uﬂ  .edu.
It is, and always will be, great to be a Flor-
ida Gator!
Kent Fuchs is the UF president.After top 10, what's next for UF?Column
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgHey Gators! 
Welcome back to cam-
pus, and to UF22, wel-
come to the Gator Nation. 
I am so excited to get back 
to work and to see everyone on 
campus. I hope each and every one 
of you has a successful and enjoy-
able Fall semester. Football season 
is getting ready to start, and I can’t 
wait to be back in the Swamp surrounded 
by orange and blue. I have a feeling we are 
going to be really good once again. 
To the incoming class and those I have 
yet to meet, my name is Ian Green, and 
I’m your Student Body president. I ran on 
a platform that aims to push UF to be bet-
ter — intentional inclusivity, professional 
development and ﬂ  exible student resources. 
My team and I have been working hard all 
summer to move Gators forward, and we’re 
ready to continue that dedication. 
This summer, we’ve worked on a lot. 
Coming up in September is our ﬁ  rst joint 
meeting with the Gainesville City Com-
mission and police department. It will take 
place Sept. 4 in the Reitz Union Chamber. 
Student Government Productions (SGP) and 
the Accent Speakers Bureau have also been 
hard at work. On Sept. 7, SGP will host its 
ﬁ  rst concert of the semester. We have some 
amazing speakers and artists coming to our 
campus soon. And speaking of artists, don’t 
forget to buy your Gator Growl tickets.This 
annual homecoming concert is a long-stand-
ing tradition and is sponsored by Student 
Government Productions. 
Chomp the Vote and External Affairs 
have been working hard to bring speakers 
and plan events to get students engaged in the upcoming local, state and 
national elections. Civic Engage-
ment Week is coming up from 
Sept. 7 to Sept. 14. A part of this 
initiative for supporting student 
engagement in elections, a Re-
gional Transit System bus route 
will be changed to give students 
more access to early voting. 
For those of you looking to 
get involved in SG, Fall staff applications 
are opening. Freshman Leadership Council 
staff applications open today and close Sept. 
7. I highly encourage Gators in the Class of 
2022 to apply for this Council. I was a mem-
ber, and it really helped me to develop my 
leadership skills. With over 1000 student or-
ganizations, everyone can ﬁ  nd a home on 
campus. 
To help kick off the start of Fall, there 
are some big welcome assemblies coming 
up that I encourage everyone to attend: 
the Hispanic & Latinx Student Assembly t 
6 p.m. on Aug. 29 in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom, the Black Student Assembly on 
Aug. 30 with doors opening at 6 p.m. in 
the Phillips Center for Performing Arts, the 
Asian American Student Assembly on Aug. 
31 with doors opening at 5:30 p.m. at the 
Phillips Center for Performing Arts and the 
Pride Student Union Welcome Assembly on 
at 7:30 p.m. on Sept. 3 in the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom. 
That’s all for now Gators, but stay on the 
look-out for more updates from SG. We’re 
going to keep working hard, so expect up-
dates on our initiatives like more locations 
for free-printing and more options for ko-
sher- and halal-friendly food on campus. 
Until then, and as always, go Gators!How you can get involved this yearColumn
Ian Green
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
VMA Playlist!
Check out page 10 for our playlist inspired by this 
year’s winners.RecStravaganza is coming: 
Flip on to page 9 for more about the UF gyms’ semester kickoff 
activities.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Writer
As the summer comes to a close, a pop-up beach 
will appear this weekend at Heartwood Soundstage.
Located on the 600 block of Southeast First Street, 
the pop-up will feature local Gainesville vendors and 
culture Friday through Sunday.
There will be human foosball — a lifesize version 
of the tabletop game -- provided by weFooz Human 
Foosball, a company that brings the game to events. 
There are seven people on a team. Players must keep 
both of their hands on the bars at all times while they 
try to make goals against the opposing team.
Mermaid Sara, a live professional mermaid from 
North Central Florida, will be there. The Gainesville 
Circus Center, a performance art company which pro-
vides classes in aerial dance, acro-balance, equestrian 
vaulting, ﬁ  re spinning and more, is performing be-
tween 3:30-6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
“We want to bring the beach to Gainesville,” said 
Alexis Benton, the event’s director. “So that families, 
students and community members can come and they 
can enjoy the sand and some beach music and just 
hang out and really come together as a community.”
When Benton graduated from the UF in May with a 
bachelor’s degree in architecture, she took a program 
director position at the Florida Community Design 
Center. She said she heard about the center in a studio class and liked what it stood for.
The Florida Community Design Center is promoting 
the Endless Summer Festival as phase one of Artline.
The idea was conceived to support the construction 
of a new corridor between Depot Park and downtown 
that was proposed by the Gainesville Community Re-
development Agency and the University, called Art-
line, said Randy Wells, executive director of Florida 
Community Design Center.
The FCDC is a community-based non-proﬁ  t that 
promotes sustainable design in the natural and built 
environment through research and community col-
laboration. It provides planning and design services 
including conceptual design, outreach and grant at-
tainment and management.
Benton said there are a lot of people in Gainesville 
unaware of all of the city has to offer, especially stu-
dents. For many students, it takes a couple of years 
to really discover the gems of downtown Gainesville.
That’s why the Endless Summer Festival is at the 
beginning of the semester, so students can explore 
the diverse plethora of great talent, people, places and 
things offered by the city, at the beginning of their 
time here, rather than at the end of their four years, 
according to Benton.
So as the sun sets on summer 2018, all of Gainesville 
residents are invited to get sand between their toes, 
appreciate the art and culture and welcome the city’s 
new hot destination, Artline.Endless Summer Festival
Get ready to chomp on some sweet, fudgy 
goodness because there is now a Kilwins Ice 
Cream and Frozen Yogurt in Gainesville!
Not many know yet, but Kilwins recently 
opened a shop in Gainesville at Celebration 
Point and is hosting their grand opening cer-
emony on Saturday, serving sweet treats to all. 
The grand opening will feature a variety of fun 
activities such as face painting, rafﬂ  es, prizes 
and even a picture booth for kids.
Students at UF can take a study break and 
satisfy those everlasting sweet cravings, as this 
location is only ten minutes from campus! With 
34 ﬂ  avors of ice cream to choose from, what 
more could you ask for? According to manager 
Felix Burgos, Kilwins provides a wide variety of 
ﬂ  avors for people of all ages.
“There’s a good variety of ﬂ  avor for all from 
grownups to kids,” Burgos said. Burgos worked 
as manager for both of the Kilwins locations in 
St. Augustine and is conﬁ  dent people of all ages 
will come ﬂ  ocking over once the word gets out 
that Kilwins is here-students, professors, fami-
lies, etc. While business has been slow thus far 
due to the dead summer season, Burgos be-
lieves it should pick up once classes begin and 
all students are moved in and settled.
“It’s been average, kind of slow right now 
because of the season once classes begin,” said 
Burgos. “I’m excited to see the ﬂ  ow of people 
here, to see their interaction. We’re just wait-
ing for that big crowd of students to come...I’m 
excited to see what the future brings for this business.”
After all, how could students not fall for 
Kilwins’ sweet temptations such as Sea Salt 
Caramel or Mint Chocolate Chip? Burgos pre-
dicts that Sea Salt Caramel will be one of the 
most popular ﬂ  avors among college kids. His 
personal favorite? Toasted Coconut. Accord-
ing to Burgos, all of the ice cream is made in 
house, and the shop also features various gour-
met chocolates, fudges and caramels. All reci-
pes are exclusively homemade, including their 
more exotic ﬂ  avors such as cake batter, praline 
pecan, superman, lemon raspberry and greek 
yogurt.
Kilwins will be open Monday-Saturday from 
10:30am to 9:30pm and 10:30am-9:00pm on 
Sundays.By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
We’d love to give you all the details on 
these great events, but there just isn’t time! 
Gainesville is always buzzing with excit-
ing local events, so don’t miss out. Here’s a 
quick rundown of what’s coming up:
Wednesday
High Dive is showing “Princess Bride” 
on Wednesday as part of its weekly cult 
movie nights with tacos from Soul Spice. 
The showing is free and festivities begin at 
8 p.m.
Union Street Farmers Market is a weekly 
event held on Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Thursday
“Honey, We Drop The Bass” is a cover-
free dance party presented by Kenfolk x 
LAViSH at The Atlantic beginning at 9 p.m.
High Dive is kicking off the school year 
with a concert featuring indie folk rock 
band Family and Friends and supporting 
acts. The doors open at 8 p.m. and tickets 
are available for $10 in advance or $12 on 
the day of the show at HighDiveGville.com, 
Hear Again Music, the High Dive box ofﬁ  ce 
or at the door.
Friday
Catch local band Locochino and Miami 
natives Electric Kif at 9 p.m. Friday at The 
Atlantic. Tickets are available for $8 in ad-
vance and $10 on the day of the show.
High Dive is hosting a local country mu-
sic show with headliner Austin Hunter. The 
doors open at 8 p.m. and tickets are avail-able for $8 in advance or $10 on the day 
of the show at HighDiveGville.com, Hear 
Again Music, the High Dive box ofﬁ  ce or at 
the door.
Saturday
First Magnitude Brewing Company is 
celebrating its 4th birthday with food trucks 
and live music from local favorites like 
Whale Feral and The Savants of Soul.
With The Atlantic’s doors opening at 9 
Saturday night, BiteMarks, Vacancy, Joy-
Boy, Gimme and Mildew promise a head 
banging show. Entry is $6 and $8 for those 
under 21.
Saturday is 90s night at High Dive with a 
performance from Grind, an Alice in Chains 
tribute band. Doors to the show open at 9 
p.m. and tickets are available for $8 in ad-
vance and $10 on the day of the show at 
HighDiveGville.com, Hear Again Music, the 
High Dive box ofﬁ  ce or at the door.
Sunday
The North Central Florida Blues Soci-
ety Regional Blues Challenge will be held 
at High Dive on Sunday beginning at 3:30 
p.m.. Entry is $5 and the winner will com-
pete in Memphis late this year.
Artspeak at the Thomas Center Galleries 
features poets and spoken word artists from 
the North Central Florida area. The perfor-
mance is free and open to the public
Tuesday
This Tuesday night offers a night of com-
edy at High Dive. Doors open at 8 and tick-
ets are available for $8 in advance and $10 
on the day of the show at HighDiveGville.
com or from the opening comics.Kilwins opens in Gainesville
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue WriterWeekly Event CalendarEmma Witmer
Heartwood Soundstage wants to take patrons to the beach, 
at least in spirit.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
GUIDE TO 
  DINING 
OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 
11-7, sun brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The 
Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, grandparents, 
or greatgrandparents went to UF they most likely ate 
here. We serve gator, frog legs, duck, quail + venison 
+ a wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with 
our famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal any 
FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the creek + 
take a step back in time. Only here can you see the 
legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, 
playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect 
for dinner any day of the week. Come 
in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn 
while you wait for the chef to put 
out nothing but goodness from the 
kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for 
lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-
10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St.  
(352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
ORGANIC
ORGANIC
ORGANIC
ORGANIC
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
Your palms are sweaty, your knees are weak, 
and your arms are heavy. Is this your ﬁ  rst exam? 
No, it’s just tug of war at RecStravaganza.
UF RecSports will host RecStravaganza 2018 
at the Southwest Recreation Center on Thurs-
day, August 23. The event is free to UF students 
and lasts from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
RecStravaganza runs in correlation with First 
Week Florida, an annual campus-wide series of 
events designed to welcome new and returning 
students to UF. This event will feature sports 
clubs expos, intramural sports games, Lake 
Wauburg activities, small group training demos, 
complimentary chair massages, food, group ﬁ  t-
ness classes and a number of other athletic ac-
tivities.
Mike Mitrook, assistant director for market-
ing and assessment at RecSports, said the pri-
mary goal of RecStravaganza is to let students 
know what programs and facilities are available 
for students at UF. Despite the event being pri-
marily focused on welcoming new students into the UF family, RecSports wants to be known for 
its inclusivity.
“Regardless of year, gender, race or physical 
condition, we are as inclusive as we can possibly 
be,” Mitrook said. “[RecSports] would like to see 
everyone participating in our activities.”
The ﬁ  rst-year experience at UF varies from 
student to student. Some students are extrovert-
ed and adventurous while others may be intro-
verted and hesitant to participate in events like 
this. The reasons for so vary upon an individual 
basis.
Jake Slodkowski, a third-year RecSports team 
member, said that students should not feel over-
whelmed by what is offered at RecStravaganza. 
For him, students who are open to having fun 
but are also able to carefully manage their sched-
ules and interests will have a much better time 
assimilating to life at UF.
“Deﬁ  nitely live in the moment and take in as 
much as you can, but don’t try to take in every-
thing,” Slodkowski said. “Everything that is be-
ing offered at this event will be available all year 
round, so it’s not like you have to do everything 
at once.”UF RecSports kicks oﬀ   the 
Fall RecStravaganza
Courtesy to The Alligator
RecStravaganza 2018 offers both incoming and returning students the 
opportunity to learn more about what the University of Florida has to offer 
its students.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
better
INSTANT Book,
INSTANT SAVINGSRent USED
Temporary Book,
Permanent Savingssame Book,
Better Price
DIGITALBy Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Their issues may have happened in 
the dark, but now that they’re in the 
light, these football stars are doing their 
best to make the comeback of the cen-
tury.
Netﬂ  ix’s docuseries “Last Chance U” 
takes a look inside the lives of football 
stars with troubled pasts who are trying 
to prove they’ve grown, changed and are 
capable of careers in the major collegiate, 
and hopefully professional, circuits.
The show originally premiered online 
in 2016 and followed the players and 
coaching staff at East Mississippi Com-
munity College in Scooba, Mississippi, 
as they embarked on their journey to the National Junior College Athletic Asso-
ciation National Junior College Football 
Championships.
Most of the players in this series were 
once a part of a highly recognized uni-
versity football team. Due to legal com-
plications, however, they were let go 
from their respective teams and univer-
sities. Now, they are at a junior college 
looking for a second chance at education 
and, most of all, a football career.
What makes the series so intriguing to 
wide audiences is the unedited authen-
ticity of these players and their coaching 
staff. Coach Buddy Stephens has become 
a household name because of his unorth-
odox and somewhat brash style of coach-
ing that is either met with praise for his 
stern nature or criticism for his lack of control in stressful situations.
Despite some not always agreeing 
with the actions of the coach or the play-
ers off the ﬁ  eld, the general consensus is 
this series has heart and is entertaining 
for the general public.
High praise for the series brought the 
group back for a second season. Viewers 
watch as they try to learn from the mis-
takes of the previous year both on and off 
the ﬁ  eld, as they received a lot of mixed 
reviews from the series.
Although viewers developed a bond 
with East Mississippi and Coach Buddy 
Stephens, it is very clear throughout the 
second series that there was growing ten-
sion and aggravation because of the cam-
eras and the show.
In late July, Netﬂ  ix premiered the 
third installment of the series, but things 
were different. To the surprise of many, 
the third season of “Last Chance” brought 
viewers to a new school, Independence 
Community College in Independence, 
Kansas.
While the location does not have 
the same intense nature of coach Jason 
Brown, it brings a sweet sense of famil-
iarity to past viewers.
Football lover or not, what makes this 
series so interesting is the unﬁ  ltered na-
ture of the program. From the coach, to 
the advisors to the players, you can truly 
see that no one is playing a character for 
cameras.
Viewers get a real look into the lives of 
young men trying to redeem themselves 
after some questionable decisions.
This Netﬂ  ix series is great for anyone 
who enjoys watching a journey that af-
fects the lives of real people in the world.Series review: Netﬂ  ix’s ‘Last Chance U’
Netﬂ  ix
“Last Chance U” allows viewers to take an inside look into the journey 
of troubled football players working to redeem themselves.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
While the year is now more than halfway over, 
MTV celebrated the best of what this year had to offer 
in music at the VMAs.
On Monday night, MTV held its 34th annual Video 
Music Awards. This awards show has a long history 
of being the dynamic and show stopping, bringing 
daring and controversial performances from chart-
topping artists. Many historic events in pop culture 
have occurred on this stage, including the infamous 
kiss between Madonna, Britney Spears and Christina 
Aguilera, not to mention the “Blurred Lines” perfor-
mance from Robin Thicke and Miley Cyrus.
The show last night did not disappoint. Jennifer 
Lopez gave a huge mastermix performance of her top 
hits as she accepted the Video Vanguard Award, and 
both the “Queen of Rap” and “Queen of Pop”, Nicki 
Minaj and Ariana Grande respectively, gave a show 
that made the two worthy of their titles.
To celebrate the best of this year, here is a playlist 
of the best of the 2018 VMA nominees and winners.
“No Tears Left To Cry” by Ariana Grande
“Havana” by Camila Cabello feat. Young Thug 
“Chun-Li” by Nicki Minaj 
“Dinero” by Jennifer Lopez Feat. Cardi B and DJ 
Khaled 
“Curious” by Hayley Kiyoko
“Apes--t” by The Carters
“God’s Plan” by Drake 
“Better Now” by Post Malone 
“This is America” by Childish Gambino 
“Finesse (Remix)” by Bruno Mars feat. Cardi B
“Walk It Talk It” by Migos feat. Drake
“In My Feelings” by Drake
“New Rules” by Dua LipaPlaylist: A VMA 
montageWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11  
Use the T arget App
to get this deal & 
other exclusives.20% off
Entire storewide 
purchase * 
Step 1: Download
the Target app.
Step 2: Scan
the barcode.
Step 3: Find your
coupon in wallet. *Exclusions apply . Limit 1 per guest. Coupon availability limited.Non-stop
study sesh?
Aced.
From Monster Energy to Archer Farms coffee,  
save and shop close to campus.
UF Campus T arget
Just north of campus on 
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
EXPIRES 9/16/1812   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
www.eSaleRugs.com/dorm
Plus FREE DELIVERY so you can focus on the 
important things. Mom and Dad would be so proud!
50-60
OFF
%
SAVE AN EXTRA
Your perfect dorm room is a click away!
DORM
 DORM
sweet
By Jessica  Curbelo                                                                                                                       
Alligator Staff Writer                                                                                                
The Alachua County Commission voted 
Thursday to increase stormwater assessment 
fees to $45 to improve infrastructure and tack-
le new projects.
The vote was 3-2 to raise the fee — col-
lected annually from individual homes — $15 
from last year’s fee. The increase will gener-
ate an additional $600,000 in revenue, County 
Commissioner Ken Cornell said. Half of that 
will go toward maintenance of existing ditch-
es, swales and gutters. The other half will be 
used for water quality projects, which clean 
out and prevent pollutants from entering bod-
ies of water.
Cornell wanted all of the additional money 
to go toward the maintenance of stormwater 
infrastructure, he said.“I think we should be more proactive ver-
sus reactive,” Cornell said. “It’s like trimming 
your trees instead of waiting for them to fall 
over.”
This money may not directly help residents 
in flood-prone neighborhoods like Robin Lane 
or the Hills of Santa Fe, who were heavily af-
fected by Hurricane Irma because the county 
can’t use this fee to help individual residents, 
said county spokesperson Mark Sexton.
Instead, part of the funds will go toward im-
proving systems already set up to direct storm-
water away from private properties and roads, 
Sexton said. 
“Stormwater that flows efficiently and gets 
absorbed into the ground in a timely manner 
benefits us all,” Sexton said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgCounty raises stormwater fee        By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Regional Utilities rates will in-
crease by just over 2 percent this October.
Although Commissioner Adrian Hayes-San-
tos had voted for the increase, he reassessed 
after constituents complained. He asked for a 
revote last Wednesday, but not enough com-
missioners changed their minds to reverse the 
4-3 decision. 
The additional funding will be used to re-
place aging equipment, Edward Bielarski, 
GRU’s general manager, said.
“We have 53-year-old units, 45-year-old units,” Bielarski said. “They’re going to break, 
and that’s what our fleet is comprised of.”
Claudia Rasnick, GRU’s chief financial offi-
cer, said rates did not increase for years before 
last year, when rates increased by 2 percent. 
Commissioner Gigi Simmons said residents 
are concerned about the government’s spend-
ing and said the budget should be considered 
before resorting to raising customer rates.  
Residents who both supported and rejected 
the motion to increase rates agreed that low-in-
come residents who cannot afford higher bills 
should be considered.
Jeffrey Shapiro, who’s lived in the city for 
20 years and rejected the proposal, told com-missioners his northwest Gainesville home’s 
utility bill has not increased significantly since 
2012 because he upgraded his appliances in or-
der to maintain a $200 monthly bill.  
“Local income residents cannot afford luxu-
ries like upgraded appliances,” Shapiro said. 
“They need help with their bills.”
Kenya Ellis, a single mother of eight, said 
to conserve energy in her house, she uses en-
ergy efficient light bulbs and windows, keeps 
appliances unplugged and constantly reminds 
her children to turn lights off when they’re not 
being used.
“I won’t even have relatives come visit me 
most of the time because they say my house is too hot,” Ellis said. “When my daughter and 
son-in-law come visit, my son-in-law was like, 
‘Is she gonna turn the AC on?’ I’m like ‘You 
gon’ help me pay that GRU bill?’” 
Commissioner Harvey Ward said the com-
mission is doing everything possible to keep 
rates low for residents and reminded them 
that the average household GRU electric bill is 
about $20 lower than it was a decade ago.
“When we cut budgets, when we tighten 
belts, we say goodbye to working on things like 
affordable housing, things that we ought to be 
able to get done in this community,” Ward said.
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.orgCity Commission votes to increase residents’ utilities rates
accomodations from the student cen-
ter, including 40 parking spots, because 
they cannot charge voters to park, a se-
cure room to store equipment, access to 
a room where voting will take place and 
signs directing voters to the room, Pyche 
said.
Barton was concerned about the Nov. 
3 football game against the University of 
Missouri because it’s also the last Satur-
day of early voting, which tends to be the 
busiest, Pyche said.
Barton and UF administration will 
meet Aug. 30 to work on these requests, he said.
The university is looking into provid-
ing 20 monitored parking spots in the 
Reitz Union Parking Garage from 8 a.m. 
to 6 p.m., said UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando. Parking patrol will monitor the 
spots and a sheriff’s deputy will take over 
during the football game.
“Early voting on campus was driven 
quite a lot by the students,” Orlando said. 
“Having it centrally located on campus 
would make it more convenient for stu-
dents.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgREITZ,  from pg. 140 parking spots will be 
open for voters at the ReitzWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
By Bailey LeFever
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: The author of the story and another 
editor at The Alligator recieved one of the promotional 
notes in mail during the reporting of this story. 
This week, multiple Gainesville media outlets re-
ceived letters pieced together from construction paper 
drizzled in fake blood.
Gainesville Police received multiple calls this week-
from frightened recipients of the poorly designed pro-
motional letter, said police spokesperson Officer Ben 
Tobias.
An explanation for the letter was missing. The note 
was a marketing ploy meant to advertise the opening 
of “The Torment Factory,” which is an upcoming local 
“live-haunt attraction.”
Officers traced the address on the envelope to a 
P.O. Box and revealed the letters were sent by tor-
mentfactory.com, Tobias said. 
After identifying the sender, GPD verified the intent 
of the campaign was not malicious, Tobias said.
The Gainesville Sun newsroom was confused about 
the letters, said Douglas Ray, the editor and general 
manager for The Sun and the Ocala Star-Banner.
“The style of the letter was kind of odd, in that 
while it’s put together like a ransom note or something 
like that, it’s kind of also bright and cheery and lami-
nated,” Ray said.
While the blood on the materials was proven to be 
fake, the message was still aggressive reading, “I’ve 
been watching you. I’ve enjoyed your craft and can’t 
wait to show you mine - AG.”
However, the arrival of the letters did resurface thoughts about newsroom security, Ray said. It’s a 
tenuous time for journalists following the shooting at 
the Capitol Gazette.
Since the shooting, The Sun has taken more secu-
rity precautions, Ray said.
“Given the mass shootings that we’ve had, people 
are a little more on edge right now than they might 
otherwise be,” Ray said. “I think the press right now 
feels a little more under assault than ever before in my 
career.”
@blefever10
blefever@alligator.orgRansom-note-esque promotional 
materials cause local scare
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
An Ocala nonprofit spent 
hundreds on advertisements to 
support a state Senate candi-
date, according to a complaint 
filed with the Florida Elections 
Commission.
The complaint claims non-
profit Liberation Ocala African 
American Council bought at 
least three mail ads to support 
Olysha Magruder, a Democrat 
running for the District 8 Flor-
ida state Senate seat and attack 
Democrat Kayser Enneking, 
who they called a “puppet who 
will follow orders.”
Attorney Jason Blank said 
the nonprofit spent more than 
$500 on the ads without regis-
tering as a political committee, 
which violates Florida campaign 
finance statutes. 
Blank, who isn’t affiliated 
with any candidates, said viola-
tions can obscure the transpar-
ency of Florida’s elections.
“That prevents the voters of 
Florida from being able to see 
who is giving money to support which candidates,” he said. 
Magruder’s campaign re-
leased a statement Sunday 
about the political advertise-
ments saying she “did not col-
laborate with nor give approval” 
on the ads.
Whitfield Jenkins, president 
of Liberation Ocala African 
American Council, hasn’t been 
formally notified of the com-
plaint by the Florida Elections 
Commission but will cooperate 
fully if he is, he said.
District 8 includes Alachua 
and Putnam counties and part 
of Marion County. 
Florida Elections Commis-
sion hasn’t responded to Blank, 
but he hopes the outcome will 
reinforce the importance of reg-
istering political committees.  
“I think that this is a way that 
people try to hide where money 
comes from, and that’s just not 
how our system should work,” 
Blank said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgElections complaint filed 
against Ocala nonprofit 
supporting Olysha
A copy of the ransom note sent to Gainesville-
area newsrooms and businesses. 
14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
UF HIRED ABOUT 230 FACULTY 
STARTING IN FALL.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
In hopes of boosting its ranking from a top-
10 public university into the top 5, UF hired 
nearly 230 professors and lecturers this Fall. 
The Florida Legislature allocated $52 mil-
lion to UF in 2017 for new hires and pay in-
creases, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said.
The new hires are “spread across the spec-
trum” of the university but are focused in sci-
ence, technology, engineering and mathemat-
ic departments, Orlando said.
The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
brought in 70 new faculty members this Fall, a 
10 percent increase in total staff. Orlando said 
of the 70, 13 belong to the mathematics de-
partment.
Dana Bartosova - College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences, Mathematics 
One of the new hires, assistant logic profes-
sor Dana Bartosova, said the mathematics de-
partment may see a foreign exchange program 
in the future inspired by her international 
experience. She has studied in Germany and 
Brazil.
Bartosova said the opportunity to have a 
permanent position at UF persuaded her to 
leave Carnegie Mellon University, where she 
taught a year earlier.
She said the department suffered in previ-
ous years when faculty diminished across the 
university. Bartosova said one of her main 
goals is to revive the logic addition of the de-
partment.
“The main thing is to get connected with students and hopefully get them more inter-
ested in my area,” she said.
Ashley Robertson Preston - College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, African Ameri-
can Studies
The 50-year history of the African Ameri-
can Studies department at UF is one of the rea-
sons Ashley Robertson Preston accepted the 
position.
Preston will head the courses “Key Issues 
of Black Atlantic Thought” and “Mary McLeod 
Bethune: Black Women and Social Activism.”
“I think that not just this ﬁ  rst semester but 
every semester, my goal is for the student to 
walk away with something that they can take 
back from my class, that they can take back to 
their lives and go out and change the world,” 
she said.
Students taking Preston’s classes can ex-
pect to think more critically and challenge ev-
eryday thoughts and beliefs, she said.
“I want this class to be a class that you say, 
‘Wow, Dr. Preston really made me think about 
that,’” she said.
Ted Bridis - College of Journalism and 
Communications, Journalism
The College of Journalism and Commu-
nications received 15 new full-time faculty 
across the advertising, public relations, jour-
nalism and telecommunications departments. 
The 28 percent staff growth is unprecedented 
in the ﬁ  eld, Orlando said.
Orlando said with the new hires, the Col-
lege of Journalism and Communications ex-
panded from 53 to 68 full-time employees. He 
said after budget cuts at UF during the reces-
sion from 2007 to 2009, the college only had 
about 48 full-time faculty.
“It’s really an extraordinary number of new 
hires for the college,” Orlando said.Ted Bridis, the Rob Hiaasen lecturer in 
investigative reporting, led the investigative 
team at the Associated Press in Washington, 
D.C., since 2017 before coming to UF. The col-
lege created Bridis’ position to honor alumnus 
Hiaasen, who was shot and killed in the Capi-
tal Gazette shooting June 28.
Bridis said he always enjoyed working with 
the younger reporters at the AP and planned to 
become a college professor later in his career.
Bridis said one of his goals is to be a re-
source for students in the college and to focus 
on real life application. He hopes to work with 
students on covering news in the Gainesville 
and Florida communities as well as national 
news.
“They want to make Florida a destination 
journalism program for investigative report-
ing, and I think that’s a fantastic thing,” he 
said. Jeffrey Rudolf - College of Engineering, 
Chemical Biology
The Herbert Wertheim College of Engineer-
ing received the majority of the new hires, Or-
lando said. Among the dozens of new hires, 
there are three professors in the materials 
science and engineering department, four in 
the industrial and systems engineering depart-
ment and one in the chemistry department.
Jeffrey Rudolf, a chemical biology assistant 
professor, said he brings a three-year grant 
with him to the university, which he believes 
made him an attractive candidate. 
Rudolf will teach graduate students in or-
ganic chemistry of biomolecules, as well as 
run his own research lab. His research focuses 
on discovering how to use the chemicals that 
organisms make in nature.
“I can have money coming in to help get 
me set up in terms of buying equipment and 
recruiting people and to build a strong founda-
tion for the lab when I ﬁ  rst arrive,” he said. 
“Departments always like to see that if pos-
sible.”
Rudolf said he hopes to recruit students 
for his lab and to get the ﬁ  rst few experiments 
started during the Fall semester. The collab-
orative research across departments at UF is 
one of the reasons it is set apart from other 
high-ranking universities, he said.
“Because the University of Florida is a top-
10 school, the quality of students that we get, 
both undergraduates and graduates, is much 
higher than a lot of other places around the 
country,” Rudolf said.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgUF hires hundreds of new professors to improve ranking
Graphic by Romy Ellenbogen
New hires in the College of Journalism 
and Communications by percentage of 
total new hires.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
THE HELP YOU NEED,
       ALL IN ONE PLACE.
       ALL IN ONE PLACE.
Illness & Injury Care
Nutrition Counseling
Sports Medicine
Sexual Health
Physical Therapy
Vaccinations
Travel Counseling
Women’s Health
LGBTQ+ Care
Pharmacy
Laboratory
X-Ray & EKG 
THE HELP YOU NEED,
       ALL IN ONE PLACE.
352.392.1161
shcc.ufl.eduHOURS:
M-F: 8am - 5pm
Closed Saturdays
Sunday: 12 - 4pm
ATTENTION  
Alligator Advertisers!
The Alligator will not be publishing 
on Monday, September 3rd due to 
the LABOR DAY holiday. Labor Day  
Early Deadlines
Run Date:
Wed, Sept. 7thDeadline:
Fri, Aug. 31st
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified advertising
Display:  376-4482     Classifieds:  373-3463 LABOR DAY Happy
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.netBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Voters still have four days to 
vote early in Alachua County. 
Anyone registered before July 
30 will get to choose between Dem-
ocrat and Republican candidates 
for governor, U.S. congressmen, 
attorney general and agriculture 
commissioner. Other local races in-
clude three School Board seats, a 
County Commission seat and two 
judges — county and circuit. 
Early voting in Alachua County 
is from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. until Sat-
urday. Before polls even opened, 
7,138 people voted by mail, ac-
cording to state data. Since early 
voting started, 2,759 voters have 
cast ballots.
If you didn’t register before July 
30, you won’t be able to participate 
in the Aug. 28 primary, but you can 
vote in the general election Nov. 6 
if you register before Oct. 9.
If you do plan to vote early in 
the next week, here’s what you 
need to know:
Where to vote
During early voting, registered 
voters can go to any of ﬁ  ve open 
locations no matter their precinct. 
If you wait until Aug. 28, you 
have to vote in your own precinct. 
A federal judge struck down 
a ban against using Florida col-
lege campuses for early voting last 
month after UF students sued the 
Florida Secretary of State. 
While the court decision won’t 
impact early voting for the prima-
ries, Alachua Supervisor of Elec-
tion Kim Barton announced Friday 
that the Reitz Union will be an ear-ly voting location come October 22. 
There are ﬁ  ve total voting lo-
cations in Alachua County, with 
three in Gainesville at the Supervi-
sor of Elections ofﬁ  ce, the Millhop-
per Branch Library and the Tower 
Road Branch Library.
What to bring
All Florida polling locations re-
quire a valid photo ID with a sig-
nature. If you are looking to get 
in and out of the polling place as 
quickly as possible, you can ﬁ  ll 
out a sample ballot ahead of time. 
Sample ballots are mailed and also 
available online.
Who is on the ballots
Who you can vote for if you are 
a registered Republican:
For U.S Senate, Gov. Rick Scott 
and 2016 presidential candidate 
Roque “Rocky” De La Fuente are 
running. California resident De La 
Fuente is also running in six other 
Senate races in other states, which 
is allowed as long as he moves to 
any state he is elected in. Whoever 
wins the primary will face incum-
bent Bill Nelson who is unopposed 
by any Democrats.
For the U.S. Rep. for District 3, 
Judson Sapp is challenging incum-
bent Ted Yoho. 
Front runners in the race for 
governor are U.S. Rep. Ron De-
Santis and Commissioner of Agri-
culture Adam Putnam. Other can-
didates are Don Baldauf, Timothy 
M. Devine, Bob Langford, John 
Joseph Mercadante, Bruce Nathan 
and Bob White. 
To replace term-limited Attor-
ney General Pam Bondi, Circuit 
Court Judge Ashley Moody and 
State Rep. Frank White are run-ning.
Commissioner of Agriculture 
Adam Putnam is also term limited 
and running for another ofﬁ  ce. Vy-
ing for his ofﬁ  ce are State Rep. Matt 
Caldwell, State Senator Denise 
Grimsley, former Governor candi-
date Mike McCalister and former 
State Rep. Baxter Troutman.
Locally, Marc Vann and Chuck 
Brannan are running for the State 
Rep. seat for District 10, which in-
cludes a small piece of northwest-
ern Alachua near High Springs as 
well as all of Baker, Columbia, 
Hamilton and Suwannee counties. 
Whoever wins will face Ronald W. 
Williams II, who faces no challeng-
er in the primary.
Who you can vote for if you are 
a registered Democrat:
Three Democrats are hoping to 
replace Republican incumbent Ted 
Yoho as U.S. Rep. for District 3: 
Dushyant Jethagir Gosai, Yvonne 
Hayes Hinson and Tom Wells. 
Polls show former U.S. Rep. 
Gwen Graham is in the lead among 
Democrats running for the gov-
ernor’s ofﬁ  ce. Tallahassee Mayor 
Andrew Gillum, Jeff Greene, Chris 
King, former Miami Beach Mayor 
Philip Levine, Alex “Lundy” Lund-
mark and John Wetherbee are also 
running.
State Rep. Sean Shaw and Ryan 
Torrens are running for Attorney 
General.
Democrats running for Com-
missioner of Agriculture are Nicole 
“Nikki” Fried, Jeffrey Duane Porter 
and Roy David Walker.
A UF professor of anesthesiol-
ogy Kayser Enneking and former 
Alachua school teacher Olysha Magruder are running for State 
Senate District 8, which includes 
all of Alachua and Putnam counties 
and part of Marion County. Who-
ever wins will face Republican in-
cumbent Keith Perry, who had no 
challenger in the primary. 
Jason Lee Haeseler and Amol 
Jethwani, a UF political science 
senior, are both running for the 
State Rep. seat for District 21. The 
district encompasses western Ala-
chua, including part of Gainesville 
and all of Gilchrist and Dixie coun-
ties. Whoever wins will face in-
cumbent Chuck Clemmons, who is 
unopposed by any Republicans.
Who you can vote for no matter 
your party afﬁ  liation:
For the Eighth Circuit, three 
candidates are on the ballot, no 
matter which party you are in: Da-
vid Robertson, Julie Waldman and Gloria Walker.
County Court judge candidates 
are Craig DeThomasis, Meshon 
Rawls, Jon Uman and Darla K. 
Whistler. 
Three School Board seats are 
open this election.
District 1: Tina Certain and 
April Grifﬁ  n
District 3: Judy DeJesus McNeil, 
Gunnar Paulson and April Barefoot 
Tisher
District 5: Rob Hyatt and Paul 
Wolfe
Pros and cons of voting early
Early voters avoid a wait that 
may come Election Day and can 
choose their polling place.
But, if new information surfaces, 
voters already cast their ballots.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgEverything you should know about voting early
Romy Ellenbogen
Early voting locations in Alachua County.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
START YOUR GLOBAL CAREER
JOIN THE INTERNATIONAL 
SCHOLARS PROGRAM
internationalcenter.ufl.edu/global-learning/
CONNECT · SERVE · WORK · LEARN
WITHOUT BORDERS
Caroline Cooper PhotographyWe asked candidates to answer questions 
about the most important issues facing who 
they aim to represent. Those who responded 
say they hope to win the primary.
Alachua County Commission 
District 2
Democrats Randy Wells and Marihelen 
Haddock Wheeler want to represent the 
northwest district of Alachua County.
Marihelen Had-
dock Wheeler, 67, is a 
retired Alachua public 
school educator, who 
taught arts and spe-
cial education for 38 
years. She’s run for 
oﬃ   ce before — twice 
for Florida House of 
Representatives in 
2012 and 2016 and once for U.S. Congress in 
2014.
She said she’s running for the County 
Commission partly because there are no 
women holding those oﬃ   ces now.
“I feel that I would open the commission 
to a demographic that can be better served 
with a more diverse commission,” she said.
Top three issues facing the county:
1. Sustainable growth
2. Water quality
3. Economic 
equality
Randy Wells, 51, 
was a Gainesville 
City Commissioner 
from 2010 to 2016. 
He said his biggest 
accomplishments  
have been helping 
to establish Grace 
Marketplace, create a park and job center in East Gainesville and designate Gainesville a 
welcoming city.
“I have a track record of providing positive 
leadership that brings people together to cre-
ate smart, cost-eﬀ  ective solutions to our com-
munity’s biggest challenges,” he said.
Top three issues facing the county:
1. Environment
2. Economy
3. Poverty and discrimination
Alachua County School Board 
District 1 
Tina Certain and April Griﬃ   n are compet-
ing for District 1’s School Board seat.
Accountant Tina Certain, 50, sees “ﬁ  nan-
cial constraints” in the school system, includ-
ing a backlog of facility repairs.
“My goal is to ensure sound ﬁ  nancial de-
cisions are made so that higher teacher and 
support staﬀ   salaries can be oﬀ  ered,” she 
said.
Certain is not in favor of arming school 
employees, high stakes testing or diverting 
funding via vouchers.
Alachua County School Board 
District 3 
Candidates for the School Board district 3 
seat are: Judy DeJesus McNeil, Gunnar Paul-
son and April Barefoot Tisher.
McNeil, 53, has taught for years in various 
schools and programs.
“My opponents’ experiences are obsolete 
to the challenging time faced on school cam-
pus with school safety/drills, facility and main-
tenance issues and excessing testing — our 
new normal,” she said. “As a teacher, I have 
ﬁ  rst-hand experience on all these issues.”
Paulson, the incumbent, said the schools 
are safer because of armed school resource 
oﬃ   cers, active shooter training for teachers and students and more social workers.
Tisher, 41, is a mother of three Alachua 
Schools students and said she is the only can-
didate with children still in school.
“I felt like there needed to be a voice on 
the board for parents to advocate for all stu-
dents,” she said.
Alachua County School Board 
District 5
Rob Hyatt and Paul Wolfe are running 
against each other for a school board seat.
Recent Buchholz High School graduate 
Paul Wolfe, 17, said his fellow students feel 
like their “lives are at risk when they set foot 
on a school campus.”
Wolfe’s proposals to improve safety and 
security response would be to institute a men-
tal health counseling position at every school 
and trauma kits in case of emergency.
State Senate for District 8
A UF professor of 
anesthesiology, Kayser 
Enneking, and former 
Alachua school teacher 
Olysha Magruder are 
running for State Sen-
ate District 8, which 
includes all of Alachua 
and Putnam counties 
and part of Marion 
County. Whoever wins will face Republican 
incumbent Keith Perry, who had no challenger 
in the primary.
Enneking said she chose to run for oﬃ   ce 
because of her experience as a doctor and 
view of the Aﬀ  ordable Care Act, commonly 
known as Obamacare. She supports the pro-
gram and “our lawmakers have been throwing 
all that progress out the window,” she said.
Enneking said she’d also like to repeal the Stand Your Ground law, legalize marijuana for 
recreational use and ban assault weapons.
She said as a state senator, she’d also 
want to promote water and air quality to en-
sure they’re protected. 
State House of Representa-
tives for District 21
Jason Lee Haesel-
er and Amol Jethwani, 
a UF political science 
senior, are both run-
ning for the State 
Rep. seat for District 
21. The district en-
compasses western 
Alachua, including 
part of Gainesville, 
and all of Gilchrist and Dixie counties. Whoev-
er wins will face incumbent Chuck Clemmons, 
who was unopposed by any Republicans.
Haeseler, a 43-year-old UF assistant direc-
tor of utilities, said current representatives, in-
cluding incumbent Chuck Clemmons, support 
special interests like Big Sugar. He said he 
couldn’t “sit on the sidelines anymore, while 
the quality of water has diminished.”
“The biggest threat to our environment in 
Florida is the Florida legislature,” he said.
Jethwani, 21, has 
spent 10 years advo-
cating for issues in-
cluding keeping guns 
oﬀ   campus, protect-
ing Planned Parent-
hood and protecting 
the environment. 
“It’s time for a 
new generation of 
leadership driven to advance the goals of their 
constituency,” he said.US House of Representatives 
Three Democrats are hoping to replace 
Republican incumbent Ted Yoho as U.S. Rep. 
for District 3: Dushyant Jethagir Gosai, Yvonne 
Hayes Hinson and Tom Wells.
Hinson, who served on the City Commis-
sion from 2012 to 
2015, said she wants 
to hold President Don-
ald Trump account-
able in Congress. She 
said she also wants 
to promote local 
ecotourism and bring 
environmental land 
grants to the area.
Hinson, a retired educator, also said she 
wants to have guidance counselors have the 
time to tend to students and serve as the “ﬁ  rst 
line of defense when battling mental health.”
Wells, a 68-year-
old engineer, said the 
midterm is the “most 
critical election of our 
lifetimes” and hopes 
to challenge what he 
said is a destruction 
of democracy. Wells 
wants to bring single-
payer health care, 
ban assault weapons and require training for 
all other gun use. 
He’d also like to implement “pump-up 
economics,” which use a $16 minimum wage, 
and said he hopes to reform the system of 
money in politics. 
Gosai said he is a progressive candidate 
who supports a $15 minimum wage, the 
current laws surrounding abortion and also 
promotes banning all automatic and semi-
automatic weapons. Wells
Wheeler
Enneking
Haeseler
Jethwani
Hinson
Wells
Meet the candidates on the ballot18   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
TRY OUR 
AWARD-WINNING 
SCOOTER SAUCEBUY 6  
WINGS 
GET 6 
WINGS
Not valid with any other specials or offers. 
One coupon per customer. 
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
’
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
A
A
W
A
W
A
W
A
A
A
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
A
A
W
A
W
A
W
A
A
A
W
A
A
W
A
A
A
W
A
W
A
W
A
A
A
W
A
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
A
A
A
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
A
A
A
A
A
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
W
A
W
W
W
A
W
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
O
O
O
O
O
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
O
O
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
O
V
O
V
V
V
O
V
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
F
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
F
O
F
F
F
O
F
O
F
O
F
F
F
O
F
O
O
O
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
R
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
U
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
S
ALL YOU
CAN EAT CHICKEN
WINGS FOR$13.99
Grilled or Breaded. Choose any of our
22 delicious wing sauces.MONDAY
(5pm-11pm)
Not valid with any other offer. Limited time offer.OPEN UNTIL 1:00am
Friday & Saturday
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
 MOD PIZZA SERVES SLICES AT GRAND OPENING 
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
An employee of MOD Pizza tends to a pie in the oven on Tuesday afternoon. Each pizza is made to 
order and is freshly baked in a large oven.Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
An employee slices a fresh pizza during the grand opening of the ﬁ  rst 
MOD Pizza in Gainesville. Customizable pizza is now just steps away from students. Located at The Stan-
dard at 50 NW 13th St., MOD Pizza hosts its grand opening with endless meats, 
veggies and unique topping options. They also feature wine and local brews on tap 
from Swamp Head Brewery, Cypress & Grove Brewing Company and First Magni-
tude Brewing Company along with their signature pies.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19
20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
When the results of the 2018 Florida Standard 
Assessment came out, Alachua County Public 
Schools found itself at the top — for the widest 
achievement gap between white and black stu-
dents.
Alachua County schools have the largest gap 
in the state in English, math and science and the 
second largest gap in social studies, said Valerie 
Freeman, the district’s educational equity direc-
tor. To remedy this disparity, Freeman presented 
an equity plan, which was rolled out in schools 
on Aug. 13.
“We have to look not for a bandage ﬁ  x but for 
a transformation,” Freeman said.
The plan lists ﬁ  ve categories of goals: student 
achievement, advanced coursework, graduation 
rate, student discipline and diversity of the work-
force. It will be continuously edited to align with 
the district’s goals and reviewed in the middle 
and at the end of the school year, she said.
For this school year, the plan will focus on 
the largest disparity data has shown, which is 
between white and black students, Freeman said.
Four schools in the district are piloting  a col-
lege and career readiness called AVID program, 
which stands for Advancement Via Individual 
Determination. Mebane Middle School, Santa 
Fe High School, Westwood Middle School and 
Gainesville High School are implementing the 
college readiness program, Freeman said.
Westwood Middle School is also integrating 
other strategies that promote organization and readiness. Students are also taking college readi-
ness electives, where they research colleges and 
career options, said Ginger Stanford, assistant 
principal. 
“They have control of their learning,” Stan-
ford said, “and they can advocate for their own 
education.”
Stanford said she’s already received calls from 
parents saying they’ve noticed a difference in 
their childrens’ organizational skills.
The plan also introduces a credit retrieval pro-
gram, which lets students make up classes they 
may have failed and individual learning plans for 
students who aren’t on track to graduate. The 
goal is to raise the graduation rate for black stu-
dents by 3 percent each year, according to the 
document. 
In the year leading up to the proposal of the 
equity plan, Alachua County teachers and ad-
ministrators received training to develop cultur-
ally responsive classrooms. This training includ-
ed having discussions about race and addressing 
implicit biases, Freeman said.
An integral part of the plan includes diversify-
ing the school district’s workforce. The hope is to 
recruit at more job fairs in order to increase the 
number of black teachers and administrators by 
10 percent each year to mirror the county’s racial 
demographic, according to the plan.
“In order to have success for all, we have to 
be able to teach for all,” Freeman said.
@jessc47
jcurbelo@alligator.orgAlachua County schools plans to close achievement gap
The plan was rolled out Aug. 13. 
Improve the achievement of black 
students in reading by 3 percentage 
points each year
Increase participation of black students in 
advanced courses by 2 percent each year 
Improve the graduation rate of black 
students by 3 percent each year 
Decrease the number of black students 
who are suspended each year by 15 
percent 
Hire more black teachers and 
administrators
Increase the number of black students 
who are recommended for the gifted 
program by 2 percent Goals of the Alachua County 
Public Schools Equity Plan:WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   21  
DIVE IN: Mermaid meetup inspires childhood dreams
Lindsey Breneman / Alligator Staff 
Chelseabelle Rioux fulfills her childhood dreams of becoming a mermaid by donning 
a tail, a crown and diving in. Rioux made her first tail as a child with a raft and scissors 
before she even knew how to swim.
Lindsey Breneman / Alligator Staff
Kari “Stormmaker” Bartruff shows off her tail alongside about 100 of her “merbrothers” 
and “mersisters. ” The mermaid meetup hosted both male and female participants ages 
6 to 60.Lindsey Breneman / Alligator Staff
T ami Baker sits dockside in her $5,000 custom mermaid tail in August. Baker 
organized the national mermaid meetup at Ginnie Springs, an opportunity for 
mermaid enthusiasts to slide into a tail of their own and do what the y love.
22   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Parking just got a little easier 
for people donning an orange de-
cal on their windshields. 
UF’s Transportation and 
Parking Services Department 
squeezed 225 parking spots into 
a repurposed tennis court next to 
Flavet Field to make up for the 
600 spaces planned to close in 
November when the department 
breaks ground on a 1,900-space 
parking garage on Gale Lemerand 
Drive, said Scott Fox, the director 
of UF Transportation and Parking 
Services.
The Flavet Lot opened for or-
ange decals Monday. It’s located 
next to Flavet Field, across Mu-
seum Road from the Honors Resi-
dential College at Hume Hall. 
The lot can be accessed through 
the north side of Museum Road 
through the red decal parking lot. 
“It’s the ﬁ  rst domino to fall 
in the series of changes that are 
coming,” Fox said. 
It cost about $140,000 to build 
the temporary lot, Fox said. Fla-
vet Lot is one of ﬁ  ve locations 
that will be converted to addition-
al parking to make up for the lost 
spaces. The cost to build the new 
lots would be about $3.5 million.
The multi million-dollar price 
tag is typical for building surface 
lots, Fox said, because they need 
to include a surface water man-
agement system, lighting, surfac-
ing and striping.
In return for the tennis courts 
that were used for the Flavet Lot, the department will make a dona-
tion for a future RecSports proj-
ect. That amount is unknown 
right now, Fox said. 
To pay off the loan for Ga-
rage 14, faculty and staff saw a 
7 percent increase in the price of 
parking decals in 2018 and will 
continue to see increases until 
2020. For orange decals, the most 
common among faculty and staff, 
prices are now $378 compared to 
$354 the last year, Fox said. 
“If we want to embark on an 
expensive project, we need the 
money to pay it,” Fox said.
But the parking gain comes 
at a loss to the UF Club Tennis, 
which is out of the court they 
used for practices three times a 
week and for tournaments they 
hosted twice a year. 
The Club’s vice president, An-
drew Makarov, said he received 
an email on July 25 about the 
transformation of the lot. 
On Monday, Makarov met with 
RecSports to talk about where 
the group could host its tourna-
ments, which accounts for about 
25 percent of the organization’s 
funding. In the future, it will host 
matches at both Broward and 
Southwest Recreation Center’s 
courts. 
“It feels unfair because we 
were putting the courts to good 
use,” Makarov, a 20-year-old UF 
mathematics and statistics senior 
said. “They’re the home of our 
club, so it’s not like it’s space that 
no one’s using anyways.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgTennis court repurposed 
to 225-space parking lot
The lot opened Monday 
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Flavet Lot adds an additional 225 parking spaces on campus. It 
replaced a tennis court next to Flavet Field, across Museum Road 
from the Honors Residential College at Hume Hall. 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   23
Worship Sundays  @ 5:30pm 
followed by a home-cooked meal
Activities & dinner  
Wednesdays @ 7pm
Welcome Week @ Chapel
M: Back to School BBQ @ noon
T:   Ice Cream Social @ 2pm
W: Syllabus Week Soiree 5-9pm
Th: Tie Dye & Treats @ 6pm
F:    Brunch on the Go  
        9:15-10:45am
1522 West University Ave.
ufchapelhouse.com 
THE CITY OF GAINESVILLE 
WON’T CONDUCT AN INTERNAL 
INVESTIGATION. 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville city ofﬁ  cials accidentally shared 
a Facebook post linking to a website with a re-
cording from county ofﬁ  cials talking about rev-
enue boosts because of Richard Spencer’s visit. 
The post last week advertised volunteergnv.
org, a site that was supposed to be used to con-
nect volunteers with organizations, but when 
users clicked on the link, they were directed 
to a website with a recording of county ofﬁ  -
cials talking about white supremacist Richard 
Spencer’s Oct. 19, 2017 speech in Gainesville. 
The post was ﬁ  xed the following morning and 
replaced with servegnv.org, city spokesperson 
Chip Skinner said.
The site used to upload the recording was 
purchased Aug. 13 by a private user who up-
loaded the audio from a county advisory meet-
ing. The city won’t conduct an internal investi-
gation, Skinner said.
Skinner said the domain used was one of 
two sites the city was considering for their vol-unteer website.
In the 15-second recording, which was taken 
at a July 9 Tourist Development Council meet-
ing, Alachua County ofﬁ  cials who attended 
conﬁ  rmed that Tommy Crosby, the assistant 
county manager for budget and ﬁ  scal services, 
and Megan Eckdahl, the general manager for 
the Hampton Inn by Hilton Gainesville were in 
the recording.
The public monthly meeting was held to 
discuss funding and revenue for the Tourist 
Development Tax — a 5 percent tax applied to 
short-term lodging.
Crosby spoke about events that had increased 
the revenue, including home football games, 
Hurricane Irma and Spencer’s speech, but only 
the portion about Spencer was recorded. The 
predicted 2018 tax revenue would be about 
$5,084,089, compared to $4,815,963 in 2017.
“He can come back and stay and speak be-
cause that helped the economy,” Eckdahl re-
sponded to Crosby in the recording. 
Eckdahl couldn’t be reached for comment. 
“I was just relaying data that brought people 
into the community that drove up revenues,” 
Crosby said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgCity accidentally links 
website with a recording 
about Richard Spencer
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Members of the American Cancer Society of North Central Florida Volunteer 
Leadership Board, John Howard (left) and Kemp Howell (right), pose with Kyle 
Stone at Saturday’s Pink Pub Crawl event, located at the White Buffalo. The 
proceeds of this event support the ﬁ  ght against breast cancer.
24   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
Gator Night!
Wednesday Nights
15% off or  
BOGO buy one get one 50% off
with a student ID
nitrogen ice cream
4110 SW 34th St. Suite 17   (786) 556-7044 @fogboxx
fogboxxgnv
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
THIS IS PART OF AN INITIATIVE 
TO BECOME A WASTE-FREE 
CITY. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Slurping with straws may become a 
thing of the past in two decades.
Gainesville is starting an initiative to get 
rid of plastic straws and become a waste-
free city by 2040.
“We’re coming to a crisis point in our 
environment,” Gainesville City Commis-
sioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said. “We have 
to start taking action now and through the 
next decade to be able to rectify the crisis 
and ensure our environment is there for fu-
ture generations.”
UF is ahead when it comes to being en-
vironmentally conscious and supports the 
city’s efforts to go “zero-waste,” Hayes-
Santos said.
Zachary Amrose, a UF political sci-
ence junior, passed a resolution in Spring 
through UF Student Government that re-quested the university to limit single-use 
plastic straws on campus, according to Al-
ligator archives. 
A petition to ban straws started by Am-
rose received 2,600 signatures and was 
supposed to be sent to UF President Kent 
Fuchs.
“Everybody who wants to ban plastic 
straws does not see this as the end all be 
all,” Amrose said.
Limiting plastic straws is just a starting 
point, Amrose said. But he hopes single-
use plastic devices will be around in the 
future.
People against the ban are concerned 
about convenience and cost, Hayes-Santos 
said.
Hayes-Santos said he wants to im-
prove the zero-waste Gainesville initiative 
through city budgeting, conducting waste 
studies and hiring sustainability managers.
“Growing up in Gainesville, the envi-
ronment has always been something that’s 
been of a strong value in our community,” 
Hayes-Santos said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGainesville is getting rid of 
plastic straws by 2040By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Onyekwere P. Ozuzu thought she would 
become a lawyer. 
But once she got onto the dance ﬂ  oor, she 
decided to focus on becoming an artist.
“Dance is my home art form,” she said. 
“What I experienced on the dance ﬂ  oor was 
the most transformative experience of my 
young life up to that point.”
Ozuzu became UF’s College of the Arts 
dean Aug. 1.  Previously, she served as the 
dean of the School of Fine and Performing 
Arts at Columbia College in Chicago.
“The dean’s portfolio is really broad, which 
is just the way my brain works,” she said. “My 
brain likes to travel out across large distances 
and see things kind of from a big picture.”
Ozuzu said her move to Florida was a 
homecoming. In high school, Ozuzu danced 
in Florida and found her love for contempo-
rary and cultural styles. She also was part of a 
community dance troupe at the Florida Agri-
cultural and Mechanical University.
“When I came down here and started hear-
ing about what was going on at the University 
of Florida, I couldn’t help but get interested,” 
she said. 
Many other liberal arts colleges across the country are losing enrollment, but UF is seeing 
the opposite, Ozuzu said. The inﬂ  ux of hun-
dreds of new faculty is one of the things that 
attracted her to UF.
“As dean, I couldn’t think of a more ex-
citing environment to be in than a place that 
was getting such an infusion of creativity and 
experience,” she said. 
Ozuzu incorporates what she has studied, 
including ballet, Japanese martial arts, West 
African dance, Afro-Caribbean dance, house 
and club dancing into her teaching. 
Jennifer Setlow, the associate dean for aca-
demic and student affairs, said Ozuzu doesn’t 
lecture, she has conversations with students. 
“She’s a collaborator, she’s a listener and 
she’s also someone who both leads but also 
facilitates other voices being heard,” Setlow 
said.
The future of the college and the relation-
ship between arts and the economy and tech-
nology is going to change radically in coming 
years, Ozuzu said.
“We’re not here for decoration anymore,” 
she said. “And we never were.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgArts college has new deanWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   25
Visit our new website at
FL YGAINESVILLE.COM
EXPANDED 
PARKINGPRE-CHECK AVAILABLE SOON!
NEW SECURITY K-9 
NAMED “BEAMER”
DAIL Y NON-STOP 
SERVICE TO  
THREE MAJOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
HUBS ALLOWING 
ACCESS TO
THE WORLD26   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
SEPT 1st - DEC 31st
SEPT 1st - DEC 31st
SEPT 1st - DEC 31st
SEPT 1st - DEC 31st
Reservations and proper footwear are required
(904) 824-3337 • alligatorfarm.comZIP 
THE
ZOO50% OFF! 
 50% 
 OFF! 
OFF! 
Valid college student ID required. Nile River course only.  
Not valid with the Sepik River course.
999 Anastasia Blvd., St. Augustine, FL 32080
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
From inside his prison cell, Kevin would 
put his hand over someone’s traced handprint, 
feeling where they had been.
Kevin, who declined to provide his full 
name, was incarcerated in multiple Florida 
prisons for about three years. He said he and 
other inmates used to exchange letters with 
people on the outside, sending handprints 
back and forth so they could feel more human.
On Tuesday, prisoners around the country 
launched a week-long prison strike to push 
for better prison conditions. The Gainesville 
chapter of Incarcerated Workers Organizing 
Committee and Fight Toxic Prisons held an in-
formation session at the Alachua County Head-
quarters Library on Monday evening to teach 
the community about how they can participate 
in the strike.
Inmates compiled a list of demands includ-
ing improved living conditions, more access to 
rehabilitation programs and an end to “prison 
slavery,” said Karen Smith, secretary of the 
Gainesville IWOC.
The strike is a response to the violence 
that plagues America’s prisons, she said. An 
incident in April was the catalyst, when seven 
inmates were killed during a prison riot at Lee Correctional Institution in South Carolina. 
“It’s like a powder keg,” Smith said. “This 
kind of violence happens all the time, we just 
don’t hear about it.”
Inmates will strike in four ways, she said. How they choose to strike depends on the risks 
of each option. Prisoners can boycott the com-
missary, a store inside the prison or participate 
in hunger strikes and sit-ins.
They can also stage work strikes, Smith said. During a work strike, prisoners won’t re-
port to their assigned jobs, where they’re paid 
very little or not at all. One of the demands 
listed asks that prisoners be paid at least the 
minimum wage in their state.
Shelby Shoup, a junior education major at 
Florida State University, traveled from Talla-
hassee to show her support for the strike and 
learn how to participate. She feels that work 
strikes are the most effective means of protest. 
“Labor is the source of it all,” she said. “If 
you stop production, you stop it all.”
Smith also invited attendees to participate 
in phone zaps, where people ﬂ  ood the prisons 
with phone calls advocating for the demands 
of the inmates, she said. The group hosted a 
phone zap Tuesday as well as a protest outside 
of the Gainesville Work Camp.
About 20 people gathered outside the work 
camp on Northeast 55th Boulevard on Tuesday 
morning for the protest. They had banners, 
bullhorns, cow bells and loud chants, said 
Juan Zapata, a UF ﬁ  fth-year electrical engineer-
ing major who participated in the protest.
“I see prisons and prison labor as another 
method of capitalism exploiting us,” Zapata 
said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGainesville activists learn how to help prisoners in strike
Jessica Curbelo / Alligator Staff
Representatives from Gainesville Incarcerated Workers Organizing Committee and 
Fight T oxic Prisons listen while an inmate speaks over the phone.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   27
352-505-5304
prestigepetresort.com
one convenient location  •  3717 NW 13th Street Providing the best care in Gainesville 
for your best friend since 1974. 
352-372-8387
shoresanhosp.com
Your pet’s vacation destination! You do 
not have to stress about your furry family 
member while traveling. Prestige Pet 
Resort is their home away from home!
– Deluxe Boarding Themed Suites
– Half Pint Harbor for Small Dogs
– Cat Cove with Spacious Condos
– Doggy Day Care
– Spa Grooming Services with 
Hydrosurge Massage Baths
PET RESORT     & SPA
3205    Clark    Butler Bl vd. - (352) 2 42-0020     |      2005 NW 43rd St. - (352) 559-3937ONE FREE 
SESSION!
With   coupon. V alid onl y a t Gainesville, FL loca tions. 
Coupon   is   onl y good   for  first timers and  locals.
 Cert ain    restrictions  appl y. See studio   for   det ails. 
Not v alid with any  other   coupons or special discounts. 
3205    Clark    Butler Bl vd. - (352) 2 42-0020     |      2005 NW 43rd St. - (352) 559-3937
Butler     plaza
3205    Clark    Butler Bl vd. - (352) 2 42-0020     |      2005 NW 43rd St. - (352) 559-3937
MIllhopper
MIllhopper
OVER  100   CLASSES  EVER Y WEEK!
Butler     plaza
OVER  
 2   Amazing    Studios!LET'S   ST ART
burning!
Cuban Food with a Smile.
THE OFFICIAL PEOPLE’S CHOICE AWARDS
VOTE FOR US
BOGO
Buy ANY meal, Get the 
2nd of equal or lesser value HALF OFF!AGBOGO
114 SW 34th St.  (352) 376-7020 | miapalatincafe.com
MUST PRESENT COUPON. One coupon per customer. Cannot be combined with any other offer.www.miapalatincafe.com114 SW 34 th  S t.
(352)376-7020
At the blinking light in  
Historic Micanopy, Just  
South of Lake Wauburg
6:00 am to 9:00 pm daily106A NE Highway 441
Micanopy, FL 32667
(352) 466-4025
Eat In · Take Out · Catering · Groceries
Fine Beer and Wine · Ice · Propane
Jams & Jellies · Grits · Cornmeal
Florida Heritage BooksWelcome
New & Returning UF Students!
Don’t miss the area’s best barbecue,
robust country breakfasts and great desserts.
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
FRIDAY
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
FRIDAY
PICK UP YOURFIVE OTHER COUNSELORS 
WILL BE WORKING BY THE 
2019-20 FISCAL YEAR.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Wait times at the Counseling & Well-
ness Center may decrease with the cen-
ter’s plan to have seven new counsel-
ors working by the end of the year.
Last August, the UF Board of Trust-
ees approved the hire of 12 new full-
time mental health counselors, accord-
ing to Alligator archives. Additional 
counselors would decrease the ratio 
from the current one counselor to 1,400 
students to one to 1,253 students. All 
counselors are on track to be hired 
by the end of the 2019-20 ﬁ  scal year, 
said Ernesto Escoto, the director of the CWC.
“Our university has become so 
much (more) competitive, and with 
that comes a certain level of anxiety,” 
Escoto said. 
For at least the last four years, the 
number of students using the center 
has increased. In the 2016-17 year, the 
center cared for 5,100 students, but 
in the 2017-18 year, that increased to 
5,340 students.
In 2016-17, 6 percent of students 
were placed on a waiting list to see a 
counselor, Escoto said, with an average 
wait time of 16 days for a follow-up ap-
pointment. 
Escoto said they are still waiting to 
see how the increase in employment 
will affect the time it takes to see stu-
dents.
The center wants to remodel ofﬁ  ces in Peabody Hall to accommodate the 
new hires and wants to complete the 
project by May, Escoto said.
Cheyenne Cheng, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology senior, said she ﬁ  rst went 
to the center her freshman year after 
her roommates were concerned about 
her mental health. Cheng returned to 
the center in Spring 2017, when a pro-
fessor drove her to meet with a coun-
selor.
Cheng said she believes hiring new 
counselors can help the center serve its 
students.
“I think the university needs to do 
more than just hire counselors,” Cheng 
said. “But also, train faculty and staff 
on mental health awareness, and may-
be students, as well.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSeven new counselors to work at the CWC by the end of the year
Alligator File Photo
The number of students seeking help at the Coun-
seling & Wellness Center has increased each year.
28   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/18.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/18.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
A Gainesville man was arrested Monday 
morning after Gainesville Police found cocaine 
baggies ﬂ  oating in swampwater, according to the 
arrest report.
Daniel Andre McKenzie, a 28-year-old 
Gainesville resident, was found nearby, wet from 
the knees down and shirtless, police said. 
A GPD ofﬁ  cer was sitting in 
a parked patrol car in the Niche 
Apartments parking lot, on 
Southwest 37th Boulevard off 
of Southwest Archer Road, af-
ter K-9 Leo responded to a car 
alarm in the apartment com-
plex, according to the report. 
McKenzie reportedly rode his 
bike by the patrol car and was surprised to see 
the ofﬁ  cer.
When the ofﬁ  cer exited the car, McKenzie 
said, “I didn’t do it.” He dropped his bike and 
ran away when the ofﬁ  cer told him to stop, the 
ofﬁ  cer said.
Police chased McKenzie on foot and found a 
fresh set of footprints leading to a swamp north of 
the apartment complex, according to the report. 
A shirt was found next to three baggies ﬂ  oating 
in the water. The substance in the baggies tested 
positive for cocaine, according to the report.
The K-9 found McKenzie in the wooded area 
by the apartments. He was charged with posses-
sion of a controlled substance, possession of drug 
paraphernalia, resisting an ofﬁ  cer without vio-
lence and loitering.
McKenzie is being held in Alachua County Jail 
in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgPolice ﬁ  nd drugs 
ﬂ  oating in swamp
McKenzie
Gainesville Police arrested a man 
early Tuesday morning for reportedly 
possessing more than three pounds of 
crystal meth.
Brandon Jay Hughes, 35, of Tampa, 
was stopped by police after reportedly 
speeding and swerving while driving 
south on Interstate 75 by High Springs 
in a silver Hyundai, according to the 
arrest report.
Hughes was asked to step out of the 
vehicle so the ofﬁ  cer could write a 
warning for speeding. The ofﬁ  cer 
noticed Hughes appeared nervous and asked to search the car. Although 
Hughes refused, a K-9 alerted police to 
the smell of drugs in the vehicle.
Hughes reportedly ran into the woods 
when police tried to arrest him. After 
a brief chase, it took three ofﬁ  cers and 
a Taser to detain him, according to the 
report. Hughes kicked and grabbed at 
ofﬁ  cers, causing minor injuries, police 
said.
Police searched the car and found 3.6 
pounds of crystal meth, worth more 
than $129,000, and a large amount 
of money in the glovebox, according to the report. Police also found about 
2 gallons of a suspected date rape 
drug and a large amount of suspected 
MDMA, or ecstasy.
Hughes was charged with trafﬁ  cking 
methamphetamine and three counts of 
resisting police with violence, accord-
ing to the arrest report.
Hughes’ charges on the additional 
drugs are pending, according to the 
report. He is being held in Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $130,000 bond.
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgCar search yields two gallons of date rape drugGainesville Police arrested a man 
accused of ﬁ  lling a shopping cart with 
items stolen from vehicles and a porch 
Monday morning, according to an ar-
rest report.
Kahary Alterec 
Campbell, 22, of 
Gainesville, was 
charged with four 
counts of trans-
porting burglarized 
possessions, three 
counts of petit theft, 
two counts of grand 
theft and one count 
of burglarizing an occupied home, the 
report said.
Police responded to a report of 
multiple burglaries in the 900 block of 
Southwest Fifth Avenue where ofﬁ  cers 
found Campbell trying to leave the area 
on a bicycle while pulling a full CVS 
Pharmacy cart, the report said.Campbell is accused of stealing a 
laundry bag of folded clothes, Apple 
laptop, headphones, Apple charging 
cord, sunglasses, a mens leather jacket 
and a travel bag of hygiene items all 
worth $980 from a car on Tenth Street, 
the report said.
Campbell reportedly stole a bottle of 
laundry detergent, a beer keg, a tool kit, 
a toolbox, a handle of Captain Morgan 
rum and several cans of beer all worth 
$121 from a backyard porch and two 
truck beds on Tenth Street.
A witness recorded a video of Camp-
bell opening an unlocked car on South-
west Sixth Avenue and taking a loud-
speaker, radar detector and tool kit 
worth $275.
Campbell is being held in Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $66,000 bond.
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Man steals nearly 1K worth of itemsStories By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
LastName
Graphic by Romy Ellenbogen
Multiple burglaries were reported 
in the 900 block of Southwest Fifth 
Avenue this week.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   29
University Evangelical Lutheran Church
1826 West University Ave  •  www.ulcgainesville.com
Sunday Worship
10:25 a.m. 
Student Bible Study & 
Connection
6:00 p.m. Meal 
6:45 p.m.  Bible Study 
and DiscussionStudent Welcome Sunday, August 26th
All students are welcome to mark a new academic year!
Worship 10:25 a.m. with Lunch FollowingPractice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law Christopher King / Alligator Staff
The band Wax Wings performs on the Boxcar Wine & Beer Garden at the Pop-a-T op Summer Block Party on Saturday night.Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Blake Vermeulen, 8, plays badminton during the 
Pop-A-T op Summer Block Party, which celebrates 
the two-year anniversary of Depot Park.
 POP-A-TOP SUMMER BLOCK PARTY30   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox 
every day for the 
newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
Call 352-335-9090 and press 5 Visit campuscu.com for a complete list of our convenient locations.CAMPUS M OBILE
On-the-go m obile  
banking app.
MOBILE DEPOSITS3
Take a  picture.
Deposit  your check. Easy .CAMPUS ONLINE
Pay all your bills online or
on your smartphone.
!MOBILE  ALERTS
Keep on track w ith 
spending and budget alerts.FREEChecking1Become a member of CAMPUS 
USA Credit Union and get a 
Free Checking Account/one.ordn with a 
debit card and /f_ree online & 
mobile banking! Visit any 
CAMPUS Service Center today!  
$50GET
with eDocuments!OPEN AFree Checking
Account1
2
OFFER IS FOR NEW CHECKING ACCOUNTS ONLY. OFFER MUST BE PRESENTED AT TIME OF NEW ACCOUNT OPENING AND MAY NOT BE COMBINED WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. OFFER SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 1. Credit 
approval and initial $50 opening deposit is required. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the /f_irst 90 days. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member must elect to receive 
eDocuments and there must be a minimum of 3 debit card transactions in the /f_irst 30 days.  If the requirements are met and the account remains open for 90 days, the $50 reward will be made available to the member. 
$50 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. Oﬀer expires 9/30/18. 3. Credit approval and certain eligibility criteria required. 4. Credit approval and initial $5 deposit required. Additional insurance 
of up to $250,000 on your shares is provided by Excess Share Insurance Corporation, a licensed insurance company. Federally insured by the NCUA. Membership is open to students, faculty and staﬀ of the University of Florida, UF Health and all residents of Alachua County!4
Visit 
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A Puerto Rican woman who 
moved to Gainesville after Hurricane 
Maria is suing the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections, alleging vot-
ing materials for the upcoming elec-
tion aren’t in Spanish.
A complaint ﬁ  led on behalf of 
Marta Valentina Rivera Madera, 70, 
on Thursday said she couldn’t reg-
ister to vote in the Nov. 6 election 
without the help of her daughter be-
cause the form was in English. Four 
voting rights advocacy groups are 
taking up her case, saying Alachua 
Supervisor of Elections Kim Barton 
is in violation of the federal Voting 
Rights Act for not providing bilingual 
voting materials.
Like many Puerto Ricans who 
moved to the mainland post-Maria, 
Rivera Madera attended Spanish-
speaking schools on the island and 
does not speak, read or write in 
English, said Stuart Naifeh, senior 
council at one of the advocacy ﬁ  rms, 
Demos.
Naifeh said Puerto Ricans are American citizens by birth and en-
titled to Spanish-language election 
material under federal law. 
Rivera Madera used to vote in 
Spanish in Puerto Rico, she said in a 
press release.
“I take voting very seriously and 
have always educated myself about 
the candidates and issues before 
casting my ballot,” Rivera Madera 
said. “But here in Gainesville, I can 
only get information in English.”
The lawsuit, which was also ﬁ  led 
against Florida Secretary of State Ken 
Detzner, is seeking class-action sta-
tus to ﬁ  le the same suit against elec-
tion supervisors in 31 other counties 
for allegedly not providing Spanish 
materials. The suit includes Marion, 
Levy, Putnam, Clay and Columbia.
The goal is for a judge to order 
the 32 counties to provide Spanish-
language election materials, from 
ballots to voter guides, by the 2018 
election and for all subsequent elec-
tions, Naifeh said.
About 30,000 non-English speak-
ing Puerto Ricans live in the 32 coun-
ties as of 2015, according to the com-
plaint.“It adds insult to injury for people 
who ﬂ  ed Puerto Rico as a result of 
hurricane damage only to be met 
with discrimination at the polling 
place,” he said.
Before suing, the group sent let-
ters to 13 of the 32 counties April 3 
urging them to provide bilingual ma-
terials, citing the Voting Rights Act. 
Barton wrote back a week later 
that her ofﬁ  ce would review the 
number of voters educated in non-
English American schools but said 
she wasn’t “aware of any signiﬁ  cant 
number” in the county.
When Demos replied two months 
later with numbers of Puerto Rican 
voters in Alachua County, Barton 
didn’t respond, Naifeh said. 
In the letter, Naifeh said as of July 
2016, there were about 1,084 regis-
tered voters in Alachua County who 
reported they were born in Puerto 
Rico, according to the Florida Secre-
tary of State Ofﬁ  ce. He said the older 
numbers show the department’s ob-
ligation even before the hurricane. 
Barton released a statement to 
The Alligator through TJ Pyche, her 
ofﬁ  ce’s spokesperson, saying she was reviewing the case with attor-
neys.
Bob Swain, the senior assistant 
county attorney representing Barton, 
said the federal requirements doesn’t 
specify what type of bilingual sup-
port will be offered by the elections 
ofﬁ  ces.
Alachua’s elections ofﬁ  ce dis-
cusses implementing bilingual bal-
lots every election cycle but hasn’t 
because the demographic of Spanish-
speaking voters is not large enough, 
Pyche said. He is unaware of any 
complaints from non-English speak-
ing voters about the ballots. 
As of 2016, about 13.3 percent of 
Alachua County speaks a non-Eng-
lish language, according to census 
data. 
“It’s something that we’re con-
stantly reviewing and checking the 
demographics of the county to deter-
mine if we’re going to do that,” he 
said.
Will Boyett, the Chief Deputy Su-
pervisor of Elections, said the Census 
Bureau notiﬁ  es the county every ﬁ  ve 
years if there is a group of non-Eng-
lish voters that meets certain criteria. As of December 2016, the Bureau 
has not notiﬁ  ed the county that there 
are 10,000 voting-age Spanish speak-
ers or that voting-age Spanish speak-
ers make up 5 percent of the voting 
population, he said.
While polling place signage, con-
stitutional amendment wording, 
voter registration forms and vote-by-
mail instructions are available Span-
ish, ballots are only in English. 
Spanish-speaking workers are 
available in some voting locations 
every election, and the elections of-
ﬁ  ce has a bilingual staff member, 
Pyche said. About 10 bilingual poll 
workers will be available during the 
November elections.   
A lack of bilingual ballots has 
been an issue before the hurricane 
made landfall, Naifeh said.  
“This is not just about the hur-
ricane,” he said. “It’s about the law 
and the people who already lived in 
these places who didn’t have the vot-
ing materials they were entitled to.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgPuerto Rican woman sues for Spanish voting materialsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1650/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000                    8-22-18-7-2
HOUSE 5 MIN WALK TO UF LAW SCHOOL,
106 NW 25th St, 3Bd/1Ba, Wood Floors, 
Garage, Carport,, Screened Porch, Large 
Fenced Yard, HVAC, $1250/Mo,
AVAIL NOW. Call 352-246-5566            8-27-
18-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Why Rent? When You Can Buy a Home
For As Little As 1 Months Rent.
Call Us To Find Out How!
848-303-8268 www.seaviewmortgage.com      
8-22-1-5SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
MATTRESS SALE TWIN SET $69
FULL SET $89
QUEEN SET $149 KING SET $199
SAME DAY DELIVERY COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH 
GAINESVILLE 352-376-0953    8-24-18-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY
Well-Established Ammunition Manufacturing 
and IP Company for Sale
Liberty Ammunition, Inc., Article 9 Sale
PUBLIC AUCTION
September 12th, 2018 at 12:00 P.M.
2083 58th Ave. Circle East, Ste. B, 
Bradenton, FL 34203
Inspection available upon request.
Liberty Ammunition, Inc. is a world leader 
in lead-free and high performing ammuni -
tion. Liberty Ammunition can be sold as a 
complete turnkey operation or as assets-
only. Either form of sale will include all tan -
gible and intangible assets owned by Liberty 
Ammunition, Inc., including 30 patents, 
all trademarks, equipment, and inventory. 
Complete asset list upon request.
www.moeckerauctions.com | (800) 840-
BIDS | (954) 252-2887
Partial terms: all items are as is, where is, 
with no warranty expressed or implied. 
Subject to confirmation. Sale shall be free 
and clear of liens or encumbrances pursuant 
to 9-617 of the Uniform Commercial Code.
Registration deposit: $20,000 refundable 
cash/certified funds.
5% BP capped at $100K.
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin       8-22-1-10
REPLACEMENT WINDOWS!
HUGE DISCOUNTS!
Anderson, Pella, Symington & More.
15% Off Senior Citizens & Veterans.
Limited Offer!
Call Robert 407.223.6726.
Affordable Windows & Doors. Lowest Prices    
8-22-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
DONATE YOUR CAR - 877-654-3662
FAST FREE TOWING -24hr Response -
Maximum Tax Deduction - 
UNITED BREAST CANCER FDN:
Providing Breast Cancer Information & 
Support Programs     8-22-1-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
1/1 in 2/2 duplex. Pool, gym, 
on 3 bus routes.
2 miles to Shands or Butler Pl.
Grad stud. pref. M/F. All inclusive.
$600 per month & $300 security. 
Avail 08/20.
eaglimo@gmail.
8-22-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds32   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs PT 
and FT Sales Associates. We are 1 mile 
north of UF on 13th St, next to Starbucks! 
Must maintain consistent weekly schedule 
with 1 day on weekend a must!    8-24-18-
6-14
Hiring Servers!!!
Exp. A Plus
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
8-22-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
P/T and F/T front desk positions in Gainesville 
dental office. Day and evening hours avail -
able. $14 and up, depending on experience. 
Answer phones, submit insurance claims, 
interact with patients. Email resume to gden -
taljob@gmail.com    8-31-18-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-5-18-6-14
Learn how to make an extra 
$390+ / week TESTING APPS.
Go to: www.collegecash.club      8-22-18-1-
14
Make $400 a week 
completing Surveys. Get Paid Immediately! 
Best Surveys from the brands you love! Go 
to collegejobs.team     8-31-18-5-14Make up to $500 weekly
with this simple method. 
www.extracollegecash.club 
JOIN THE CLUB!                  8-31-18-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatestNCF Public Charter School is a local drop-
out recovery high school in Gainesville. The 
school is located minutes from the UF & SFC 
campuses on NW 13th Street. Tutors are 
needed in math and are needed M-F from 
8:00 to 1:00. Tutor scheduling can be flex-
ible. $12 per hour. Call 352-379-2902    8-31-
18-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   33
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
Designated drivers are the greatestAVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.    8-22-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.     8-22-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$4000/ mo playing video games.
Learn how to become a tester for the latest 
video games. Go To: www.paidtoplay.club    
8-22-18-4-20
"Learn A Cappella Singing"
start Sept. 6th Contact Beth:
bethsing@bellsouth.net or 352-870-5555
six lessons GainesvilleChorus.com Free!    
9-10-18-6-20
Learn how to make an extra $375/wk as a 
student. No Surveys! No cold calling! Go to: 
www.studentopportunities.club     8-24-18-4-
20
EMAIL PROCESSOR Needed Immediately.  
No Previous Experience Required.  Training 
Provided.  Great Part-Time Income. Visit 
http://bit.ly/EPS4students      8-22-18-3-20ECKANKAR, THE PATH
OF SPIRITUAL FREEDOM
Are you seeking truth? See
how singing HU can change
your life. 352-378-3504
thesoundofsoul.org
8-22-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Sources of fast
cash
5 Paper holder
9 Underworld
society
14 Secular
15 Gambling city
that rhymes with
“casino”
16 Chatting on
WhatsApp, e.g.
17 “Frozen” queen
18 Serpentine
swimmers
19 Gall
20 “Wall Street:
Money Never
Sleeps” subject
23 Hotmail
alternative
24 Fashion
monogram
25 Suffix with real or
ideal
26 Functional
29 “Well, golly!”
31 Subway stops:
Abbr.
32 Occupant-owned
apartment
overseeing
group
36 Comfy shoe
37 Adopt a caveman
diet
39 Utter
40 Many a comics
supervillain
42 Shower affection
(on)
43 Three squares,
so to speak
44 Apple music
manager
46 Longtime NBC hit
47 Canon SLR
50 Band’s stint
51 Eschewing big
cable, and a hint
to 20-, 32- and
40-Across
56 Think tank
member
57 Beet, e.g.
58 “I don’t like the
sound of that”
60 “Snowy” wader
61 “The Time
Machine” race
62 Actress Hatcher
63 In vogue again64 Put through a
screen
65 Fifth Avenue
store since 1924
DOWN
1 Tavern pour
2 Salon powder
3 Soup with tofu
and seaweed
4 Sacred beetles
5 Étouffée cuisine
6 Lusty look
7 Woodwork
embellishment
8 Blog write-ups
9 Dynasty known
for its vases
10 Explorer
Vespucci
11 Drought-affected
annual period
12 Dyed-in-the-wool
13 Like fine Scotch
21 D.C. insider
22 Marry in a hurry
26 “Oorah!” org.
27 Coastal hurricane
threat
28 Cave painting,
e.g.
30 “Silicon Valley”
channel
32 Nav. noncom33 Wake maker
34 Not at all fresh
35 Batik supplies
37 Toothpaste
choice
38 Jimmy of the
Daily Planet
41 More grainy, as
lager
42 Where bats hang
out?
44 “That makes
sense”45 Nervous twitch
48 Scary beasts
49 Absolut rival,
familiarly
51 Trucker with a
handle
52 Really digging
53 Filly’s foot
54 Ostrich relative
55 Socially awkward
type
59 Friendly
exchanges
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/22/1808/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 22, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Set of options
5 Dodge
10 “Sing it, Sam”
speaker
14 Gospel singer
Andrews
15 Annual Big Apple
parade sponsor
16 Darned
17 New Zealand bird
18 __ Wars: Rome
vs. Carthage
19 Tizzy
20 Vogue VIPs
21 __ wrench
22 With 22-Down,
“People’s Court”
rival
23 KOA
campground area
25 Bond film?
27 Ally of
“WarGames”
29 “Westworld,” e.g.
33 “It’s a Wonderful
Life” director
34 Juicy fruit
35 Up to, briefly
36 Revlon rival
37 With 40-Across,
party supplies
found in this
puzzle’s four
corners
38 Beige shade
39 Hard to find
40 See 37-Across
41 Fail to mention
42 Hill builder
43 Cantina toast
44 __ donna
45 Fundamental
measurement
47 __ exercise:
upper arm
strengthener
48 The “G” of GTO
49 Apple __
50 Start of a French
oath
53 Norwegian
contemporary of
Tchaikovsky
55 Bullfight “Bravo!”
58 One-fifth of a
limerick
59 Guadalajara gal
pal
60 Target Field
player
61 Is indebted to
62 Lacked63 Make (one’s way)
64 Skin pics
65 “My take is ... ”
66 Circle parts
DOWN
1 Karaoke need
2 Novelist Bagnold
3 Bulletins, e.g.
4 “Argo” weapon
5 Use
6 Event for which
Kerri Strug is
famous
7 Unpopular spots
8 Endangered
species
9 PC bailout key
10 Library, cardwise
11 Give for a while
12 Belt
13 Deal preceder
21 “Bridge of Spies”
actor
22 See 22-Across
24 Fogg’s creator
26 Some aristocrats
27 Egyptian beetle
28 Morro Castle city
29 Threaded
fastener
30 Electricity
producer,
perhaps31 Dr. Evil’s cohort
32 Pub handle
34 Seeing red
37 African title of
respect
38 Foe of “moose
and squirrel”
43 “You bet”
44 Fussy sort
46 Means of escape
47 International
agreement
49 Insurance giant50 Part of a piggy
bank
51 Bygone audio
brand
52 Site for techies
54 Empties (of)
56 “The Mod Squad”
cop
57 Circle’s lack
59 Tuna at a luau
60 Airline once
owned by
Howard Hughes
By Bruce Haight
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/16/1808/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 16, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Surround, swathe
1.  Call for5.  Have faith in
2.  Unnerve6.  Needle
3.  ____ wraps7.  Trial, trouble
4.  Muted colorFDELON
LNAETITTUSR
ATUTN
UFRETLS
CELTUETADLEOR
ESTLAPANSWERS: 1A-Enfold  5A-Trust  6A-Taunt  7A-Ordeal
1D-Entail  2D-Fluster  3D-Lettuce  4D-Pastel  B-Seattle8-22-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the northernmost U.S. city with 
a population greater than 500,000.
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/NoticesGators gymnastics freshman 
Trinity Thomas will compete 
for T eam USA in the Pan Am 
Championships in Lima, Peru, 
this September. UF soccer freshman impresses early in season
Midfielder Cassidy Lindley has recorded a goal and three assists in her first 
two collegiate games. But coach Becky Burleigh and the Gators aren't get-
ting complacent ahead of a big matchup, pg. 35Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
Alligator Staff Report
The UF football team kicks off its 
season on Sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m. The 
Alligator's football writers — Mark 
Stine, Alanis Thames, Morgan Mc-
Mullen and Jake Dreilinger — debate 
who will have the biggest breakout 
season on the team. 
Mark: Brandon Powell was the 
security blanket in the receiving 
corps for Florida in 2017. He aver-
aged fewer than 10 yards a catch but 
caught 20 more balls (42) than his 
teammate with the second-most re-ceptions (Tyrie Cleveland). 
This season, Mississippi transfer 
Van Jefferson will be the Gators’ 
go-to target. He finished second for 
the Rebels in receptions each of the 
last two seasons, racking up more 
than 40 grabs in 2016 and 2017, and 
I predict he’ll lead the Gators in balls 
caught this year. 
“He understands the little intrica-
cies and he’s an attention-to-detail 
guy,” said UF receivers coach Billy 
Gonzales. “If you talk to him, he 
takes it really, really personal.”
Jefferson’s attention to detail 
makes him one of Florida’s best route runners. Fellow transfer Trev-
on Grimes, who joined Florida after 
his freshman season at Ohio State, 
said that Jefferson has shown how 
to get in and out of breaks and run 
smoother routes. 
Granted, he has not been a big-
play receiver. Jefferson only has four 
touchdown receptions in his two 
years at Ole Miss, mostly because 
he’s been limited to playing in the 
slot. However, his size -- at 6-foot-2 
and nearly 200 pounds -- will allow 
him to play a receiving position in 
addition to his specialized slot role. Alanis: Malik Davis gave us a 
glimpse of what he can do with his 
movements and decision-making 
during his freshman outing. But his 
breakout campaign happens this 
year. 
Davis was leading the Gators in rushing before suffering a knee inju-
ry against Georgia on Oct. 28, which 
sidelined him for the rest of the sea-
son. But he managed 6.7 yards per 
carry for 526 yards in an offense that 
finished 13th in the SEC. Prediction: Who's slated for a breakout season in 2018?
Alligator File Photo
Florida running back Malik Davis was leading the Gators in rushing 
last season before an injury sidelined him for the rest of the year.The Associated Press
Ole Miss transfer Van Jefferson finished second on the team in receptions each of the last two seasons. 
He recorded more than 40 catches in 2016 and 2017.
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
With the Gators volleyball 
team kicking off its 2018 season 
against No. 2 Nebraska on Friday, 
let’s look at some of the players to 
watch for this upcoming season.
No. 7 Paige Hammons | Out-
side Hitter | 6’1” | Sophomore
The Gators lose a lot of fire-
power from the back row with the 
graduation of Carli Snyder, but 
sophomore Paige Hammons is ex-
pected to help fill those shoes as 
Florida enters its first regular-sea-
son match against the Cornhusk-
ers in Lincoln, Nebraska.
Hammons earned time in the rotation early in her freshman 
year with well-rounded play. Her 
105 kills and 254 digs were a big 
reason why the young outside hit-
ter played in all 32 matches and 
started in 26.
In 2018, Hammons believes 
that she will accomplish even 
more.
“Of course I’d love to take that 
next step,” Hammons said to the 
media on Monday, “but wherever 
they need me to win, that’s where 
I’ll be.”
The sophomore outside hitter 
will need to improve in a couple 
of areas in order to progress the 
way she wants. 
In 2017, Hammons was third 
on the team in total errors (64) and tied for fourth on the team in 
service errors (35). She will face 
stout competition in No. 2 Nebras-
ka and No. 3 Texas early this sea-
son to test if she really has taken 
her game to the next level.
 
No. 22 Allie Monserez | Set-
ter | 5’9” | Redshirt Senior
The 5-foot-9 setter enters her 
fifth season on the Gators’ vol-
leyball team and her third year as 
the team’s primary setter. After an 
impressive 2017 season where she 
led the team in assists (848) and 
tallied 254 digs, the Windermere, 
Florida, native feels that there is 
still room to take her game fur-
ther.Three players to look out for this seasonSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 38
The start of a new 
semester means facing 
some hard truths. 
Studying is over-
rated.
Your professor’s of-
fice hours are a warning 
to stay away from them 
during that time. 
Florida is going to 
make the College Foot-
ball Playoff.
Yes, you heard right. No, Brian 
Jones of CBS Sports isn’t alone in 
his thinking. Florida is going to 
make the College Football Play-
off this season. Shut up, I’m not crazy, you are!
“Florida gets in over 
Alabama?” you ask. 
“Georgia? Auburn?” 
Well, yeah, no s***. 
Twitter mocked Jones to 
no end, but I can see the 
forest through the trees. 
You’re not alone, my 
strange friend.
Is it so ludicrous to 
suggest Florida starts 
off 7-0 — taking down a pair of 
ranked teams in Mississippi State 
and LSU along the way — heading 
into the Game Formerly Known Don't be a lemming: Florida will 
be playing on New Year's DayMorgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan
McMullen
@MorganMcMuffin
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 38 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 38VOLLEYBALLWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   35 
back became irritated by the che-
motherapy shots and her nerves 
were shutting down.
Days passed, then weeks. She 
needed help getting in and out 
of bed. She couldn’t walk. She 
couldn’t use the bathroom by her-
self. 
“On one side, everything was 
going as well as they could have 
hoped for because she did go into 
remission really quickly after her 
first round of chemo,” Allison said.
“But on the other side, she had 
all these other complications and it 
was hard to celebrate the high of 
the remission because you’re still 
coping with all of these other un-
knowns.”
And the most frustrating part of 
it all was the fact that her doctors 
didn’t know if her leg movement 
was going to come back.
Lauren was trying to stay posi-
tive, but how can you stay positive 
when your legs have been taken 
from you, and you have no idea if 
they’ll ever return? Everything in 
her sport involves her legs.
“I almost think she’d rather be 
able to walk,” Jerome said, “and 
still have cancer (rather than be 
paralyzed without it).”
Lauren began to look up videos 
on Ryan Shazier. 
Shazier was originally a UF 
commit before Urban Meyer left 
the program, and he is currently a 
linebacker for the Pittsburgh Steel-
ers. But he is on the PUP (physical-
ly unable to perform) list because 
of a spinal injury he sustained on 
a helmet-to-helmet tackle in 2017.
The hit left him paralyzed from 
the waist down, effectively ending 
his career.
However, Shazier vowed to 
make a return to football and has 
begun walking again. He walked to 
the podium at the 2018 NFL Draft 
on April 26.
Lauren used Shazier as a source 
of inspiration to give her hope that 
she too would be able to walk 
again.
But still, his ability to help the 
soccer player who’d been robbed 
of her legs was limited.
“How is this gonna be a story if 
I can’t finish it? Like how am I gon-
na play soccer?” Lauren thought. 
“Like what am I supposed to say? 
I beat cancer but never played soc-
cer again?”
It wasn’t really the physical pain 
that began to break her down, but 
more the mental and psychological 
detriment.
“It was things like Friday nights, 
Saturday nights, my teammates 
would be going out to the club and 
parties, and I’d go on Snapchat and 
see everybody having fun.” Lauren 
said with a sad smile. “I kinda felt 
like I was left out or pushed aside…
like isolated or disconnected.”
Teammate Deanne Rose said 
Lauren got to go out on a visit away 
from the hospital once a month, 
but sometimes it didn’t help – es-pecially when Lauren was confined 
to a wheelchair.
“Being in a wheelchair and hav-
ing people stare at you or going 
to breakfast or the movies,” Rose 
said, “we didn’t realize how hard 
it was for people in a wheelchair to 
get through doors.”
Then one day, Lauren woke up 
and could wiggle her toes again. 
Although it marked a tiny step on 
a mountain of journey, it showed 
that signals were still being sent 
from her brain to her toes.
“It might take two months, it 
might take two years,” Jerome 
said. “But it’s eventually going to 
come back.”
Lauren had hope again, some-
thing she had to search deep inside 
to find during the months of Janu-
ary and February.
Throughout the entire process, 
Lauren also looked to a few other 
foundations of support: her team, 
other athletes and her faith.
Someone on her team visited 
her every day possible. Every. Sin-
gle. Day.
Most of the time, it was either 
Solis or Rose.
If it wasn’t one of them, it’d be 
another teammate, a coach, An-
drews or an athlete from a different 
sport.
“Gators take care of Gators, 
that’s what we always say,” Lau-
ren remarked.
She also looked up a Bible verse 
or a quote by another athlete every 
single day. Something to try and 
remind her that she’s not alone, 
and that other people have been 
through this and came back from 
it.
One quote in particular stuck 
out to her: “God gives His toughest 
battles to His toughest warriors.”
She was always worried, but 
she found comfort in this particular 
quote and made it something she 
chose to live by.
“I felt like it was all happening 
for a reason,” Lauren said.
Allison corroborated that no-
tion.
“She felt that there was a reason 
for this, and that it wouldn’t hap-
pen to her if not for good reason 
and not for a bigger plan.”
In April, the doctors at Shands 
told her she was in her last month 
of treatment.
When you receive chemother-
apy, you receive it in rounds, and 
the doctors hoped she would need 
four. When a patient finishes a 
round, they sit, confined to a hos-
pital bed, waiting for their white 
blood cell counts to recover be-
cause you don’t have any immu-
nity when they’re low.
Even though there’s no treat-
ment going on, Lauren was stuck 
at Shands until her bone marrow 
regenerated.
The doctors tested her blood on 
April 23 and the Evans were hop-
ing to get same-day results.
They didn’t. The family went to 
bed bearing a cloud of burden and 
anxiety.
On April 24, that cloud was dis-solved.
“All my doctors came running 
in my room and I thought it was 
like something bad was happen-
ing.”
Instead it was, as Lauren put it, 
“The best day. It was like Christ-
mas.” 
Her doctors had a message for 
her.
“You’re cancer-free.”
•   •   •
On June 14, Lauren rang the 
cancer bell, which is symbolic at 
Shands Hospital. It’s fashioned 
from an oxygen tank, and patients 
ring it at the end of their treat-
ments, signifying their life after 
cancer.
But Lauren’s work wasn’t done. 
It isn’t done.
She’s started therapy, she 
learned how to walk again and 
she’s active. But she still needs to 
start running again, start getting 
her form down and get stronger.
But she feels that by the end of 
October, she’ll be ready to rejoin 
practices again. 
What’s the goal this season?
“Start little and practice with the team and play in at least two 
games.”
Regardless if Lauren is ready in 
time before the season ends, her 
impact on the team has been no-
ticeable, according to Burleigh.
“One thing as athletes is we do 
take things for granted,” Burleigh 
said. “We don’t realize how quick-
ly things can be taken from us… 
For her to go in and fight like she 
did…not just physically but emo-
tionally, was a huge inspiration to 
our team.
“And still continues to be.”
According to Burleigh, Lauren 
wasn’t the only role model the 
team drew inspiration from. No, 
not at all.
“(Allison and Jerome) were in-
spirational to our players as well, 
not just Lauren,” Burleigh said. “I 
mean, it’s your only child and, I 
don’t know, I think the poise that 
they handled it with, the positivity, 
just… Incredible. They’ve taught 
me so much just what good parent-
ing looks like.”
•   •   •
A shimmering, dry wind carries 
over Donald R. Dizney Stadium as 
the day fades into night. This is where the UF soccer team will be-
gin their regular-season campaign 
against Washington on Aug. 17.
Except it’ll be without one no-
table face patrolling the pitch.
Soon, very soon, though, Lau-
ren will be back out there. The girl 
with the dark brown eyes, almond-
colored skin and, now, wavy short 
hair, will be back. 
Roughly eight months ago, she 
didn’t know if she’ d ever walk again. 
Now, she’s only about three months 
away from taking her first steps back 
on the pitch.
Those interviewed for this story 
described her as energetic, positively 
resilient, crazy and larger-than-life, 
amongst other descriptions. 
But when you ask her to describe 
herself, she gives the best answer.
“My name is Lauren Evans. I play 
soccer for UF. I am a cancer survivor. ”
“ A warrior. ”
Chris O’Brien is a sports 
writer. Follow him on Twitter                  
@THEChrisOB and contact him at 
cobrien@alligator.orgWARRIOR,  from pg. 1‘Gators take care of Gators, that’s what we always say’
Courtesy of the Evans family
Lauren Evans (left) smiles with coach Becky Burleigh following her cancer treatment.
36   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
WITH THE
FLORIDA ROCK SYMPHONY
OCTOBER 3
EXACTECH ARENA
O’CONNELL CENTER
DECEMBER 17
*$5.00 OFF ADMISSION
AT THE UNIVERSITY BO X OFFICE
OR USE OFFER C ODE: 
4UALL
  
ON TICKETMA STER.COM
*Applies t o Price Level 3 & 4 Only . Ticket Limit: 8
For mor e inf o call 352-392-5500 or visit w ww.oconnellc enter.uu.edu
*$5.00 OFF ADMISSION
AT THE UNIVERSITY BO X OFFICE
OCTOBER 3
OR USE OFFER C ODE: 
CMALL
 
ON TICKETMA STER.COM
*Applies t o Price Level 3 & 4 Only . Ticket Limit: 8
For mor e inf o call 352-392-5500 or visit w ww.oconnellc enter.uu.edu
NOW HIRING!
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE
PART-TIME
VISIT
(CLICK EMPLOYMENT TAB)
OCONNELLCENTER.UFL.EDU
DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 27
TO APPL Y
FOLLOW US!
OFFICIAL
 VENUE
TICKETMASTER.COM
352-392-1653
UNIVERSITY BOX OFFICE
FOR TICKETS:
@OCONNELLCTR
scoc-info@ufl.edu
SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
Freshman Cassidy Lindley has  
propelled the Gators during their 
two-game winning streak to start 
the season. The rookie midfielder 
was credited with an assist on 
Florida’s first goal in its 2-1 win 
against Washington in the season 
opener.  
She still wasn’t satisfied. 
It had always been a dream for 
Lindley to find the back of the net 
in a Gators uniform. 
She didn’t have to wait much 
longer. Lindley secured the third 
of Florida’s four goals against FAU 
on Sunday in the opening minute 
of the second half. 
Lindley’s efforts over the two 
matches earned her the season’s 
first SEC Freshman Soccer Player 
of the Week award.
“(Cassidy) is taking a lot of key 
points we’ve been giving her,” 
senior defender Sara Wilson said. 
“She’s been doing what she knows 
to do best. She’s an outstanding 
player.”
Coach Becky Burleigh also 
sang praises of Lindley’s first two 
games.
“Great debut,” Burleigh said. 
“I’m happy she got playing time 
and that she got on the board. It’s tough to ask for a better opening 
weekend.”
The Gators’ success has also 
been boosted by junior midfield-
er Sammie Betters, who scored 
an equalizing goal in UF’s match 
against Washington and knocked 
in a header against FAU.
Sophomore forward Madison 
Alexander has also scored two goals this season, knocking in the 
winning strike against Washington 
with the second against the Owls 
in the 35th minute. The pair will 
look to continue its play as UF de-
fends Donald R. Dizney Stadium 
against the Ohio State Buckeyes on 
Friday. 
UF will hope to improve upon 
its defense of free kicks as it con-tinues into the season. Set pieces 
have plagued the Gators in their 
first two games. All three goals 
Florida has given up this season 
came from dead balls, and UF has 
been strenuously drilling to pre-
vent further scoring in that man-
ner with a particular focus on the 
goalkeepers.
“Most of the set pieces are cor-ner kicks and free kicks,” Wilson 
said. “We’re working our goal-
keepers as much as we can.”
Burleigh is optimistic about 
the team’s ability to defend set 
pieces in future games, however, 
and says that it has looked good 
in practice.
“(We’ve seen) good effort,” she 
said. “I think some of it is commu-
nication and getting on the same 
page during the season. It’s a great 
opportunity to have it highlighted 
so we have a chance to fix it.”
The Gators also struggled defen-
sively in their match against FAU, 
conceding two goals in the second 
half after leading the Owls 3-0.
“We’d like to keep the ball bet-
ter,” Burleigh said. “Especially in 
the middle third.”
Burleigh said after the victory 
over FAU that the team can’t let 
its victories hide its issues mov-
ing against Ohio State and beyond. 
Despite the Buckeyes’ 0-2 start 
to their season, Burleigh said she 
isn’t looking past them. 
“It’s definitely an upgrade in 
competition for us,” Burleigh said. 
“I think (Ohio State) will be really 
good for us to test ourselves.”
River Wells is a sports writer. 
Follow him on Twitter @riverhwells 
and contact him at rwells@
alligator.orgDespite great play from Cassidy Lindley, UF still has work to do
Alligator File Photo
Coach Becky Burleigh (center) said her team has plenty of work to do ahead of its match against Ohio State.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   37
WE TAKE YOUR WORKOUT TO  
THE NEXT LEVELMEMBERSHIPS 
AS LOW AS 
$19.99
A MONTH & $0 DOWN 
 
ATHLETIC TRAINING   
 TRX STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING   
COME SEE ALL THAT WE
OFFER!
. Juice Bar 
. 24 H our Access 
.Boxing 
.Cardiovascular Training 
. Personal & Group Training 
.Sauna 
.Turf Training .Athletic Perform ance
Training 
. Group Fitness Classes 
. Pro Shop  
.Group exercise classes 
24/7 in our N EW  
On D emand studio!JOIN  NOW  AT BAILEYSGYM .COM 
3441 W . University A ve.  
GAINESV ILLE, FL 
Corner of U niversity & 34th  
352-373-4439  
 VISIT US  TODAY! 
*See Club for details38   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
“With all of the new faces, me, 
Rachael (Kramer) and Taelor (Kel-
lum) know we need to step up for 
them on and off the court,” Mon-
serez said.
Allie’s sister, Marlie, will be one 
of those new faces. The younger 
Monserez was one of six freshmen 
to join the team and is projected to 
be a rotational setter behind Allie. 
In her final season as a Gator, the 
redshirt senior said she knows that 
she will need to be one of the lead-
ers.
“I’m excited to just be one of 
those voices that pulls the team 
together,” Allie said. “I’m thrilled 
to see how this team grows as the 
season comes along.”
She showed outstanding play-
making ability late in the season 
during Florida’s 2017 run, particu-
larly in its SEC title-clinching win 
at Missouri on Nov. 25 where she 
posted 14 digs along with a season-
high 49 assists.
 
No. 20 Thayer Hall | Outside 
Hitter | 6’3” | Freshman
The addition of the No. 1 recruit 
in the nation, Thayer Hall, adds 
another piece to a talented roster. 
The 6-foot-3 outside hitter from Spartanburg, South Carolina, had 
638 kills, 361 digs, 43 service aces 
and 36 blocks in her senior year of 
high school and led her team to a 
state championship. Hall’s perfor-
mance earned her the Gatorade Na-
tional Volleyball Player of the Year 
award.
Even with all of her accolades, 
Hall said that the coaching staff has 
helped her transition her playstyle 
to better fit the speed of the game 
at this next level.
“Mary (Wise) and the rest of 
the staff has helped me drastically 
improve my game, even in the six 
months that I’ve been here,” Hall 
said. “They are definitely the best 
staff I could’ve put myself under 
for my career.”
Along with Hall, the team adds 
six new faces, including 6-foot-
6 freshman Lauren Dooley and 
6-foot-7 redshirt sophomore Holly 
Carlton, who transferred from 
North Carolina in May.
“We’re not rebuilding; we’re 
reloading,” Hall said. “I’ve never 
been in a gym with this much tal-
ent, and I definitely put myself in 
the best position possible.”
Dylan Rudolph is a sports writer. 
Follow him on Twitter @dyrudolph 
and contact him at drudolph@
alligator.org.VOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 34Gators add No. 1 recruit
Although redshirt-junior Jordan 
Scarlett will likely start as the No. 
1 guy for the Gators, Davis will put 
up big numbers as Florida works 
him into the offense. 
If the sophomore returns com-
pletely healthy, he could emerge as 
not only the Gators’ premier back, 
but one of the most explosive in the 
SEC. 
As he grows more confident in 
taking hits, he’ll start to take time 
away from other backs, including 
Scarlett and junior Lamical Perine.
Davis hasn’t appeared to be hin-
dered by the knee injury so far in 
camp.
“Once I got my first tackle, my 
first hit, first couple runs, I felt 
back,” Davis said. “I felt like my-
self.”
The year of experience he now 
has will make him the Gators’ most 
productive runner in their already 
deep arsenal.
Morgan: The DBU moniker is 
for real. The hype and expectations 
surrounding every defensive back who plays in The Swamp are for 
real.
Cornerback 
Trey Dean is 
also for real. His 
teammates have 
talked him up 
all throughout 
spring camp as 
perhaps the best 
young defensive 
back of UF’s haul through signing 
day. Dean spurned Alabama in or-
der to play a potentially huge role 
in Florida’s secondary. Defensive 
coordinator Todd Grantham said 
over the course of the offseason 
that he wants to use a heavy rota-
tion among corners, so CJ Hender-
son and Marco Wilson won’t be 
taking as many snaps as they did 
last season. 
That means more opportunities 
for younger players. 
“He’s grown a lot since spring, 
learning the defense a lot better 
and he’s very competitive,” Wilson 
said. “I love that about him."
Dean signed with Florida despite 
not knowing who the defensive 
backs coach was during his official 
visit. It shows either a dedication to the philosophy that UF is offering 
or a desire to make an impact im-
mediately. Either way, Dean stands 
to have a presence during the early 
season. 
There’s also the fact that Dean is 
the tallest cornerback on the roster 
at 6-foot-3. If he plays anything like 
how Henderson and Wilson did last 
season, the Gators could find that 
they have the best defensive back-
field in the nation. 
Jake: A calm Marco Wilson 
strutted into Tuesday’s Florida 
football media session with a con-
fidence that would make Bugs Bun-
ny jealous. 
He stood surrounded by roughly 
20 reporters answering questions 
both about himself and the team 
in general. Then he got to the last 
question.
What’s the biggest difference be-
tween this year and last year?
“I’m a lot smarter,” Wilson said. 
“Also, I’m a lot bigger from last year 
too.”
Fresh off his freshman campaign 
in which he recorded 34 tackles, 
the Gators cornerback is due for a 
breakout season.
Why? Well it’s simple. He start-
ed building muscle in the offseason 
through strength and condition-
ing coach Nick Savage’s new pro-
gram. He added 13 pounds to his 
frame, going from 177 to 190. Add 
his 6-foot-even height to the mix, 
Wilson has the body size to be a 
gamechanger for the Gators.
As for what he can do on the 
field, Wilson showed promise in his 
first season. While he failed to  in-
tercept the ball last year, the corner 
did break up a team-high 10 passes. 
To compare, Florida’s other corner, 
CJ Henderson, had four intercep-
tions but only broke up four passes.
With his size, Wilson has the 
potential to increase his production 
on the field. But with the smarts, 
Wilson believes he can do a whole 
lot more and breakout this season.
“It gives me different opportuni-
ties to do different things. It gives 
me more opportunities to make 
plays.”FOOTBALL,  from pg. 34Wilson recorded 10 pass breakups
As The World’s Largest Outdoor 
Cocktail Party? From there, it’s a 
straight shot through to Atlanta 
to knock off Bama/Auburn in the 
SEC Championship.
Maybe you aren’t a student of 
the game such as myself. I played 
quarterback for two seasons in 
Pop Warner, which is where I 
learned everything the game has 
to offer on all levels. You can trust 
me.
And really, who doesn’t buy 
the hype surrounding this pro-
gram? Overpaid ESPN hacks with 
a vested interest in making sure 
Bama plays Clemson every single year? “Rational” critics? “Expert” 
former coaches?
There’s a reason Jim Mora’s 
out of a coaching gig and into the 
ESPN minstrel show. There’s a 
reason Gene Chizik spent a few 
years holed up in the house of the 
mouse. They’re part of the Bama-
Clemson collusion too. You know 
it, and so do they.
Now that the truth has car-
pet bombed the peaceful land of 
complacency, you can’t un-see it. 
You can’t un-feel it in the sinew of 
your bones.
What has coach Dan Mullen 
had to work with since leaving 
Gainesville in 2009? Some dude 
named Dak and scrub coaches like 
John Hevesy and Billy Gonzales. But it’s all good now. The rocket 
arm attached to a body known 
as Feleipe Franks doesn’t have 
“lose” in its vocabulary. Phrases 
like “throw the ball away” and 
“make good decisions” aren’t in 
there either, but hey, as long as 
every game comes down to a tie-
breaking Hail Mary, the offense is 
golden. 
The defense is switching to a 
3-4 scheme, which means a seam-
less transition into new terminolo-
gy and techniques is at hand. Can 
you imagine CeCe Jefferson com-
ing off the edge from a linebacker 
spot? How about a revamped de-
fensive line which ranked 50th 
in the nation against the run last 
season? Or that nice 69th overall defense in 2017? The real storyline 
everyone is missing is how Randy 
Shannon mismanaged all that tal-
ent. 
I’d say with that considered, UF 
is a sure thing for the playoffs. 
Sure, you could go with the 
“safe” bet. Bama, Clemson, Wis-
consin. But who’s in that No. 4 
spot? Ohio State? Georgia? UCF?!
Please. The Knights' 2017 na-
tional championship aside, the 
playoff committee won’t consider 
a 10-win AAC champion. Georgia 
gets to lose to Auburn two weeks 
after it loses to Florida. Ohio State 
fans will be too busy erecting gold-
en statues of Urban Meyer kissing 
babies and hugging assault vic-
tims to actually go to the games. That leaves one of two possibil-
ities. That fourth team could be a 
fringe overachiever like Washing-
ton, Stanford or Florida State. New 
FSU coach Willie Taggart is re-
nowned for building lasting lega-
cies. Washington’s Chris Petersen 
knows a thing or two about break-
ing through the brick ceiling in his 
time at Boise State. Stanford coach 
David Shaw has already ascended 
the mountaintop that is the Foster 
Farms Bowl.
But let’s be real. It’ll be Florida. 
Morgan McMullen is the sports 
editor at The Alligator. Follow him 
on Twitter @MorganMcMuffin 
and contact him at mmcmullen@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 34Alligator File Photo
UF cornerback Marco Wilson recorded 34 tackles last season and 
started in all 11 games for Florida. 
Trey Dean
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt senior setter Allie Monserez will be a leader for the Gators 
this year. Her sister, Marlie, joins her on the team this season.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   39
40   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
2 - 4 - 1 
Poke Bowls 
(Ahi Tuna, Asian Chicken & Filet)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail  
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1  
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1  
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia 7:30pm 
Free pool @ 10pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or  
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Select Craft 
Pints
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail  
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAY SUNDAY
FUNDAYBLOWOUT
MONDAYS2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
$5
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm
