We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Who was UF’s Senior Athlete of the 
Year?
The alligatorSports staff had ﬁ  ve nominees. 
Decide for yourself in the Twitter poll @
alligatorSports, pg. 14New I-Read program collecting books for kids
Gainesville Parks and Rec is starting an initiative to encourage 
children to read during the summer, pg. 4
Jay Pharoah performs at University Auditorium
The former ‘SNL ’ cast member performed for UF students, pg. 5By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Staff Writer
On the ground ﬂ  oor of UF’s Mu-
sic Building, above locker No. 338 
and in the top row of gallon-sized 
cubbies, sits a bird’s nest. Shaded 
by a small yellow door, this locker 
provides refuge for its avian occu-
pants from the summer’s heat.
Ironically, the students sharing 
the facility fail to ﬁ  nd the same lux-
ury as the building’s air conditioner 
struggles to regulate temperature.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said current funding allows for reg-
ular maintenance and repair of the 
university’s heating and air units. 
However, it does not cover replace-
ments for aging equipment.
Lovingly referred to as “the 
MUB,” the Music Building contains 
177 rooms, according to Orlando. 
The building includes practice 
rooms, rehearsal rooms, adminis-
trative ofﬁ  ces and an advising cen-
ter. It has an open-air design, mean-
ing its walls do not connect with the 
ceiling. 
Orlando said the air-conditioning 
equipment for the MUB is the same 
age as the building — 47 years old.
Derek Nirenberg, a UF music 
education senior, plays alto and 
baritone saxophone. He has used 
the building to rehearse for three 
years now.
Until a year and a half ago, the 
facility lacked a roof, Nirenberg 
said.
Instead of the two-by-fours and 
concrete that currently cover the 
Music Building’s central strip of pic-
nic tables, there was only open sky 
and a “jungle” patch of weeds be-
low. The design could be the main 
ﬂ  aw in cooling the building.
“Speciﬁ  cally this summer, we’ve had some trouble with the air-con-
ditioning units themselves because 
it’s hard to air-condition a building 
that is the outside,” Nirenberg said.
As a result of poor tempera-
ture control, the building becomes 
excessively hot and humid in the 
summer and too cold in the winter, 
Nirenberg added.
During the summer and winter, 
the building is kept at 74 and 70 
degrees respectively, plus or minus 
two degrees, Orlando said. A motor 
in the MUB’s heating and air unit 
was replaced this Summer semes-
ter.
A study conducted by Brian 
Wuttke of the University of Miami’s 
Frost School of Music found that, as 
temperatures increased from 70 to 
80 degrees, woodwind and brass in-
struments’ pitches became sharp by 
4.3 to 13.0 musical intervals, mea-
sured in cents, while percussion 
instruments’ pitches became ﬂ  at by 
3.0 to 6.0 cents.
Practice rooms inside the MUB 
are air conditioned, but the outside 
halls are not. As a result, instru-
ments may experience these dra-
matic temperature changes and fall 
out of tune even when stored in ap-
propriate casing.
This poses a large problem not 
only to students but to their instru-
ments, Nirenberg said. Woodwind 
instruments, such as clarinets, are 
particularly susceptible to tempera-
ture changes.
“If a clarinet (was) to get too 
cold, it would just crack because it’s 
made out of wood,” Nirenberg said.
Zachary Zaroogian, a freshman 
violist, said music students use the 
Music Building not just to practice 
but also to store their instruments.
Zaroogian said he hasn’t had any 
signiﬁ  cant thermal issues yet, but he also hasn’t experienced every 
room since starting in Summer B.
However, Zaroogian said if the 
MUB lockers get too hot, “you could 
possibly have the glue melt on (a) 
viola, and I’ve had friends (whose) 
instruments have separated and 
blown up.” 
Heat damage can range in cost, 
he added, “from barely anything to, 
‘You’re gonna have to buy a new 
instrument.’”
Kevin Orr, director of the UF 
School of Music, said the MUB’s cli-
mate is a nuisance for faculty mem-bers, too. Orr, who frequents the 
MUB daily, described the climate as 
“very sporadic.” 
“Humidity is a serious issue in 
the Music Building, as it affects the 
operability of the instruments and 
comfort and health of faculty, staff 
and students who are in the build-
ing regularly,” he said.
Orr explained music faculty work 
frequently with maintenance to im-
prove heating and air function, but 
maintenance funding would need to 
increase to update the MUB’s unit. 
“The best solution,” Orr said of ﬁ  xing climate in the MUB, “is re-
construction of the building from 
the ground up.”
UF is doing just that. A $55 mil-
lion music building is being planned 
to occupy the current location of 
Leonardo’s By the Slice on the cor-
ner of Northwest 13th Street and 
West University Avenue. 
Current students will still have to 
use the MUB until the new building 
is rumored to be completed in four 
years, Niremberg said. Then, future 
Gator musicians can be as comfort-
able as the birds above locker 338.UF students, faculty cope with aging AC at Music Building
Danielle Ivanov / Alligator Staff
The UF Music Building has an open-air design, possibly contributing to issues of high temperature and 
humidity within its rooms. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 101
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Democratic Party 
hosted a public forum for Democratic cabi-
net member candidates Wednesday to dis-
cuss their campaigns. The forum comes be-
fore the Aug. 28 primary elections.
The Q&A forum was held in the Thelma 
A. Boltin Center at 516 NE Second Ave.
The ﬁ  ve candidates answered questions 
until 8 p.m. from an audience of about 100 people as well as prepared questions from 
the committee. The candidates were al-
lowed one minute long opening and closing 
statements.
R. David Walker, a candidate for the 
Commissioner of Agriculture, emphasized 
a science-based approach to his campaign 
due to his environmental biology back-
ground working with the U.S. National Park 
Service and the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Conservation Commission.
Walker’s campaign supports natural so-lutions for Florida climate change and citrus 
greening disease, more background checks 
for concealed weapons licenses, funds to 
improve public education and restoring fel-
on voting rights.
“I cannot promise a cure, but what I can 
promise you is I will use science-based poli-
cies to make sure that we’ll be a step in the 
right direction,” Walker said. “As Commis-
sioner of Agriculture, I will make sure there 
is science-based evidence to protect Florida 
all around our state.”Commissioner of Agriculture candidate 
Nikki Fried discussed her support of medi-
cal marijuana, innovative agriculture for fu-
ture generations, protecting Florida beaches 
for communities and the tourism industry, 
income inequality solutions and recruiting 
young people to vote.
“Most importantly, I reach out to you all 
because we cannot do this without you, the 
voters here in Alachua county,” Fried said. Democratic cabinet candidates discuss platforms at forum
SEE FORUM,  PAGE 4
 until 8 p.m. from an audience of about 100 
 Walker’s campaign supports natural so-
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 101
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOON2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
PM
HIGH  94° LOW  74°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneGATORFeed
Meme of the Week
Tweet of the WeekTHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
UF students represent their dorms in ‘Battle of the Halls’
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Students compete in the Big Pink Volleyball tournament on 
Wednesday evening.Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Dorm students compete in a cornhole tournament on the tennis courts outside of Broward Outdoor 
Recreational Complex. Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Hundreds of students attended the second annual “Battle of the Halls” event hosted by the UF Housing 
and Residence Education Department.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
By Alana Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
During the 2015-2016 school year, fourth 
grade African-American students at Joseph 
Williams Elementary School posted a 37 per-
cent passing rate for reading, while white stu-
dents in the same grade were passing at 98 
percent. 
In an effort to increase literacy rates 
among elementary school students, the City 
of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cul-
tural Affairs Department, in partnership with 
Gainesville Thrives and Innovative Dads, have 
started a new summer reading program called 
I-Read.
“Homework is not fun any time, but the 
kids lose progress when they aren’t doing any-
thing for three months,” said Ben Dillard, rec-
reation supervisor for the City of Gainesville. 
Bookcases were designed and donated by 
the UF Rinker School of Construction Manage-
ment. Students from the Panhellenic Council 
and other Greek organizations at UF will not 
only be volunteering for the program, but they 
also donated about 600 books to help make the 
program possible.
Some of the books donated were “I am 
Jackie Robinson” by Brad Meltzer, “Keena 
Ford and the Second-Grade Mix-Up” by Me-
lissa Thomson and “Emmanuel’s Dream: The 
True Story of Emmanuel Ofosu Yeboah” by 
Laurie Ann Thompson.
“The focus is on African-American litera-ture because these kids can look at these books 
and see themselves in them, and then they will 
be more eager to read,” said Gerard Duncan, 
the founder of Innovative Dads.
Books are ﬁ  rst read aloud to the group so 
every child can hear the story, Dillard said. 
The children then work in small groups and 
read by themselves.
The program will be available at ﬁ  ve sum-
mer camp locations: Albert “Ray” Massey Rec-
reation Center, Eastside Community Center, 
Porters Community Center, Clarence R. Kelly 
Community Center and the Phoenix neighbor-
hood.
The summer camp does have a fee of about 
$50 a week, Dillard said. However, about half 
of the students are on full-ride scholarships 
and a quarter of the students are on scholar-
ships that cover half the costs.
“We have a real problem with (the) achieve-
ment gap,” Duncan said. “Minorities are less 
likely to be involved in the summer because 
they can’t afford (it).”
The Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department has already adopted I-Read into 
after school programs that will begin in Au-
gust, Dillard said.
They hope the program expands to commu-
nity housing, multi-family housing and free-
standing libraries by fall. They would like to 
put the program in places that are accessible 
for all children, Duncan said.
“Every page we get to turn with them is go-
ing to help them to some degree,” Dillard said.New program to encourage 
kids to read during summer
“You are one of our strongest Demo-
cratic counties in the entire state. And 
with your help, we will turn Florida blue 
come November.”
Jeffrey Porter, the third candidate for 
Commissioner of Agriculture, did not at-
tend.
Attorney General candidate and Flor-
ida Representative Sean Shaw said the 
role of attorney general is to be a lawyer 
for the people. Shaw said, if elected, he 
plans to sue the Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement administration, con-
tinue the lawsuit against opioid manu-
facturers and protect the Affordable 
Care Act.
“I am running for attorney general 
to go after the legislature in large part,” 
Shaw said. “I’m going to use the word 
that the Republicans are trying to brand 
me with, and it’s called ‘activist.’ And 
guess what? I am going to be an activist 
Attorney General.”
Attorney General candidate Ryan Tor-
rens said he is running a pro-consumer 
platform that will not take any corporate 
money. Torrens discussed his personal 
experience with alcoholism to explain 
his support of decriminalizing addiction 
in the country. 
“I am the only candidate in this race 
on either side of the aisle not taking one 
penny in big corporate money,” Torrens said. “And that’s the kind of attorney 
general Florida needs.”
Two candidates for governor, Chris 
King and Tallahassee Mayor Andrew 
Gillum, both sent video messages about 
their campaigns instead of attending.
Candidate Jeff Greene said as gov-
ernor, he would increase the minimum 
wage to $15 an hour, raise teacher wag-
es, create a mandatory two-year pre-
kindergarten program and combat the 
Trump administration.
“I look forward to ﬁ  ghting with 
(Trump) on behalf of the people of 
Florida a lot,” Greene said. “Believe me. 
We’re going to have to.”
Chris King’s campaign addresses gun 
safety reform, affordable housing, local 
jobs and businesses, college and trade 
schools and gender and LGBTQ+ equal-
ity.
Andrew Gillum said his progres-
sive platform is demanding affordable 
healthcare, an assault weapons ban, a 
$15 minimum wage and a $50,000 start-
ing teacher salary.
“I’m running for governor for anyone 
who has ever been told that they don’t 
belong,” Gillum said. “For anyone who 
has ever been told that they don’t de-
serve a chance.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgFORUM,  from pg 1Candidates spoke on ICE, ACATHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and 
Gainesville Police arrested two Gainesville 
residents Monday for allegedly commit-
ting multiple burglaries.
Earlier that afternoon, an Oakwood 
Convenience employee returned to work 
at 6250 NW 23rd St. and found the front 
door of the business had been smashed 
in. 
They discovered the cash register 
missing, which held about $800. The 
cash register alone costs about $2,000.
The security video allegedly showed 
Darrell Wells, 56, and 
Terry Johnson, 52, 
drive by the front of 
the business and park 
in the back. Johnson 
then walked to the 
front and reportedly 
threw a large rock 
through the glass door.
Johnson went in 
and stole the cash reg-
ister, according to the 
GPD report, before 
running outside to the 
back of the store. He 
then got into the pas-
senger side of the wait-
ing car with the stolen 
cash register in hand.
ACSO identiﬁ  ed Johnson during a sim-
ilar investigation where they found his 
ﬁ  ngerprints. On July 5, ACSO responded 
to a burglary at Springhill Liquors where 
the front door was broken and the cash 
register and some bottles of liquor were 
reportedly stolen.
Three other burglaries — later con-
nected to Wells and Johnson — were also 
reported. Video surveillance at Game-Stop, located at 2631 NW 13th St., alleg-
edly showed Johnson breaking through 
the glass front door and stealing four 
games and three gaming consoles — a 
PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Xbox 360 — 
totalling $880.
Surveillance footage at Books-A-Mil-
lion, located at 6111 W. Newberry Road, 
reportedly shows Johnson breaking in at 
1:34 a.m. Nothing was reported stolen. 
According to GPD arrest reports, there 
was also a burglary at China Wok on the 
same day.
Johnson later told GPD ofﬁ  cers that he 
and Wells planned the burglaries, which 
he commited. He reportedly said Wells 
drove him to the businesses and proﬁ  ted 
from the burglary.
Wells also reportedly said he drove 
Johnson to the businesses and parked in 
various locations while waiting for him. 
In several cases, Wells denied knowledge 
of the crime committed.
GPD conducted a search warrant at 
the residence where Johnson and Wells 
live together. They reportedly found sev-
eral cash registers in the main hallway 
bathroom and the clothes Johnson wore 
during the burglary.
Johnson reportedly told ofﬁ  cers he 
traded the PlayStation 4 and Xbox 360 
for drugs. A GPD ofﬁ  cer went to the 
house Johnson described and recovered 
an Xbox 360 with a serial number that 
matched the report. Johnson also said 
Wells gave someone the Xbox One to sell.
According to Alachua County Jail re-
cords, Johnson and Wells are both be-
ing held for three charges of burglary 
and grand theft. Johnson’s bond is set 
at $75,000, while Wells’ bond is set at 
$65,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgACSO arrests two in 
connection to burglaries
Johnson
Wells
By Madison Rubert
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF business administration student Julia 
Cousimeau began binge-watching “Saturday 
Night Live” after she learned one of its actors 
would perform on campus. She wanted to famil-
iarize herself with his material before the show, 
which she got a second-row seat to watch.
“I couldn’t pass up an opportunity to see 
him,” the 20-year-old said.
She was one of hundreds of students who 
lined up outside University Auditorium to watch 
the 8 p.m. stand-up comedy performance by ac-
tor and comedian Jay Pharoah on Tuesday.
The Accent Speakers Bureau hosted the event 
— one of many throughout the year. 
Chairman Gregory Wolf said the bureau 
brought Pharoah to campus because he has 
“mass appeal.”
“We needed to bring somebody that every-
body would want to come see,” Wolf, 21, said. 
“Jay Pharoah was the perfect person.”
Accent staff handed out 850 tickets to stu-
dents for the show, and tickets sold out Monday. 
So many students were interested in seeing 
the act that a standby line of 200 students seek-
ing admission formed outside the auditorium 
two hours before the show, Wolf said.
“He’s a master impressionist,” said Wolf. 
“Students of all ages are wildly attracted to his 
humor.”
Rising New York City comedian AJ Foster be-
gan the show with a 15-minute stand-up comedy 
act. He has also opened for comedians David 
Alan Grier and Damon Wayans Jr., Wolf said.
“The opening act was hilarious,” Cousimeau 
said. “I was not ready for that.”
Pharoah did impressions of Kanye West, Jay-
Z, Kevin Hart, former President Barack Obama 
and President Donald Trump during his hour-
long act.
He also brought attention to issues college 
students face such as drugs and sexual assault in his jokes.
“You should never force yourself on any-
body,” he said, following a joke. “That’s the 
most heinous thing you could ever do.”
The crowd erupted in applause.
Frances Landrum, a UF digital art sciences 
student, appreciated that he brought up topics 
relevant to students her age.
“Seeing an administrator on stage telling us 
what to do or what not to do could be pretty 
hard, boring or triggering for some people,” Lan-
drum, 20, said. “He made it something easy to 
talk about.”
She will never forget this performance, Lan-
drum said.
“I’m keeping my ticket,” she said. Former ‘Saturday Night Live’ 
actor Jay Pharoah performs at UF
Madison Rubert / Alligator Contributor
Jay Pharoah performed in front of 850 UF 
students at University Auditorium on Tuesday.
Editorial
Column
Enduring mysteries and little transparency: How 
we lost our 24/7 Library West (Part 1)
It started out innocently enough. Built in 1910, 
Newell Hall is the third oldest building on cam-
pus and by virtue of its age, was vacant for the 
better part of the current century due to not 
meeting modern building standards.
Per the Newell Hall website, “In 2009 and 2011, 
students at the University of Florida who completed 
the Student Experience in the Research University 
(SERU) Survey listed study space as the single most 
important thing their university could do to better 
their educational experience,” which led former Stu-
dent Body President TJ Villamil to pitch the idea of a “Library 
without Books” to administrators. After many years of lobby-
ing by subsequent SG administrations, the state legislature pro-
vided funds for Newell’s renovation, supplemented with funds 
from former UF President Bernie Machen.
But now with a fancy new building comes fancy new costs. 
To boost Library West’s hours to 24/7 status, SG traditionally 
provided additional funding, but then we cut most of the sup-
port to start paying for Newell Hall.
Naturally, there was plenty of controversy back when we 
ﬁ  rst cut Library West’s hours, so our provost helped fund a 
pilot program to measure utilization of both Library West and 
Newell this past year in order for SG to be able to make an in-
formed decision about what to do. This resulted in one survey 
and two studies, none of which were ever released by SG to 
the full Senate or the public. In fact, we’re all probably ﬁ  nding 
out about this at the same time, which is almost two months 
after our SG administration made the decision to not fund Li-
brary West’s overnight hours.
For what it’s worth, by talking about the lack of seating and 
public computers, SG is addressing two of the biggest issues 
that the study found. However, many people will be quick to 
point out that Newell just won’t be the same as a library. Some 
students still beneﬁ  t from physical access to texts not avail-
able online; our “Library without Books” would be little help 
to some of those who conduct research into the night. I also can’t easily see us somehow erecting any new study 
rooms in Newell to make it anywhere on the same 
scale as either of our libraries.
So, does funding Newell Hall while cutting hours 
at Library West actually make for more study space? 
Let’s try something completely useless and arbitrary 
to take a stab at answering that question. The whole 
reason for the decision was the desire for more 
“study space,” so let’s make up a metric. I propose 
the “seat-hour,” which is simply having a single seat 
for an hour’s time. The study pegs Newell Hall’s ca-
pacity at 365 seats, which if Newell is 24/7 (assuming 365 days 
a year, which we all know is not true since we all know what 
happens during football games), would mean 365 seats times 
24 hours times 365 days to get 3,197,400 “seat-hours.” Library 
West’s capacity is 1,600 seats, which means, with the same 
math, you get 14,016,000 “seat-hours” for a stand-alone year 
of Library West being 24/7. This 14 million “seat-hour” ﬁ  gure 
is the status quo, or how things were before Newell (of course, 
this is assuming all the other libraries’ hours were constant/
weren’t affected by Newell’s opening).
Nowadays, Library West won’t be 24/7 anymore, so if we 
assume an uncomfortably generous operating time of 8 a.m. 
to 2 a.m. for every day of the week for a year, you instead 
get 10,512,000 “seat-hours.” Add the 3,197,400 “seat-hours” 
from running Newell’s 24/7 concurrently, and then you’ll real-
ize that after all this fuss, we actually have “less study space” 
compared to had we not funded Newell Hall and just funded 
Library West 24/7 for good. 
But why not simply fund both 24/7? It’s complicated, and 
I’ll try to go into what I know about occupancy and ﬁ  nances 
next week.
Read the ﬁ  nal study at goo.gl/TBZfdW (case sensitive).
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Murphree 
Area Senator. His column focuses on Student Government.THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s 7 a.m. You’ve been at the same library cubicle 
since 10 p.m. the night before, and your paper is due in an 
hour. You keep thinking to yourself, “I won’t put projects 
off this late next time.” You realize the absurdity of that 
promise. You know it won’t come true.
You gaze out the window at the rising sun as external 
light begins to shine down upon your still ﬂ  edgling term 
paper. This little monster needs to be extended by three 
pages, and you’re running out of ideas outside of simply 
making all your punctuation a few font sizes bigger.
The grande iced macchiato you ordered in a ﬁ  t of pro-
crastination drips condensation around your notes, adding 
to the desperation of your situation. If only you’d started 
this a day earlier. If only you’d paid more attention in 
class. You contemplate using one of your precious drops 
on this course.
Instead, you carry on. You hope that once this is over, 
you can down a stiff drink, ﬁ  nally take a shower and blow 
off some steam by chucking a handful of…
DARTS AND 
LAURELS
Libraries sustain our need for learning. They are a 
place to come home to, full of the answers you seek, 
welcoming you with worn armchairs and buzzing 
ﬂ  uorescent lights. Sometimes they smell. But we will 
look past that. Thus we award a laurel to libraries 
as a whole.
The library life at UF is ever changing and the subject of 
documented scrutiny among students. A cursory glance at 
topical memes reveals a Student Body quite literally divided 
among the buildings and their amenities.
The single best feature in the two main libraries — Li-
brary West and Marston Science Library — is the opportu-
nity for the earlier stated procrastination by getting a tasty 
beverage and a sandwich. A well-deserved laurel goes 
out to the Starbucks at both libraries for affording us that 
chance. Satiating our sugar ﬁ  x has never been easier or 
more enjoyable since the renovations to the Starbucks at 
West.
But enough positivity. There’s plenty to gripe about 
within the twisted halls of UF’s so-called libraries. Case 
in point: Newell Hall. Student Government recently an-
nounced this spankin’ new building as the only 24/7 option 
for on-campus studying. If you need a physical book or any 
of the other amenities our actual libraries offer, well, tough.
This dart is for Student Government for believing this 
is what students needed or wanted. Sure, those who live 
on campus will still use the space as it is fairly centrally 
located to dorms as well as nearby off-campus housing. But 
you’re SOL if you need to reference something that doesn’t 
exist online. The internet doesn’t contain everything, con-
trary to popular belief.
As far as the actual building goes, the circumstances 
don’t get much better. Endless staircases, a lack of a Star-
bucks and, of course, more stairs. There’s also the issue of 
computer stations. SG President Ian Green said he would 
like to add more computers to Newell but failed to mention 
how many or how soon they’d be available. Our ﬁ  nal dart 
goes to Newell Hall for being woefully underprepared for 
its responsibilities for the Fall semester.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO 
EDITORZachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Series review of the week:
Flip over to Page 8 for our inside look into “A Very 
English Scandal. ”Are you on trend? 
Check out page nine for our rundown of the top summer trends 
and those rocking them on campus!By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
In a world with Apple Music and Spo-
tify, The Atlantic reminds Gainesville that 
the best music is still heard live.
This weekend marks the 14th anniver-
sary of The Atlantic, one of Gainesville’s 
premiere live music venues. On Fri-day at 10 p.m., The Atlantic will host 
Luke’s Wall, a Black Sabbath tribute 
band, and DJ DeepPurp. These events 
run in conjunction with a Beach Ball 3D 
block party at the Arcade Bar, on Satur-
day night.
Since 2004, The Atlantic has fed 
Gainesville a healthy diet of addictive 
live and local music. The venue has been 
known to host local punk groups, DJs, 
Motown performers and other unique 
sounds.
Thomas Rankine, the promotion and 
talent manager at The Atlantic, said the 
venue would not exist today if it were not 
for Gainesville’s consistent cycle of local 
talent. 
“We take pride in keeping a wide mix 
of events on the calendar,” Rankine said. 
“Any night of the week, you can expect 
to wander in to an insane metal or punk 
show and the very next night, be greeted 
by Otis Redding or The Ronettes during 
Motown Showdown.”
The Atlantic feeds on unpredictabil-
ity, Rankine said. Like the residents of 
Gainesville, local music downtown carries 
an atmosphere of sophisticated chaos.
To some, 14 years might not seem 
significant. However, in the context of 
Gainesville’s other venues, The Atlantic’s 
anniversary is particularly notable.
This week, High Dive also celebrated 
its birthday. The music venue commemo-
rated its seventh anniversary with a week 
of shows and performances, which will 
extend into the weekend.
Common Grounds, another music ven-
ue, closed its doors in 2011, lasting only 
15 years. Loosey’s Downtown Gainesville, 
The Wooly, The Bull and the Backyard 
at Boca Fiesta are each fewer than nine years old.
Thus, for a venue like The Atlantic to 
remain as popular as it is, Rankine said he 
likes to keep things fresh.
“The local scene is extremely diverse,” 
Rankine said. “Aside from being a blue 
dot in a red state, there are many like-
minded artists in this town who embrace 
the diverse talents Gainesville has to of-
fer.”
One could argue that local music 
and Gainesville have always been syn-
onymous. It seems only natural that the 
birthplace of Tom Petty would become 
a prominent space for experimental and 
contemporary music and artistry.
However, as Gainesville continues to 
develop its identity, interest in local art-
istry seems to be under attack. This year, 
Florida state legislators cut funding to the 
arts more significantly than they had in 
previous years.
Rankine said The Atlantic has not felt 
the effects of these cuts directly. On the 
contrary, this situation has only reminded 
Rankine of The Atlantic’s mission.
“Supporting local arts will always be 
our primary focus and now we feel an 
obligation to try and do more,” Rankine 
said. “We are always hosting benefit 
shows and fundraisers and have every in-
tention of continuing.”The Atlantic turns 14
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Black Sabbath tribute band Luke’s Wall, pictured above, will be performing 
for The Atlantic’s 14th anniversary show..
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Atlantic will celebrate with its anniversary with the community of 
Friday night with live music and drinks.
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
The UF School of Theatre 
and Dance will bring the di-
chotomy of beauty and unrest 
to the stage with “The Day is 
Long to End,” a play written by 
Catherine Yu. Through the jux-
taposition of a ﬂ  ower shop with the political unrest of the day, 
this production aims to give an 
inside look into the world of 
Vienna in the early 1930s. Per-
formances of “The Day is Long 
to End” will take place in the 
Black Box Theatre of the Nadine 
McGuire Theatre and Dance Pa-
vilion on campus from July 19 
to July 22.‘The Day is Long to End’
THEATRE
TF Guntrup
Katie Haeuser and Keifer McDonald star in “The Day 
is Long to End” .
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Sex scandals and politics are a tale 
as old as time. 
The Amazon Prime Original mini-
series “A Very English Scandal” fol-
lows a historic scandal in the United 
Kingdom involving British politician 
and leader of the Liberal Party Jer-
emy Thorpe and his ex-lover Norman 
Scott.
To put the storyline into American 
perspective, think about the Monica 
Lewinsky and former President Bill 
Clinton scandal that rocked the White 
House. Now, on top of the inﬁ  delity, 
add the taboo around homosexuality, 
and then you’ve got the baseline of 
this miniseries.
The three-episode series is based 
on the 2016 nonﬁ  ction book of the 
same name, written by British author, 
journalist and television critic John 
Preston.
The series stars Hugh Grant as 
Jeremy Thorpe, a politician who ac-
knowledges to his fellow closeted 
friend Peter Bessell (Alex Jennings) 
that he likes men more than women. 
Still, he insists he must stay quiet, not 
only for his career, but because of the 
societal pressure.
When we ﬁ  rst meet Thorpe, he 
is having a meal with Bessell and in-
forming him that a man named Nor-
man Scott wrote a letter to his mother 
about the affair that the men had. This 
leads Bessell to ask questions and sets 
the stage for Thorpe to retell the story 
of his relationship with Scott from be-
ginning to end. 
After meeting by chance years be-
fore, Scott reached out to Thorpe for 
help. Scott had quit his job because of 
his crude boss and needed help get-ting back on his feet. He asked Thorpe 
to help him ﬁ  nd a place and, most im-
portantly, to get an insurance card for 
better work opportunities.
The card that Scott so desperately 
wants throughout the entire series is 
similar to a Social Security card. It 
would help provide access to state 
beneﬁ  ts and allow access to better 
employment opportunities.
That same card is not given to 
Scott during his ﬁ  rst escapade with 
Thorpe. Once Thorpe leaves, Scott 
becomes furious. In his anger, Scott 
goes to the police to report Thorpe’s 
“homosexual misconduct.”
After the ﬁ  rst accusation, Thorpe 
sends his friend Bessell to Dublin, 
where Scott had moved, to try to scare 
Scott off of his crusade for vengeance. 
To their dismay the intimidation 
didn’t work, and Scott again reported 
Thorpe to ofﬁ  cials in the hope of get-
ting an insurance card.
Here, the show becomes a game of cat and mouse. Both men are trying 
to move on and live their lives; Scott 
wants an insurance card, Thorpe now 
wants Scott dead so he stays out of 
Thorpe’s personal and political life. 
Still, they hold an underlying sense of 
interest in each other’s lives.
The three episode miniseries feels 
like an extended movie that has you 
constantly battling whose side you’re 
on and how you want things to end 
for these two men.
What makes the show so riveting 
is the fact that it is a historical account 
of an actual event, but rather than 
telling it as a documentary, the show 
becomes a serious and juicy drama. 
According to Amazon Prime, the 
development team for this series had 
to verify any and all potentially con-
troversial details. They have reported 
several times, despite some question-
ing, that the key details portrayed in 
the series are rooted and supported 
by facts. Series review of the week: Amazon 
Prime’s ‘A Very English Scandal’
TELEVISION
Amazon
“A Very English Scandal” stars Hugh Grant and Ben Whishaw.
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Lindsey Brenemen
Avenue Writer
Some summer trends never truly fall 
out of style: bright colors, ﬂ  orals and 
hoops are dependable looks whenever 
it becomes impossible to walk outside 
without sweating. 
Lace up, and give your feet a break 
from heels because sneakers are in this 
season. More speciﬁ  cally, dad sneak-
ers. Fully-functional, chunky footwear 
— typically donned by middle-aged 
men —  is now appropriate for the club.Stripes have made a comeback this 
season. Donate the burglar costume 
to Goodwill though; you need strips 
with ﬂ  are. Skip wide black and white 
horizontals and choose some vertical 
stripes or stripes with color variation.
Take some saturation out of the col-
ors in your wardrobe this summer and 
pick pastels. Pastels are in for every ar-
ticle of clothing.
Florals are a staple for summer and 
spring attire — this year is no excep-
tion! Whether the print adorns a Ha-
waiian shirt or a sundress, sport some ﬂ  owers this season.
Guard your eyes in the Sunshine 
State with the smallest frames you can 
ﬁ  nd. Long past are the days when sun-
glasses were supposed to take up half 
your face. Hide your hangover with 
mini sunglasses this summer instead.
For a ﬁ  nal touch, earrings are the 
statement piece of the summer. If you 
want a more simplistic look, large 
hoops never fail. However, it’s geomet-
ric shape earrings that are really shin-
ing.Sneakers, stripes, pastels: the essentials for 2018 summer fashion
FASHION
Lindsey Brenemen
Keala Moncur, 17, combines ﬂ  orals with a chunky 
sneaker.Lindsey Brenemen
Juana Viel, 18, struts without breaking a sweat.Lindsey Brenemen
Mallory Laferrier, 25, sporting a striped jumpsuit.
Lindsey Brenemen
Vanessa Villarreal, 19, is on-trend.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
It’s 10 p.m. You only have two 
more chapters of notes and that 
ﬁ  nal paragraph to ﬁ  nish! Then 
you feel growling in the pit of 
your stomach, and you wonder, 
“When was the last time I ate?” 
As you peer into your fridge, 
all you ﬁ  nd is a half-eaten apple, 
a few slices of bread and milk. 
Sounds healthy, right? Well, not 
exactly.  
We all have crazy schedules 
from class to clubs to jobs to, 
well, sleep. However, this doesn’t 
mean you can’t ﬁ  nd time to put 
good nutrients into your body in a 
smart, efﬁ  cient way. Enter: meal 
prepping.
Why do it: Meal prepping is 
effective and beneﬁ  cial because 
you have full meals ready to go 
for the entire week whenever you 
consider skipping meals. Skipping a meal to study may sound smart, 
but it actually lessens your focus 
on the task at hand. This can save 
time in a pinch, and the process 
of prepping for the week is a great 
way to start the week with a sense 
of productivity. Additionally, 
meal prep is more cost-effective. 
By buying in bulk for larger serv-
ings, meal prep allows you to re-
duce your cost per meal.
How to do it: Have a day ev-
ery week that’s dedicated to gro-
cery shopping and meal prepping. 
It’s important to have consistency 
so you can have everything ready 
for the upcoming week. Pick a 
few simple and delicious recipes 
that you can tackle on your own, 
and make a grocery list. Also, 
consider purchasing a few basic 
spices to put on chicken or veg-
etables because ﬂ  avor is every-
thing! 
If you have absolutely no idea 
what meals you should make, download the app “Mealime.” 
“Mealime” is an app full of deli-
cious, simple 30-minute recipes 
that can be customized to your 
diet. Pro tip: Always be sure to 
keep a good amount of Tupper-
ware containers to portion out 
your meals.
How to love it: Prep meals that 
you’d genuinely enjoy, otherwise 
you will end up wasting food and 
spending more money on take-
out. If you have sweet cravings, 
incorporate more fruit into break-
fasts and snacks. If you can’t live 
without chicken, purchase a ro-
tisserie chicken, pull it apart and 
cook it in some salsa or tomato so 
you have a large, ﬂ  avorful supply 
for the week! Once you get in the 
habit of making time to cook all of 
your meals for the week, you will 
feel so accomplished and relieved 
that you don’t have to remind 
yourself to eat!Meal prep: a college student’s saving grace
FOOD
LIFESTYLEEmma McAvoy
Meal prep is an opportunity to get organized and get healthy.
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
It is 8 a.m., and you barely slept a wink last 
night because you were up writing a paper, 
studying for an exam or perhaps playing Fort-
nite. Whatever the case, you have to muster 
up energy to get to that 8:30 a.m. class with 
barely any time to chug your coffee. Your 
stress levels have been at an all-time high, and 
you wish you could just have 10 minutes to 
breathe. The college life may be busy, but self 
care is critical for staying on track. Here are 10 
ways to practice physical and mental health 
care in college.
Sleep! Sounds impossible, right? Although 
we are young and capable of just about any-
thing, our bodies need rest and recovery in 
order to perform the tasks we expect to do. 
Getting those eight hours of sleep does won-
ders for your mental and physical health. Even 
with a busy schedule, don’t forget to recharge.Drink water. Hydration is key! Drinking 
a lot of water detoxes our bodies by getting 
rid of all of the bad substances we consume. 
Water helps your skin, energy and focus, and 
frankly, we kind of need it to live. If you ﬁ  nd 
that getting enough water is a struggle, get a 
water bottle and ﬁ  ll up!
Eat right. Like drinking water, putting 
the best nutrients into your body gives you 
more physical energy and provides you with 
more brain power! I know it is tempting (and 
frankly, just really easy) to grab a snack from 
Starbucks or Au Bon Pain, but this will only 
provide you with energy for a short period of 
time. Try incorporating fruits and vegetables 
when you can for more focus and energy.
Get physical! Whether it be a walk around 
the block, a HIIT class at Southwest Recre-
ation Center or lifting weights in your room, 
it is so important to stay active. Exercising for 
at least 30 minutes every day gives you that 
extra boost of energy and positivity you need. Find workouts that inspire and challenge you. 
There’s no right way to get active.
Keep a well-organized planner. Find 
a planner that will keep you organized and 
ahead of the game in all of your classes, clubs, 
activities and personal time. Even if you need 
to schedule everything to a T, do what works 
for you. Trial and error is inevitable. Keep at it.
Set daily rewards. Schedule in time to re-
ward yourself for completing your daily tasks, 
and you will be more motivated to get those 
things done. Whether it be watching an hour 
of Netﬂ  ix, meditating, going out or just grab-
bing pizza with your friends, spend quality 
time every day doing something just for you.
Keep a journal. Having some sort of outlet 
for your thoughts and feelings is extremely im-
portant. This is also a great way to look back. 
Be proud of progress, and learn about yourself.
Go outside. Step outside and breathe some 
fresh air! Take a bike ride to Lake Alice one 
morning and watch the sunrise or sit on the Plaza of the Americas and read a good book. 
Find time to soak up some vitamin D and es-
cape from Marston Science Library’s horrid 
ﬂ  uorescent lighting.
Spend quality time with the ones you 
love. It sounds cliche, but seriously, take 
advantage of your free time with family and 
friends. Call your parents, have them visit or 
just hang out with your close group of friends. 
Make time for the important people in your 
life! Find people to lean on every once in 
awhile.
Ask for help. Life is hard, but you aren’t 
alone. If you are struggling and overwhelmed, 
it can be hard to take steps to help yourself. 
Talk to someone. Don’t be afraid to seek help. 
UF offers options that are built into tuition. 
Find your nearest GatorWell ofﬁ  ce or make 
a call to the Counseling & Wellness Center at 
352-392-1575 to set up an appointment. You 
can also call the National Suicide Prevention 
Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.10 simple ways toward self careBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$1850/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-19-18-4-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Seeking part-time copy editor/technical writ -
er. Must have prior editorial/copy editing ex -
perience and must have advanced grammar 
knowledge. Rate is $12/hour. Please send 
resume and cover letter to pda@gue.com.  
7-19-18-5-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. TELEVISION: Who is the current 
host of the “Family Feud” game show?
2. ART: What is the only work of 
Michelangelo’s that bears his signature?
3. INVENTIONS: Who developed 
and patented the electric telegraph in 
the United States in 1837?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of South Dakota?
5. LANGUAGE: What letters end a 
gerund in the English language?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the common term for bovine 
spongiform encephalopathy?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: How many 
vice presidents served with President 
Franklin D. Roosevelt during his four 
terms?
8. U.S. STATES: Which state was 
once an independent sovereign nation?
9. ASTRONOMY: How old is the 
sun in our solar system?
10. GAMES: How many chance 
spaces are on a Monopoly board?
Answers
1. Steve Harvey
2. “The Pieta”
3. Samuel Morse
4. Pierre
5. “ing”
6. Mad cow disease
7. Three: John Nance Garner, Henry 
Agard Wallace and Harry S. Truman
8. The Republic of Texas
9. About 4.6 billion years
10. Three
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 9, 2018King Features Weekly Service
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.13 Wanted 15 Services 16 Health ServicesTHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
"The Language of Love" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., July 15    
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
www.eck-florida.org
Everyone welcome!
7-12-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 PlayStation
handheld game
5 Appliance with a
vent
10 Gremlins, e.g.
14 Airline to Israel
15 Gaucho’s rope
16 World Cup skiing
champ Lindsey
17 Do-fa link
18 Hawkeye
19 A.D. part
20 *Doctor Octopus
or Doctor Doom
23 Chicago mayor
Rahm
24 Obdurate
28 Nonverbal
comm. method
29 *“The Big
Country” Oscar
winner
32 Holds up
35 Twofer coupon
acronym
36 “Selma” setting:
Abbr.
37 *Quick and
careless
treatment
41 Freudian topic
42 Umpteen
43 “What __ has
seen ... ”: 1
Corinthians
44 *On-the-scene
reporter’s
opening
47 Ball club
48 Colleague of
Sonia
49 Money-
laundering
business in
“Breaking Bad”
53 Metaphor for one
feeling slighted ...
and what’s
hidden in the
answers to
starred clues
57 First name at
Woodstock
60 Bandanna kin
61 Gambling mecca
62 Yemen neighbor
63 Words of defeat
64 God with a bow
65 Ma with a bow
66 Not as worn
67 Ukr. and Lith.,
onceDOWN
1 Frost lines?
2 Intestinal part
3 Clearwater
neighbor
4 Drive away
5 Blather
6 Work on more, as
a squeaky hinge
7 Two-master
8 “Too many to list”
abbr.
9 __ close second
10 Forward, in
Firenze
11 MLK Day, e.g.
12 “Anthony
Bourdain: Parts
Unknown”
channel
13 __-Caps
21 “Empire Falls”
novelist Richard
22 Puerto Rico, e.g.:
Abbr.
25 Almost round
26 Singer Furtado
27 Belgian violin
virtuoso 
Eugène __
29 Carried
30 “This could 
get __”
31 King at Versailles32 “Camelot”
composer
33 Generous donor
34 Gettysburg
Address unit
35 Wally’s little bro
38 Southern Conf.
school
39 Twist
40 Prepares to steal,
probably
45 Affluent Los
Angeles district46 “Well, __-di-dah!”
47 Nag
49 Desist
50 Professes
51 Monterrey title
52 __ Perot
54 Valhalla VIP
55 Firehouse 
fixture
56 Front at sea
57 Good feeling
58 “I think,” in texts
59 Might
By Franj Virzi
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/12/1807/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 12, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Robert De Niro film
1.  Grotto5.  A, but not B
2.  Small wood particles 6.  Band together
3.  Void, cancel 7.  Remained 
4.  SurpassNOACSI
RAVCNEWEOLV
NUTEI
ADSTWUS
FIUYLNLSETDAY
EEDXCEANSWERS: 1A-Casino  5A-Vowel  6A-Unite  7A-Stayed
1D-Cavern  2D-Sawdust  3D-Nullify  4D-Exceed  B-Volcanoes7-12-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
CLUE: There are about 1,500 of these on Earth. 
BONUS1
62
53
74
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.
19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment
ACROSS
1 Teensy
5 Box for tea
leaves
10 Japanese box
lunch
15 Tree with an 
oil-rich seed
16 Streamlined
17 Frank __ Wright
18 “Long time no
see” follower
20 Old enough
21 “Lady and the __”
22 Traffic signals
24 Possesses
25 Stage of grief
26 Smartens (up)
28 Manhattan liquor
29 Full of activity
34 “Ben-Hur” extras
37 “Now it’s clear”
38 Sonogram
subject
39 Sticks (out)
42 Had a nice
chitchat
44 __ out a living
45 Ahead
47 Not for kids,
filmwise
49 One whose
wages come
from wagers
50 Slugger Hank
51 Feel crummy
54 Rum-flavored
cakes
56 River mouth
formation
58 Far from friendly
60 Steep headlands
64 With deleted
scenes included
65 Passover staple
67 Likely to goof
69 Dam that created
Lake Nasser
70 Simoleons
71 Cookie cooker
72 Pork cuts
73 Goad
74 Twitter
headquarters?
DOWN
1 Beatty/Hoffman
box office flop
2 Sticky
3 Water treatment
plant input
4 “I did good!”
5 Fort Collins sch.6 Actress Jessica
7 One in the
headlights?
8 Critter on XING
signs
9 Informal “See
what I mean?”
10 Come into one’s
own
11 Pixie
12 Craft for six
puzzle answers
13 Rapper whose
name sounds like
a big cat
14 Poems of praise
19 “A Wrinkle in
Time” (2018)
actress
23 Electrically
connected with
27 Plant firmly
30 “So what?!”
31 Can. neighbor
32 Ref, slangily
33 Last critter in an
ABC book
35 TV’s “Science
Guy”
36 Lawn starter
37 Honshu port
39 Chore
40 “One card left!”
game warning41 12-Down
queueing
pattern depicted
by six puzzle
answers
43 Corn unit
46 Science fair
awards
48 Ultimately
become
51 Nook
52 58-Down default
music program53 Under the
surface
55 “So I was wrong!”
57 Defunct scandal-
plagued company
58 Apple computer
59 Toll lane choice
61 Throat trouble
62 Kissable fairy-tale
critter
63 Unaccompanied
66 Ray gun sound
68 Legged it
By Andrew Linzer
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/11/1807/11/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 11, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols LewisUF men's basketball released its 
non-conference slate Wednesday. 
Mike White and the Gators will 
face Michigan State, Butler and 
West Virginia among others.TIM TEBOW NAMED TO UF RING OF HONOR
The Heisman Trophy winner's name will be unveiled in the north end zone at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium during the LSU game on Oct. 6. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
 Alligator Sports Staff
There were so many great senior athletes at 
the University of Florida that made a huge im-
pact on the school in the 2017-18 athletics sea-
son. Our panel of Chris O’Brien, Mark Stine, 
Andrew Huang, Evan Lepak and Brendan Far-
rell gives you its nominations for Senior of the 
Year.
Chris: We, at the alligatorSports section, 
still need to apologize to Caeleb Dressel for 
leaving him off our Athlete of the Year nomi-
nations a few weeks ago. But for now, let’s at 
least give him the Senior of the Year title that 
he deserves.
Not only was he easily the best male swim-
mer in the country, he was arguably the most 
dominant athlete in all the NCAA this past sea-
son.
During the NCAA Championships, he went 
4 for 4, winning four titles in as many days. He 
won the 50-meter freestyle, 100-meter fly, the 
200-meter FR and the 100-meter free.
In the 100 free, he became the first person 
at any level to finish below 40 seconds, touch-
ing the wall at 39.90.
Honestly, Dressel swims like a dolphin. He 
closed his career at Florida as one of the best 
swimmers, if not the best swimmer, in school 
history.
He now currently holds school records in 
eight different events and collected 28 All-
America honors, which is the absolute maxi-
mum a swimmer can receive in his career.
His 10 national championships are the most 
in school history, surpassing Ryan Lochte (8) 
with his four titles this season.
Dressel was named the SEC Male Athlete of 
the Year, putting him in some elite company 
in Florida history. Since the award’s inception 
in 1976, only three other Gators have won 
the award – Danny Wuerffel, Tim Tebow and 
Lochte.
He already collected two gold medals at the 
2016 Rio Olympic Games, and I promise you, 
that won’t be the last hardware he takes home.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Mark: Alex McMurtry is my Senior of the 
Year because aside from being a tremendous 
leader and example to her teammates, she lit-
erally achieved perfection in her final season 
at UF. 
On January 26 against then-No. 1 Oklaho-
ma, McMurtry helped the Gators to victory by 
registering 10.0s on vault and balance beam. 
With the perfect score on beam, she became 
the second Gator (Bridget Sloan) to complete 
the career “Gym Slam,” the achievement of 
earning a 10.0 in all four gymnastics events. 
Her perfect mark in the vault against Okla-
homa was actually the second of her career. 
The Midlothian, Virginia, native is the first UF 
gymnast to score two 10.0s in the same event. 
She also was NCAA co-champion in the vault 
in 2018. Perhaps her greatest performance of the 
year was against Nebraska on March 9. Mc-
Murtry won every event - vault, beam, uneven 
bars, floor and all-around - and tied a school 
record in the all-around with a tally of 39.825. 
The last Gators to sweep all five events were 
Ashanee Dickerson in 2011, and Chrissy Van-
Fleet in 2000. 
In addition to her accolades in the gym, Mc-
Murtry has been successful pursuing a degree 
in applied physiology and kinesiology. She re-
peated as SEC Scholar Athlete of the Year in 
2018 and earned Academic All-America hon-
ors each year she was eligible (2016-18).
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Andrew: Let me start things off with a quote 
from Mary Wise, UF’s head volleyball coach, 
from last season: “I could coach 30 more years 
and never have a class like this.”
The 32-year veteran coach is referring to 
her 2017 senior class of Rhamat Alhassan, 
Carli Snyder, Shainah Joseph and Caroline 
“CK” Knop: an accumulation of star power so 
remarkable I couldn’t choose just one to nomi-
nate for Senior Athlete of the Year.
So here’s all of them.
Alhassan headlined the Fab Four-ange and 
Blue (email me if you have a better name, 
please). The 6-foot-4 middle blocker was a 
First Team All-American and the SEC Player 
of the Year thanks in large part to her NCAA-best 1.70 blocks per set. She set the all-time 
UF record for career blocks against Tennessee 
on Nov. 5 and finished her career with 674 
blocks, well ahead of second-place Benavia 
Jenkins’ (2000-03) 601.
Snyder and Joseph, both outside hitters 
and Second Team All-Americans, had sensa-
tional senior seasons for different reasons. 
Snyder ended a successful career with a 
bang. She led Florida in scoring and led the 
SEC with 0.49 service aces per set, a number 
good for seventh in the country. 
Joseph developed into a key cog of the 
Gators’ rotation. She nearly doubled her of-
fensive production over the second half of the 
season, bringing an extra level of firepower 
down the stretch that helped the team to a 
30-2 record, as well as an SEC title and Na-
tional Championship appearance.
And then there’s Knop. As UF’s libero, or 
defensive specialist, her potential to fill out the 
box score is limited, but her value on the court 
is not. 
She led UF and was top-five in the SEC with 
4.46 digs per game. Knop played her first two 
seasons at Michigan, but it’s how she finished 
her college career that really stands out. 
Knop played the last month of the season 
despite nursing a broken right hand. That 
stretch includes a pair of clutch performances 
in back-to-back NCAA Tournament elimina-
tion games against USC and Stanford, helping 
catapult the Gators into their first NCAA title alligatorSports Awards: Senior of the YearSpurs dynasty 
is collapsing: 
The dominos 
continue to fall
I hope I’m not right.
But I’m really worried that I am. The 
Spurs are done. There, I said it!
I don’t want to believe it. San An-
tonio has been basketball’s standard of 
excellence for the past 20 years or so. It did 
things the right way. It was a model organi-
zation. It won consistently and at the high-
est level. Head coach Gregg Popovich is a 
wonderful human being, regardless of his 
occasional curtness with the media.
But I think we’re watching the begin-
ning of the end of this Spurs dynasty un-
fold. Everyone knows about superstar small 
forward Kawhi Leonard’s trade request 
stemming from a mishandled quad injury 
that limited Leonard to nine games a year 
ago – coincidentally the first time since 
1999 San Antonio won less than 50 games 
– and created tension between Leonard and 
the Spurs organization.
For a while, I was hesitant to buy into 
the rumors that Kawhi’s relationship with 
San Antonio was so far gone he would have 
to leave. After all, LaMarcus Aldridge was in 
the same boat two seasons ago. Disgruntled 
and unhappy with his new team, Aldridge 
reportedly wanted out before Popovich sat 
down with the All-Star big man to have a 
heart-to-heart talk about the future. Al-
dridge came back. Kawhi probably won’t.
But it’s more than that. Tony Parker’s 
gone, and that’s very symbolic in my eyes.
The four-time NBA Champion spent 
the first 17 years of his career in San An-
tonio with Popovich. The 36-year-old point 
guard’s name was synonymous with the 
Spurs, along with Manu Ginobili and Tim 
Duncan. 
Ginobili is 40 years young and has not 
announced retirement yet, although the 
clock is ticking on the crafty veteran from 
Argentina. Duncan retired after the 2015-
16 season as a top-10 rebounder and shot 
blocker in NBA history.
But what about the icons that aren’t Huang Story Short
Alligator File Photo
Senior gymnast Alex McMurtry embraces coach Jenny Rowland after UF's victory 
over then-No. 1 Oklahoma. She registered two perfect scores in the meet (vault, bars). 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16
Andrew Huang
twitter: @AndrewJHuangTHURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
KICKER
Alligator Staff Report
With a matchup between France 
and Croatia set for the World Cup 
Final, our staff, which doesn’t 
know very much about soccer, is 
here to give you its predictions on 
which team it believes will come 
out victorious on Sunday. Our 
report consists of sports writers 
Chris O’Brien, Mark Stine, Andrew 
Huang, Brendan Farrell and Evan 
Lepak.
Chris: I don’t follow soccer  
heavily, but man, I love the World 
Cup. 
I was going to just say screw 
the game Wednesday, I’m picking 
France either way. Kylian Mbappe 
is a superhuman, and France 
knocked out my pick (Belgium) in 
the semifinals. So if you can’t beat 
‘em, join ‘em, right? Wrong. 
I watched the Croatia-England 
match, and I’m damn glad I did 
because I was just assuming Eng-
land would win. But after watching 
Croatia win in extra-time or pen-
alty kicks for the third-consecutive 
time, give me Croatia.
This feels like it’s going to go the 
distance, so I’ll say it’ll be 2-2, but 
the Cinderella nation wins 4-3 on 
penalty kicks.
I don’t know what it is about 
the second-smallest country to 
ever reach the Cup final, but it has 
the “it” factor to me. Luka Modric 
is freaking exciting to watch and 
Croatia is a fun story to get behind. 
Catch me in the Swamp or Moth-
er’s on Sunday at 11 a.m. to watch 
some fine soccer.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Mark: Let’s be honest, France is 
the obvious favorite here. 
Les Bleus came to Russia hungry 
after reaching the final at the 2016 
UEFA European Championships, 
and the addition of phenom Kyl-
ian Mbappe to the already potent 
attack makes them very dangerous 
even against Croatia’s defense. If 
the solid form of forward Antoine alligatorSports 2018 Russia World Cup Final Predictions
France - 4
BelgiumSpain - 1 (3-4 PENS)
France - 2
3rd Place NationRussia - 2 (4-3 PENS)
France - 1 England - 1
Croatia France
Champions
Belgium - 2 England - 2Belgium - 0 Croatia - 2Brazil - 1Sweden - 0Uruguay - 0Croatia - 2 (4-3 PENS)Argentina - 3
EnglandRussia - 1 (4-3 PENS)
Uruguay - 2 Croatia - 1 (3-2 PENS)
Portugal - 1 Denmark - 1 (2-3 PENS)
Brazil - 2 Sweden - 1
Mexico - 0 Switzerland - 1
Belgium - 3 Colombia - 1 (3-4 PENS)
Japan - 2 England - 1 (3-4 PENS)June 30
July 6
July 14, 10 a.m. ETJuly 6June 30
July 2
July 2July 1
July 7
July 7July 1
July 3
July 3
Griezmann continues (he’s posted 
three goals and two assists), the 
French could hoist the World Cup 
for the first time since 1998.
But the biggest question mark 
for France is striker Olivier Giroud. 
The Chelsea target-man left the 
semifinal against Belgium hobbling 
with a leg injury. Even though he 
hasn’t scored in the tournament, 
his availability is key to the plans 
of manager Didier Deschamps. 
However, I think the x-factor for 
France is the midfield. Paul Pogba 
and N’Golo Kante do an excellent 
job of making challenges, winning 
50-50 balls and cutting off passing 
lanes. Their collective performance 
will be crucial in stopping arguably 
the player of the tournament in 
Croatian midfielder Luka Modric. 
Croatia is a team that obvious-
ly loves drama, exceeding regular 
time in all its knockout matches in 
Russia. I think they’ll keep it close, 
but France will eke it out, 2-1. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Andrew: It’s Croatia o’clock! 
I love an underdog story and the 
Croatian men’s national soccer 
team’s Cinderella run has me abso-
lutely captivated.
It has qualified for the World Cup five times since becoming an 
independent nation in 1991, and 
only two of those trips have yield-
ed any success beyond the Group 
Stage. Those two years were 1998, 
when it finished in third place over-
all, and this year, where it has ad-
vanced further than ever before.
France, on the other hand, is a 
well-established force on the World 
Cup scene. This tournament marks 
the French national team’s 15th 
appearance in the World Cup. In 
1998, the hosting French squad 
outdid Croatia’s bronze medal fin-
ish and won the entire thing.
Twenty years later, Croatia will 
flip the tables and storm the field 
after taking down France 3-0. Take 
that shit to the bank.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Evan: As much as I would love 
to pick the underdog to win it all 
this year, common sense tells me 
France is the clear favorite to hoist 
the FIFA World Cup trophy over 
Croatia. 
France is already one of only 
eight national teams to ever win 
the World Cup, and what better 
way to celebrate the 20th anniver-
sary of its first World Cup title than 
to leave Moscow with its second on Sunday?
France has been dominant since 
the beginning of group play, breez-
ing past Australia and Peru.
Its draw with Denmark in its 
third game of the group stage was 
good enough to help it finish in first 
place ahead of Denmark in Group 
C.
The knockout rounds offered 
little resistance for the French too. 
They managed to take care of Messi 
and Argentina, 4-3, in the round of 
16 and also took down both Uru-
guay and Belgium in the quarter-
finals and semifinals, respectively.
France has a team that’s better 
equipped to outlast Croatia, and I 
believe its defense will be the de-
ciding factor in what figures to be a 
low-scoring affair. 
I like France in this one, 2-0.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org
Brendan: As far as World Cup 
predictions go, mine should be tak-
en with a grain of salt, considering 
how hard my Brazil-Spain final pre-
diction from the beginning of the 
knockout round flopped. But with 
that said, France is the team to go 
with on Sunday. 
As talented as a French at-
tack boasting stars like Antoine Griezmann, Olivier Giroud, Kylian 
Mbappe, Paul Pogba, and N’Golo 
Kante is, the real strength of this 
France team is its backline. 
France has conceded a goal just 
four times, one of which was a pen-
alty in its first game against Aus-
tralia, and the other three came in 
one game against Argentina. Since 
that 4-3 win over Argentina, the 
French shut out both Uruguay and 
Belgium, two of the stronger teams 
in the tournament, in consecutive 
games. 
Croatia has allowed the first goal 
in each of its three matches in the 
knockout round, only to come back 
and send the game to extra time. 
Not only is France far and away 
the best team it has faced in the 
tournament thus far, but it can-
not afford to give up the first goal 
against Les Bleus. Given how dan-
gerous the French are with the ball 
and how fortified they are in de-
fense, if France strikes first, it will 
be difficult for Croatia to score an-
other equalizer. 
Croatia is a fantastic Cinderella 
story, being given such long odds 
to even make it this far, but the 
clock should strike midnight in 
Moscow on Sunday when France 
wins 2-0.  
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell1@alligator.orgJuly 10 July 11July 15, 11 a.m.  ET16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
game since 2003.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Brendan: While MLB ﬁ  rst-round picks Jona-
than India, Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar 
get most of the attention, JJ Schwarz was the 
Gators’ backbone this past season and is worthy 
of Senior of the Year consideration.
With Schwarz in the lineup, Florida scored 
over seven runs per game, going 40-14 overall 
and 20-9 in SEC play. On the season, he batted .308 (second on the team), slugged 13 home 
runs (third-most on the team), knocked in 48 
RBIs (third-most on the team) and boasted a .575 
slugging percentage (second-best on the team). 
Schwarz also received First Team All-SEC and 
Third Team All-American honors.
But after the catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman broke a 
bone in his hand on May 18, the Gators went 6-5 
and managed only ﬁ  ve runs per game without 
their senior catcher. Removing a 13-run effort 
against Columbia, the lowest-ranked team in the 
NCAA tournament, from that stretch, that num-
ber shrinks to a measly 3.7 runs per game.
Schwarz’s poise from four years of experi-
ence was most evident from behind the plate. UF’s pitching staff ﬁ  nished second in the SEC in 
ERA (3.46) and ﬁ  rst in batting average against 
conference opponents (.234). 
Schwarz leaves Florida with a bevy of school 
records, placing in the top 10 of 14 different cat-
egories.
But perhaps what makes him the quintes-
sential senior Gator is the one school record in 
which he stands alone: games played. Over four 
years, he’s played in 266 games, breaking Pres-
ton Tucker’s record of 265 set in 2012. 
Schwarz was an integral part of one of the 
most successful college baseball programs in the 
country for four years. Florida baseball won’t be 
the same without him.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell1@alligator.org
Evan: In my opinion, Chris Chiozza deserves 
heavy consideration for UF’s Senior of the Year 
award. From a team standpoint, there’s no way 
Florida men’s basketball would’ve had much 
success last season without him.
The Gators’ point guard had incredible ﬂ  oor 
vision, and he often dazzled with his crisp passes 
into tight windows. He wasn’t wild with the ball 
either. His 3.41 assist-to-turnover ratio was good 
for ﬁ  fth-best in the country.
Chiozza would go on to ﬁ  nish his career as 
the school’s all-time leader in assists (571) break-
ing Erving Walker’s former record of 547.
He was also awarded a spot on both the All-
SEC First Team, as well as the SEC All-Defensive 
team in his senior season. His defensive inten-
sity was often overlooked due to his offensive 
prowess, but if you watched his game-winning 
steal-and-score against Missouri, then you’d un-
derstand just how good he was on the defensive 
side of the ball.
Lastly, the guy was such a competitor. He 
averaged 32 minutes per game, the most on the 
team. 
Chris Chiozza was the epitome of a senior 
leader for his team and deserves strong recogni-
tion for what he did last season.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.orgplayers? What about Popovich, the 
legendary head coach?
The one that set the record for 
most wins with one franchise in 
2017. The one that won ﬁ  ve NBA 
titles across three decades. Perhaps 
the only man in this operation more 
important than the players, Popov-
ich might not roam the sidelines for 
much longer.
For one, it’s been reported that 
he might call it quits after the 2020 
Olympics. For two, he’s 69 years old. 
For three, he just lost his wife of four 
decades, Erin, who was battling an 
illness for some time. She passed 
during the ﬁ  rst round of the 2018 
Playoffs.
I can’t imagine the toll that must 
take on him.
On top of everything, the Spurs 
have to tangle with Golden State in 
the playoffs in what seems like every 
postseason. The Warriors have sent 
San Antonio packing the previous 
two years on their way to back-to-
back NBA titles. 
But Golden State can thank Popo-
vich for at least some of their suc-
cess. Warriors head coach Steve Kerr 
played three seasons under Popo-
vich, and it shows in the way they 
play. They move the ball around, 
they play as a team, they make the 
right play, swing the extra pass and 
win a lot of games – just like the 
Spurs did. The only difference is that 
the Warriors do it better because 
they have more talent to work with.
Essentially, I think that Golden 
State is going to pounce on the fall of 
San Antonio and become the NBA’s 
“new Spurs”. Basketball history is 
about to close one of its best chap-
ters.
Then again, maybe I’m wrong. 
We’ll see.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 14
AWARDS,  from pg 14Schwarz holds school record for most games played
Alligator File Photo
Point guard Chris Chiozza was selected to the SEC All-Defensive team in 2018. He also 
became the all-time school record in assists (571) in his senior season.
