We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
VOTER TURNOUT ROSE BY 13 
PERCENT COMPARED TO THE 
LAST MIDTERM ELECTION.
Staff Report
Keith Perry’s daughter Alexis quickly 
grabbed a piece of cake with her father’s face 
on it as he announced his win.
The crowd cheered “USA! USA! USA!” as 
Perry, who was re-elected as for state sena-
tor for District 8, addressed the crowd at Bal-
lyhoo Grill. He thanked his family for their 
support during his ﬁ  fth campaign.
In Alachua County, more than 114,000 
voters cast their ballots for the midterm 
elections, which is over 63 percent of the 
county’s voters, according to the Supervisor 
of Elections ofﬁ  ce. This is a surge of more 
than 13 percent compared to the last mid-
term election in 2014 where a little less than 
80,000 ballots were cast.
Republican Perry won 50 percent of the 
vote for the Florida State Senate Tuesday 
night compared to his Democratic opponent 
Dr. Kayser Enneking with 48 percent of the 
vote.
Perry said his ﬁ  rst act after being re-elect-
ed will be to sleep in Wednesday morning. 
Even on Tuesday, Perry was at the polls 
doing last-minute campaigning after seven 
months.
“It’s really just a weight off your shoul-
ders,” Perry said. “It’s a time to relax and 
regroup.”
Enneking conceded the race to Perry in a 
cordial phone call, Perry said.
“She ran a heck of a campaign,” Perry 
said. “A lot of people voted for Dr. Ennek-
ing, I need to make sure I represent them, 
listen to them, get input from them and try 
to make sure I represent this district and ev-
eryone involved.”
Enneking wrote two speeches in prepara-
tion for Tuesday night, but they were almost 
identical.
Win or lose, Enneking said she felt the 
same: thankful.A crowd of more than 100 voters listened 
eagerly, some with red, watery eyes, as she 
conceded at Cypress & Grove Brewing Co. 
almost three hours after the start of a watch 
party with all the other local Democratic 
candidates.
Though the results weren’t what she 
hoped for, she said she will be a better citi-
zen after running for a political ofﬁ  ce. She 
said she better understands the people and 
issues she represents.
Enneking beamed while she reﬂ  ected on 
the last hours leading up to the disappoint-
ing results. When she came around the cor-
ner at her last stop of the evening, she said a 
line of voters spilled out of the building and 
wrapped around the parking lot.
“It was democracy in action. It’s the 
America I know,” she said.
U.S Rep. Ted Yoho won for the fourth 
time in a row Tuesday night, but this is the 
last time he’ll run for re-election.
Surrounded by his wife, three kids, and 
long-time supporters at his watch party at 
The Social at Midtown, Yoho said that he 
ran a strong campaign and was honored his 
supporters wanted him back in ofﬁ  ce.
Yoho, a Republican, won more than 58 
percent of the vote compared to his Demo-
cratic opponent Yvonne Hayes Hinson at 42 
percent.
Yoho said voters must feel relieved.
“No more robocalls, no more phone calls 
asking who you’re going to support,” he 
said. “We can go back to some normalcy in 
this country.”
Yvonne Hayes Hinson campaigned until 
the last minute, but the 70-year-old said no 
matter the result, she’s at peace.
“It was very clean. It was a lot of work,” 
Hayes Hinson said. “I think I got into every 
nook and cranny of the 3rd Congressional 
District. I know the heartbeat of those ar-
eas.”
Though Hayes Hinson lost to Yoho, the 
former Gainesville city commissioner said 
she’s proud of how she ran her campaign.Hayes Hinson said her integrity and strict 
focus on the issues at hand are the reasons 
why she’s content with the election’s out-
come.
“We stuck to the issues and the issues 
that mattered to the people. We always cen-
tered ourselves on what was necessary for 
the people,” she said.
More than 120 people cheered as Clem-
ons’ victory was announced. He took to the 
microphone to thank God and his support-
ers.
“We have a divided nation now and we need to work towards civility. We need to 
work towards solving problems with our 
neighbors in a kind way, Clemons said. 
“When I return to Tallahassee, I intend to 
start a wave of civility,” he said.
Over three dozen young people worked 
on Clemons’ campaign, he said. Several of 
them had never participated in a political 
campaign before.
“With young leaders like this, our coun-
try is in good hands for the next few years,” 
Clemons said.
March to UF
March For Our Lives leaders visit campus before Election Day 
to get students to vote, pg. 3
Election Day from diﬀ  erent perspectives
The day for people including an immigrant and a felon, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES Men’s basketball opens season with whimper
 Nembhard, Ballard and Hudson pace Gators
in an unbalanced showing against FSU. Who
stepped up, and what needs to
change?, pg. 14
Men’s basketball opens season with whimper
We Inform. You Decide.
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 33
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
ELECTION
EDITION
By Emma Witmer
Alligator Staff Writer
Aly Raisman almost didn’t testify 
against her abuser in the trial, but at 
the last minute, she was inspired to 
use her voice for good.
Raisman, the team captain of the 
gold medal-winning USA Gymnas-tics teams in 2012 and 2016, talked 
about her experience testifying 
against her former gymnastics team 
doctor Larry Nassar and standing up 
for herself at an Accent Speakers Bu-
reau event Tuesday night.
Raisman was paid $56,000 to 
appear and spoke for more than 
an hour at the sold-out show. Her speech at the University Auditorium 
was moderated by Ann Christiano, 
the director of the UF Center for Pub-
lic Interest Communications.
Raisman said she and nearly 300 
other athletes came forward and ac-
cused Nassar of sexual abuse.
“When I spoke, I felt very em-
powered in the moment,” Raisman said. “Then when I left, I felt ex-
hausted and could barely hold my 
head up.”
She said she was empowered by 
the other women who came forward 
and her experiences have made her 
want to speak out against sexual 
misconduct in athletics and beyond.
“If everybody actually did some-
thing to help, this would be a very 
different world,” Raisman said.
Courtney Smithgall, a 23-year-old UF physical therapy doctoral 
student, said she has been a fan of 
Raisman since she competed in the 
2012 Olympics.
“I loved hearing her speak about 
self-care and looking out for others 
around you,” Smithgall said. “There 
are things we often forget to do be-
cause of the craziness of college.”
@Emwitmer
ewitmer@alligator.orgAly Raisman talks sexual assault, Olympic careerAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
U.S. Rep. T ed Yoho smiles while he waits for the ﬁ  nal results of Florida’s 3rd Congressional 
District election. “I want to see the ﬁ  nal results, but I feel good, ” Yoho said.
Republicans dominate state, local races
She was paid $56,000 to talk at UF.SEE WATCH PARTY,  PAGE 8T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Enjoy local brews and live music 
today at the Florida Museum
Guests can “Drink with the 
Extinct” from 7-9 p.m. today 
and help the Florida Museum 
of Natural History support 
community science education. 
Attendees can drink beer from 
area breweries in the shadow of 
the mammoth, sample local fare 
beside the mastodon and enjoy 
live music during this popu-
lar after-hours event. Proceeds 
benefit the Florida Museum 
Butterfly Garden program at 
area schools. Participants must 
be 21 or older. Tickets are $30 
for non-members or $25 for 
museum members. For more in-
formation, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/event/drink-with-the-
extinct or call 352-273-2047.
Florida Museum hosting ‘The 
Lost Bird Project’
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is now displaying 
“The Lost Bird Project,” an 
exhibit that includes five cast-
bronze sculptures of the extinct 
Carolina parakeet, great auk, 
heath hen, Labrador duck and 
passenger pigeon. Artist Todd 
McGrain created the statues as 
a tribute to endangered and ex-
tinct species. Ranging from 4 to 
6 feet in height, the sculptures 
were permanently placed where 
each bird was last seen in the 
wild, ranging from Fogo Island, 
Newfoundland, to Okeechobee, 
Florida, with traveling exhibits 
of the same figures touring na-
tionally. For more information 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/lost-bird, or call 352-846-
2000.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of individuals 
who desire to recover from eat-
ing disorders. If you feel guilty 
about eating, are at times un-
able to start or stop eating even 
when you want to or if you feel 
disgusted or powerless over 
your eating, this group may be 
for you. Everyone is welcome 
regardless of age. For times, 
locations or more information, 
please email GainesvilleEDA@
gmail.com, or text/call 954-
319-6365. You can also visit 
www.4EDA.org for more infor-
mation. Apply now for 2019-20 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. Students can now file 
a 2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s “On-
Time” deadline to receive the 
results of students’ 2019-20 
FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. Apply before 
Dec. 15 to ensure that the fed-
eral processor has time to ana-
lyze and send the results of the 
FAFSA to UF Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is award-
ed on a first-come, first-served 
basis, so it is recommended to 
apply as early as possible to be 
considered for the most aid. The 
2019-20 FAFSA will be avail-
able on a new phone app called 
myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
NEWS FROM AROUND FLORIDA
AP - Man who killed 2 at yoga stu-
dio was fired for touching girl
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
The man who shot and killed 
two women at a yoga studio 
was fired from his job as a sub-
stitute teacher for inappropri-
ately touching a middle school 
girl, a Florida school district rep-
resentative said.
Paul Scott Beierle, 40, posed as 
a customer during a yoga class 
Friday, then began shooting, 
authorities said. A 61-year-old 
faculty member at Florida State 
University and a 21-year-old 
FSU student from Georgia were 
killed. Five others were injured. 
Beierle then killed himself.
Police have not released infor-
mation on a motive.
But what’s clear is that Beierle 
had a history of harassing 
women and acting inappropri-
ately. From pinching women’s buttocks, to tickling a middle 
school student, to appearing to 
make misogynistic videos, there 
were several red flags surround-
ing his behavior.
Kelly Schulz, a spokeswoman 
for the Volusia County School 
District, said Monday that 
Beierle was fired in May after 
he asked a female student if she 
was ticklish and then touched 
her at the top of the stomach 
“below the bra line,” a district 
report says.
AP - VoteCast: Florida voters di-
vided on state of nation
MIAMI (AP) — Voters cast-
ing midterm election ballots 
in Florida are divided over the 
state of the nation, according 
to a wide-ranging survey of the 
American electorate.
As voters cast ballots for gover-
nor, U.S. Senate and members 
of Congress in Tuesday’s elec-
tions, AP VoteCast found that 
slightly less than half of Florida 
voters said the country is on 
the right track, compared with 
slightly more than half who said 
the country is headed in the 
wrong direction.
Man finishes 3-month Alaska-
to-Florida run
KEY WEST, Fla. (AP) — An ul-
tramarathon runner has finished 
a nearly 5,400-mile (8,690-ki-
lometer) diagonal, cross-conti-
nental run that began in Alaska 
and ended in Florida.
Pete Kostelnick jogged up to a 
Key West marker designating 
the continental United States' 
southernmost point on Monday.
The 31-year-old Ohio man start-
ed July 31 at Anchor Point on 
Alaska's Kenai Peninsula, run-
ning without a support vehicle 
to Florida. Pushing supplies in a 
three-wheel jogging stroller, he 
said he averaged some 55 miles 
per day.
In 2016, Kostelnick ran 3,067 
miles (4,935 kilometers) from 
San Francisco to New York City 
in 42.25 days.HIGH  87° LOW  65°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 33
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
DISPLAY: 376-4482     
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463In honor of our veterans,  
the alligator will not be publishing on: 
MONDA Y, NOVEMBER 12TH, 2018
EMMA GONZÁLEZ AND 
DAVID HOGG WERE IN 
ATTENDANCE.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Lauren Azurin was shocked 
when a young woman with a 
famous buzzcut handed him a 
black T-shirt.
The 18-year-old UF history and 
anthropology freshman squealed 
to passing students on Turlington 
Plaza as he clutched a T-shirt to 
his chest that Emma González, a March for Our Lives leader, gave 
to him.
Besides receiving a free T-
shirt, Azurin said he was thrilled 
to meet González, who is his in-
spiration.
“Just to see her right there is 
living proof that you can do any-
thing as a child,” he said.
More than 150 people came to 
the Gainesville stop of the Vote 
for Our Lives Hangout for an hour 
Monday night, said Adler Gar-
ﬁ  eld, the president of March for 
Our Lives Gainesville. Students 
chatted with national team mem-bers, including González, David 
Hogg and Delaney Tarr, while 
pledging to vote.
On Feb. 14, 17 students and 
staff members were killed in a 
mass shooting at Marjory Stone-
man Douglas. Students created 
“Never Again MSD” to advocate 
for gun control.
“We know the issues speciﬁ  -
cally for Florida and as it’s our 
home, we want to make sure 
we’re in a good place to live,” 
González, 18, said.
This was the thirteenth stop in 
a series of visits across the coun-try to encourage student voting in 
the midterm elections.
After traveling to Minneapolis, 
Dallas and Greensboro, Hogg said 
he hopes the midterms will affect 
change for gun control.
“We’re going to win,” he said. 
“I guarantee it.”
González got to hang out with 
her friends who also go to UF, 
she said. She’s doing well in her 
classes at New College of Florida 
in Sarasota, but the social transi-
tion has been difﬁ  cult.
“You can’t bond at the base 
soul level when you ﬁ  rst meet somebody at school like I did 
with these people,” González 
said. “I’m working on it. Nobody 
else is ready to share traumatic 
experiences with each other.”
Hogg said he and his friends 
remain unfazed by the sudden 
rise to fame.
“On Feb. 14 we didn’t all of a 
sudden gain all this power,” he 
said. “We became those people 
that we wanted to see. We be-
came the change how we wanted 
to see.”
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgMarch for Our Lives team stops at UF before Election Day
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Emma González, an 18-year-old Marjory Stoneman Douglas alumna, 
throws shirts to UF students Monday night on Turlington Plaza. González 
is a founding member of the national March For Our Lives team who 
coordinated the event with March For Our Lives Gainesville. 
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Julia Tiplea, a 20-year-old UF marine science junior and Marjory Stoneman Douglas alumna, 
adds her handprint to the March For Our Lives banner. The banner, which was set out on 
Turlington Plaza Monday night, was designed as an American ﬂ  ag made out of handprints of 
students and activists to symbolize national unity.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
POLK IS ONE OF 1.6 MILLION FELONS 
IN FLORIDA WHO CAN’T VOTE.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Jhody Polk didn’t vote.
Not because she didn’t want to but because 
she legally could not.
Polk, a 34-year-old felons’ rights activist, is 
one of 1.6 million formerly incarcerated people 
in Florida who could not vote. Polk has advo-
cated to restore felon voting rights with consti-
tutional Amendment 4, which passed Tuesday. 
In 2007, Polk was sentenced to eight years 
in prison for home invasion and theft. But for 
the past few weeks, Polk has been working 
within her hometown of Gainesville to raise 
awareness for Amendment 4 through phone 
banking and educational conversations with 
her community. She calls herself the self-ap-
pointed “Watchdog of Alachua County.” 
“Among a lot of people of color, we’ve lost 
a lot of faith in voting,” she said. 
Although Polk is educating the community, she said she doesn’t see her role as winning 
people over.
“It’s not my place to convince. I’m tired of 
convincing,” she said. 
On Tuesday, Polk watched the election re-
sults with her two children and celebrated her 
daughter’s 12th birthday. 
When the amendment passed she celebrat-
ed with a dance to “That’s On Me” by Yella 
Beezy, she said. She received several phone 
calls from friends and family and made a few 
calls herself.
“It feels absolutely amazing,” she said.  “I’m 
excited to now be able to vote for myself.”
She said she knew it was going to pass, but 
it was still empowering to see the community 
care about people having value and represen-
tation. 
For Polk, there is still work to be done with-
in the Gainesville community. 
“I will continue to do what I’ve been do-
ing,” she said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.org
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Kaylee Rosario studied all weekend before she 
waited in a line of 10 people Tuesday afternoon. 
Rosario’s fellow voters at the Gainesville 
Shrine Club voting precinct were just as focused 
as she was, she said. 
All she could hear was the sound of pens 
scribbling on ballots as she voted “yes” on all 12 
amendments on the ballot.
The 21-year-old UF plant science junior said 
she voted for Democratic candidates but cared 
more about the amendments. 
Rosario, who considers herself to be a left-
leaning centrist, said there are just too many Re-
publicans in ofﬁ  ce.
The amendments to the state constitution will 
affect Floridians just as much as the next gover-
nor, she said.
“I think the amendments get pushed to the 
side because a lot of people I talked to didn’t have 
much knowledge on the amendments,” she said.
Not every vote was an easy yes, Rosario said. 
She was hesitant on Amendment 6, which com-
bines unrelated issues. The amendment, which 
passed, would strengthen the rights of crime vic-
tims but raises the retirement age of judges to 75.
She felt voting “yes” was better for everyone 
in the long run because it gives more people a 
voice, Rosario said.
“I’m thinking basically you have to pick the 
lesser of two evils,” she said.
@mckennabeery 
mbeery@alligator.orgBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Politics are different in Florida. Chase Meyer, a UF 
political science lecturer, can attest to that. 
The 32-year-old grew up in deep-red Texas and grad-
uated from the University of Georgia. He said he still is 
not used to living in a swing state like Florida. 
Meyer hasn’t been so excited to participate in elec-
tions until he moved to Florida two years ago.
“Being in a place like Georgia and Texas, I knew my 
vote didn’t count,” he said. “There was less excitement.”
Meyer was thrilled to see a long line of people waiting 
to vote at the Reitz Union when he cast his ballot last 
Wednesday.
“Any of those people could be the deciding vote,” he 
said.
Meyer, who lectures on federal government and U.S. 
Southern politics, discussed the midterm elections with 
students during class. Although his students asked him 
for his personal opinions, Meyer said he prefers to leave 
his political leanings a mystery.
Midterm elections tend to have a smaller voter turn-
out than general elections, and the sitting president’s 
party historically gets comfortable during midterms, he 
said.
“Democrats are angry, they’re fearful for the future, 
and they don’t like the direction of the country,” Meyer 
said. “That’s what motivates Democrats to vote.”
Meyer watched the results with political science col-
leagues in Pugh Hall Tuesday night.
“People get excited about elections, as excited as we 
get watching a Florida-Georgia game,” he said. “But 
there are real consequences.” 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgBy Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Tiffany Berkley started knocking on doors in high 
school.
She grew up in Crestview, Florida, a panhandle 
town surrounded by ﬁ  ve military bases, the 20-year-
old UF biomedical engineering junior said. She spent 
time canvasing through the neighborhoods in 2016 for 
Matt Gaetz when he ran and won a seat in the U.S. 
House of Representatives.
Berkley said she learned to be conﬁ  dent in conver-
sation as she knocked on doors through beachfront 
communities of the Panhandle. 
She said her experience has driven her to knock for 
U.S. Rep. Ted Yoho as he ran for reelection in District 
3. 
Over the past week, she said she spent about 18 
hours knocking on more than 500 doors for Yoho’s 
campaign.
Instead of slammed doors, Berkley said she was 
greeted with more smiles.
“People are happy to see a young face — regardless 
of ideology — be active in the community,” Berkley 
said.  
Berkley said she approaches every door looking to 
share the values of her candidate with the residents 
behind them. She wants every individual to under-
stand the conservative beliefs she and Yoho stand for.  
“There is a reward in knowing and learning the 
community, but also the people who shape the com-
munity,” Berkley said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgBy Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Kathy Dos Santos’ student visa 
and father’s food importing busi-
ness were her tickets to freedom. 
The 21-year-old UF interna-
tional studies junior was 12 years 
old when she left Venezuela for 
Homestead, Florida, in July 2010. 
All she remembers is a blur of air-
ports, luggage and customs before 
arriving to her new home. 
Politics have been tied to Dos 
Santos’ identity since she came to 
the United States. But as a legal 
resident, not a citizen, she cannot 
vote. 
It’s killing her that she can’t, 
she said. 
“I’m not an expert, either, in 
American politics, but I would say 
that I know more than maybe the 
average citizen,” she said. 
Growing up in the tense po-
litical climate of Venezuela with Portuguese parents, Dos Santos 
said she and her parents regularly 
watch Brazilian, Portuguese and 
American news outlets to learn 
about pressing political issues.
Although Dos Santos’ father 
only has a second grade educa-
tion, he is the person in her family 
everyone goes to with their politi-
cal questions, she said. 
Dos Santos’ roommates and 
friends ask her questions about 
how to vote and for whom to vote 
for. 
She is beginning her citizen-
ship forms and hopes to vote in 
the next election. She spent the 
night at home watching the re-
sults roll in with her roommate 
while rooting for Andrew Gillum, 
she said.
“Despite being unable to par-
ticipate, I feel like I’m still a part 
of this election,” she said.
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org Polk
Rosario
 Meyer
 Berkley
Dos Santos
UF POLITICAL 
SCIENCE LECTURERFELON RIGHTS ACTIVIST: JHODY POLK 
IS OUT TO EDUCATE VOTERS ABOUT 
AMENDMENT 4
DOOR TO DOOR:
CANVASSING
FOR TED YOHOSOMEONE WHO CAN’T 
VOTE: AN IMMIGRANT 
FROM VENEZUELA
ELECTION 
DAY VOTERElection Day from their perspectiveWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
THE STRAWS COST $1.
By Kaylin Purvis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Handmade bamboo straws have made 
their way from Thailand to the UF Interna-
tional Center.
UF Study Abroad Services began selling 
bamboo straws for $1 each from 8 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Monday in its ofﬁ  ce in the Hub, said 
study abroad adviser Anuja Parikh. Pay-
ment is accepted by cash or Venmo.
Parikh said the ofﬁ  ce wants to promote 
on-campus sustainability and studying 
abroad in Asia without handing out plastic 
trinkets. 
“I was pushing for the straws because 
it’s not a useless giveaway,” Parikh said. 
“Students will take it and actually use it, 
hopefully.”The straws are made by Boo Boo Bam-
boo Straw, a company founded by a Bur-
mese refugee named Jing who ﬂ  ed to Chi-
ang Mai, Thailand, 20 years ago, Parikh 
said. Jing named the company after her 
son, Boo Boo. 
While Parikh lived in Chiang Mai, Thai-
land, for two years, she discovered an 
American-founded restaurant called Free 
Bird Cafe, where Jing is a chef. The cafe 
raises money for Thai Freedom House, a 
nonproﬁ  t organization that helps Burmese 
refugees who are ﬂ  eeing ethnic cleansing 
learn English, ﬁ  nd jobs and get their GED, 
Parikh said.
The organization’s most recent project 
helped refugees create environmentally 
friendly businesses, Parikh said. Boo Boo 
Bamboo was the ﬁ  rst small business to be 
founded in January. Village elders make, 
polish and etch “UF Study Abroad” on the straws by hand.
“The elders of her village and family can 
do everything comfortably from their table, 
while being paid fair wages, instead of 
hard, manual farming work,” Parikh said.
The money raised from selling the straws 
will go toward the Study Abroad Peer Advi-
sor Scholarship for students with mentoring 
experience who study abroad during the 
summer, Parikh said.
Faith Elyse, a 19-year-old UF visual art 
studies sophomore, said she practices sus-
tainability by going vegan and ditching 
plastic as much as she can.
She said she carries her water bottle 
with her everywhere to avoid using a plas-
tic straw and wants to support the bamboo 
straws to reduce waste.
“I practice sustainability because saving 
this planet starts with us,” Elyse said.UF Study Abroad Services sells bamboo strawsTHIS IS THE FIRST TIME ANYONE 
AT UF HAS BEEN APPOINTED TO 
THE POSITION.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
A top UF administrator will represent the 
university in a higher education technology 
association. 
Elias Eldayrie, UF’s vice president and 
chief information ofﬁ  cer, became the ﬁ  rst UF 
afﬁ  liate to join the board of directors of EDU-CAUSE, the largest network of higher educa-
tion information technology leaders, when 
he was appointed on Sept. 25, he wrote in an 
email. He is one of 13 board members.
The university announced his appoint-
ment on Oct. 25.
“It is an honor and a privilege to serve 
with some of the nation’s best information 
technology leaders on such a prestigious 
board,” he said. 
The importance of IT in higher education 
is a national hot topic, Eldayrie said. For the 
next four years, his responsibilities will in-
clude discussing the role of IT in colleges and universities.
He said his new position proves UF’s 
leadership in IT in higher education. 
Eldayrie’s additional responsibilities in-
clude helping the board monitor IT issues 
nationwide and providing EDUCAUSE mem-
bers with data for their own IT policies, he 
said.
“Representing the University of Florida 
in service of higher education nationally and 
globally is one of the highlights of my 30 
years’ career,” he said.
Eldayrie has worked with some of the 
best professionals at UF to build a world-class IT environment, he said. Eldayrie said 
he was involved with connecting faculty to 
the HiPerGator, one of the top ﬁ  ve super-
computers among higher education institu-
tions in the U.S. 
The university is proud to have an ad-
ministrator be appointed to the board, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando said. 
“Elias’ vast experience and knowledge of 
the IT world makes him the perfect person to 
represent UF,” Orlando said.
@mckennabeery 
mbeery@alligator.orgUF’s vice president and CIO named to EDUCAUSE Board of Directors
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Deputies arrested a Gainesville 
woman accused of stealing thou-
sands of dollars from a woman 
with disabilities.
Eva Marie Montgomery, ac-
cused of stealing more than $2,000 
from a woman with high-function-ing Down syndrome, was arrested 
by Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputies Monday night, according 
to the Alachua County Jail.  
Montgomery was hired in 2016 
to help the woman run errands, a 
Gainesville Police sworn complaint 
said.
But in early July 2018, Mont-
gomery began running her own er-
rands with the woman, police said. She went shopping for her family 
and manipulated the woman into 
paying for her, the complaint said.
Montgomery was not given 
permission to spend the woman’s 
money on herself, police said.
The woman’s bank account 
went from having $1,979.62 to 
a negative balance of $159.60 in 
about two months, police said. Be-
tween June and Aug. 15, $2,139.22 was spent.
Montgomery usually bought 
food and clothing for her kids, po-
lice said. A receipt from Walmart 
shows that Montgomery bought 
$192.56 worth of school supplies, 
baby clothes and more in August.
The woman told police Mont-
gomery often curses at her and that 
she was scared to tell Montgomery 
no when asked to buy things, the complaint said.
Montgomery was charged with 
grand theft and abuse of a disabled 
adult. She was released from the 
Alachua County Jail Tuesday after-
noon after paying a $15,000 bond.
Montgomery could not immedi-
ately be reached for comment.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgWoman accused of stealing thousands from disabled womanCourtesy to The Alligator
UF Study Abroad Services started selling 
bamboo straws Monday in its ofﬁ  ce.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.The election is over, 
the work is not
Today, the most passionate voters are either elated and 
beaming or distraught and anxious, perhaps even angry. 
The election has settled, but the dust certainly has not. 
The specter of competition still hangs in the air. We are 
sure there are some voters who woke up feeling a mix of 
disappointment and dread today. Whether the candidates you 
voted for won their race or not, you should feel proud that you 
cast a ballot. Most importantly, you should bear in mind that 
these results are not the end of the road for your cherished politi-
cal causes. We urge our readers to stay vigilant, informed and 
engaged and to stay empathetic to their fellow Americans. This 
cannot be the winner’s moment to gloat and relish in victory. Our 
civic culture and common American bond depend on it.
Do you remember how you felt the morning of Nov. 9, 2016? 
Here’s a refresher: That was the morning after President Donald 
Trump was elected. Many people saw the news and buried their 
heads in their hands. The stakes were high in that election. The 
White House was up for grabs. The fate of the next four years 
hung in the balance. To some, Trump was a disaster candidate 
— toxic to our political system and sense of decency.To others he 
was a welcome break from the monotony of the establishment.
We remind you of that fateful day two years ago to put the re-
sults of today’s heavily divisive race into context. Andrew Gillum 
and Ron DeSantis were characterized as extremists by pundits 
and by each other. Gillum accused DeSantis of moderating a “xe-
nophobic, racist Facebook page.” DeSantis called Gillum “what 
local corruption looks like.”
The stakes for this election were even higher. The ofﬁ  ce of 
Florida governor will likely affect your everyday life to the same 
degree, if not more so, than the U.S. presidency. But despite this, 
we cannot come out of this election in the same polarized, ‘screw 
you, I got mine’ posture that we did after the 2016 election. Part 
of the work left is to repair broken bonds among neighbors and 
to neutralize caustic, acerbic political discourse.
Even if you feel cheated and disillusioned by the election, we 
cannot use the results as an excuse to retreat further into partisan 
bickering. We cannot be pitted against one another, ﬁ  ghting from 
election to election in a destructive series of offensive charges. 
The result will be trench warfare — neither side will gain much 
ground when they dig in and fortify. Despite the competitive na-
ture of politics, we know this tendency is unsustainable. If the 
trend continues, America will be a place where political afﬁ  liation 
will be binary and immutable.
We have plenty of reason to worry about this problem, as 
political polarization is getting worse. The divide between urban 
and rural voters in the United States is growing deeper too. Each 
group feels like the other hates and looks down on them.
We remind our readers that the results of the election are not 
the end of the battle. Aside from repairing bonds, there is still 
more work to be done. You can make your voice heard by writing 
to or calling the ofﬁ  ces of your representatives and senators. You 
can still take your political issues up with the governor no matter 
what party he belongs to. Now that the election is over, you will 
have to. The only path to take after the air clears is one of working 
together. We must make sure our elected ofﬁ  cials pull through 
on the most important campaign promises — the ones that will 
beneﬁ  t all Floridians. Regardless of political afﬁ  liation, we will 
still ﬁ  ght when the current administration does not do enough 
to protect our students, safeguard the environment or bring in as 
much federal money as possible to improve infrastructure. These 
tangible areas have not disappeared under a temporary cloak of 
political victory. Once the dust settles, we must take the ofﬁ  ce-
holder to task regardless of party. Let’s get to work.We must learn to use this two-letter word more often
No. 
It’s a two-letter word that has the 
power to anger, disappoint or maybe 
even defend. 
There’s not just one meaning to “no.” 
It can hold a handful of meanings, but they all usu-
ally leave us feeling some form of heavy-hearted 
emotion. Disappointing someone has the power 
to leave a stain on your day and your conscience. 
Recently, I had to say “no” to a weekend 
trip with a few of my high school friends, and I 
couldn’t shake the feeling that I was disappointing them. I 
couldn’t ﬁ  gure out why, but I was crying on the phone to 
them, even after they told me they wouldn’t be upset with 
me. I could scratch it down as just being an overly emotional 
person, or I could dive a little bit deeper into what it means 
to say “no” —  and why it doesn’t always feel right. 
Since we were kids, “no” was that big green monster that 
got in the way of all our plans to stay out playing past dark or 
to stick our hands in the candy jar before dinner. It was the 
adults in our lives who told us the difference between right 
and wrong because we were kids and we didn’t know the 
difference. “No” was one of the worst words you could hear 
as a kid because it meant that either you were doing some-
thing wrong or you couldn’t do what you wanted.
“No” was a safeguard for us. It kept us out of trouble and 
prevented us from getting hurt. As kids, we think that we’re 
invincible, but that’s because we have not been around long 
enough to learn that’s not the case.
There’s an age-old rule that you don’t jump on your bed. 
Remember that nursery rhyme with the monkeys jumping 
on the bed? It’s a pretty classic case of when you are just not 
supposed to do it, but you did, and boy, did you get hurt. In 
my case, I already had a broken wrist when I was jumping 
on my bed. When I fell, coincidentally enough, I broke my 
other wrist. 
I was a horribly klutzy kid, but that was even more of a reason to listen when someone told me no. When 
we were told no as kids, it was most likely doled 
out as a way to keep us safe, even if it meant miss-
ing out on fun. 
Like Pavlov and his dogs, we were trained as 
kids to have negative feelings toward the word 
no. Now, as adults, we are uncomfortable, or at 
least I am, with telling people no. Those feelings of 
disappointment are so ingrained in us as children 
that sometimes no can feel wrong. 
That’s not to say that we should start letting 
kids run with scissors; it’s that we, as adults, now have to 
learn when to dole out our no’s. It’s our turn to know the dif-
ference between right and wrong and how to weigh the pros 
and cons of a situation. It’s still new territory as a growing 
adult having to say no and disappointing someone. 
Part of becoming your own person is learning that you 
cannot please everyone. There are times when you will have 
to do what is best for yourself. No does not have to be an 
ugly word — it can just mean “not right now” or “next time.” 
Saying no to one opportunity could mean you are on your 
way to ﬁ  nding a better opportunity. 
We should take advantage of the offers that are given to 
us, if they are within our means and goals. As kids, we want-
ed to take every opportunity that was given to us because it 
meant we could ﬁ  nd out more about the world around us. As 
adults, there is still so much to learn, but with that comes the 
responsibility of weighing different scenarios. Sometimes ev-
erything works out and you can say yes to every opportunity 
presented, and sometimes you have to disappoint people. It’s 
all a part of growing and learning. 
You are your own boss. Yes and no are your words to 
give out whenever you want. Use them with care.
Michaela Mulligan is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Michaela
Mulligan
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
In this era, it’s on-
trend to be fearlessly 
unapologetic, but for 
many, including my-
self, “I’m sorry” is still 
the default response.
My recent apology-
related reﬂ  ections started 
when I received a mes-
sage on the workspace 
app Slack with “Sorry to 
bother,” and I immediately felt a 
pang of guilt at the thought of com-
ing across as being easily annoyed.
I think these kinds of apology-
clad messages are common, and 
the sender probably did not mean 
anything overt and was just be-
ing courteous. However, I couldn’t 
help but overthink not only my 
demeanor (i.e. I try to be very ap-
proachable, but am I not friendly 
enough? Do I need to smile more 
or use more smiley emojis? Does 
it have to do with the bags under 
my eyes?) but also our societal use 
of “sorry” as an autopilot response 
that stems from a fear of being an 
inconvenience.
Of course there are times when 
a “sorry” is warranted, like when 
admitting a wrongdoing to some-
one we’ve upset or simply to be po-
lite — but the phrase can be easily 
overused in social situations when 
we feel insecure about pleasing (or 
bothering) others.
For example, in class, it’s nearly 
impossible to go ﬁ  ve minutes with-
out hearing my peers apologize be-
fore a hand-raise, question or idea-
related interruption, such as “sorry 
for asking,” or “sorry if this is off-
topic.” These kinds of apologies 
are so normative that many of us 
probably don’t think twice before 
saying them, but they could have a 
deeper meaning.
As explained in “Lean In,” a 
female-focused career advice book 
by Facebook’s chief operating of-ﬁ  cer, Sheryl Sandberg, 
apologizing is an easy 
way out of sounding 
overly conﬁ  dent or be-
ing disliked in a group 
environment.
Though Sandberg’s 
book has drawn criti-
cism for some of its 
guidelines on how 
women should or 
shouldn’t behave in the work-
place, she makes a strong case for 
how many women use apologies 
to downplay their achievements 
and avoid coming across as heavy-
handed. I think this is a worth-
while explanation that could apply 
to many college students and all 
people — not just women.
On a personal level, I certainly 
have a habit of overspending my 
so-called apology allowance. I say 
sorry for messaging someone ﬁ  ve 
times in a row (even though most 
people I message are well-aware of 
my chronic back-to-back texting 
habits). “I’m sorry” often rolls off 
my tongue as a quick ﬁ  x — wheth-
er it’s a group project faux pas or 
a friend-related miscommunication 
— even though there’s likely a lot 
more to the conﬂ  ict than a ﬁ  ve-let-
ter word, which is basically a ver-
bal Band-Aid that only temporarily 
covers the issue.
And that’s exactly it: Maybe 
“sorry” isn’t so much about the 
word itself but rather about what 
we’re not saying when we revert to 
apology mode. I’m not suggesting 
we cut out our sorries altogether, 
but more times than not, it’s tak-
ing up valuable air time that would 
be much better used for our true 
thoughts and ideas.
Darcy Schild is a UF journal-
ism senior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.In a culture of ‘sorry, not sorry,’ 
we still apologize — a lot
For those of you hiding under a rock (or 
in a library), UF is a sports school. Well, 
in the minds of many, a football school 
at least. And basketball too. The run-
ning joke is whenever the football team 
lost last year, we could remind our opponents 
that “at least we’re a top 10 public university!” 
We could begin reminding ourselves that we 
don’t have to be just a football school, though. 
Maybe we’re a baseball school or a gymnastics 
school. A lot of sports go unnoticed, unappre-
ciated — sports that have been top-notch for a 
long time. These sports deserve attention too.
This is not to say that the football team 
does not deserve recognition — the Gators are 
having a surprisingly successful season. Coach 
Dan Mullen has done a fantastic job, turning 
things around a year or two before we could 
have hoped. However, there are still a number 
of underappreciated sports.  
Take the baseball team. It won the Nation-
al Championship in Omaha in 2017, and this 
spring the team made it to the College World 
Series semiﬁ  nals — not too shabby. With this 
run (see what I did there), one could argue that 
we are now a baseball school. I mean, are we 
still holding on to the football team’s 2009 Na-
tional Championship? (Or 2007? Or 1996?) We 
can move on…Similarly, the softball team has 
been stellar for years now, con-
stantly attending the NCAA Cham-
pionships, winning the SEC title 
and breaking NCAA records with 
win streaks. And winning back-to-
back national titles a few years ago 
is pretty impressive as well. The 
amount of records set by this team 
should immediately warrant our be-
coming a softball school. Consider-
ing I went to Tim Walton’s three-day UF soft-
ball camp at the age of 7, I feel as though I have 
a deep connection with this team. Very deep.
Women’s basketball is another great ex-
ample. Did you even know we had a women’s 
basketball team? This program has been in the 
shadow of its male counterpart but has made 
strides lately. More importantly, the coaches 
and players are high quality and have been 
making the rounds this semester in order to 
inspire elementary school kids around town.
Florida tennis has been successful, with the 
men’s tennis team making it to the NCAA Elite 
Eight for two of the last three years under the 
leadership of coach Bryan Shelton. Could UF 
become a tennis school? Quite possibly. (And 
that’s not even mentioning the multiple nation-
al championships won by the women’s team.)Lacrosse roared out of the gate 
under coach Amanda O’Leary, 
having been in existence only nine 
years with eight conference champi-
onships. And this year’s team could 
be her best yet. (Confession: Despite 
her best efforts in the year I lived 
next door to coach, I still don’t get 
the rules. A ball, some sticks and a 
goal. I’ve got that much down.)
The gymnastics team has been 
wildly successful as long as I have known. Dur-
ing my glory days as a 9-year-old gymnast, my 
mom would drive me from Tampa to see meets 
along with my fellow gymnast friends. (These 
were shortly after the glory days of 7-year-old 
softball. So much sports glory, so little time.) 
Now, those gymnastics meets are fun, let me 
tell you. Those girls put on an amazing show, 
a paradox of impeccable beauty and unformi-
dable strength. 
The same is true for the volleyball team and 
its two decades of wild success under Mary 
Wise. Of course, gymnastics and volleyball 
aren’t much of a hidden secret — thousands 
pack the O'Connell Center for those events.
Now let’s get crazy.
The swimming and diving teams at UF have 
produced 85 Olympians, resulting in 32 gold medals, 18 silver and 14 bronze. In fact, the 
Florida Gators have been represented at every 
summer Olympics for swimming and diving 
since 1968. No summer Olympic swimming 
and diving team has had to go without at least 
one UF alum for the past 50 years. 
And track and ﬁ  eld… where to start? May-
be coach Mike Holloway? During his 17 years 
at UF, we have won 14 SEC titles and eight 
(count ‘em, eight) national titles. By my math, 
that’s really good.
Gator athletes are smart too. In each of the 
last 16 years, more than 100 students have 
made honor roll. Now that’s fantastic! 
With all of these teams in mind, try going 
to an event for a sport you’ve never watched 
before. I’m going to. (As for the excellent golf 
teams, don’t blink: They each only have one 
home tournament.) So whether you're going 
to cheer on the women’s basketball team or 
watch a few tennis matches, see all of what UF 
has to offer. Of course, be sure to continue to 
cheer your heart out at The Swamp for every 
home game. Just don’t forget about the rest. 
We’re known as a sports school for a reason.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sopho-
more. Her column normally appears on 
Mondays.Watch more than football: Support all of UF's underappreciated athletes
“So I have to ask, what are you go-
ing to do once you graduate?”
As an arts major, variations of 
this question will spring up like 
ﬂ  owers all throughout your col-
lege career. The cons of being a ﬁ  ne art ma-
jor can be obvious to some, but the pros will 
prove intriguing once explored. So, let’s get 
exploring.
It’s no mystery why ﬁ  ne arts majors are 
frowned upon. In such a competitive industry it’s hard 
to ﬁ  nd a steady income after graduation. While trying 
to navigate my way through these strict majors, I’ve 
realized that certain majors only allow creativity when 
it comes to projects. For example, when I was a busi-
ness major, I found myself learning about concepts that 
I was unable to physically test unless the professor cre-
ated a project or case study around the concept. There-
fore, I completely understand why students go with 
their heart and major in art, dance, music or theatre. 
There are multiple avenues that can be taken as an 
art major, but I will discuss three: grinding through 
your craft and trying to make it big as an artist; pursu-
ing something different when you graduate, like medi-
cal school or law school, or pursuing a job that will help 
fund your artistic endeavors. Regardless, through per-
sonal branding, you will achieve some level of success.
Pursuing your craft can come with bumps, but noth-
ing is unachievable. As an artist, you have to be pre-
pared to struggle, to not be seen and to learn from mis-
takes. It’s similar to being in a regular job, but you have 
more control over how much you are paid. You will 
need the connections you made in your undergraduate 
years to hear about new opportunities, but overall you 
will spend a ton of time with yourself. You will spend 
a lot of alone time thinking and creating new concepts 
and ways of executing art pieces. According to the 2015 
report by Payscale, arts majors make an average sal-
ary of $52,000. This means there’s money ready to be 
made. Society is simply in need of determined artists to do something different, so if this avenue is for 
you, begin creating.
Art majors have the freedom to be cre-
ative while building technical skills like com-
munication, the ability to work under pres-
sure, time management, self-motivation and 
adaptability, which can be translated into the 
workforce. It’s safe to say that regardless of 
your major, you will still gain qualities and 
skills that make you a promising employee. 
Law schools and medical schools look for academically 
diverse students, meaning that although it looks great 
if you have taken law classes and pre-med classes, the 
institutes want students who not only know about law 
and the body but are also able to think outside the box 
and be creative. These institutes want innovators who 
can possibly change the game. According to Duke Uni-
versity, what you major in doesn’t matter as much as 
factors like GPA and (for law school) your LSAT score. 
So if this is your avenue, watch how shocked people 
are going to be after you answer that degrading ques-
tion on what you’re going to do after graduation.
While both working and pursuing your craft might 
be tiring, you eliminate the worry that comes with only 
pursuing your craft — instability. You also sacriﬁ  ce cre-
ative time when working, but if you manage your time 
and energy wisely, you have nothing to worry about. 
Most people ﬁ  nd comfort in this avenue because they 
get the best of both worlds, but you might ﬁ  nd yourself 
longing to live the artist life and end up hating your job.   
Arts majors get ﬂ  ack for something that doesn’t re-
ally matter if you are smart with your time. As a student 
you are forced and pressured to pick a major, and once 
you do, you are judged. Anyone is capable of anything, 
no matter declared major or prior interests. If you ever 
ﬁ  nd yourself judging an art major, think twice because 
that might be your doctor or lawyer one day.
Yssaina Nelson is a UF exploratory freshman.Don’t let them make you afraid of ﬁ  ne arts
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
Yssaina Nelson
opinions@alligator.orgFEDERAL
U.S. Senator
Rick Scott
U.S. Representative District 3
T ed Yoho
STATE
Governor and Lt. Governor
Ron DeSantis and Jeanette 
Nuñez
Chief Financial Officer
Jimmy Patronis
Attorney General
Ashley Moody
Commissioner of 
Agriculture
Matt Caldwell
State Senator District 8
Keith Perry
State Representative 
District 10
Chuck Brannan
State Representative 
District 21
Chuck Clemons8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
OFFICIAL ELECTION RESUL TS
LOCAL
Alachua County 
Commissioner District 2
Marihelen Haddock 
Wheeler
School Board District 3
Gunnar Paulson
Soil and Water 
Conservation District 
Group 3
Kaithleen Hernandez
Children’s Trust of Alachua 
County
Gives authority to levy one-
half mill ad valorem tax
Yes
Alachua County Half-Cent 
Sales Surtax to Improve 
School Facilities
Funding through surtax 
would be spent on adding 
additional security as well 
as new classrooms and 
furniture
Yes
City of Gainesville Charter 
Amendment
Scheduling City Commission elections to coincide 
with statewide elections 
beginning in 2022
Yes
GRU Referendum
Create an independent 
five-member board with 
candidates appointed by the 
City Commission, who would 
oversee GRU instead of the 
City Commission directly
No
JUDICIAL
Retain Justice Alan Lawson? 
Yes
Retain Judge Harvey Jay? 
Yes
Retain Judge Stephanie 
Ray? Yes
Retain Judge Brad Thomas? 
Yes
Retain Judge Kemmerly 
Thomas?  Yes
Retain Judge Allen Winsor? 
Yes
Circuit Judge 8th Judicial 
Circuit Group 8
Gloria Walker
County Judge Group 2
Meshon RawlsCONSTITUTIONAL  
AMENDMENTS
Amendment 1
Raises the homestead 
property tax exemption
No
Amendment 2
Places a permanent cap 
on the annual increase of 
non-homestead property tax 
assessments
Yes
Amendment 3
Requires voter approval for 
whether a new casino can 
open in the state
Yes
Amendment 4
Restores voting rights to 
non-violent felony offenders 
who served their sentence
Yes
Amendment 5
Would require a two-thirds 
vote in the Florida House 
and Senate to raise taxes — 
instead of a simple majority
Yes
Amendment 6
Expands the scope of victims’ rights under the 
Florida Constitution and 
Marsy’s Law; increases the 
mandatory retirement age 
for judges from 70 to 75; 
requires courts and judges 
to interpret laws and rules 
for themselves rather than 
rely on interpretations by 
government agencies
Yes
Amendment 7
Requires supermajority 
votes by university trustees 
and state university system 
boards of governors to raise 
or impose fees; waives some 
educational expenses to 
survivors of first responders 
and military members who 
died performing official 
duties
Yes
Amendment 9
Prohibits offshore drilling; 
bans vaping at indoor 
workplaces
Yes
Amendment 10
Requires the Florida 
Legislature to start its 
annual session in January instead of March during 
even-numbered years; 
creates a counter-terrorism 
and security office within 
the Florida Department of 
Law Enforcement; requires 
that all 67 counties elect 
their sheriff, tax collector, 
elections supervisor and 
clerk of courts
Yes
Amendment 11
Deletes language in the 
Florida’s Constitution that 
prevents non-citizens from 
buying, selling, owning or 
inheriting property and 
forbids making changes to 
criminal sentencing laws 
retroactively
Yes
Amendment 12
Bans the state’s officials and 
employees from lobbying 
the government for six 
years after working for the 
government
Yes
Amendment 13
Ends dog racing by 2020
Yes
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
State Senate candidate Dr. Kayser Enneking waves to her 
supporters after conceding a tight race against her opponent, 
Keith Perry. Enneking delivered her concession speech Tuesday 
night during an event held by the Alachua County Democratic 
Party at the Cypress & Grove Brewing Company. “Whether we 
won or we lost, tomorrow will be a great day, ” Enneking said. 
Brianna Monroe / Alligator Staff
Republican State Sen. Keith Perry gives a thank-you speech after his win in District 8. He thanked 
everyone who had helped him in his journey — his wife, his team and his UF interns.
Clemons, a Republican, won with 52 percent of 
the vote compared to his Democratic opponent Jason 
Lee Haeseler with 49 percent.
Just minutes prior, Haeseler said he was still op-
timistic about the results but soon conceded defeat.
“Tonight’s outcome is not what he hoped for, it’s 
not what we were working towards,” Haeseler said. 
“We really believed in this campaign and we just came up a little bit short this time.
Haeseler said he is proud of his campaign and will 
continue to be civically engaged in the future.
“We kept it focused on the issues, we didn’t make 
it personal, we didn’t make it about mudslinging,” he 
said. “We stayed true to our principles and I’m very 
proud of that.”
Gillian Sweeney, Hannah Beatty, Kyle Wood, Ange-
la DiMichele, Alyssa Ramos, Jeana Fraser and Taylor 
Roth contributed to this report.WATCH PARTY,  from pg. 1DeSantis won governor over Gillum.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Visit us at Bo Diddley Plaza  
Farmers Market  Wed. 4-7 pm
954-882-2879
@Emma Jeens Pies
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsBy Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
UF’s School of Art + Art His-
tory will transform into a gallery 
Friday.
The school’s open house, called 
Art Bash, allows all students in the 
school’s programs to showcase 
their classwork and portfolios. The 
event, which is from 6 to 9 p.m., 
will have art classes, woodﬁ  re piz-
za and a live DJ.
“We turn classroom spaces into 
gallery spaces and invite anyone 
from college faculty, students  and 
the Gainesville community,” said 
Alani Llori, the assistant director of 
the School of Art and Art History.
The attendees can visit various 
pop-up shops featuring forms of 
art such as photography, painting, 
printmaking and live art. In ad-
dition to seeing some of the stu-dents’ creations, attendees may try 
out various artistic activities such 
as drawing, painting, ceramics, 
photography and sculpting.  
The school has been hosting 
Art Bash for more than 20 years, 
said Jarred Elrod, a UF assistant 
professor of graphic design.
Elrod said the environment is 
fun and festive. Students can take 
that well-deserved break from dif-
ferential equations or Physics 2 
and get a breath of fresh air while 
examining some inspiring artistry 
from their fellow colleagues, he 
said.
“We always have strong turn-
out from the community,” Elrod 
said. “(We) are partnering with 
several local businesses such as 
Dragonﬂ  y Sushi and Afternoon 
Restaurant for our scavenger hunt 
prize rafﬂ  e.”Arts school hosts Bash  
Courtesy to The Alligator
Attendees gather around to observe student art during 
the 2015 Art Bash.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Library West is traveling the 
world through ﬁ  lm.
UF students can watch a foreign 
ﬁ  lm a night at Library West as the 
library celebrates International Edu-
cation Week from Nov. 13 through 
Nov. 16.
One ﬁ  lm will be shown each night 
at 5:30 p.m. and all with English 
subtitles. Smathers Library has been 
celebrating International Education 
Week for at least eight years, Euro-pean Studies and Outreach Librarian 
Hélène Huet said. 
“It is not the ﬁ  rst time the UF 
Libraries have shown movies for 
IEW,” Huet said. “But it is the ﬁ  rst 
time we will be having a ﬁ  lm festival 
with one movie a day.”
The annual weeklong celebration 
is an initiative from the U.S Depart-
ment of Education to implement and 
promote programs that teach and 
prepare Americans for the global 
environment, according to the In-
ternational Education Week ofﬁ  cial 
website. “International Education Week is 
an important reminder that we live 
in a global environment and that 
we can learn so much from our ex-
changes with people from all over 
the world,” Huet said.Library West shows international ﬁ  lms 
FILM
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Illuminating light. A sudden chill. An alarming shad-
ow. Some instances are hard to explain when it comes to 
the supernatural. 
Halloween is over, but the ghost stories and paranor-
mal activities continue surrounding Gainesville. 
Nick Estes, 38, founded Gainesville Paranormal back 
in 2009 and works alone or in a small team to investigate 
eerie circumstances regarding haunted properties in the 
area. 
With a night vision camera and digital recorder, Estes 
spends several hours on property to analyze the paranor-
mal activity within an area. He sits down with the owners 
beforehand for a preliminary interview to make sure the 
situation is legitimate to pursue.
“Believe it or not, I’ve had to turn down more people 
than we accepted over the years,” Estes said. 
He added that when he and his group are ready to go 
into a house, a certain time and date is set when the own-
ers are not home to set up the equipment and go through 
the home. 
Estes credits the past 20 years of blockbuster ﬁ  lms, 
radio, television shows and books for popularizing super-
natural conversation. 
He became passionate about the paranormal after in-
vestigating the Old County Jail in Green Cove Springs, 
Florida, which is rumored to be haunted by deceased criminals. 
“For me, I got what I deemed to be proof that I just 
really couldn’t dispute, and that was a recording of some-
thing saying my name when there was nobody there and 
shouldn’t have been any reason for my name to pop up 
on that tape, but it did,” Estes said. 
Estes said one of the highest occurrences of paranor-
mal activity in Gainesville was at the Purple Porpoise, a 
bar once located in Midtown, that was allegedly the home 
of a female ghost who resided in the upstairs bathroom. 
The bar was eventually torn down and replaced with 
new businesses, including The Social at Midtown. 
“With it being reported as haunted for so many years, 
it does make me wonder if ‘just because they tore the 
building down, doesn’t mean the haunting stopped,’” 
Estes said. “It might actually be just that area so who 
knows.”
Estes considers audio and video “the holy grail of evi-
dence” and has recorded a few unexplainable situations 
like mysterious voices and strange lighting, he said. 
He explained that a few Gainesville residents have 
called him in tears, wanting answers and help, but the 
best advice he can give is to remember to not let anything 
push you around. 
“I personally believe by standing your ground and 
claiming your space and not allowing anything to intimi-
date you or frighten you in your own home is very pow-
erful and could potentially go a long way,” Estes said. Probing the paranormal in GainesvilleSCHEDULE OF FILMS
Tuesday: “A Letter to Momo”
Wednesday: “Ixcanul”
Thursday: “Timbuktu”
Friday: “Kedi”10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. 
Top it off with our famous sour 
orange pie. Now that is a meal any 
FL Gator can enjoy. So come on 
out to the creek + take a step back 
in time. Only here can you see the 
legendary bluesman Willie “The 
Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St.  
(352) 375-7372
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy 
Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off 
select wines by the glass, $5 select 
specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 
3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south 
of Archer Road on 13th Street in the 
Shands Parking Garage. Private 
room available. Great for rehearsal 
dinners, student life organizations, 
and other group events. Always 
taking reservations, call us at 872-
5181. Like us on Facebook and follow 
us on Instagram @chefcarlwatts for 
upcoming events and daily specials.SPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 
years as an alternative to alcohol 
used for ceremonial, political, 
medicinal, and social purposes. 
Come try our Kava, Kratom, Mate,
and other teas in Downtown 
Gainesville. Open weekdays 
12pm-12am, weekends 12pm-1am 
and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave.  
maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-
2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and 
modern Korean dishes with the best 
sushi in town Weekday specials 
including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one 
beer, wine and sake from  
4pm-7pm! 352-384-3733
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you
Lunch: Mon-Sun 11am-3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pm 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
There’s a new witch in town, and 
Sabrina is ﬂ  ying onto everyone’s 
Netﬂ  ix watchlist. 
“The Chilling Adventures of Sa-
brina” is now on Netﬂ  ix, and the 
spooky comic book adaptation has 
fans waiting for the production com-
pany to conjure up another season.
On Oct. 26, Netﬂ  ix released a 
dark adaptation of “Sabrina the 
Teenage Witch.” Fans of the original 
story will ﬁ  nd “The Chilling Adven-
tures of Sabrina” to be unlike the 
light-hearted TV series starring Me-
lissa Joan Hart. 
In this reimagined version, Kier-
nan Shipka, who portrays Sabrina 
Spellman, is forced to choose be-
tween the life of a witch or a human, 
but Sabrina wants both. The show is based on the original 
“Sabrina the Teenage Witch” comic 
book series, which debuted in 1962. 
The comics were set in the small 
town of Greendale, which is some-
where in the “Riverdale” universe. 
One major plot difference in Netf-
lix’s adaptation is the story of Salem 
the cat. In earlier adaptations, the cat 
was a sarcastic warlock punished for 
abusing magic while trying to take 
over the world. However, in the new 
Netﬂ  ix drama, Salem does not speak 
and comes to Sabrina after she asks 
the dark spirits for a “familiar,” an 
animal protector and conﬁ  dant. 
Since its release, the series has 
received high praise from most of its 
viewers. Many have noted the simi-
larities in the production and ﬁ  lm-
ing of this show to Ryan Murphy’s 
“American Horror Story: Coven,” 
and IndieWire called it “deliciously macabre.” Others have credited the 
acting of Shipka and her ability to 
portray the determination and inno-
cence of Sabrina so well throughout 
the series. 
While there is no word yet on the 
remaining plot of the series, many 
viewers have come to the conclusion 
that, based on the ending of the ﬁ  rst 
season, Salem will be able to talk in 
upcoming episodes. One of the big-
gest disappointments for fans was 
the lack of comedic commentary 
from Salem. 
Although a silent Salem was 
considered sad, the role of sarcastic 
warlock has been slightly ﬁ  lled by 
Sabrina’s cousin in the new series, 
Ambrose (Chance Perdomo), who 
is bound to the Spellman grounds as 
punishment for refusing to give up 
his co-conspirators after a failed at-
tempt to blow up the Vatican. According to Cosmopolitan, 
when the series began ﬁ  lming in 
March 2018, they started ﬁ  lming episodes for season two as well. Re-
ports say season two will premiere 
in early 2019.Series review of the week: ‘The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina’
Courtesy to The Alligator
On Oct. 26, Netﬂ  ix released ‘The Chilling Adventures of 
Sabrina, ’ an adaption of the comic book series.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
Walk to The Swamp! Beautifully updated 
5 bedroom/ 2 bath home, located 7 blocks 
from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Huge floor -
plan, central A/C, wood floors, ceiling fans, 
washer and dryer, dishwasher, microwave. 
Private backyard. 1815 NW 7th Ave. $2350. 
Shown by appointment only. (352) 256-2574    
11-14-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Chef/Cook – To begin 11/12/18
1 person kitchen/ you must be able to order 
food in quantities needed, plan menus, pre -
pare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch 
for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen 
from A to Z. Need to have positive attitude, 
imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flex -
ible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and 
test is needed. Background check, alcohol, 
drug, health checks will be run. Email re -
sume or letter as to experience with salary 
history. No salary history = no call back. NO 
PHONE CALLS. fratmgmt@gmail.com    11-
9-18-4-14
VIDEO GAME TESTER Needed:
Learn to make an extra $500/wk being a 
Video Game Tester as a student today at:  
http://onlinecollegejob.club      11-7-18-3-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
Apply Within
11-16-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
REAL ESTATE JOB
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email: contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com         
11-7-18-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. GEOGRAPHY: What strait con-
nects the Sea of Marmara with the 
Aegean Sea?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What is a pluet?
3. SCIENCE: What does an eidolo-
gist study?
4. MOVIES: Which Disney movie 
featured the title song, “You’ve Got a 
Friend in Me”?
5. AD SLOGANS: What product 
was advertised as “It keeps going, and 
going, and going ...”?
6. MYTHOLOGY: Who is the Greek 
goddess of the rainbow?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the tallest lighthouse in the 
United States?
8. HISTORY: The German invasion 
of which nation had the code name 
Operation Barbarossa?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state has the 
nickname “The Mountain State”?
10. ROYALS: Which two houses 
were involved in England’s The Wars 
of the Roses in the 15th century?
Answers
1. Dardanelles Strait
2. Plum and apricot hybrid
3. Mental images
4. “Toy Story”
5. Energizer batteries
6. Iris
7. Cape Hatteras, North Carolina
8. Russia
9. West Virginia
10. York and Lancaster
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 5, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Michael Ray Jacobson and Patti Varol
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/07/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/07/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, November 7, 2018
ACROSS
1 Crowds around
5 Geologic time
10 It’s the truth
14 Baseball’s Felipe 
or his son Moises
15 Nabisco wafer 
brand
16 Serengeti feline
17 Barclays Center 
team
18 Strung along
19 Boatloads
20 1968 55-Across 
song
23 Axis foes
24 Spot for an 
AirPod
25 Tight spot
28 “__ whiz!”
29 Sundance’s 
sweetie __ Place
32 1976 55-Across 
album
34 Lofty principles
36 “Do __ others ... ”
37 1970 55-Across 
song
41 “The Walking 
Dead” survivor 
Grimes
42 Advertising lure
43 1969 55-Across 
album whose last 
song is 20-Across
46 Business review 
site
47 Influential D.C. 
group
50 Place in the 
woods
51 Forever and a day
53 “Watch and learn”
55 Singer/songwriter 
born 11/7/1943
58 Auburn rival, 
familiarly
61 Miguel’s “I love 
you”
62 Small Chevy 
model
63 Vacationing
64 Harsh-smelling
65 Sharp-edged
66 Tach reading
67 Annoy
68 Car trip game
DOWN
1 Metrosexual tote
2 Repetitive refrain 
in the song “Hot 
Hot Hot”3 Perfume holder
4 Fish dish  
served with 
wasabi
5 Willing recruit
6 Like a noted 
piper
7 Quaint retail 
adjective
8 In the 
neighborhood
9 ESPN anchor __ 
Storm
10 It may be tragic
11 Not feel well
12 Whisper sweet 
nothings
13 Explosive letters
21 Far from swanky
22 Mined-over 
matter
25 “We just said the 
same thing at the 
same time!”
26 Basic drawing 
class
27 “Little Red Book” 
author
30 Powder puff stuff
31 Bronze or brass
33 San __, Puerto 
Rico
34 “House,” in Inuit35 A few
37 Hayloft bundle
38 Wrinkle remover
39 Prosperous
40 __ sentence: 
essay opener
41 Included in an 
email, briefly
44 “Gloria in 
Excelsis __”
45 “In America” 
novelist Susan
47 Pet problems?48 __ at the wheel
49 Ant-sy  
complex?
52 Female relative
54 Uniform cloth
55 Rogers Centre 
team, familiarly
56 K follower
57 “Look no further 
than me”
58 Trivia night site
59 Bedazzle
60 Big D hoopster
By Joe Deeney
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/06/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 6, 2018
ACROSS
1 “__ Buddies”: 
’80s sitcom
6 Words on a 
check
11 Asian noodle 
soup
14 Lavender is 
similar to it
15 Hon
16 Toondom’s Olive
17 Frank McCourt 
memoir
19 “XING” one
20 Postcard view of 
a city
21 Hold the deed to
22 Sandy slope
23 Salacious
24 J.M. Barrie play
26 Sharp turns
29 Many, many 
years
31 Deli subs
32 Game with Wild 
Draw Four cards
33 Of an arm bone
35 Response to bad 
service
38 Shakespeare 
comedy
42 Wombs
43 Mar. parade 
honoree
44 Genetic 
messenger
45 Starr knighted in 
2018
48 Nine-digit ID
49 Antiprohibitionists
50 Gillian Flynn 
novel
53 “In that case ... ”
55 Discovery cries
56 Blossom buzzer
57 What discreet 
acts are done on, 
with “the”
61 Big Apple paper, 
for short
62 Portmanteau 
for a collection 
containing 17-, 
24-, 38- and 
50-Across?
64 Sticky stuff
65 Joe of “Casino”
66 “__ to 
suggestions”
67 California’s  
Big __
68 Second-string 
squad
69 Fork pointsDOWN
1 Camp bed
2 Wild party
3 Wizards’ 
castings
4 Skateboard leap
5 Have good 
intentions
6 Smartphone 
predecessor, for 
short
7 Greek storyteller
8 God, in Judaism
9 Jacque’s “thirty”
10 Cries of worry
11 Temporary retail 
space
12 “Laughing” 
scavenger
13 From days past
14 Faux __: social 
goof
18 Arizona resort
22 Crave, with 
“over”
25 Dadaism 
pioneer
26 Z, in a pilot’s 
alphabet
27 Playing an extra 
NBA period
28 Ahnold’s political 
nickname
30 Captures33 Employing
34 Decays
36 “Money __ 
everything”
37 School orgs.
39 Great Lakes 
natives
40 Silver lining
41 Fled
46 Thanksgiving 
gravy ingredient
47 Ultimatum  
words49 Chinese 
dumpling
50 __ up on: unites 
against
51 “What a kidder!”
52 High-end 
German camera
54 Hindu guru
58 Rapper __ Fiasco
59 Mining hauls
60 Benign cyst
62 BOLO kin
63 Apple CEO Cook
1.  On the water
1.  ____ wool5.  Board ____
2.  Hobbling 6.  Arctic abode
3.  Vindicate7.  Concurred 
4.  ____ milkFAATOL
ROAANGMSGAE
OLOIG
INGIPLM
VSOLEBAGEDEAR
OLAMDNANSWERS: 1A-Afloat  5A-Games  6A-Igloo  7A-Agreed
1D-Angora  2D-Limping  3D-Absolve  4D-Almond  B-Mongolia11-7-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the second-largest landlocked 
country in the world.
BONUS
20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu finished 
with 22 points on 9-of-17 shooting in 
Florida's 60-58 loss to Gardner Webb 
Tuesday morning. Gators drop in CFP Poll
After falling a handful of spots in the AP and Coaches polls, the College Foot-
ball Playoff committee also dropped Florida down to 15, four spots below its 
initial No. 11 spot. FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida football team changes mentalities 
more than David Bowie changed his style.
Every week is a new message. Florida head 
coach Dan Mullen stressed increased physical-
ity earlier in the season. He talked about mental 
fortitude a few weeks later. 
It’s now a new week, and it’s clear from 
speaking with some of the players that the team 
already has a new thought in their minds.
“Compete,” center Nick Buchanan said. 
“Simple as that.”
It seems to be a message that everyone is 
echoing -- Mullen said it on Monday and all but 
one player who was interviewed this week used 
a version of the word. 
Competitive is exactly what the Gators (6-
3, 4-3 SEC) need to be on Saturday when they 
play South Carolina at noon at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium if they want to avoid three consecutive 
losses. 
It can also prevent this season, which started out 6-1, from turning sour with only four games 
remaining. 
“I guess there was some stuff going around 
the locker room about guys not wanting to com-
pete,” wide receiver Freddie Swain said. “But ev-
erybody just rose to the occasion. Coach talked 
about it one time, and that’s really all it took was 
one time.”
The team’s response has shown.
Mullen said everyone was about five minutes 
early to the team meeting Monday morning and 
there were no stragglers coming in late. Every-
one was at their medical treatments on Sunday 
as well. But while he is pleased, he still wants to 
see more from his players.
Tight end R.J. Raymond repeated Mullen’s 
statements that the team has been coming in 
earlier and said the team is taking more account-
ability during practice.
“Everybody’s just been on top of their game 
because we let two games slip away from us,” 
Raymond said. “That just goes down to the de-
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE  16Mullen, Gators stress competitiveness 
in bid to avoid third straight lossNothing but Nettuno / Column
Losing streaks are 
tough. Especially when 
they come against your 
biggest rival.
Ask any Florida fan, 
and they’ll tell you. They’ll 
tell you the frustration that 
comes along with losing to 
Florida State in both football 
and basketball five-straight 
times. They’ll tell you it nev-
er used to be like this.
But Tuesday night’s 81-60 loss to 
the Seminoles didn’t just ensure that 
FSU basketball’s four-game win streak 
against the Gators was extended to five. 
It provided a sort of confirmation bias 
for the more negative sect of the fanbase 
that believes the malaise that has sur-
rounded the program since Billy Dono-
van’s departure in 2015 is indicative of a 
larger problem.
And honestly, it’s hard to argue with 
them.
The Gators didn’t just lose to the 
Seminoles. They were thoroughly domi-nated.
FSU’s athletic defense sty-
mied Florida’s offense com-
pletely, forcing bad shot after 
bad shot. The Gators were 
no match for the ‘Noles. Not 
physically. Not athletically. 
Not schematically.
That’s a problem.
UF shot a paltry 37 per-
cent from the field. The Sem-
inoles held KeVaughn Allen, one of the 
most prolific scorers in Gators history, to 
zero points.
Zilch. Nada.
FSU’s basket may as well have 
been 10 feet wide, on the other hand. 
The ‘Noles shot nearly 50 percent from 
downtown to UF’s 25 percent.
Florida’s oft-mentioned veteran lead-
ership was MIA, as was any semblance 
of a coherent offensive philosophy.
Mike White said that he liked the 
challenge opening against a ranked 
team would present. It’s understand-Season opening loss to FSU 
shows UF has a ways to goMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
It’s been a while since the Florida Gators last beat 
the Florida State Seminoles in basketball.
It was 1,803 days, to be exact, before the two teams 
faced off last night.
Today, it was 1,804.
Florida was embarrassed by the Noles 81-60 in the 
first game of the college basketball regular season in 
front of a raucous crowd in Tallahassee, Florida, Tues-
day night.
    Game Summary
The Gators were plagued by first-half shooting woes. 
The basket looked about as small as UCF’s chances at 
making the College Football Playoff, as UF went 6-for-
25 in the frame. That’s 24 percent for all you non-math 
majors out there.
But FSU kept the Gators in the game, as it went only 
8-for-21 (38.1 percent) in the half, and the score was 
31-20 at the break.
Then the Noles opened the second half on an 8-2 
run and the route was on.
Before UF could even catch its breath, it was 50-26 
with just under 14 minutes left.
Then it was 72-39 with just under six to play.
Finally, the bloodbath was over.
Not only could the Gators not buy a bucket in the 
first half, but it was much of the same in the second. 
They ended the night shooting 20-for-54 (6-for-24 from Poor shooting night dooms Florida against Seminoles
Chris O'Brien / Alligator Staff
Guard Andrew Nembhard went 4-for-8 from the field with 12 points and four assists in 34 minutes against FSU . 
 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Tyler Nettuno
@TylerNettuno
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
VOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
A 9-year-old Holly Carlton followed her old-
er sister, Kayla, to their quiet backyard in the 
Eastern Loudoun subdivision in Sterling, Vir-
ginia, with a volleyball in hand. The two went 
to a portion of their backyard that was fenced 
off for a makeshift volleyball court.
“(Kayla’s) three years older than me and 
growing up, of course, I wanted to do every-
thing that she did,” Carlton said. “My interest 
in volleyball really started with her.”
Every day, the two hit the ball over a net 
that sagged too low in a too-small portion of 
the backyard. She remembers those days as 
the spark to her burgeoning volleyball career. 
Still, her competitiveness grew.
Carlton, after a day of practice with the 
Gators, sat with a reflective smile as she pon-
dered that first obstacle in her volleyball ca-
reer.
“She’d hit me in the face every day. I kid 
you not, every single day,” she laughed. “It 
was frustrating, but I was always out there the 
next day.”
Kayla was relentless. She hit balls for hours 
at Holly to work on her own swing. Holly re-
called many beatdowns -- the volleyballs to her 
face -- handed to her by Kayla. She’d always 
have to wait her turn. She’d always have to 
take one for the team, all to help her sister. 
But still, her enthusiasm flourished.
That competitiveness and enthusiasm took 
Carlton from her hometown in Virginia to Cha-
pel Hill, North Carolina, before she transferred 
over to the University of Florida, where she is 
now a focal point of a volleyball team looking 
to make another run to the NCAA Champion-
ship. But it all began in a backyard, helping her 
sister and dodging volleyballs.
Holly Carlton did not begin her career a 
6-foot-7 beast that could crush balls down on 
defenders like asteroids raining down against 
Earth. She was, instead, a 5-foot-8 back-row 
setter her freshman year at Potomac Falls High 
School in Virginia, trying to find a spot on the 
team.
Carlton played sparingly in her first two 
years and averaged fewer than one kill per set.
There was no huge growth spurt. There 
was only a slow, gradual transformation over 
time. By the beginning of her junior year, Carl-
ton grew to 6-foot-5 and found her spot in the 
front row. 
“It was a big transformation in a lot of ar-
eas in my life, not just volleyball,” she said. “It 
had to take some getting used to how people 
looked at me.”
Carlton developed new skills with her 
new frame and combined what she’d already 
learned while she was undersized. Carlton still 
had her great passing and digging abilities that 
she learned before and could now dominate on 
the attack with her size. When she finally put 
it all together, she became a versatile weapon.
“I had to learn the skill set of a smaller 
player before and now had to bring that into a 
bigger body,” Carlton said.
Carlton played in 207 sets in her final two 
years and tallied 714 kills and 144 assists. She 
led the Potomac Falls Panthers to a VHSL 5A 
state championship game appearance in No-
vember of 2015 and was named to MaxPreps’ 
2015 2nd Team All-American Girls Volleyball 
Team her senior year.
That same month, she signed her letter of in-
tent to attend the University of North Carolina.North Carolina was Carlton’s last recruiting 
visit on a long list of schools she was interested 
in. She had all but made up her mind to attend 
a school on the west coast but would visit Cha-
pel Hill anyway. Carlton was so sure she was 
headed west that she and her dad, Brian, drove 
down out of courtesy. 
That was all it took.
She immediately got along with the play-
ers she met on her visit and liked the system 
the staff ran. Carlton recalled how beautiful the 
campus was and how nice the people were on 
her trip.
Carlton also met assistant coach Eve Rack-
ham, a former setter for UNC who accumulat-
ed 5,700 assists in her four years with the UNC 
from 1999 to 2002. Rackham still holds the as-
sist-per-game record (12.58) for the Tarheels.
Carlton knew Rackham could advance her 
passing and setting skills even more and help 
her earn a spot in the rotation. It all seemed to 
be a perfect fit.
But not everything lived up to expectations 
once she got there.
Carlton was immediately thrust into posi-
tion battles at the setting and right-side hitting 
positions against three seniors. She eventually 
came up short and would be subsequently red-
shirted before her first season began.
“At first, being young and in a new envi-
ronment, it can kind of feel like a failure,” she 
said. “But I had good people putting it in per-
spective for me. It is hard being patient and 
waiting your turn. It was just time to humble 
myself again.”
This was nothing new for her. Even in the 
backyard with her sister, she was willing to 
wait her turn. She was willing to take one for 
the betterment of the team.
She waited then. She waited her turn in 
high school. She could do it again.
The wait was worth it.
In 2017, then a redshirt freshman, Carlton 
used her versatility to rotate between setter 
and right-side hitter to dominate from all over 
the court. 
She played all six rotations. Most All-Amer-
ican-caliber setters can maybe pull off being in 
three different lineups before returning to the 
bench. 
She led the UNC squad in assists (595) and service aces (29). Her solid play eventu-
ally earned her a spot on the 2017 U.S. Junior 
National Team where she made some new 
friends: current University of Florida players 
Paige Hammons and Rachael Kramer. She 
also met an up-and-coming player who had 
just committed to UF and had won the Gato-
rade National Player of the Year award named 
Thayer Hall.
Even with her impressive play at UNC, 
Carlton was unsettled. The things that sold 
her before seemed to push her away. Six other 
UNC players transferred or medically retired 
in the offseason. Carlton had also dealt with 
her own lingering ankle injury for most of the 
campaign. Rackham, who Carlton had hoped 
would help progress her game the most, ac-
cepted the head coaching job with Tennessee 
in January.
With the uncertainty of her future on a shift-
ing roster, she knew it was time for a change. 
The University of Florida’s coaching staff was 
ready.
Two years prior, Florida was on the short 
list of schools she was interested in. The long 
history of success at the program enticed Carl-
ton. However, the commitment of another set-
ter, Cheyenne Huskey, occupied the spot Carl-
ton pined for. It didn’t seem like the move to 
UF’s roster was an option.
When head coach Mary Wise and the staff 
heard Carlton was planning on transferring in 
2018, they made their move once again. Hus-
key had decided to transfer to Texas State in 
January, once again providing an open oppor-
tunity.
“We felt that the fact that she had good re-
lationships with our current players that we 
might get her to at least visit,” Wise said. “We 
were able to get on her list of potential visits 
that she was interested in.”
Other schools on her list included cham-
pionship contenders like Kentucky, USC and 
Penn State. Heavy competition.
But Wise’s accomplishments caught Carl-
ton’s eye. Wise became the third female coach 
to accrue 900 wins in her career during her 
27th season in Gainesville and made an NCAA 
Championship appearance in 2017.
“I was a little nervous to talk to Mary for the 
first time,” she said, “but she’s such a calming and confident presence that it’s easy to talk to 
her. She knows what she’s doing, and it was 
very clear that she had a lot of confidence in 
her program here.”
The coaching staff at UF convinced her. On 
April 24, 2018, Carlton decided to transfer to 
UF to play with Wise and a few of her USJNT 
teammates.
“We felt good about her visit to UF, but you 
never know until you get the final word,” Wise 
said. “When she called and told me she was 
coming here, we were pretty excited, to say the 
least.”
All smiles on the surface, of course, but 
Carlton knew she was taking a big risk. She 
would be giving up a full scholarship at UNC 
as well as the playing time she had earned 
there. She spoke to her parents and talked to 
her best friend from home, Grace, about the 
decision, looking for confirmation that this was 
the right move. But what really drove it home 
for her was a phone call with Hall where they 
talked about her big decision.
“I remember that it wasn’t weird at all,” 
Carlton said. “The call made me so much more 
comfortable. The first thing Thayer said was, 
‘How can I help you?’ I think that’s what rep-
resents this team.”
Carlton was welcomed as soon as she ar-
rived. Her chemistry with the team blossomed 
during summer training and a trip to St. Au-
gustine with her teammates. That chemistry 
eventually translated to the court.
She quickly earned a spot on the starting ro-
tation for Florida as both a right-side hitter and 
a setter. She admits she has exceeded her own 
expectations. She is second on the team in total 
kills (237) over halfway through her first sea-
son with the team, which trails only Hall, the 
friend who comforted her on the phone and 
convinced her to come to Gainesville with her.
Carlton posted a career-high 19 kills 
against Northern Arizona on Sept. 7 and has 
not slowed down. The left-handed hitter has 
swung for 2.44 kills per set and has logged 82 
blocks as of today.
Her success came because of the rapport 
with the team on the court and the guidance 
she has gotten off it.
Carlton credited her parents and her team-
mates as people who helped her make the 
transition to Gainesville easier. She’s also close 
with her mentor Kevin Sides, a staff member 
with Athletes in Action at UF, a global sports 
organization that works with players and 
coaches live a balanced life with sports, educa-
tion and Christianity, according to its website.
“I just listened to her, honestly,” Sides said. 
“I let her talk and would help her where I 
could… She was nervous coming here at first, 
as most freshmen are, but she really became 
part of the team very quickly.”
Brian and Robin watch all of her games on 
TV and, when they can make it from Virginia, 
watch her weekend matches. They’d like to 
come back around Thanksgiving. Every time 
they watch her, they can still see that fire and 
willingness to take one for the team that they 
saw in their backyard so many years ago.
“She certainly got her poise from her sis-
ter,” Brian said. “She never gets too high or too 
low so it’s easy to miss but, believe me, her fire 
is there and always will be.”
Follow Dylan Rudolph on Twitter @
dyrudolph and contact him at drudolph@
alligator.orgOne for the team: Holly Carlton’s journey from the backyard to front row
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt sophomore Holly Carlton (right) was convinced by freshman Thayer Hall 
(middle) to transfer to the University of Florida. 
•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYStails and the preparation and I be-
lieve we’ve gotten back on top of 
things this week.”
It’s not just the offense that 
wants to keep that competitive 
edge. Florida’s defense has been 
lacking over the past two games as 
well, allowing 74 points and 900 
combined yards of offense. 
“Everybody on this team – if 
they’re not on this team with a 
competitive attitude or competi-
tive effort they shouldn’t be here,” 
linebacker David Reese said. “So, 
just wanting to win each and ev-
ery game that’s what we come here 
for. That’s why we come to Flori-
da, to play in big games, to win big 
games, just having that aspect.”With just a few days of prac-
tice left before the Gators kick off 
against South Carolina, Mullen 
wants to see his team play hard 
every rep. 
Mullen said the team was atten-
tive after the game, already taking 
a knee before he walked into the 
locker room. But Florida needs a 
lot more than just the right attitude 
to win on Saturday.
“We’ve got to come out des-
perate to compete on every play,” 
Mullen said. “We ain’t going to be 
ready at noon unless we compete 
every single snap in practice during 
the week. You can’t just turn it on 
and off.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 14UF has allowed 74 points and 900 total yards of ofense last two games
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
"If they're not on this team with a competitive attitude... they shouldn't be here. " - David Reese
three), a horriﬁ  c 37 percent shooting 
percentage.
FSU was absolutely unconscious 
from three in the second half, shoot-
ing an absurd 7-for-14 clip in the 
frame.
Guard P.J. Savoy led the charge 
with 20 points on 5-for-7 shooting, 
and guard Trent Forrest chipped in 
13, going 6-for-6 from the free-throw 
line.
The Noles went 23-for-48 as a 
team, good enough for a 47.9 shoot-
ing percentage.
    Instant Analysis
If you’re a Florida fan, it’s prob-
ably been tough dealing with your 
Florida State counterparts. The loss yesterday marks ﬁ  ve straight contests 
in which the Gators lost in basketball 
while also losing the last ﬁ  ve in foot-
ball.
And this one wasn’t just ugly, it 
was downright embarrassing.
Although Florida’s shot selection 
was atrocious, it didn’t help itself cre-
ate shots. The team ended with nine 
assists totaled by just ﬁ  ve players. 
Two of those came in garbage time 
with under a minute to go.
UF was outperformed in just 
about every aspect of the game. It 
was outrebounded 33 to 30, its shot 
selection was poor (which led to its 
horriﬁ  c shooting percentage), it was 
out-hustled, and it looked absolutely 
overwhelmed by a relentless Semi-
nole attack.
Above all, the team didn’t ﬁ  nd a 
leader when it desperately needed one. When the bleeding needed to 
be stopped, no member of the squad 
served as a bandage.
It would be hard to pick out the 
best player from the night for the 
team. Perhaps forward Deaundrae 
Ballard, who closed with 13 points 
on 5-for-9 shooting, but didn’t notch 
a rebound or an assist.
Guard Jalen Hudson dropped 11 
points, but on just 3-for-10 (1-for-5 
from three) shooting.
Point guard Andrew Nembhard 
drew the start and tallied 12 points 
and a team-high 4 assists.
Guard KeVaughn Allen, one of 
Florida’s leaders according to Mike 
White, failed to record a single buck-
et in the contest, going 0-for-4.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Gators shot 37 percent from the ield Tuesday night
able, as well. Much like the 
ﬁ  rst exam of the semester, 
this game gave the Gators the 
opportunity to see where the 
team was at. But based on its 
performance, Florida might 
want to consider dropping 
the class.
The road doesn’t get any 
easier, either. UF’s non-con-
ference schedule is extremely 
grueling, with guaranteed 
games against Michigan 
State, West Virginia and But-
ler. Potential early season 
tournament matchups also 
include Virginia, Stanford 
and Wisconsin.
Translation: If Florida 
doesn’t get a lot better -- and 
fast -- things could get ugly.
No, this loss doesn’t mean 
that Florida’s season is a 
wash. The opportunity to build the resume remains, 
and it’s unlikely a November 
road loss to a ranked team 
will hurt the Gators’ tourna-
ment chances come March.
It also doesn’t mean 
White’s seat is anything oth-
er than a comfortable room 
temperature, and that likely 
won’t change this season.
But when you lose by 21 
(the Gators trailed by as much 
as 30 in the second half) to 
a rival to start the year, it 
should be gut check time for 
the whole team. How Florida 
responds will determine how 
high the ceiling is this year.
It could also determine 
the future of White’s tenure 
in Gainesville.
Tyler Nettuno is a basket-
ball writer for The Alligator. 
Follow him on Twitter @Ty-
lerNettuno and contact him at 
tnettuno@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 14