We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A timeline since Nov. 1 shooting
The latest development is Gainesville Police’s SWAT team dis-
solved, pg. 9
Latest place to print for free
Student Government opened another printing location, pg. 3Kellum’s quest for spiritual enlightenment
The UF volleyball team is playing in the second round of the 
NCAA T ournament tonight. Middle blocker T aelor Kellum said 
she wouldn’t have gotten there had it not been for a handful of 
people, a high-school epiphany and her spirituality., pg. 15FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 40
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Stephen Panella was convinced his profes-
sor wasn’t coming on the ﬁ  rst day of class.
The then 21-year-old sat in a Weimer Hall 
classroom during his ﬁ  rst week at the uni-
versity, waiting for his introduction to media 
industries and professions class to start. He 
sat in the ﬁ  rst row, surrounded by almost 100 
college-aged students, except for a middle-aged man wearing baggy clothes and a base-
ball cap sitting toward the front. 
“I didn’t think much when I saw him,” the 
now 24-year-old UF telecommunication se-
nior said. “I just thought he was a cool older 
guy going back to college.”
Ten minutes after class started there was 
no sign of the professor, Panella said. Stu-
dents were confused until the man sitting 
in front rose and walked toward the front of 
the room and introduced himself as William “Bill” Renkus, the instructor. 
“My friend and I thought it was the slickest 
entrance a professor could have ever done,” 
Panella said.
“Will Renk,” as Panella referred to him be-
cause of his suave entrance, was the driving 
factor for Panella and other students to fall in 
love with telecommunication.
Two weeks ago, Renkus, a UF telecommu-
nication professor, died at 62 of cancer, said 
his older sister Tracy Irani. He was diagnosed about three years ago.  
“I was very, very upset,” Irani, the UF fam-
ily, youth and community sciences depart-
ment chair, said. “But I was there at the end, 
and I was very happy I got to say goodbye.” 
Renkus was caring, intellectual and laid-
back, Irani said. He knew a lot about the his-
tory of ﬁ  lm and telecommunications and had 
an incredible passion for educating students 
about the subject matter.
“I think Bill’s legacy is that he was a great 
believer in the positive power of communica-
tion,” Irani said. “His legacy will be the stu-UF reacts to death of telecommunication professor
He was diagnosed with cancer three years ago.
SEE OBITUARY,  PAGE 4
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Former radio station employee turned homeless seeks refuge from cold Gainesville temperatures 
Ron Hamer, 64, enjoys chicken noodle soup at St. Francis House in downtown Gainesville, which provides 
cold night services for the homeless. Hamer dropped out of high school in 11th grade and went to work 
for a local Birmingham radio station, WZZK. When his mother died in 1996, he lost her house and found 
himself living on the streets. 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The view rappelling down the 
side of Celebration Pointe’s tallest 
building won’t compare to Switzer-
land, but Mayor Lauren Poe is ready 
to make another jump years after his 
ﬁ  rst try. 
In support of affordable housing, Poe and others will dangle off the 
side of the 5001 building in the new 
shopping plaza this Friday.
Alachua Habitat for Humanity 
will host the event from 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m. to raise money for the organi-
zation’s affordable homeownership 
program, said Jocelyn Peskin, the 
group’s resource development direc-
tor. The program partners with fami-lies to build them low-cost housing, 
she said. 
The organization partnered with 
Over the Edge, which has set up 
more than 700 similar events inter-
nationally. 
“I’ve been able to go to many 
homes that (Habitat for Humanity 
has) built, it’s a life-changing expe-
rience for those families,” Poe said. People who raise $1,000, nick-
named “edgers,” can dangle off the 
building for ﬁ  ve to 15 minutes, Pe-
skin said.
The organization’s fundraising 
goal is $30,000, but so far they only 
have half, she said. 
Poe will rappel at 1:30 p.m., and 
city commissioners Helen Warren 
and Harvey Ward will go at noon. A total of 36 people will rappel.
First Magnitude Brewing will also 
be at the event with a beer tasting 
tent and KISS 105.3 with music and 
a live broadcast, Peskin said. 
“The need in Alachua County for 
affordable housing is so great,” Pes-
kin said. “We work towards perma-
nent solutions to affordable housing 
every day.”Mayor, commissioners to be suspended oﬀ   building for fundraiserABOUT 70 PEOPLE 
SPOKE AT 
THE MEETING.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents made 
it clear they don’t want the 
current affordable housing 
amendment on the table.
Thursday night the 
Gainesville City Commission 
held a special meeting where 
commissioners voted unani-
mously to take no action on 
the gnvRISE proposal and 
scheduled another community 
workshop for next year.
The amendment, which has 
been delayed for ﬁ  ve months 
already, would have allowed 
for affordable housing units 
to be built into neighborhoods across the city. It was present-
ed to the City Commission to 
consider if the plan would be 
reviewed by the state.
For more than six hours, 
about 70 Gainesville residents 
expressed either their support 
or concern for the proposal.
A large majority of the 
speakers expressed strong op-
position toward the amend-
ment because of a lack of local 
outreach, disruptive construc-
tion in single-family neighbor-
hoods and an inﬂ  ux of prop-
erty managers buying houses 
to rent to students.
Florida law mandates that 
any adjustment made to a 
comprehensive plan must be 
sent to Tallahassee and given 
permission to make the chang-
es, said City Commissioner City commission takes 
no action on aﬀ  ordable 
housing proposal
SEE HOUSING,  PAGE 4FEATURE FRIDAYT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance presents “Agbedidi,”  
Friday – Sunday
UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance presents its annual pro-
duction of “Agbedidi,” which 
offers a unique fusion of dance 
cultures to the university and 
Gainesville community. This 
concert will continue the ex-
ploration of the fusion between 
traditional West African dance 
and contemporary dance. This 
year’s “Agbedidi” features works 
by Augusto Soledade, Trent D. 
Williams, Jr. and Mohamed 
DaCosta. Tickets are $14 for UF 
students, $16 for UF faculty and 
staff, $16 for seniors and $20 for 
the general public. Tickets can 
be purchased either in person at 
the University Box Office at Gate 
1 of the O’Connell Center or on-
line at Ticketmaster.
The 1975 Listening Party
Celebrate the release of 
The 1975’s new album “A 
Brief Inquiry Into Online 
Relationships” at 4-6 p.m. at Hear 
Again Records, at 201 SE First St. 
Suite 105. It is one of 31 official 
UMusic Experience listening par-
ties in the country. Attendees 
will receive a limited-edition 
poster and be able to enter to win 
a limited edition “A Brief Inquiry 
Into Online Relationships” mani-
festo package. Vinyl copies of 
“A Brief Inquiry Into Online 
Relationships” will be avail-
able for purchase at Hear Again 
Records. Note: The 1975 will not 
be in attendance.
Florida Museum to host 20th an-
nual ‘Trashformations’ event
See how Alachua County middle 
school, high school and college 
students transform “waste” into 
creative works of art at 6-8 p.m. 
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will display winning 
entries from the 20th annual 
Trashformations through Dec. 
10. 
Gay Movie Night 
The Pride Community Center, at 
3131 NW 13th St., is hosting Gay 
Movie Night at 7:30 p.m. This 
month the center will be show-
ing “Call Me By Your Name.” 
The movie is set during the sum-
mer of 1983 in Italy, and Elio, 
played by Timothée Chalamet, a precocious 17-year-old, spends 
his days in his family’s villa 
transcribing and playing classi-
cal music, and reading and flirt-
ing with his friend Marzia. One 
day, Oliver, played by Armie 
Hammer, a charming American 
scholar, arrives as the annual 
summer intern tasked with help-
ing Elio’s father, an eminent pro-
fessor. Gay Movie Night is on 
the last Friday of every month 
and is a free service of the Pride 
Community Center. A $2 dona-
tion is requested to help cover 
the cost of snacks.
GatorNights - Snow Place Like 
The Reitz
At GatorNights this week, stu-
dents can sing along to merry 
tunes at the Falala Capella 
Winter Concert in the Grand 
Ballroom. They can also go to 
the Amphitheatre to catch the 
showing of “The Polar Express” 
or create a festive masterpiece at 
the final painting class of the se-
mester.  Create a sock snowman, 
holiday ornament, mini yarn 
hat craft and photo snow globe. 
Students can give thanks to vet-
erans and active military mem-
bers during this holiday season 
by writing thank you cards in the 
Global Coffeehouse. There will 
also be free bowling and billiards 
in the Game Room and pizza at 
Midnight Munchies. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always free 
for UF students with their Gator 
1 Card at the Reitz Union from 
8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Attendees must 
be current students to participate 
and are allowed to bring a guest. 
SATURDAY
Sixth Annual Little Run on the 
Prairie
The Little Run on the Prairie 
5K is a trail run from 7 a.m. to 
noon at Paynes Prairie Preserve 
State Park. It is a community- 
and family-orientated event. 
Alachua County 4-H with 
Florida Food Smart Family 
Grant is offering a run club in 
preparation for the event. The 
money raised through the event 
goes toward 4-H summer camp 
scholarships. Early entry is $30 
for adults 19 and over. The 
youth entry fee is $20 for 18 and 
under. Day of the race entry fee 
is $35. Tickets can be found at 
LittleRunonthePraire.itsyour-
race.com. 
Language Science at the CadeThe Cade Museum will host dis-
plays and activities by UF’s de-
partments of linguistics, Spanish 
and Portuguese studies from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. at the museum, 
at 811 South Main St. They will 
explore the science of language, 
including human and animal 
communication, brain and lan-
guage illusions, word puzzles 
and even cracking the code of 
sounds. Entry fee includes oth-
er Cade exhibits and activities. 
General tickets cost $12.50, stu-
dent tickets cost $10 and youth 
tickets cost $7.50. 
MORE
Looking for artists and performers
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting art-
ists, artisans and performers 
for SoulMakes, an immersive 
art show and holiday market, 
at 1-6 p.m. Dec. 9 at Cypress 
and Grove. DreamQuilt will be 
accepting performers for the 
show up to today. All types of 
artists are welcome, and pre-
senting artists are encouraged 
to do demonstrations, talk with 
guests and work on projects 
in the space. Participants and 
guests interact in an open, cre-
ative environment blending dif-
ferent forms of art, including a 
collaborative canvas and collage 
workshops. Current students 
may apply to show their work 
for free. To sell art or craft items, 
a booth fee of $15 (student rate) 
applies. Learn more by emailing 
booking@dreamquilt.org or tex-
ting 352-872-2620.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.HIGH  74° LOW  58°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 40
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Lokela Blanc,
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan Salguero, Annika SefferMikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
IT COS $520 TO EXPAND THE 
PRINTING NETWORK.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government has expanded free 
printing to the other side of campus.
Students can now print for free on the 
second ﬂ  oor of Fiﬁ  eld Hall above the build-ing’s main entrance, Student Body President 
Ian Green wrote in an email. Each print 
made from the printer will count toward the 
250-page allotment each student is granted 
at SG print locations each semester.
SG footed the $520 bill to expand the net-
work necessary for printing to the new loca-
tion, Green said. The long-term cost of oper-
ating the printer is not yet known.
There is no attendant at the printer like there is at the printers in the basement of 
the Reitz Union, Green said. The IT staff in 
Fiﬁ  eld will restock paper and service the 
printer as needed.
“We saw there was a gap in the map that 
we could ﬁ  ll,” Green said. “Many students 
have class and labs in Fiﬁ  eld and the sur-
rounding buildings so we wanted to make it 
easier for them to access their 250 free prints 
per semester.”The new printer in Fiﬁ  eld Hall will save 
Alisa Smovzhenko, a 20-year-old UF botany 
junior, a trip to the Reitz Union because she 
takes many of her classes in Fiﬁ  eld Hall.
“I think it will be useful,” Smovzhenko 
said. “I haven’t heard of anybody using it 
yet, so it just needs a little more publicity.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgFree printing expanded to another campus location
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
T aking advantage of cold night shelter services provided by St. Francis House, Ron Hamer, 64, brings 
his belongings inside for the evening. Hamer has been living on the streets of Gainesville for the 
last three weeks and is trying to save money for an apartment. In the past, Hamer received medical 
assistance for management of pain due to spinal stenosis and found himself addicted to the opioids 
used in his treatment. Hamer has been clean for the past six years, he declared proudly.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
A sign aims to inspire those who pass through the doors at St. Francis 
House in downtown Gainesville. The shelter provided cold night 
services, including blankets and hot meals, on Wednesday when the 
temperatures dipped into the low 30s.
By Nicole Bowen
Alligator Contributing writer
Anyone riding a bike through 
campus with their hair blowing in 
the wind can pick up a free helmet 
from University Police. 
Cyclists can stop by the UPD 
Community Services Division of-ﬁ  ce, at 1515 Museum Road, from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. to get a free helmet, 
said UPD Sgt. Tim Peck.
Even though bicycle crashes 
are not common at UF, people can 
suffer serious head trauma when 
they do occur, Peck said. The de-
partment began the initiative a 
couple years ago and continuously restocks helmets. The latest restock 
was Nov. 19.
Peck said he remembers when 
a young man crashed while riding 
his bike and woke up in UF Health 
Shands Hospital with no recollec-
tion of what happened. He was not 
wearing a helmet.
“We can ﬁ  x anything — six bro-ken bones, no problem,” Peck said. 
“But we can’t ﬁ  x the brain.” 
The helmets are funded by a 
grant from the Florida Pedestrian 
and Bicycling Safety Resource Cen-
ter, Peck said.  
Samantha Cassino, a 19-year-
old UF sustainability studies soph-
omore, picked up a helmet Tues-day after leaving her biology class. 
Helmet prices have stopped 
Cassino back from buying one, so 
she has been riding to class with-
out one since her freshman year, 
she said. 
“I am really grateful that UFPD 
is doing this because it can literally 
save lives,” Cassino said. UPD restocked free helmets. Here’s where to get one.With dropping temperatures, the homeless ﬁ  nd warm shelter4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018By Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer
A yellow sponge in square pants 
helped Adamu Pastor learn English 
as a child in Cameroon. 
When the 21-year-old UF bio-
chemistry junior scrolled through 
Instagram Wednesday night, he 
said he was shocked to learn that 
Stephen Hillenburg, the creator of 
“SpongeBob SquarePants,” died 
Monday.“I was hurt 
because I grew 
up watching it,” 
Pastor said.
Hillenburg  
died at the age 
of 57 from Lou 
Gehrig’s disease, 
or ALS, which is 
a neurological disease that dam-
ages nerve cells, according to the 
Associated Press. He announced 
his ALS diagnosis in March 2017. In 1999, Hillenburg created, 
produced and directed the Nick-
elodeon show. What started as a 
children’s show grew to two mov-
ies and a broadway show, which 
earned 12 Tony Award nomina-
tions in 2017, according to the As-
sociated Press.
Almost 20 years after the 
show’s debut, memes created from 
screenshots of SpongeBob scenes 
fill Twitter timelines and Facebook 
newsfeeds. Megan Thermes, a 21-year-old 
UF tourism, event and recreation 
management senior, said she 
counted down the minutes with 
her sisters until the “Best Day 
Ever” episode premiered in 2006. 
Years later, she said she and her 
sisters still remember the song to-
day. 
“I think it’s cool that now you 
can bring up a SpongeBob quote 
to anybody, and everybody kind of 
knows what episode you’re talking about,” she said.
Ian Fennessy, an 18-year-old UF 
economics freshman, said he still 
fears DoodleBob, the villain from 
his favorite episode. 
Like Stan Lee, who died Nov. 
12, Hillenburg influenced the child-
hoods of a generation, Fennessy 
said.
“He shaped Nickelodeon to 
what it is today,” Fennessy said. Creator of ‘SpongeBob SquarePants,’ Stephen Hillenburg, dies at 57  
dents who have taken his classes and go on 
to take positions in communications and be 
successful.”
Days before he died, Renkus was still lec-
turing and playing tennis, Irani said.
“Even despite having cancer, he never let 
it get him down,” Irani said.
Since Renkus was initially diagnosed, Ira-
ni said she and her brother had a goal to al-
ways be together on the tennis court. For the 
past three years, the siblings would play a 
match and sit on the side of the court to chat. 
Irani said that if Renkus were still here to 
talk to his students, he would tell them not 
to worry.
“He would say they shouldn’t be sad,” 
Irani said. “They should be proud of the fact 
that they are in the communications profes-
sion and can go out there and be communi-
cators.”
For the rest of the semester, David Os-
troff, the UF telecommunication department 
chair, will teach Renkus’ course. 
For the past 15 years, Ostroff has known 
Renkus as a post-doctoral student, teaching 
assistant, professor and friend. Ostroff said the passion and interest Renkus brought to 
his courses were impressive, as large lectures 
aren’t always the most enjoyable to teach.
The legacy Renkus left at UF for students 
is the impact of the knowledge and informa-
tion he taught that will further the success 
of their careers down the road, Ostroff said.
Ostroff was shocked when Renkus died. 
Although aware that Renkus was very sick, 
he didn’t expect him to pass away so sud-
denly.
“I knew he had been ill,” Ostroff said. 
“But I was very, very surprised to find out he 
had passed away so quickly.”
A week prior to Renkus’ death, Jackie 
Bragano, a 22-year-old UF marketing senior, 
received an email that said Renkus would no 
longer be teaching her introduction to media 
industries and professions course. 
The atmosphere in class won’t be the 
same without Renkus’ dry humor and intel-
lectual commentary, Bragano said. 
“He really kind of inspired me because 
of how well he knew the material,” Bragano 
said. “You could tell he knew what he was 
teaching.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgOBITUARY,  from pg. 1He was 62 years old.
Courtesy to The Alligator
William “Bill” Renkus at about 40 years old. The UF telecommunication professor 
died of cancer two weeks ago. 
Hillenburg
Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff
Andrew Persons, a Gainesville city planner, and Wendy Thomas, the city’s 
director of the Department of Doing, present information on gnvRISE affordable 
housing program at the beginning of a six-hour meeting Thursday night.
David Arreola.
Although the amendment received heavy 
backlash from residents during the meeting, 
Arreola stressed that those working on the 
plan care about the affordable housing issues 
at hand and wanted to start a conversation 
in the area.
“I would like to see the Gainesville com-
munity come together to take seriously the 
issues that have been brought up,” Arreola 
said. “The city is growing and there’s no way 
around that.”
Wendy Thomas, the director of the city of 
Gainesville’s Department of Doing, present-
ed the gnvRISE proposal during the meeting. 
She said the city has held three meetings 
for ordinances, implementations and open 
houses to allow the community to express 
their feelings on the plan.
“This, to me, is a step in moving forward 
in the healing process in this community,” 
Thomas said.
Implementing gnvRISE would not result 
in an increase in large apartment buildings 
in single-family zoning or off-site building of 
affordable housing, said Andrew Persons, a 
city planner.
The affordable housing debate dates back 
to the first zoning code set in Gainesville in 
1942, said Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. 
The community must consider the institu-
tional decisions from the past as a means to improve housing.
“We did not get here by accident, and it 
will only be changed by deliberate action 
through our community,” Poe said during 
the meeting. 
There are better ways to address housing 
problems with other community members, 
said Jean Chalmers, a former Gainesville 
mayor in the 1980s and a realtor. It’s a plan 
that didn’t include the community and needs 
to be thrown out.
“We were never asked,” Chalmers said. 
“We were never given the opportunity. We 
were never told.”
Using money from wealthy developments 
to rehabilitate abandoned homes or planning 
more closely with the community and im-
proving energy efficiency are ways to make 
housing more affordable down the road, 
Chalmers said.
There’s more to the plan than just afford-
able housing, said Andrew Coffey, a real es-
tate attorney and Gainesville resident. The 
proposal also creates the flexibility for better 
forms of development by adjusting its stan-
dards.
“We don’t often get to see government 
use something really innovative,” Coffey 
said. “Regardless of the outcome, we should 
encourage city staff to continue doing inno-
vating things like this.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgHOUSING,  from pg. 1 The meeting lasted more than six hours.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
12 NW 7TH  TERR.
Professional
Tattoo & Piercing
Services
352-872-5655
Good for 2018-2019 School YearTattoo &  Piercing
Free upgrade on piercing  
with this ad. All services  
on our piercings free
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
A man tried to use his body 
to prevent police from 
entering his home, where 
police say several drugs and 
weapons were inside.
Sean Michael Acree, 34, 
of Gainesville, was accused 
of possessing drugs and 
weapons in a residence on 
the 3700 block of Northwest 
45th Street Tuesday afternoon, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report.
An Alachua County Drug Task Force agent 
responded to a search warrant, the report said. 
An Alachua County SWAT team also came.
When SWAT deputies approached the 
house, they saw Acree standing at the en-
trance, the report said. A sergeant told Acree 
to lie face down on the ground, but he refused.
Acree kneeled and used his body to prevent SWAT members from entering, the report said. 
The sergeant moved Acree from the entrance 
and told him to crawl to a nearby lieutenant.
“F--- you, I’m not crawling anywhere,” 
Acree said, according to the report.
The lieutenant grabbed him by the arm, but 
Acree pulled away, the report said.  
Ofﬁ  cers found a spoon with residue, about 
one and a half grams of marijuana and ammu-
nition in his bedroom, the report said. Needles 
indicating narcotic use were also found.
A witness saw people inject heroin inside 
the residence, the report said. 
Acree was convicted of grand theft in No-
vember 2010, according to court records. He 
is charged with possessing drug paraphernalia 
and maintaining a drug dwelling. 
He is being held within the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $36,000 bond.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Man accused of possessing dangerous drugsAll Stories By Alyssa Ramos   |   Alligator Staff Writer
HIS BOND IS POSTED AT 
$750,000.
A man was arrest-
ed Wednesday night 
for molesting two 
children he babysat in 
October, police said. 
Alexander  
Cain Abele, 19, of 
Gainesville, was ac-
cused of molestation 
after his neighbor caught him last month 
with one of her three children, according 
to a Gainesville Police arrest report. 
Abele came to visit the residence, at 
the 500 block of Northwest eighth Ave, 
to play video games, the report said. He 
took one of the children inside of a room 
and locked the door. The mother asked one of her other 
children to knock on the door, but Abele 
yelled to go away, police said. The moth-
er later saw Abele kissing the child. 
During an interview with the Child 
Advocacy Center, the child said Abele 
wanted a “long kiss,” the report said. 
The child said she did this multiple times 
in the past so Abele wouldn’t get mad 
at her. 
Another child said Abele touched her 
inappropriately, the report said.  
Abele later admitted to taking advan-
tage of the children, the report said. 
Abele is charged with sexual battery 
and lewd and lascivious molestation, 
the report said. He is being held in the 
Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $750,000 
bond.Man arrested for molesting two children
HE HAS BEEN TRESPASSING 
ON CAMPUS FOR AT LEAST 8 
YEARS.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police are looking for a se-rial thief after he struck again Monday. 
James William McCray, 38, is accused 
of taking a laptop at Weimer Hall, accord-
ing to University Police. 
Police recognized McCray on security 
footage and ﬁ  led a warrant for his arrest, 
said UPD Lt. Jeff Moran. McCray has tres-
passed multiple times on campus within 
the last eight years and was arrested for theft and burglary.  
McCray is known to target libraries 
and steal laptops, computer equipment 
and phones, Moran said. 
“He’s not really a stranger to us,” Mo-
ran said. 
Daron Dean, a UF photojournalism 
adjunct professor, called police after he 
noticed his $3,300 Macbook Pro was missing from his classroom, said UPD 
spokesperson Major Brad Barber.
Dean left his classroom unlocked for 
about 10 minutes Monday morning to get 
coffee. When he came back, the laptop 
was gone. 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org UPD releases name of suspected Weimer Hall bandit  Abele
Acree
THE MAN IS A FELON.Man charged with stealing a car from UF Health lot, police said
ITEMS COSTING OVER $6,000 
WERE FOUND IN THE CAR
A man was arrested Wednesday morn-
ing for driving away with a woman’s car 
last month, police said. 
Ronald Eugene Ramos, 56, of Gainesville, 
was accused of grand theft after a warrant 
was ﬁ  led for his arrest, according to a Uni-versity Police sworn com-
plaint afﬁ  davit. 
Ramos is accused of 
stealing a woman’s car at 
the UF Health Orthopae-
dics and Sports Medicine 
Institute on Hull Road, 
the complaint said.
The woman called po-
lice when the valet couldn’t ﬁ  nd her car, ac-cording to police. 
She was missing her hearing aids, key 
chain, cash, three gold chain bracelets, sun-
glasses and credit cards valued at more than 
$6,400, the report said. 
A week later, Florida Highway Patrol 
troopers found the car at 4331 SW 68th Ter-
race, which is less than a mile away from 
Ramos’ residence, according to the report.
Witnesses later identiﬁ  ed Ramos in a photo lineup, police said. Ramos told a wit-
ness that the car belonged to his ex-wife.
Ramos is charged with grand theft auto 
and grand theft valued at more than $5,000. 
He is held at the Alachua County Jail and 
his bail is not posted. 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Ramos
McCray
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORA sense of nostalgia washes over you as you ﬂ  ip through 
your course syllabus. Seeing each old entry for past 
classes is like a punch to the gut. You ﬂ  ashback to 
artiﬁ  cial laughs at your professor’s corny puns. They 
weren’t quite comedy gold but more of a bland maize 
color. Your mind is called back to the material you wished you 
would be tested on again but never will be. You shed a single 
tear. The salty drop of sadness blots and distorts the ink, warp-
ing the rules you had been so intimidated by at the beginning 
of the semester.
You pause and wipe away a second tear. You start to re-
member the bad things about the class too. Now the rose-
colored glasses crack: You had to carry a boulder of a textbook 
around for the course. You basically did your entire group 
project by yourself. The classroom was slightly too cold. In 
your rush to get to class, you once stepped in dog poop.
You wonder if any of your courses next semester will be 
as fulﬁ  lling, even if they’re frustrating. Rest assured, you can 
always supplement with weekly installments of…
Darts & Laurels
Neon rainbow-colored hair. Face tattoos. Rapping. Bluster. 
Bravado. Massive amounts of brilliant bling that shone with the 
intensity of a mid-sized star. Rapper 6ix9ine, whose legal name is 
Daniel Hernandez, seemed to be making great strides in the rap 
game with 15 million followers on SoundCloud and Instagram. 
His success was almost guaranteed as a talented rapper with a 
digital presence. His debut single, “Gummo,” quickly went plati-
num, reaching No. 12 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.
He was arrested on federal racketeering charges. The gang po-
lice say he is involved with brought him into a world of trouble, 
including narcotics trafﬁ  cking, shootings and robberies. He was 
also put on probation after pleading guilty to using a child in a 
sexual performance. A dart to Hernandez for some unwholesome 
rap behavior. Doesn’t he know you can make “gangsta rap” with-
out being a real gangster? Laurels to all celebrity rappers who do 
not get arrested on racketeering charges, like Pitbull, Will Smith 
and MC Hammer. You can go ahead and give yourself a dart if 
you didn’t know MC Hammer was once part of a Christian rap 
group named Holy Ghost Boys, a name that brings a whole new 
meaning to “U Can’t Touch This.”
In national news, President Donald Trump’s former personal 
lawyer, Michael Cohen, made a plea deal and is now cooperat-
ing with special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigative team. The 
investigation is starting to inch ever closer to the president, with 
his ﬁ  nancial dealings in Russia in the rapidly closing storm’s eye. 
Trump claimed he had no business dealings with Russia during 
his candidacy, but Cohen’s account now starkly contradicts that. 
Cohen’s cooperation personally implicates the president. We 
award a laurel to Cohen for taking a plea deal instead of going 
down with a sinking ship. A dart to lawmakers in Washington 
who, again, blocked legislative efforts to protect the special coun-
sel investigation. It’s producing results and getting indictments, 
and it needs to be protected now more than ever.
In uplifting news, we have a brilliant lineup of laurels to cap 
off the semester.
A laurel to Sustainable UF for handing out free coffee, pas-
tries and fruit to students and faculty who participated in “Bike to 
Campus Day.” One struggles to ﬁ  nd a downside to using bicycles 
to get around. Thighs and glutes of titanium coupled with a low 
carbon footprint sound like a good deal to us.
A laurel to St. Francis House and Grace Marketplace, two 
shelters opening up their doors to those without a warm place to 
sleep as temperatures begin to plummet approaching December.
A ﬁ  nal laurel to Austin Decker and the Gainesville commu-
nity, which banded together to raise money for Wyatt Fulghum, a 
23-year-old UF international relations masters student, who was 
recently diagnosed with stage four glioblastoma brain cancer. 
Decker had the brilliant idea to use a bar crawl to raise the funds, 
using a good night out for a good cause.
I’ll just go ahead and say it. The Student Body 
president’s latest column Wednesday seemed 
pretty impressive (albeit bland). 
If you missed it, like I did until I realized I 
had to ﬁ  nd something to write my column on, 
it’s basically a recap of everything that has been 
done this year.
Superﬁ  cially, it looks pretty good. I mean, I 
suppose anything looks pretty good after the pre-
vious administration set standards lower than my 
GPA. I really suppose any subsequent Student 
Body president who didn’t get arrested would 
have been doing pretty well, relatively. (First year students, 
Google “Smith Meyers arrest” if you don’t know what I’m 
talking about. Try not to laugh, then try not to cry.)
OK but onto substance, or perhaps, lack of substance. 
There are a dozen things for me to write about for this col-
umn, but I guess I’ll just go until I run out of words.
Free Student Government printing in Fiﬁ  eld Hall. Not ex-
actly my ﬁ  rst choice for an SG printing station, but I guess 
that’s an accomplishment. You know how much it cost? 
$520. That’s some real impressive stuff. I mean, it’s great 
and all, but where’s the free printing in the libraries? In New-
ell? In the residence halls? It ain’t easy (clearly), but I know 
we’ve tried in the past; SG should make it clear to students 
why free printing in these locations isn’t a reality yet.
Next up is the all-access pass to the Aly Raisman show. 
The column mentions students “chosen” to be able to meet 
Raisman. How did that work? I certainly hope it wasn’t 
just the addition of the four VIP passes that Accent Speaker 
Bureau hid in two locations on campus the day before the 
event. Not exactly brag-worthy but I’m sure other people 
were “chosen” too, as usual. Typically, as the photos show, 
it’s just SG folks (more than the deserving Accent folks) in 
the meet and greets, plus some students from groups related 
to the speaker’s ﬁ  eld. I’m just not impressed. Maybe I would 
have been if we were a bit more transparent about the pro-
cess.
Next up are two agencies the Student Body president created to provide us with “incredible program-
ming.”
First are the class councils, which ambitiously 
aim to increase class cohesion and get more stu-
dents to donate so our ranking goes up. The pres-
ident only attributes the #WearBlue campaign for 
the “Lousiana” State University game to the class 
councils when that was just SG riding off the coat-
tails of our head coach. The only thing I got out 
of that paragraph was that someone somewhere 
didn’t use spell check. Actual programming that 
corresponds to our classes has yet to be executed, 
to the best of my knowledge. 
Next is Bridges Minority Outreach Program, meant to 
help provide high school students with mentors and ap-
parently “free visitation days.” All the president says is that 
we’re proud to partner with six high schools from across the 
state. Now I don’t mean to turn on my dad-level roast mode 
here, but does that mean we’re currently helping six high 
schools then? What do free visitation days even mean? Like, 
it’s pretty free for someone to just walk onto campus these 
days. Does it mean we’re facilitating travel? Hotel? This is 
good stuff here, potentially, and I don’t know why we’re so 
tight-lipped about it.
Finally (since I’m getting close to that word limit), is 
SG’s diversity programming committee, comprised of dif-
ferent cultural organizations’ presidents and some executive 
branch ofﬁ  cials. Basically, it’s for SG to hopefully get a better 
sense of who to bring in for shows. But yeah, that committee 
has been in existence for a while so I wouldn’t say SG should 
be credited for just having meetings — rather that we should 
value the tangible programming that comes about from these 
meetings, which we are given no details about. Pity.
It’s easy to say “we’re doing this and that,” but I encour-
age you to take a closer look at what’s been promised in the 
past compared to what’s going on right now and what you 
aren’t being told about.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column appears on Fridays. One senator’s rebuke to the Student Body president 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The teaser trailer for the movie 
“After” caught my eye but not 
for the right reasons. 
According to the trailer, 
“after your ﬁ  rst, life will never 
be the same,” which would be true 
if it was referring to your ﬁ  rst dog, 
ﬁ  rst child or some other life-altering 
event. But no, it’s talking about los-
ing your virginity.   
The trailer paints the picture of a young girl 
whose existence changes forever after falling in 
love with some stereotypical bad boy. Through 
many context clues in the short two-minute 
trailer, we can assume the main character is a 
virgin and nothing is the same for her after hav-
ing sex. Because the movie isn’t out yet, I won’t 
speciﬁ  cally call it out, but the theme behind this 
trailer is one we should not endorse.
The idea that virginity is a deﬁ  ning charac-
teristic is harmful both to people who choose 
to have sex and those who choose to wait. This 
may be a shocker, but there is so much more to 
a person than his or her virginity status. Cre-
ating such a monumental energy around losing 
one’s virginity gives young minds the wrong im-
pression. 
Under the current idea, if someone loses his 
or her virginity, they change into a different per-
son. If someone doesn’t want to lose it, they are 
seen as prudish and simple-minded. Virginity is 
a way for people to wrongly categorize others 
into two groups: virgin and non-virgin. And for 
such a personal choice, the decision seems to be highly inﬂ  uenced by outsiders’ per-
ceptions.
Even the phrase “losing your vir-
ginity” implies that once you do the 
deed, you’ve lost something. This 
simply is not the case. The present 
language around virginity brain-
washes people into the misconcep-
tion that virginity signiﬁ  es something 
exceedingly crucial about a person. 
It is branded into a person’s identity, and once 
they lose it, they’ll never get that deﬁ  ning fea-
ture back. 
Perhaps it might be more meaningful to teach 
the youth that whether or not they choose to 
keep their virginity doesn’t really matter. Why? 
Because virginity should have less to do with 
others’ insight and more to do with an individ-
ual’s choice. 
Of course, this lesson will be hard to teach 
with the media’s constant depiction of virgins 
versus non-virgins. It would be helpful to see 
language in movies and television shows that 
doesn’t treat virgins as if they are fragile, help-
less beings and also doesn’t portray non-virgins 
as unbreakable heroes who look down on every-
one else who hasn’t “got some.”
Addressing this virginity stigma may be one 
place to start and respecting someone’s decision 
to keep his or her virginity or not can help us 
move away from virginity gloriﬁ  cation. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.We should quit obsessing over virginityColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Two unusual and explicit protests on 
Turlington Plaza have raised eye-
brows this semester. First, the plaza 
was covered in gruesome and gory 
images of aborted fetuses and other 
such things as part of an anti-abortion pro-
test. Not long after, anti-circumcision pro-
testers swept through Turlington Plaza, car-
rying blunt signs like “Nobody wants less 
penis.” For many, these kinds of images 
and chants aren’t what they want to see and 
hear when they’re just trying to get to class 
on time. But not only are such protests le-
gally protected, they are also necessary to 
encourage free speech and free expression 
on campus.
Turlington Plaza is usually seen as the 
worst offender in regard to annoying speak-
ers and other types of people seeking to 
give out a message and with good reason. 
Until earlier this year, Turlington Plaza and 
Plaza of the Americas were designated as 
UF’s “free speech zones,” which were desig-
nated speciﬁ  cally for displays of free speech 
like protests and promotions. However, in 
March 2018, Gov. Rick Scott signed into law the Campus Free Expression Act 
as part of the Florida Excellence 
in Higher Education Act of 2018, 
which banned the so-called free 
speech zones on college campuses 
and opened up other outdoor ar-
eas to student protests and expres-
sion. While pamphlets can now be 
passed out and signs displayed on 
other parts of campus, Turlington 
Plaza remains the center for such activity.
However, beyond the legal aspect, there 
is value in having these kinds of protests. 
As a university, and especially as a publicly 
funded university, UF should be open to 
free expression and other uses of the First 
Amendment. This school should always be 
open to different viewpoints and allowing 
each of those different viewpoints a chance 
to present their argument. And this goes 
both ways too: When white nationalist Rich-
ard Spencer came to speak at UF last year, 
he had the right to do so and express his 
opinion, just as the mass of protestors who 
shouted Spencer down and forced him to 
end his speech 25 minutes early had a right to express their opinion. Freedom 
of speech also means freedom for 
people to respond to your speech 
with their own speech. 
Speech isn’t and shouldn’t be 
unrestricted, however. In case 
this wasn’t obvious, speech and 
counter-speech should never de-
volve into violence. Furthermore, 
speakers should never incite vio-
lence, harass and insult individual students, 
or disrupt university activity (such as inter-
rupting class or preventing students from 
getting to where they need to go). Thank-
fully, most of that is covered by the Campus 
Free Expression Act, which recognized the 
limits of free speech while also expanding 
speech to other parts of campus. That said, 
one section of the law did raise concerns for 
me, and could become an issue should an-
other Richard Spencer-like event happen at 
UF. One section of the act states that “Stu-
dents, faculty, or staff … may not materially 
disrupt previously scheduled or reserved 
activities on campus occurring at the same 
time,” with those that do being subject to a lawsuit and possible damages. While pre-
venting university ofﬁ  cials from blocking a 
person’s right to free speech is completely 
justiﬁ  ed, preventing students and faculty 
from "disrupting" speech is not so justiﬁ  ed. 
Again, free speech does not mean no one 
can respond to your speech, and I fear that 
if that law had been in place when Spen-
cer came to UF, the students who shouted 
Spencer down could have led to Spencer and 
his group suing UF and winning damages for 
their speech being disrupted. That’s if those 
students would be allowed to shout at all. 
Kara Gross of the American Civil Liberties 
Union expressed fears that the bill would 
incentivize colleges and universities to shut 
down and block speech to avoid lawsuits 
if the protests are too loud. In the end, a 
balance needs to be achieved between free 
speech, university functions and the right 
to protest. Until then, we should use all the 
rights available to us to push for better legis-
lation that would achieve that balance.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column normally appears on Mondays.Free speech at UF should be protected but not without reasonable limits  Column
After weeks of warn-
ing, the migrant 
caravan ﬁ  nally 
made it to the U.S.-
Mexico border in 
Tijuana on Sunday. The so-
called caravan is comprised 
of thousands of migrants, 
about half of whom are 
women and girls, traveling 
from a number of Central 
American countries with hope of re-
ceiving asylum in the United States.
Unfortunately, these asylum seekers 
were not welcomed by the land of the 
free with open arms. Instead, as groups 
attempted to pass over the border, U.S. 
Border Patrol agents ﬁ  red tear gas and 
rubber bullets at them. The gas spread 
nearly 3,000 feet through a crowd of 
men, women and children, many of 
whom were peacefully waiting for their 
chance to legally enter the country.
This incident, like most events in 
contemporary American history, has 
the nation divided. Conservatives 
continue to praise the force the patrol 
agents used and to celebrate the event 
as an example of strict border control. 
On the other side, liberals are appalled 
by the lack of morality in this decision, 
expressing outrage over using such 
forceful measures on innocent children 
and peaceful migrants. But should this 
really be a partisan issue? 
The tear gas was reportedly ﬁ  red 
as a response to one or more migrants 
throwing rocks at agents. Firing tear gas 
as a response to violence at the border 
has long been somewhat routine in the 
U.S. It would be foolish to act as though 
tear gas has never been used at the bor-
der before or that it hasn’t been used 
during more liberal administrations. 
In fact, since 2012, tear gas has been 
ﬁ  red at or near the U.S.-Mexico border 
at least 126 times. This means that, yes, 
tear gas was used during the Obama ad-ministration. 
The use of tear gas and 
other methods of force in 
response to violence have 
been used at the border both 
by liberal and conservative 
administrations. Granted, 
the current president does 
have a history of blatant 
racism and a demonstrated 
distaste for immigrants. But, 
for fairness’ sake, we can’t blame the 
incident that happened at the border 
on the president, his administration or 
his empowerment of the far right. We 
can only blame it on our own laws and 
regulations.
The guidelines offered to border 
patrol agents about using “less-lethal 
force,” such as tear gas, are loose and 
open to broad interpretation. Accord-
ing to the handbook of protocols these 
agents receive, this type of force is al-
lowed in “situations where empty-hand 
techniques are not sufﬁ  cient to control 
disorderly or violent subjects,” and if it 
is used, it should be a “reasonable and 
necessary response.” This means that 
the method and degree of force used on 
the border can depend on the agent on 
duty, the time of day, the agent’s mood 
or a myriad of other unrelated factors. 
How is this a fair process?
I argue that if we wish to avoid an-
other atrocity such as the one that oc-
curred Sunday, we need stricter regu-
lation of force on the border. We need 
more rules that outline when and to 
what extent methods like tear gas and 
rubber bullets are allowed. We need 
regulations that would shield innocent 
bystanders, especially the young wom-
en and children who were peaceful ac-
tors. 
Abigail Miller is a UF political sci-
ence and journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Upset about border violence? 
Blame regulations, not presidentsColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Robert DeLong, a 32-year-old electronic musician from Bothell, Washington, 
performs at the High Dive Wednesday night. Local bands Retrolux and King 
Complex opened for DeLong in front of a crowd of about 200 people. 
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Bracher Brown, the singer and guitarist of King Complex, rocks out at the High Dive 
Wednesday night. King Complex opened for electronic musician Robert DeLong as 
part of his latest tour.
DeLong way down:  
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in the Cofrin Nature Park will be renamed after Judy Broward, 
who became a local mental health advocate after her son Brett Bousquet died by suicide. 
JUDY BROWARD LOST 
HER SON TO SUICIDE.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
This April will mark 16 years 
without Judy Broward’s son, 
Brett. 
Brett died by suicide, and 
since then Broward has spent 
the last 15 years trying to change 
the conversation on mental 
health locally. 
On Nov. 17, which is Na-
tional Survivors of Suicide Day, 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
announced that the Survivors of 
Suicide Memory Garden in the 
Cofrin Nature Park would be re-
named in Broward’s honor. 
“Judy Broward is a local com-
munity treasure who never asks 
for recognition for anything,” 
Poe said. 
The park, located at 4810 NW 
Eighth Ave., opened in 2013 and 
is a place for anyone who has 
been affected by suicide to pray, reflect or visit the memory of 
lost loved ones, Poe said.
About 70 people came out to 
the commemoration, which was 
held at night in honor of those 
who commit suicide and the 
people who knew them, Bro-
ward said. 
Broward has served as the 
president of the National Alli-
ance on Mental Illness.
She said she was over-
whelmed by the honor of the 
park being renamed after her. 
She is proud of the impact the 
garden has made on the commu-
nity. People have called her to 
say how much it means to them. 
“Here’s something that can-
not be taken away,” Broward 
said.
Alligator staff writer Dana 
Cassidy contributed to this re-
port. 
 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.org Suicide memory garden to be renamed after mental health advocateElectronic musician from 
Washington performs at High Dive
Electronic musician Robert DeLong, 32, crowd-surfs while 
singing “Long Way Down” at the High Dive Wednesday 
night. The concert was part of DeLong’s 2018 tour to 
promote his new EP “See You In The Future. ”Photo Story by Christopher King
Alligator Staff WriterFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Nov. 1: Jonathan Smith, a 46-year-old 
event coordinator also known as Jock 
Smooth, is accused of shooting some-
one in the chest at the Heart of the 
City Hookah Lounge, at 1221 E Uni-
versity Ave., during a Boosie Badazz 
concert, according to a Gainesville 
Police press release. Smith got away 
before police could arrest him.
Ofﬁ  cers, including Chief T ony Jones, 
were monitoring the concert at the 
time of the shooting. Concert attend-
ees helped police make sure no one 
else was hurt, Jones said in the release.
Nov. 5: The shooting victim was iden-
tiﬁ  ed as Andy Maharaj, GPD spokes-
person Capt. Jorge Campos wrote in 
an email. Maharaj survived his injuries. 
Nov. 8: The Gainesville Fraternal Or-
der of Police, the local police union, 
sent a letter to the city manager and 
the police department disapproving 
of how the department handled the 
Boosie Badazz concert.
Michael Maresca, the union president, 
said the department ignored safety 
concerns leading up to and during the 
rap concert, according to the letter.
Matt Goeckel, the union spokesper-
son, said the event ended later than 
it should have and led to hundreds of 
noise complaints. 
Alcohol was served during the concert 
even though the venue didn’t have a 
permit to sell alcohol and the concert 
was understaffed, Goeckel said. 
Campos said the letter was inﬂ  amma-
tory. 
Nov. 19: Jones sent a letter to Alachua 
County Sheriff Sadie Darnell about 
having to dissolve the GPD SWAT 
team after “some recent departures of 
senior SWAT leadership. ” How a rap concert lead to
GPD SWAT dissolvingTHE RESIGNATIONS FOLLOW THE 
POLICE UNION’S DISAPPROVAL OF 
HOW A SHOOTING WAS HANDLED.  
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Police Department SWAT 
team deactivated last week after four members 
resigned. 
The SWAT team members included a com-
mander and two team leaders, said GPD spokes-
person Capt. Jorge Campos. 
SWAT teams respond to critical incidents that 
require special training in weapons, Campos said. 
Any responses or calls for a SWAT team will be 
referred to the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
“The level of the service for citizens will not 
change,” Campos said
On Nov. 19, GPD Chief Tony Jones asked for 
the Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce’s SWAT team to handle calls 
for high-risk search warrants or critical incidents 
until Jan. 7, according to letters obtained by CBS4 
Gainesville. 
The four ofﬁ  cers are still part of the agency 
and will continue to perform their duties as of-
ﬁ  cers, Campos said. 
The ofﬁ  cers submitted resignation letters cit-
ing personal reasons, but they did not specify 
why they were leaving, Campos said. The agency 
hopes to reactivate the team by January. 
The resignations come after the local police 
union sent a letter to the city manager and the 
police department disapproving of how the de-
partment handled a Nov. 1 concert at Heart of the 
City Hookah Lounge where a person was shot. 
Police union spokesperson Matt Goeckel said 
the union supports the ofﬁ  cers’ decisions to re-
sign. He said some ofﬁ  cers are afraid the admin-
istration may not support them during a critical 
situation. 
“If a group of people feel a certain way, it 
would be a mistake for the administration to 
overlook and minimize it,” Goeckel said. “If you 
wanted to get the pulse of the department, this is 
an indicator.”
Campos, who has been with the agency for 26 
years, said he’s not worried about the resigna-
tions. 
“We fully support our team, and we’re 100 per-
cent committed to getting our team up and run-
ning and getting the resources that they need,” 
he said.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org GPD SWAT team deactivated 
after members resigned
THE EVENT WILL 
START AT 6:30 P .M. TODAY.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Churches across 17 counties 
will ring their bells in unison to-
day in honor of the 344 people on 
death row in Florida. 
St. Patrick Church, at 500 NE 
16th Ave., will host the second 
annual Gainesville Cities for Life 
event at 6:30 p.m., said Deacon 
Lowell “Corky” Hecht, the director 
of the prison ministry for the Dio-
cese of St. Augustine. The event 
will feature three speakers, a Q&A 
and ringing of the bells.  
Cities for Life is an international 
day that calls for the end of the 
death penalty in honor of when 
Italy ended its death penalty on 
Nov. 30, 1786, Hecht said. 
The speakers at the event in-
clude criminal appeals lawyer So-
nya Rudenstine, anti-death penalty 
activist Christine Henderson and 
Herb Donaldson, whose uncle was 
executed and is believed to have 
been innocent, Hecht said.  
Hecht, who has served as a dea-
con for 27 years, has worked with 
the inmates at Florida State Prison, 
Union Correctional and smaller 
prisons around the Catholic district  
for the past two years. He prays 
with inmates, gives them commu-
nion and provides religious books 
for them to read. 
Outgoing Gov. Rick Scott has 
scheduled an execution for Jose 
Jimenez on Dec. 13, Hecht said. Jimenez was convicted of killing a 
Miami woman in 1992, according 
to the Orlando Sentinel. 
Hecht has known men who 
have been executed and has spo-
ken with men in solitary conﬁ  ne-
ment right outside their cell door, 
he said. 
Catholics should stand against 
the death penalty in order to pre-
serve the preciousness of human 
life, he said. 
“It’s extremely hard to rational-
ize why, as a civilized society, we 
do this,” Hecht said.
Abigail Moritz, a 20-year-old 
UF business administration sopho-
more, will volunteer at the demon-
stration by introducing speakers. 
Moritz said the death penalty 
is not talked about as much as it 
should be and more young people 
should get involved. 
“We cannot just rely on older 
generations to take care of things 
for us,” she said. 
Last year, 45 people attended 
the ﬁ  rst Gainesville Cities of Life 
event, Hecht said. He hopes more 
than 100 people attend this year. 
While there will be an opening 
and closing prayer, the event is not 
strictly for Catholics, Hecht said. 
The demonstration will close with 
a candlelighting ceremony.
“When we light these candles, 
it’s like taking ownership for one 
soul, one person,” Hecht said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgSt. Patrick Church to 
ring bells in honor of 
death row inmates
Gainesville
Jacksonville
Tallahassee
Pensacola 
Daytona Beach
Tampa
ClearwaterTotal White Males: 205
Total Black Males: 127
Total Males of Another 
Racial Identity: 9Florida cities participating 
in Cities for Life:Statistics of Florida Death Row Inmates
From the Florida Department of Corrections
By Chris Day
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In assisting communities recovering from 
the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, UF research-
ers have brought an award home. 
The UF-led team of researchers received 
a W.K. Kellogg Foundation Community En-
gagement Scholarship Award on Nov. 11, 
said Andrew Kane, one of the lead investiga-
tors of the project. The group helped coastal residents after the 2010 oil spill that became 
the largest in U.S. history, according to the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration. 
“It’s always nice to have some recogni-
tion, but the pride in accepting these op-
portunities and making a difference in these 
communities has been one of the most re-
warding parts of my career,” said Kane, an 
associate professor in the UF department of 
environmental and global health. The research project, called Healthy Gulf, 
Healthy Communities, was divided into 
three parts: the psychological impact of the 
spill on locals; the resilience of each commu-
nity and why some bounced back faster than 
others; and the impact of ﬁ  shing and coastal 
sea life, said Kane, the lead investigator of 
the inshore seafood safety team. 
This is the ﬁ  rst time UF has been honored 
with the award, said Tom Nordlie, a 56-year-
old special project writer at the UF Institute 
of Food and Agricultural Sciences. 
The project ran from July 2011 to April 
2017 and was funded by a $6.5 million grant from the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences. 
The team was notiﬁ  ed in May that it was 
selected as one of four regional winners, Nor-
dlie said. UF won the award for the southern 
region of the U.S. 
The award included $7,500 to cover travel 
expenses and entrance to another round of 
competition. Remaining funds will be used 
for academic activities, he said. 
“Getting together with a community and 
partnering with them from the very ﬁ  rst step 
is a key aspect to the Kellogg award pro-
gram,” Nordlie said. UF-led team of researchers wins Kellogg award for the ﬁ  rst time  Total White Females: 1
Total Black Females: 2
Total Females of Another 
Racial Identity: 0
Total: 344
The award totaled to $7,500. 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
THE ORGANIZATION 
IS GIVING AWAY 2,000 
BICYCLE LIGHTS.
By Kaley Whitehead
Alligator Contributing Writer
A nonproﬁ  t is taking over the 
streets with an idea to bridge the 
gap between bicyclists and motor-ists.
After the death of Gainesville 
resident and cyclist Shawn P. 
Smith from injuries after a crash in 
May, according to the Gainesville 
Sun, Gainesville resident Alex 
Khokhlov said he was inspired 
to start the nonproﬁ  t, called Safe 
Gainesville, to improve the at-
titude of commuters on the road 
and give away free bicycle lights.  Safe Gainesville, which started 
in August, is in the process of giv-
ing away 2,000 free bike lights to 
people in need, Khokhlov said. 
Volunteers will also hand out 
educational safety equipment and 
pamphlets to commuters.
The organization is currently 
halfway through handing out its 
ﬁ  rst batch of free bicycle lights. 
The funding comes from dona-tions of about $6,000. Khokhlov 
said the lights are high-quality, 
USB-rechargeable and bright.
“We want to avoid the per-
ception of a bunch of angry cy-
clists that got together because 
they were pissed off at drivers,” 
Khokhlov said. “We really want to 
try to heal the community and cre-
ate a long-term solution.”
There are people who bike miles to go to work and cannot af-
ford a car, said Katelyn Edwards, 
the nonproﬁ  t’s project manager.
“It’s really important to im-
prove the relationship between 
drivers and cyclists because ev-
eryone should be able to feel safe 
while commuting from point A to 
point B,” Edwards said.New Gainesville nonproﬁ  t wants to provide bike safety gearLina Ruiz / Alligator Contributor
Seth Wood, 23, and Lian Plass, 24, the UF urban and regional planning 
graduate students, examine Plass’ bike Wednesday morning on the Plaza of 
the Americas at a “Bike to Campus Day” event that gave bicyclists free food.
THE EVENT COST ABOUT $300.
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Every morning Dylan Ferris rides his red and 
silver bike to class not for the convenience but 
for the exercise.
“It’s like leg day but every day,” said Ferris, an 
18-year-old UF computer engineering freshman.
On Wednesday morning, Ferris and about 30 
other bicyclists came to “Bike to Campus Day” 
on the Plaza of the Americas, an event that hap-
pens each semester. Organizers offered free cof-
fee, fruit, pastries and a bike rack for students, 
faculty and staff to park.
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability supplied about 
$300 for the event to inform people of bike re-
sources.Ferris is part of the more than 9 percent of 
faculty, staff and students who use bikes as their 
main mode of transportation to campus.  
When riding a bike, people should pay atten-
tion and be free of distractions, said University 
Police Ofc. Dianna Ullery. Ullery helped people 
register their bikes in case they were stolen or 
lost.
Organizers like Jacob Adams, the 36-year-old 
UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability ofﬁ  ce manager, gave 
information to students about programs like Gator 
Go: Bikes. This new program helps students pick 
out a bike and accessories, Adams said.
Adams said he commutes to UF on his white 
electric bike.
“We may not get hundreds or thousands more 
people cycling with an event like this, but we 
hope that it provides encouragement to the peo-
ple who do,” Adams said.Sustainable UF hosts day-long celebration for bicyclistsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $575/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, December 11th, 2018 at 11:00 A.M.
Abacus Contracting, LLC.
1008 Loring Avenue, Suite 29
Orange Park, FL 32073
Vehicles: 2004 Chevy Van; 2004 Chevy Van; 
2010 Chevy Silverado 1500; 2007 Chevy 
Cargo Van; (3) Utility trailers; Dump Trailer; 
Caterpillar LPG Cushion Tire Lift Truck; (2) 
Dust Collectors; Power Tools; Warehouse 
Equipment; Electrical Equipment; Jointer 
Planer; Tub Shower Doors; Industrial 
Compressor; Pancake Compressors; Pallet 
Racking; Scaffolding, Office Equipment, 
Furniture, Fixtures and more. 
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 9-11AM. 15%-18% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
# 2018-CA-001211
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS
info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      11-30-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, December 4th, 2018 at 12:00 P.M.
ZH Capital Holdings, LLC.
1883 Marina Mile Blvd. (SR 84), Ste 106
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315
2002 Dodge Ram 1500 Crew Cab Pick-up; 
2003 Mazda 6; 2007 Nissan Murano Sport 
Utility; 2013 Dodge Charger R/T Hemi 
Engine; 2005 VW Beetle Convertible; 2011 
Toyota Camry SE; 2006 BMW 530i 5-Series
Sedan; 2006 Dodge Grand Caravan; 
2014 Dodge Grand Caravan SXT Minivan 
VIN#; 2005 BMW 745 7- Series Sedan.  
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 9-12PM. 15%-18% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#2018-017565-CA-01
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and valid driver’s license.
(800)840-BIDS
info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     11-30-1-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    12-
3-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Hiring PT and FT associates. Must have 
consistent availability including either Sat or 
Sun. each week. Only energetic, positive, 
team minded people please. Apply in person 
only to 1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St.      1-9-19-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-
18-42-15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      11-30-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Get your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
LOSE ONE DRESS SIZE
IN 7 DAYS.
GO TO WEBSITE NOW-
https://1644089.site123.me/      12-5-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
By Dan Margolis
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/30/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/30/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 30, 2018
ACROSS
1 Accommodate
6 “Who, me?”
10 Like many 
Miamians
14 Craft pointed in 
two directions?
15 __-a-brac
16 Bear overhead
17 Not to be 
tolerated
19 Farm feed
20 Pasture moisture
21 One of the two 
most recent  
Pac-12 members
22 Xerxes’ empire
24 Krombacher 
output
25 In __: undisturbed
26 Unruffled
32 Native American 
shelter
33 Polynesian 
carving
34 Waze suggestion: 
Abbr.
35 Flubs
36 Dominate
37 “La Vie en Rose” 
singer
38 Duffer’s dream
39 Final notes
41 Gym wear
43 Potentially 
lifesaving efforts
46 One often paying 
a fee
47 Seagoing 
shortening
48 Stay put
51 Stare slack-jawed
52 Sleeve
55 Like __ of 
sunshine
56 Words before 
entering ... and a 
hint to five puzzle 
answers
59 Beatles song that 
begins, “Is there 
anybody going to 
listen to my story”
60 Exude
61 Like some 
kitchens
62 Charge
63 Old-style “Wow!”
64 Exceedingly
DOWN
1 Stinging
2 Many a “Hamlet” 
character3 Freshly
4 Curse
5 Drink with 
blanco and plata 
varieties
6 Grizzlies, e.g., for 
short
7 “Nor to their idle 
__ doth sight 
appear”: Milton
8 Up to, in ads
9 Chip maker
10 Number needed 
for official 
business
11 Support group?
12 Italian wine 
region
13 Rocket launcher
18 Anger
23 Holder of 
needles
24 Bends over 
forward
25 Newspaper ad 
meas.
26 “Odyssey” 
sorceress
27 Cruel sorts
28 Fighting big-time
29 Beach Boy 
Wilson
30 States overseas
31 Whistle blowers32 Sport
36 Frankfurt’s river
37 McJob holder
39 Mozart’s “__ fan 
tutte”
40 Like pedi-
showing shoes
41 Bus route 
components
42 Stable visitors
44 Veep before 
Gore
45 Let up48 Sitar music
49 Actor La Salle
50 Blemishes
51 Controversial 
Mideast strip
52 Partie d’une 
comédie
53 Destruction
54 Use thread on 
threads, say
57 Monopolize
58 Former hoopster 
__ Ming
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/29/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, November 29, 2018
ACROSS
1 Goat quote
4 Monorail users
9 Driving range 
instructors
13 Central cooling 
systs.
14 Kick
15 She converted 
to Judaism after 
marrying her 
comedy partner
16 Study of a 
portentous 
woodchuck?
18 Opposition group
19 Submits returns 
online
20 Prevents legally
22 Hoppy brew, for 
short
23 Study of tears?
24 Humanities maj.
26 Dash gauge
29 Slovenia 
neighbor, to the 
IOC
30 Player of The 
Bride in “Kill Bill” 
films, familiarly
31 Made a blunder
33 Take suddenly
37 Small store
39 Fuzzy fruit
41 Exercise in a 
studio
42 Android 
operating system 
named for a 
cookie
43 Trusty mount
45 Shaving cream 
type
46 “American 
Experience” 
network
49 Bart’s bus driver
50 Draw upon
51 Study of 
common 
articles?
55 That woman
57 Echo Dot-waking 
words
58 Cornell’s home
61 Others, in Cuba
62 Study of hiking 
choices?
65 Tells all
66 “At the Movies” 
co-host
67 Shepherd’s pie 
piece
68 Craftsy website69 Brother in 
Roman lore
70 Give a darn
DOWN
1 It may have an 
“X”
2 Physical 
discomfort
3 “Whatever!”
4 “Missed your 
chance!”
5 Romeo or Juliet
6 “A Sorta 
Fairytale” singer 
Tori
7 New car stat
8 More timid
9 Study of literary 
tools?
10 7:11, e.g.
11 Circular gasket
12 Impertinent
15 The Masters, e.g.
17 Carmex target
21 MoMA location
23 Puppy plaything
24 Heavyweight 
fight?
25 “Rubáiyát” poet
27 First rescue boat
28 Football Hall of 
Famer Carter
32 Count calories34 Officers who 
follow their own 
code
35 Many months
36 Christian of “The 
Big Short”
38 Study of lids and 
caps?
40 Matching group
44 Throw back 
some Absolut, 
say
47 Sanctify48 Chi __
51 “All __ in favor ... ”
52 Bandleader’s cue
53 Works for
54 Rubbernecker
56 Evil film computer
58 Thing
59 Dead-end sign 
word
60 Screenwriter 
James
63 Wartime prez
64 Veer off course
1.  Grumble
1.  Oversee5.  Nephew’s sister
2.  Framework 6.  Radio part
3.  Ongoing7.  Caulk 
4.  ____ image URTETM
GMAENACENEI
UTREN
ELSTRTE
LTEEARNAREESL
ORMRIRANSWERS: 1A-Mutter  5A-Niece  6A-Tuner  7A-Sealer
1D-Manage  2D-Trestle  3D-Eternal  4D-Mirror  B-Suriname11-30-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the smallest South 
American country (land area).
BONUS
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida offensive lineman Fred 
Johnson was named to the 2018 SEC 
Football Community Service team on 
Wednesday. He has spent nearly 30 
hours volunteering since February.Gators soccer player earns postseason accolades 
Florida midfielder Lais Araujo became a part of the 2018 United Soccer 
Coaches Association All-Southeast Region third team. She was also named 
to the 2018 All-SEC first team. WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
The Florida women’s basketball 
team is off to its worst start in pro-
gram history, losing all six games so 
far. Here are three things to look out 
for as the Gators try to get their sea-
son on track, starting on Sunday when 
they take on Texas Tech:
 
Will the threes fall?
Coach Cam Newbauer has made no 
secret of his affinity for the three-ball 
since taking the job at Florida before 
the start of last season. 
In two of its last three games, Flor-
ida attempted over 30 three-pointers 
and is averaging over 27 attempts per 
game this season.
The problem for Newbauer is his 
team made under 30 percent of them. 
Opponents have made 39 percent on 
just over 20 attempts per game. Those 
two stats will have to change for the 
Gators if they want to pick up some 
momentum. 
Will anybody besides Nakkaso-
glu and Washington step up?
Redshirt senior guard Funda Na-
kkasoglu has been the story of the sea-
son  for Florida. 
She leads the SEC in points per game 
with 20 and is fresh off a 23-point per-
formance against Northeastern. She 
is the first Gator in 16 years to score 
20 or more points in five of the team’s 
first six games. 
Fellow guard Delicia Washington 
hasn’t been too far behind. She's fifth 
in the conference with 17.7 points per 
game.
It has been an offensive black hole 
outside of those two players. Flori-
da’s next leading scorers, guard Kiara 
Smith and forward Zada Williams, av-
erage just 7.7 points per game. 
That gap is clearly too large, and 
the Gators will need to get more pro-
duction out of the rest of their lineup 
if they wish to compete once SEC play Three things Gators need 
to fix before Texas TechThe Lost City of Alanis / Column
We’ve seen this before.
When Ray Rice was captured on 
video knocking his then-girlfriend un-
conscious with one blow to her face, 
the NFL turned a blind eye. 
The image of her body lying limp in 
that elevator wasn’t enough until the 
public saw it.
And the league continues to show 
through its egregiously callous han-
dling of domestic violence cases that it 
truly does not know what to do about men beating 
the life out of women. And frankly, it doesn’t care 
to learn how to properly address the issue.
That’s why the recent news about former San 
Francisco 49ers linebacker Reuben Foster should 
infuriate every decent human being out there, but 
it should surprise no one.
For those of you who haven’t heard, Foster 
was released by the 49ers on Sunday after being 
arrested. Again. This time on charges of domes-
tic violence. And on Wednesday, the Washington 
Redskins claimed Foster off waivers.
Now let’s be clear, part of the beauty of living 
in this country is the ability for (almost) everyone 
who has made mistakes in the past to be given the 
opportunity for a second chance. But let’s take a 
quick look at the timeline of Foster’s off the field 
issues in the past two years: 
Foster was sent home from the NFL Combine in Indianapolis after reportedly get-
ting into an altercation with a hospital 
worker during his medical examina-
tion on March 3, 2017. He also failed 
his drug test. On April 27, the 49ers 
traded up to take him 31st overall in 
the draft. Second chance No. 1.
On Jan. 13, 2018, Foster was arrest-
ed on charges of second-degree mari-
juana possession and later released on 
a $2,500 bond.
Foster was arrested again on Feb. 11 and 
charged with several counts of domestic violence 
for allegedly inflicting bodily harm on his then-
girlfriend. Charges were also for possession of a 
deadly weapon, according to reports. 
In April, his ex-girlfriend’s attorney told police 
that she had lied about being abused by Foster and 
that she had sustained the injuries from a fight 
with another woman. Those charges were dis-
missed in May. 
On July 3, the NFL announced that it would 
suspend Foster for the first two games of the 2018 
season for violating its substance abuse and con-
duct policy. He started for the 49ers on Sept. 23 
against the Kansas City Chiefs.
And most recently came the Nov. 24 arrest on 
domestic violence charges toward the same wom-
an, which caused his release from the 49ers orga-Why did the Redskins sign Reuben Foster?VOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
Sophomore Paige Hammons stood on the black and gold 
logo that brandished regional host UCF’s letters, awaiting the 
serve from Florida State’s Madison Sullivan.
The set from Marlie Monserez went right in Hammons' 
sweet spot, and she blasted a ball that appeared to go too far 
out of bounds. Every FSU player cheered before they realized 
Hammons had fired the shot through the attempted block 
of two Seminoles. Last touch Florida State. Florida’s point. 
Florida wins.
Hammons’ offense helped the UF volleyball team sweep 
in-state rival Florida State 25-21, 25-20, 25-13 in Orlando to 
advance to the second round of the NCAA Volleyball Cham-
pionships. It will face Florida Gulf Coast tonight at 7.
“This was one of our most complete performances all 
season,” coach Mary Wise said in a release. “One of our 
goals has always been to be playing the best volleyball at the 
end. Tonight was the perfect indication of how this team has 
grown and evolved. They have fought through adversity and 
have taken on challenges.”
The 6-foot-1 Hammons found holes in the defense all 
match, notching 16 kills on a team-high 33 swings while 
committing only one attack error. She also got help from 
middle blocker Rachael Kramer and outside hitter Thayer 
Hall.
Hall, who played her second-straight match after miss-Florida sweeps Florida State in Round 1 of NCAA Championship
Alligator File Photo
Outside hitter Paige Hammons led the Gators with 16 kills and only one error in Thursday's sweep of Florida State.
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE  16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Taelor Kellum walked into the Gale Le-
merand practice facility at the University of 
Florida looking for answers.
The then-junior middle blocker was on 
her way to have a one-on-one meeting with 
coach Mary Wise. Nothing unusual for the 
end of the spring season just before the sum-
mer break.
Kellum had been struggling. And people 
noticed.
She had gotten familiar with standing on 
the sidelines. She’d watched her team from 
the corner of the court for the past two years 
after a brief playing stint in the beginning of 
her freshman year.
But now she was an upperclassman. It 
was now or never.
She and Wise sat down for their chat, a 
candid conversation that got real as quick 
as one of her kills nails the hardwood. Wise 
expressed her concerns and how she wanted 
Kellum to do something different and out-
side of her comfort zone that summer.
Kellum knew the importance of her lead-
ership would be crucial for the team during 
the 2017 season and moving forward.
Something had to change, which was 
why she was happy to tell her coach she was 
flying out to California for a week by herself.
Wise’s interest was piqued.
Kellum was on a mission to find her iden-
tity outside of volleyball and her relationship 
with her religion specifically. To know that 
she could find pleasure in things without 
letting them completely take over her life. 
To prove that she could be a leader for this 
younger squad despite the fact she hadn’t 
started in two years.
She decided to travel to Los Angeles for 
the Ultimate Training Camp to find that 
identity. The camp is a program created by 
Athletes in Action, which spends about a 
week pushing people to physical extremes 
and toward understanding Christianity.
Kellum felt nervous, but she knew it was 
exactly what she needed. Wise agreed.
This was going to answer all of Kellum’s 
problems. This was going to show that she 
could not only earn a starting position for 
the Gators volleyball team, but she would 
own it too.
Kellum remembers the first moment she 
touched a volleyball.
As an athletic fifth grader, her physical 
education coach Terri Robinson encouraged 
her to go to a local volleyball meeting and 
expand her interests in sports.
She didn’t even know what a volleyball 
was. When Robinson showed her one, she 
confused it with a tetherball.
Kellum went to the meeting despite her 
lack of knowledge. It was the farthest thing 
from her expectations.
She watched videos of drills at the gath-
ering. Kellum immediately became thrilled 
at the prospect of playing.
“It was exciting, but then I also knew that 
I was in a different world,” she said. “There 
was something completely different about 
what I was about to get myself into.”
Kellum pushed herself to continue with 
this newfound sport. She tried out for a club 
volleyball team a few weeks later and was 
swallowed up among a sea of bright-colored 
socks, knee pads and decorative spandex 
shorts.
“I came in wearing tennis shoes, basket-
ball shorts and a T-shirt,” she said. “I didn’t 
know what I was getting into.”
But it turned out Kellum was actually 
pretty good at volleyball. She picked it up 
naturally, and the coaches started to notice 
her untapped talent.“I kind of loved it,” she said with a big 
smile. “I thought, ‘I want a volleyball, I 
want knee pads, I want the sparkly spandex, 
the crazy socks, I want all of it.’”
But her love for volleyball conflicted with 
her first love: softball. She played outfield 
for a different club team. She often hustled 
from the field to the court during the week 
for practices.
One evening after finishing up some 
training on the diamond, her softball coach 
told her she had to choose and couldn’t con-
tinue to give 50 percent to one sport and 50 
percent the other. It wasn’t fair. 
The 13-year-old didn’t have to think too 
hard.
“I love it, but I think volleyball is my fu-
ture,” she told him.
Kellum’s recruiting began around her 
sophomore year of high school. She had al-
ways been a big Auburn fan but expanded 
her interests to Butler, Purdue, Ole Miss, 
Florida State and Penn State.
As for Florida? Well, it wasn’t really an 
option.
“The thing is, that was OK because I was 
never looking at Florida,” she said. “I never 
thought once about Florida.”
But the recruiting process started to get 
overwhelming. As a sophomore, all of the 
pressure was on her to reach out to coaches 
instead of coaches reaching out to her, per 
NCAA regulations.
To help keep her grounded and orga-
nized, Taelor’s mother, Theresa Kellum, 
made a scrapbook with over 20 schools that 
she was interested in.
“She takes pride in all of my accomplish-
ments,” Taelor said. “She kept their cards 
and letters. My mom’s my number one fan, 
but my nana, oh she is my number one fan.”
During the spring of her sophomore year, 
Taelor played for Choo Choo City Volleyball 
in a tournament called Big South. The At-
lanta-based competition is billed as the larg-
est indoor junior girls volleyball tournament 
held in a single weekend in North America.
It was that weekend that former Gators 
volleyball assistant coach Sally Polhamus 
heard a loud thump echo in the conven-
tion center as she was walking around 
the courts. She immediately came over to 
Taelor’s match and started to watch. Florida 
was then on her radar.
The watch party continued as coaches 
flocked to Taelor’s school, Signal Mountain 
High near Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
A high school match brought the Florida 
and Ole Miss programs together as both head 
coaches watched Taelor from the bleachers 
— on opposite sides of the gym. 
“That was a weird dynamic for me,” she 
said. “They see each other. They know each 
other.”
After the match, both coaches told Taelor 
they noticed their rivals were also in atten-
dance. 
Taelor didn’t know how to respond.
She found her answer soon enough. Flor-
ida would be her new home. 
Taelor fell in love with the program. She 
ate dinner with the team at the Lemerand 
Athletic Center and saw firsthand how in-
volved the coaches were in the program.
She verbally committed to the University 
of Florida her junior year and came up for 
an official visit the summer before her senior 
year. 
“There was something about it,” she 
said. “I felt like I belonged. Everything felt 
so genuine.”  
Taelor grew up in a Christian household. 
She has always thought of herself as a be-
liever. But she really wasn’t.
“I was what you call a Checklist Chris-tian,” she said with a shrug. “Went to 
church – got it. Went to service on Christ-
mas – got it.”
It wasn’t until she got to UF that she said 
she realized she didn’t know who God re-
ally was.
Taelor started having doubts about her 
playing and her identity outside of volley-
ball.
“I think it was something that hurt my 
play and hurt the way I saw the game,” she 
said. “At one point I started to ask myself 
why I was even here. I put my identity liter-
ally in volleyball.”
It was about that time that Taelor start-
ed taking more notice of the people on her 
team, specifically Lindsey Rogers, who 
Taelor considers one of her closest friends 
to this day.
She watched Rogers live a life devoted to 
Christianity. Taelor wanted to live like that. 
As a junior, Taelor had heard about op-
portunities to incorporate God into sports 
through Athletes in Action. Her youth lead-
er, Kevin Sides, thought that the Ultimate 
Training Camp would be just the thing she 
needed. 
She remembered walking out of one Sun-
day service at Greenhouse Church complete-
ly distraught at the idea that she was not in 
covenant with her God.
“In covenant means to be in agreement 
or bonded by a contract,” she said. “Giving 
my life over to Him and stop trying to live it 
the way I want.”
That’s when it truly hit her.
She immediately started talking to Rog-
ers about her revelation in a text-message 
thread she still has today.
Taelor decided right then and there to go 
to the camp. She texted Sides about her deci-
sion and while Taelor was the only person 
from UF interested in the camp at the time, 
it didn’t scare her away.  
The Ultimate Training Camp showed 
Taelor her true identity that summer.
“Not to be dramatic, but it was sort of life 
changing,” she said.
At the camp Taelor learned the organi-
zation’s five principles of incorporating God 
into sports and outside of sports. The con-
cepts ask athletes to forgo fear and selfish-
ness in favor of acceptance in God.
The hardest part of the camp, however, 
was a 20-hour competition where leaders 
pushed the athletes emotionally, physically 
and mentally to show them that they can’t 
do it all alone. At some point they have to 
rely on God. It was the ultimate test of faith. 
Taelor was performing a drill normally 
ordered as a punishment during practice. Athletes ran up and down the court or field 
to various lines over and over. That’s when 
she hit her breaking point.
Taelor lives with the symptoms of asth-
ma and needed her inhaler after the drill.
The leaders called for all the captains 
to come together, which didn’t give Taelor 
time to grab a quick puff of air.
They told the captains that part of their 
role was always doing something a little 
more, a little harder, a little longer. They 
ordered the captains to run two more drills.
“I just broke down,” she said.
She prayed. She needed something to fill 
her lungs and give her strength. She knew 
she couldn’t do this alone.
“He provided,” Taelor said shaking her 
head. “I finished, and I don’t know how… at 
the end I just broke down because I felt like 
if I didn’t rely on Him, I wouldn’t have been 
able to do that.”
She saw a difference when she realized 
that she needed to take her identity out of 
the sport, go back to just enjoying it and 
thank God for the abilities He gave her to do 
what she loves.
Taelor started enjoying practice again. 
She started building stronger relationships 
with her teammates. Volleyball became less 
of a chore. It became the gift preteen Taelor 
had received.
Last summer, Taelor went back to the 
camp as an intern. She led a small group for 
a week and a half teaching other students 
the values she learned the previous summer. 
The experiences gave Taelor the confidence 
to bring some of the principles from camp 
back to UF.
“It helped me to see that I’ve come a long 
way,” she said. “It helped me to see that 
God has bigger plans for me.”
Not everything has been smooth sailing 
since Taelor’s camp experience, but she said 
it’s all a part of the growing process.
Stepping onto the court as a starter back 
in August didn’t give Taelor full security. 
Her starting spot could always be up for 
grabs. 
“I still knew there was possibility that 
things can change,” she said.
Memories of her sophomore year came 
flying back as she recalled then-freshman 
Rachael Kramer taking the starting posi-
tion with then-junior Rhamat Alhassan after 
Taelor’s poor initial performance.
“I started, and then I did terrible,” Taelor 
said. “That’s showing that (Wise) telling me 
I can start could still go wrong.”
She wasn’t resentful of the decision to 
start Taelor because it gave her time to pro-
cess and figure out who she was.
“They were right about that decision, and 
I thank them for that,” she said.
But this has been a part of God’s plan all 
along, she said.
Upon returning from the camp as an in-
tern this summer, Taelor prayed to be sur-
rounded by people that were just as devoted 
as she was.
“He just kept opening doors for me,” she 
said. “I was praying for community and then 
He brought me Holly (Carlton).”
Carlton came from AIA at North Carolina 
and was familiar with the program. Since 
her transfer, Taelor and Carlton, along with 
freshman Thayer Hall, have become a close 
group.
“I was supposed to stay here because He 
was just lining everything up,” she said with 
a smile. “He’s answering me.”
Read the rest of the story online at 
alligator.org/sports
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgFinding Faith: Kellum got a boost, both athletically and spiritually
•   •   •Alligator File Photo
Senior Middle Blocker T aelor Kellum is 
second on the team in blocks with 130.
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
begins.
 
Can the team put four strong 
quarters together?
Florida led after the ﬁ  rst quarter 
in four of its opening six games. 
It has had second half leads in 
four of them as well. Outside of the 
loss at Indiana, the Gators have 
been in most of the games they’ve 
played. A big factor in their win-
less record has been a failure to 
play a solid 40 minutes and an in-
ability to close out games. 
Florida blew an 11-point lead 
with three minutes left against 
Northwestern. It was outscored 
19-8 to end the game after trailing 
by just two points in the fourth 
quarter against Northeastern. 
This is a team that needs to 
string together four solid quarters 
to compete with programs that 
have superior talent.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14UF blew 11-point lead against Northwestern
Alligator File Photo
The Gators have led after the ﬁ  rst quarter in four of their ﬁ  rst six games of the season.
nization, two days after which he was signed 
by the Redskins. 
He had plenty of time for second chances 
without real punishment. Time is up.
And it’s not even the NFL’s handling of the 
situation that’s so bafﬂ  ing. 
It’s the Redskins'. It’s owner Dan Snyder's.
A man with a wife and three children 
whose decision to claim Foster basically said  
“Yeah, Foster could maybe, possibly, be a seri-
al domestic abuser and is clearly problematic. 
Buuut the Cowboys are gaining on us, and he 
can help us win the NFC East.”
I know “innocent until proven guilty” is a 
legal guise, but what about image?
Wasn’t image the argument when teams 
didn’t want to sign that other player from the 
49ers who committed no crimes but stood up 
for all minorities? No?
Per a USAToday article, Redskins coach Jay 
Gruden told reporters that Foster is “a young 
player. He’s made a mistake or two. At the end 
of the day, we decided to take a chance and 
deal with it.”
Interesting. It seems like these NFL teams 
only care about second chances when it ben-
eﬁ  ts them.
Alanis Thames is a sports writer. Follow her 
on Twitter @alanisthames or contact her at 
athames@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
ing the last seven due to an un-
disclosed injury, looked as good 
as new as she registered nine kills 
on 23 swings and had ﬁ  ve digs. 
Kramer hit an efﬁ  cient nine kills on 
a .333 hitting percentage, but it was 
her defensive presence that pushed 
the team over the top in Round 1.
The 6-foot-8 middle blocker 
stuffed the Seminole attack at the 
net for most of the match, tallying nine total blocks and a dig. Her de-
fense gave Florida consistent mo-
mentum and sprung offensive runs, 
including a sequence in the second 
set when she crushed a kill and 
made a solo block that started a 7-1 
run to help the Gators pull away.
Kramer’s stand at the net helped 
Florida hold the Seminoles to just 
a .168 hitting percentage and force 
15 FSU attack errors in the three-
set win.
Libero Allie Gregory anchored 
the defense from the back row as she tied her career high in digs with 
22 and tacked on two of Florida’s 
seven service aces. The Louisville, 
Kentucky, native’s clutch serving 
came up big in the third set when 
she went on a 8-0 serving run, col-
lected a service ace and assisted on 
a kill by Hammons that capped off 
a 10-1 run.
But the Gators played far from 
perfect in the sweep. While they 
were all smiles after the win, they 
will also have things to work on be-
fore the quick turnaround against Florida Gulf Coast today.
The main problem came from 
FSU outside hitter Payton Caffrey, 
who gave UF ﬁ  ts the whole match. 
Florida State fed the 2018 ACC 
Player of the Year, and she took 
advantage, totaling 14 kills on 40 
swings. Caffrey seemed unstop-
pable early as she recorded 10 of 
those kills in the ﬁ  rst two sets and 
started runs on her own to keep her 
team in the match.
At one point in the second set, 
Caffrey had three kills in a 7-3 run, which put Florida State up in the 
set. She later single-handedly went 
on a 3-0 run with three kills, but 
it was not enough to win the set. 
Florida’s defense eventually keyed 
on her in the third set, forcing FSU 
to look elsewhere.
Florida will need to make the 
adjustment earlier against FGCU, 
who is fresh off a ﬁ  rst-round upset 
over No. 13 seed UCF.
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg 14Allie Gregory tied career high with 22 digs against Florida State