We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
David Beckham, a turtle, returns home
The box turtle was returned to the Santa Fe T eaching Zoo after 
being stolen in May, pg. 10
Buzz around town
UF’s honeybee lab opens after years of planning, pg. 9HOW THE UF FOOTBALL STAFF TOOK SHAPE
Coach Dan Mullen assembled former assistants 
and rivals to work for the Gators football team 
this season. Who are they, and what have they 
done?, pg. 14VOLUME 113 ISSUE 3
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Three people, including the suspected shooter, 
are dead after a mass shooting in Jacksonville, 
Florida, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce, as of Sunday night.
The shooting occurred inside the Chicago Piz-
za restaurant in The Jacksonville Landing, a wa-
terfront entertainment complex, during a “Mad-
den NFL 19” video game tournament around 1:30 
p.m. Sunday, Jacksonville Sheriff Mike Williams 
said in a press conference.
The alleged shooter shot and killed himself, 
Williams said. One handgun was used. 
Eleven people sustained gunshot injuries and 
two others were injured while ﬂ  eeing, according 
to a tweet from the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
All injured victims are in stable condition. 
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce has not yet released the 
names of the dead. 
Jacksonville Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ces believe the sus-
pect was 24-year-old David Katz, of Baltimore. 
FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Fire-
arms and Explosives are conﬁ  rming his identity, 
according to the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce. The motive is 
unknown.
The suspected shooter came to Jacksonville 
to participate in the gaming competition, Sheriff 
Williams said. Deputies found and impounded 
the shooter’s car and believe he stayed some-
where locally overnight.
The moment of the shooting was caught on a 
livestream of two gamers competing. The video 
was cut off after several gunshots sounded off. 
Police received 911 calls at 1:34 p.m. about 
a shooting. Law enforcement responded within 
two minutes, according to the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce. Three dead 
and 13 injured 
at Jacksonville 
shooting
SEE JAX,  PAGE 4By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer
In the midst of divisive politics and a 
contentious primary election, Sen. John 
McCain reminds City Commissioner David 
Arreola what it means to be a public ser-
vant.
“To see people so proud of him for 
what he did and for his career, not only 
for me personally does that reaffirm my 
commitment to my chosen career path, 
but it also reminds me that there’s a lot 
more commonality than there are differ-ences,” Arreola said.
After battling brain cancer for more 
than a year, McCain died Saturday after-
noon surrounded by his family, accord-
ing to a statement released by his office. 
At 81, he had served the U.S. as a war 
veteran, representative and senator, with 
his political career spanning decades. His 
death has left local leaders and students 
from all sides of the political spectrum 
reminiscing on his life and legacy.
Rep. Ted Yoho remembers McCain as 
an American hero who “put his country 
above all else,” his statement reads.Rep. Chuck Clemons also expressed his 
condolences for who he heralded as one 
of the last great American heroes.
“He consistently put conviction above 
party politics,” Clemons wrote in a mes-
sage.
Victoria Garrastacho, a 20-year-old UF 
accounting junior, found out about his 
passing from a flood of text messages from 
her family and friends Saturday night.
“I know that he lived the life he want-
ed, but I was just sad because I think it 
was cut a little short because of the dis-
ease he had,” she said.Garrastacho first heard McCain’s name 
in fifth grade when McCain was a presi-
dential candidate, and over the years 
she’s grown to admire him as a politician 
who rose above low-blows and dirty poli-
tics, she said.
“I don’t think there will ever be some-
one like John McCain. I think he’s one of 
a kind. But I really hope that his work and 
just his character is an example for future 
public servants.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org‘One of a kind’: Gainesville reacts to Sen. John McCain’s passing 
Shelbie Eakins/Alligator Staff
Rushing home
New UF Panhellenic members run to their houses on bid day. Go to page 8 to see more photos.
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 113 ISSUE 3
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience 
with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, August 31, from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Contributing Writers, 
Photographers, Videographers, 
Copy Editors, and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetCAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground 
floor, take hallway with 
single door all the way 
down to G207 on the left.Bring your resume, clips and 
questions for staff members!
HIGH  88° LOW  73°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 3
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-
4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Progressive Rock Tribute
The Progressive Rock Experience 
will pay tribute to ’70s progres-
sive rock from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Friday on Bo Diddley Community 
Plaza in downtown Gainesville. 
The free concert playlist includes 
one song by each the following 
bands: Genesis, Kansas, Styx, 
Head East, Supertramp, Uriah 
Heep, Eric Carmen/Raspberries, 
Elton John and Yes. Several 
songs by Deep Purple, Emerson 
and Lake & Palmer will also be 
performed.Protest
Join the Gainesville Interfaith 
Alliance for Immigrant Justice 
as it supports farmworkers by 
protesting from 10:45 a.m. to 
noon on Saturday at Wendy’s, at 
1711 N. Main St. It will present 
store management with a letter 
from the Coalition of Immokalee 
Workers, which is demanding 
that Wendy’s join other major 
retail chains in the Fair Food 
Program.
Blue Star Museums ends Monday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is offering free admission 
to all fee-based exhibits for ac-tive-duty military personnel and 
their families from now through 
Labor Day as part of the Blue Star 
Museums program. Free admis-
sion is available to any active-
duty U.S. military, and up to five 
family members all qualify for 
free entry. For more information, 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/blue-star-museums or call 
352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
pfry@alligator.org. Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistnat Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Alain Harb, aharb@alligator.org
Michael Smith
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Non-stop
study sesh?
Aced.
From Monster Energy to Archer Farms coffee,  
save and shop close to campus.
UF Campus T arget
Just north of campus on 
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018FULL-TIME WORKERS GOT AN 
INCREASE TO $12 AN HOUR. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
One year after a union neutrality pledge was 
proposed to the Santa Fe College administration, 
the bill is still unsigned. 
In September, the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition held a Santa Fe College Living Wage 
Campaign Kick Off meeting in an attempt to 
raise the hourly wages in Alachua County, ac-
cording to Alligator archives.
Full-time workers got their pay raised to $12 
an hour, Timothy Tia, a member of the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition, said. Hundreds of part-
time workers did not receive the pay increase. 
Santa Fe’s budget didn’t require large chang-
es or increases to the budget to raise pay for 
these workers, Tia said.
The coalition proposed a union neutrality 
pledge, a contract between an employer and 
their workers to support a union’s attempt to 
organize a workforce, which would ensure that 
Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser couldn’t in-
terfere with union establishments using public 
funds, said Jeremiah Tattersall, the lead orga-
nizer of the Alachua County Labor Coalition. “I think it would improve the lives of Santa 
Fe employees dramatically and improve reten-
tion and a number of issues on campus,” adult 
education instructor and adjunct representative 
on the college senate Jason Fults said.
Florida’s minimum wage is $8.10 an hour, 
but $15.44 an hour is defined as the necessary 
living wage to pay for basic necessities, he said. 
The coalition asked Santa Fe to pay all faculty, 
especially adjunct faculty, a living wage and in-
sisted that Sasser sign the pledge.
“One of the most important parts of labor 
management is some form of written agree-
ment,” Tattersall said. 
Tattersall and Fults said they believe that no 
employees were let go after participating in the 
meeting.
The Alligator was unable to receive a com-
ment from Santa Fe College after reaching out 
multiple times.
The main priorities of the agreement are to 
make sure adjunct and part-time employees re-
ceive Social Security, a living wage and all nec-
essary benefits, Fults said.
“It’s a great campus, and we can be doing 
even better,” Fults said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgOne year later, Santa Fe College 
union agreement still unsignedBy Sydney Schultheis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Christine and Barry Janks’ 
house has reeked since the birth of 
three cheetah cubs more than two 
months ago.
“Part of our house smells like 
cheetah urine,” said Christine 
Janks, the co-founder and president 
of Carson Springs Wildlife Conser-
vation Foundation.
The cubs, two males and a fe-
male, named Tuesday, Austin and 
Havy, were born June 6 on the con-
servation to cheetah parents Cam-
mie and Richie. The trio are the first 
documented cheetah cubs born in 
Gainesville, Janks said.
Before their debut at the conser-
vation, they’ve been spending every 
night in a pen at the Janks’ home.
“Our whole life really is devoted 
to these animals,” Janks said.
Janks said she still has trouble telling them apart, but she uses 
clues like Austin’s rounder head 
and Tuesday’s pointed face. Tues-
day has mastered her toys, Havy is 
energetic and tries to fight with Aus-
tin, who’s laid back.
The cubs will be introduced at 
the Carson Springs Wildlife Con-
servation Foundation’s open house, 
located at 8528 County Road 225, 
on Sept. 29 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Tickets are $10 for adults and $5 for 
kids under 12.
Janks said she’s excited for peo-
ple to possibly sponsor the cubs, 
who cost about $25 a day to tend to.
“Googling animals will never 
save them,” Janks said. “Actually 
seeing them and understanding and 
watching their behavior is what will 
save them.”
The conservation went through 
setbacks in breeding, she said.
The cubs’ mother, Cammie, was picky about the father of her chil-
dren. Keepers conducted a teasing 
process, where they would bring a 
male close to Cammie and then re-
move him.
Females might not accept the 
male, like the cheetah Matt, who 
was “really aggressive,” Janks said. 
The cubs’ father, Richie, would 
sit and wait for Cammie to show in-
terest in him. 
“He’s very gentlemanly-like and 
sort of romantic and never seems 
threatening,” Janks said. 
Ellie Gressman, a 22-year-old UF 
wildlife ecology and conservation 
senior and conservation volunteer, 
said she’d been waiting all summer 
to see the cubs.
She said she immediately walked 
to the cheetah pen and heard their 
chirping.
“I loved getting to hear that, it 
made my heart flutter,” she said.Three cheetah cubs born at Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation
The cubs are the first cheetahs born in Gainesville
Courtesy to the Alligator
One of three cheetah cubs from Carson Springs Wildlife Conserva-
tion Foundation rests after a long day of playing with toys. 
The restaurant had several 
people inside but was not full, 
Williams said. Nearby business-
es were shut down and evacu-
ated. 
Six people were taken to 
UF Health in Jacksonville, said 
spokesperson Dan Leveton in 
an email. Three people were 
treated at Memorial Hospital 
in Jacksonville, said hospital 
spokesperson Pete Moberg. One person was released 
from Baptist Medical Center 
after being treated for a minor 
injury, said spokesperson Cindy 
Hamilton.
SWAT searched the area for 
people hiding in The Jackson-
ville Landing, some of whom 
have been found in locked ar-
eas. The sheriff’s office used 
Twitter to tell people to avoid 
the area and to call 911 if they 
were still in hiding.
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgJAX,  from pg. 1Victims are stableUF, THE CITY OF GAINESVILLE 
AND COX COMMUNICATIONS 
TO START PUBLIC WI-FI 
PROJECT.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Forget camping out in a Starbucks 
chair for hours, free Wi-Fi will soon 
be available throughout downtown 
Gainesville.
Public Wi-Fi will be installed in the 
area along Southwest Second Avenue 
from Southwest Thirteenth Street to 
Main Street and from there to Depot 
Park, assistant city manager Dan Hoff-
man said. It will also include the Porters 
Community and three Regional Transit 
System buses.
The city will contribute about 
$30,000 to the project and work closely 
with UF and the internet provider Cox 
Communications, Hoffman said.
“For the city, it is to increase con-
nectivity and access to city residents 
living, working or playing downtown,” 
Hoffman said. “Also, we want to extend 
it to underserved communities in places 
like Porters to help decrease the digital 
divide.”
This divide refers to the idea that individuals from higher means have 
better access to the technology that con-
nects people, Hoffman said.
UF wants to connect both residents 
of the city and students who visit these 
areas to Wi-Fi, UF chief operating offi-
cer Charlie Lane said.
The university hopes to have the Wi-
Fi installed by the end of the year, Lane 
said. UF plans to spend about $50,000 
on this phase of the project.
Future expansions of this project 
may be able to extend Wi-Fi down West 
University Avenue to Waldo Road and 
north toward Gainesville Regional Air-
port, Lane said. The goal is to provide 
most of the urbanised part of Gainesville 
with Wi-Fi over the next five years.
UF is contributing to the project in 
order to help improve neighborhoods 
that surround the school, Lane said. 
The project makes areas like these seem 
more accessible to students.
“You’d be more able to pull out your 
iPhone or your iPad or any other mobile 
device you got and be able to log on and 
say ‘Hey, where can I dine in this area? 
Where are the services in this area that I 
might use? What are things to do in this 
area?’” Lane said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgUF funds public Wi-Fi project
By Heaven Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new burger joint coming to 
Gainesville will have customers remi-
niscing about tie-dye and go-go boots. 
Dick Mondell’s Burgers & Fries, a 
’60s-themed drive-thru restaurant, is 
set to open their first location at 412 
SW Fourth Ave. in late October.
The restaurant will sell all-natural 
burgers, chicken sandwiches, home-
made ice cream sandwiches, shakes, 
salads and more, said Conor Castelli 
and Chris Leckerling, co-owners of the 
restaurant.“We want people to experience an 
old-school, original feel, sense of old 
Gainesville,” Castelli said.
The owners met at the Culinary 
Institute of America in California five 
years ago, where they crafted the idea 
of creating a burger place.
Castelli, who graduated from UF 
with an undergraduate degree in Eng-
lish in 2007, said he enjoyed his time 
in Gainesville, which is why he chose 
to open the restaurant in the college 
town.
Leckerling, who’s from Albany, 
New York, said he’s looking forward to immersing himself in the culture of 
the city. 
The owners said they are recon-
structing a building that was originally 
created in 1965. They are remodeling 
the building by keeping one of the 
drive-thrus and creating a walk-up 
area to order with outdoor seating.
Houston Barenholtz, an 18-year-old 
UF biomedical engineering freshman, 
said he can’t wait to try their food.
“I think it’s cool they are taking an 
old building and adding a modern con-
cept, keeping it attractive to the mod-
ern era,” Barenholtz said.Taste of the past: ‘60s-themed burger jointMONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Chris Day
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers discovered and named 
two new species of trufﬂ  es that were found 
on the roots of Florida pecan orchards.
Matthew Smith, a UF plant pathology 
assistant professor, and his team published 
the research in the scientiﬁ  c journal Mycolo-
gia  Tuesday after more than seven years of 
gathering data. The team developed enough 
evidence to name the new trufﬂ  es while they 
were conducting research on how farmers 
can sell a different, more proﬁ  table trufﬂ  e species.
One of these species, named Tuber ﬂ  ori-
danum, was found in the Sugarfoot area of 
Gainesville, which is near Newberry Road 
and Southwest 34th Street. It is also known 
to be found in southern Brazil and Michigan 
orchards.
The second new species, Tuber brennema-
nii, was mostly collected in Iowa and Minne-
sota before being found in pecan orchards in 
Florida and Georgia.
The two species are physically small and 
“don’t have a very desirable smell to them,” 
said Arthur Grupe, 32, the lead author of the 
study, and a third-year UF plant pathology doctoral student. They aren’t ideal for sell-
ing to consumers because of their pungent 
smell.
There are about ﬁ  ve million species of fun-
gi, but only about 110,000 have been named 
because it takes time to collect enough re-
search to identify them, Smith said.
“You don’t have to go to the Amazon 
rainforest to see a really high biodiversity,” 
Smith said. “Even in a place like Gainesville, 
where people have studied fungi for a long 
time, totally new things are still found.”
The newly discovered fungi are competi-
tors with the more proﬁ  table fungi the team 
is experimenting with called Tuber lyonii, Smith said. That study focuses on teaching 
pecan farmers how to put the proﬁ  table truf-
ﬂ  es on the roots of their trees.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Sus-
tainable Agriculture Research and Education  
Program granted the team about $12,000 for 
the study, Grupe said. Funding has also been 
given through the Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences’ Early Career Seed Funding 
Grant, The Iowa Science Foundation and ad-
ditional funds from the university. 
“There is a whole hidden world that goes 
on that is really fundamental on how ani-
mals and plants interact in their ecosystem,” 
Grupe said.UF researchers discover, name two new truﬄ   e species
CURRENT AND FORMER INMATES, 
FAMIL Y MEMBERS AND FRIENDS ARE 
SPEAKING OUT.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Voice trembling, Debra Bennett came face-to-face 
with investigators who would ﬁ  nally listen to the 
abuses she said she and so many other women faced 
at Lowell Correctional Institution.
Although she had been released from the Ocala 
women’s prison in March, she represents women in-
side the prison who allege sexual abuse and harass-
ment. In response, the Department of Justice started 
an investigation into allegations Aug. 19.
An investigative team held an initial meeting at 
Marion Baptist Association in Ocala, where Bennett 
spoke up about what she witnessed.
“The punishment is just to go to prison,” Bennett 
said. “The punishment never said go to prison and 
abuse them.”
Bennett spent 16 years incarcerated in Florida, 
bouncing around to different prisons, but the ﬁ  ve 
years she spent at Lowell were the worst, she said. 
While there, she witnessed countless incidents of 
mental, sexual and physical abuse as well as medical 
neglect, she said.
At the end of the meeting, the six-person inves-
tigative team split into separate rooms to privately 
interview people who wanted to come forward.
Laura Cowall, an attorney with the Civil Rights 
Division of the DOJ and part of the team, said the investigation is ongoing.
DOJ is unable to comment further until the end of 
the investigation, which could take months. If proof 
of the allegations is found, ﬁ  ndings will be made 
public. If not, the Florida Department of Corrections 
will receive a report, Cowall said.
Bennett has contacted current inmates, including 
some who are scared to speak up, she said.
Cowall told Bennett that federal law protected 
anyone who came forward and that investigators 
would take these reports seriously.
Lowell hasn’t responded to a request for com-
ment. 
Kathy Carlin, a mother of a Lowell inmate, said 
she was impressed there is an investigation at all. 
Sexual abuse and harassment is only a small part of 
problem, she said.
“It is like being in an abusive relationship for how 
many years you are incarcerated. Except in an abu-
sive relationship, you can leave, ﬁ  ght back or call for 
help,” Carlin said. “In prison, there is no help.”
If inmates asked for help, they were often put into 
solitary conﬁ  nement and their property was taken 
away, Carlin said. Women are frequently talked 
down to and called profanities, she said.
“We have to ask ourselves who we are as hu-
man beings that we would allow mothers, daugh-
ters, sisters and so forth to be subject to this kind of 
treatment,” Carlin said. “Taking you away from your 
family and out of society is your punishment, but as 
it turns out, that is just the beginning.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgDOJ investigates mental, sexual, physical 
abuse at Lowell Correctional Institution
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Sing like nobody’s watching
The Chinese A Cappella Club performs “We Are Young” at the Chi-
nese Student Association Sunday afternoon in the Reitz Union. 
Editorial
ColumnThe elusive picture-
perfect freshmen year
Ask not what Student Government can do for you
Please get involved in Student Govern-
ment; I said please!
Hi there, Class of 2022. Long story 
short, I’m the senator of the Murphree 
Area, and I write columns every week 
about Student Government. They say that dis-
sent is the greatest form of patriotism, which is 
probably why I’m often writing about some sort 
of SG drama or unpopular action that needs ex-
plaining, but I promise it’s not all bad. There’s 
also good work to be recognized and, in the case 
of this week, a chance to get involved with our 
many different sub-organizations. I apply a critical lens to 
what I see in SG because I truly want the organization to 
improve. Part of improving is making sure the best and the 
brightest folks (both incoming and upperclassmen) give SG 
a chance.
This semester, the dates for executive branch applica-
tions are conveniently staggered across four deadlines. They 
include Student Government Productions applications, 
which were due Aug. 24 (that ship has sailed), Chomp the 
Vote and External Affairs applications due today and every-
one else’s applications are due Sept. 5 except the Freshman 
Leadership Council application, which is due Sept. 7.
I went ahead and emailed all 13 of the recruiting agen-
cy heads, asking for what they were looking for or things 
they’d like to say to prospective applicants. Seven respond-
ed, which I think is pretty darn good.
One of the agency heads that responded was Lexie Miller 
for Gators Going Green. She responded that her agency is 
a great way to get your foot in the door with SG, and she’s 
looking for passionate people who care about the environ-
ment, regardless of their major. Chairwoman of Students 
Taking Action Against Racism Ana Jazmine Mata respond-
ed that she was looking for passionate individuals eager to 
voice their concerns against racial inequalities in our society 
and are ready to educate our campus. She also noted stu-
dents of all walks of life are welcome to apply, no matter if 
they are a ﬁ  rst-year, fourth-year or transfer student; those 
with no prior SG experience need not worry either. Internal Affairs is looking for motivated indi-
viduals with an understanding of the university 
to join. External Affairs would like anyone who 
is passionate about politics and government, 
speciﬁ  cally passionate about advocating for is-
sues that affect all UF students to apply (though 
no experience is necessary).
I have to make a special note here for the 
Freshman Leadership Council. They select 50 
incoming students via a competitive application. 
Those accepted go through personal and pro-
fessional development training and learn about 
event planning, among other things. Those who get rejected 
(like me, back in the day) heave a sad sigh and go on with 
their lives, totally not bearing any salty, bitter grudges. But 
I’ll say what I said at Preview: If you can get in, power to 
you; if you don’t, life goes on.
Life certainly went on for me after my own rejection since 
the week after, little freshman me won my ﬁ  rst election and 
became the senator for Inﬁ  nity Hall. For those looking to 
get involved with Student Senate, there will be an informa-
tional meeting at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday in the Reitz Union 
Senate Chamber (across from Wing Zone). From Thursday 
to Sept. 4, there will be something called “slating,” which 
basically involves interviewing with a political party to be 
their candidate for a seat. In this Fall election, 50 seats are 
up for grabs based off residence hall/area or by ZIP code.
It’s a lot, but that’s the gist of it. I think the main take-
aways are that there’s a lot of opportunities within SG for all 
types of people. If you’ve got a passion for public service or 
just making our campus a better place, I highly recommend 
you get involved with us.
Applications can be found at sg.uﬂ  .edu/get-involved.
Find out more about all the different agencies and what 
they do at sg.uﬂ  .edu/agencies.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Mur-
phree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student Govern-
ment and normally appears Friday.MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Beer. Pizza. Partying. A stock photo of young adults 
sitting on the grass looking at a laptop. When we’re 
asked to think of what college is like, these are a few 
of the images that typically come to mind. The college 
experience, from a high schooler’s perspective, seems 
more like having fun than anything else. In movies and on 
television, the tests are studied for until the last minute. Par-
ties are loud, drowning in alcohol and lasting until 3 a.m. But 
this is far from a sustainable, healthy lifestyle for anyone, 
including students. For all freshmen who are embarking on 
their UF career, be aware that the next four years will not be 
like they are in the movies. And if they are, you’re probably 
doing something wrong.
Most of your college experience may be boring. You may 
spend an hour of your precious Saturday at the grocery 
store, which may involve a dull bus ride. You may stand 
in a brightly lit aisle for far too long trying to decide what 
kind of detergent best ﬁ  ts your personality. Is Tide worth it? 
Should you buy the Febreze-scented one? Would the scent 
of Gain or Dawn better interest that girl you have a crush on 
in your English class? Does buying regular Tide make you 
basic? Questions like these, and other chores like laundry, 
cleaning, organizing, exercising, club activities and caring for 
your pets (if you have them) will suck up much of the free 
time you planned to have.
If you dreamed of being surrounded by friends every min-
ute of every day, you may be in for disappointment. The 
friends you meet will all be trying to succeed, just like you. 
They’ll have their own goals for working and studying, which 
involve being in the library, going to class, doing homework 
and staying involved. That usually does not involve relaxing 
at Lake Wauberg. Or beer pong. That, in turn, means there is 
little time left for shenanigans. If during the ﬁ  rst few weeks 
of being at UF you feel like you aren’t having as much “fun” 
as you should be, don’t worry. That’s normal. Your experi-
ence doesn’t have to include hanging out with your friends 
on a weeknight until 2 a.m. or ﬁ  lling up every second of your 
weekends with brunch and coffee and parties. 
Freshman year will break a lot of the expectations you 
had for college. Some of the best times of your life will play 
out over ice cream in the dining hall, rather than drunk at a 
frat party. A lot of your quality experiences will happen at 
ofﬁ  ce hours, when your professors tell you about how much 
they’ve enjoyed reading your papers, or how they appreciate 
your activity and engagement in class. The happiest times 
will more likely be found with a few close friends than at the 
bottom of a red Solo cup. This is why it’s important to man-
age your expectations for what you want college to be. 
There is no recipe or rulebook for how many parties 
you should attend your ﬁ  rst year, or how many friends you 
should make or how many clubs you should join. There is 
only you, and how you want to measure your own happiness 
and success — be it by your GPA, number of books read or a 
tally of how many pranks played on your resident assistant.
Just because college will be more work than you expect 
doesn’t mean you can’t or won’t have fun. Go view a Paynes 
Prairie Preserve State Park sunrise on a Sunday morning. Do 
sundown at the Bat Houses. Give yourself time to breathe. 
Relax. Recharge. Take care of your mental health. Just don’t 
think college will be the picture-perfect cinematic experience, 
bordering on “22 Jump Street” and “American Pie,” that Hol-
lywood has led you to expect. The real value is found in 
abusing the unlimited meal plan. So slow down, work hard 
and have fun in all the ways you truly enjoy.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephen
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Letters to the Editor
Hi Kent,
My name is Howard Rosen-
feld, and I graduated from UF in 
1992 from the College of Journal-
ism and Communications and also 
worked at the Center for Latin American 
Studies for a few years. During my studies 
at UF, I was active with the Undergraduate 
Economic Society, the Freedom Coalition 
and Campus NOW. I helped co-found the 
local institution, the Civic Media Center, in 
1993. I moved to Washington state in 1999. 
I now work in data and analytics for Kaiser 
Permanente’s newest region in Washing-ton state.
I appreciate you asking for input about 
what’s next for UF.
I’d like to chime in and agree with the 
Alachua County Labor Party who respond-
ed to your tweet and said a living wage for 
all UF employees should be “what’s next.” 
And if you need a place to start, look at 
the bottom.
While the custodian pay at UF seems to 
compare well to their counterparts, I’d ar-
gue that the entire ﬁ  eld is underpaid, and 
they deﬁ  nitely don’t make a living wage. 
And that’s just custodians. There are many other job classes near the bottom of the 
wage rung at UF, in many sectors.
The threat of global income inequality 
threatens our democracy. This was a top-
ic at the World Economic Forum in 2017 
and is a common campaigning point we’ve 
come used to hearing from Sen. Bernie 
Sanders.
I would like to challenge UF to lead by 
example and boost the pay ﬂ  oor for all 
employees to a living wage — $15/hour. 
Boosting wages for those at the bottom can 
be seen not only as the ethical and moral 
action to take, but it can also been seen selﬁ  shly as a self-preservation tactic.
In addition to global warming, this is 
the issue of the day and if trends contin-
ue, none of us will be safe. Quoting Jean-
Jacques Rousseau, “When the people shall 
have nothing more to eat, they will eat the 
rich.”
Editor’s Note: UF President Kent Fuchs 
published a column, which ran in the 
Aug. 22 issue of The Alligator, that called 
for readers to send feedback on what they 
wanted UF to accomplish over the next de-
cade. This letter was written in response.MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
I am a hypocrite. I love 
writing columns, ar-
guing my opinions, 
excavating the news 
of the week for inter-
esting artifacts. I haven’t 
written a column since 
the Spring semester, and 
I waited for that privilege 
again, which I am exercis-
ing and enjoying now and 
is the ultimate expression of my hy-
pocrisy.
News is too broad and too thin 
of a subject. It emanates from too 
many mediums, platforms, chan-
nels, pages, web pages; from too 
many times of the day; from too 
many perspectives and pundits 
and commentators and talking 
heads; from too many panels; from 
too many tweets and posts and 
shares. It has been bent, blended 
and stretched. There is so much of 
it, in so many different forms, that 
you cannot deﬁ  ne what it is today. 
Analyzing the news is like playing 
whack-a-mole, or tackling fog.
Maybe, not so surprisingly, this 
broadness of the news is where I 
aim my sights. More speciﬁ  cally, I 
want to argue against the way in 
which our news acquires its ﬂ  exi-
ble, shapeless character: 24/7 news.
One slow, eventless day this past 
May, I picked up my dad’s copy 
of the Orlando Sentinel, expecting 
the lead story to be something im-
portant. Instead, this was the main 
headline on the front page: “Lake 
Eola turtles need sunbathing perch-
es, says club’s petition." The most 
pressing concern of the Orlando 
community that day was whether 
turtles in Lake Eola, a lake in the 
heart of downtown Orlando, were 
receiving ample respect and care by 
local authorities.
I found, and still ﬁ  nd, this both 
silly and serious. Why didn’t the 
Sentinel just write on their front 
page: “No news today, enjoy the 
comics.” Why, instead, did they 
have to give the reader the illusion 
that the health of turtles is as im-
portant as, say, the city’s emotional 
devastation after the Pulse shoot-
ing, which duly received relentless 
front-page attention?
Yet, we encounter similar ten-
dencies in all forms of media.
Not only does this unintention-
ally confuse important information from non-important, but 
it takes a big pink eraser 
and smudges the ultimate 
journalistic distinction: 
news from non-news. Our 
traditional understanding 
of news implies an event 
or happening, which is 
now, after the occurence, 
being reported to us. The 
Biblical word gospel liter-
ally translates to “good news,” for 
example, which, in Biblical context, 
means that the gift of life and one-
ness with God has been bought and 
offered to you through Jesus.
Notice the past tense here. The 
Gospel refers to an event that has 
happened. News also refers to 
something that has happened, a 
concrete, historical moment, which 
has passed us by and can only exist 
through our reporting it.
Twenty-four/seven, perpetual 
news breaks this deﬁ  nition. Our me-
dia does not sleep. Daniel Boorstin 
in his famous book “The Image” 
discusses the accidental, but inevi-
table, by-product of our sleepless, 
instant access era. He was writing 
from the 1960s, but even then, he 
could see that the media, feeling the 
dread of the omnipresent deadline, 
would increasingly create news 
rather then report it.
Failure in the media world is 
not having a story; success is the 
opposite. And stories don’t grow 
on trees. So how do you keep up? 
You ask important people "gotcha" 
questions, to report on their reac-
tions. You report on the health of 
some turtles rather than admit that 
nothing important has happened. 
You report on the president’s Twit-
ter account. You, at the end of the 
week, create news quizzes to test 
how attentively people consumed 
your product. You gather panels 
and ask for expert opinions. You 
hunt your next story like Ahab. You 
do anything but allow the natural 
rhythms of our world and the pace 
of life dictate what you can and 
cannot report. You demand mastery 
over it all.
This is problematic. Ironically, 
though, I end this column by ask-
ing you to read next week, when I 
will examine the implications of this 
reality.
Scott Stinson is a UF English 
Senior. His column appears Monday.No news can be good newsColumn
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgThrough ignorance, belly danc-
ing has become an art form 
that breeds judgement and con-
tempt. Some say it’s too hot and 
too seductive. Some have asked 
how I feel comfortable in my own skin. 
Some just look me up and down, slow-
ly.
I have been belly dancing for ap-
proximately two years with UF’s Belly 
Gators. Last year, I threw myself into contempo-
rary and jazz dance via other clubs and classes at 
UF. It was then that I realized the discrepancy in 
attitudes and general respect that separates belly 
dancing from other dance styles.
Belly dance is one of the oldest forms of 
dance known to man, with evidence tracing 
back to Egyptian tombs and ancient Roman po-
etry. Throughout history, distinctive styles of 
belly dance have formed with varying contexts 
and motives: Egyptian, Turkish, American tribal, 
cabaret, etc.
It was Western culture that propagated the 
idea that belly dance existed to lure men to wom-
en. Western culture’s inﬂ  uence on the Eastern 
side of the world resulted in the pioneering of 
the two-piece bra and belt costumes, the sequins, 
glitter and jewels.
But even now that the percussive and ﬂ  uid 
movements of one’s body have become more vis-
ible with the advent of revealing clothing, bel-
ly dance still isn’t more promiscuous than any 
other. Hip-hop dancers are just as likely to wear 
revealing clothing and shake their bodies in ways 
perceived to be inappropriate; tango partners 
ﬂ  ow around each other in a way that screams the 
tension of sexual desire in romance; even ballet 
dancers wear thin, form ﬁ  tting clothing and little 
else.
Part of what separates belly dance in percep-
tion from these art forms is respect for the dif-
ﬁ  culty of the dance, for the professionalism of it. 
Ballet and tango are well-recognized for the years of practice invested to obtain recogniz-
able skill. Hip-hop is a workout, and 
many gyms use it as such. It’s when 
I try to teach my friends how to belly 
dance; however, I see their surprised 
exasperation. It’s after my male friends 
struggle to learn how to undulate and 
do hip lifts, let alone in combos, they 
admit to me that it’s more difﬁ  cult than 
they initially thought. It’s not for lack 
of ability as there are professional male belly 
dancers in the world. A dancer’s clothes may be 
revealing, but they provide the opportunity for 
distinct movements to be seen and for skill to be 
appreciated.
So then the question can be asked: Is all dance 
alluring? The audience’s role, after all, is to watch 
how a performer’s body moves. Having been a 
performer and an audience member, I would say 
no. Dance is a form of expression that happens to 
be entertaining. The dancer aims to share a story 
or bring a musical piece to life, and that can take 
on many forms. While a song or story may be 
enticing, or a belly dancer may ﬂ  irt humorously 
on stage, that act does not deﬁ  ne belly dancing or 
any other dance form. It is not the sole purpose 
of belly dancing.
That being said, the sexual notions of belly 
dance brought on by Western culture have also 
increased its popularity amongst women who feel 
it represents their strength, independence, power 
and ability to embrace sexuality as they see ﬁ  t. 
Many, including myself, ﬁ  nd that it has boosted 
their conﬁ  dence while dancing and in daily life.
Belly dance, just like any other dance style, 
is a visually versatile and skillful art form that 
should be treated as such. If a woman, or man, 
chooses to choreograph something ﬂ  irtatious, so 
be it. That’s their artistic journey, and this isn’t 
“Footloose.”
Scarlett Payne is a UF advertising junior. Her 
column appears Monday.Belly dance is not sexual and never wasColumn
Scarlett Payne
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
IT’S THE FIRST KILWINS 
LOCATION TO OPEN IN 
GAINESVILLE.
By Annelise O’Donnell
Alligator Contributing Writer
The first Kilwins Gainesville 
location served more than 30 
ice cream flavors to hungry 
customers at its ribbon cutting 
ceremony.
Sunday’s event at Kilwins, 
an ice cream and candy shop 
with more than 120 locations 
around the country, brought 
out more than 100 people to 
4949 Celebration Pointe Ave. 
from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
The free event featured a 
photo booth, a raffle with bas-
kets of desserts, kids activities 
and airbrush face painting. 
Owners Natalie and Ju-
lien Emmanuel organized the 
event, which cost a few thou-
sand dollars to put together.
The couple was attracted 
to the location because of the 
Celebration Pointe develop-
ment, said Julien Emmanuel.“The area is family-orient-
ed, and we’re a family place,” 
Emmanuel said. “It’s a perfect 
fit.”
Business has been slowly 
picking up at Celebration 
Pointe as it continues to de-
velop and students return for 
Fall, said Felix Burgos, the 
general manager, and the for-
mer manager of two Kilwins 
locations in St. Augustine.
After today’s grand open-
ing, Burgos expects the busi-
ness to continue growing, he 
said. 
“You won’t find any other 
Kilwins product outside of a 
Kilwins store,” Burgos said. “I 
think very few franchises are 
in that market these days.”
Kristina Leggett, 40, heard 
about the grand opening from 
Facebook. 
She came with her daugh-
ter, 10-year-old Katelyn 
Leggett, whose favorite ice 
cream flavor was caramel.
“She was crazy about the 
chocolate-covered pretzels, 
too,” Kristina Leggett said.Sweet treats: Kilwins opens first Gainesville location
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
A young girl, Ava Coleman, enjoys her “blue moon” ice cream at Kilwins’ grand opening. As part of its event, 
Gainesville’s new Kilwins location hosted a raffle with prizes worth up to $100.
Rushing home: Bid day welcomes new sorority members
Photos by Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Seventeen of UF’s Panhellenic Council sororities 
each welcomed about 75 new members Sunday 
afternoon in a flurry of hugs, tears and joyful 
celebration. About 1,400 women recieved bids, 
UF Panhellenic Council President Madison Rigdon 
wrote in an email. In 2017, a similar number of women received bids, according to Alligator 
archives.
About 1,600 women signed up for recruitment. 
Rigdon said this year there’s been a push by 
both UF’s Panhellenic Council and the National 
Panhellenic Council to focus on the values of 
individual chapters by allowing more time for 
conversation between the women rushing and the 
existing members.MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience 
with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, August 31, from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Contributing Writers, 
Photographers, Videographers, 
Copy Editors, and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
Bring your resume, clips and 
questions for staff members!
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground 
floor, take hallway with 
single door all the way 
down to G207 on the left.
ATTENTION  
Alligator Advertisers!
The Alligator will not be publishing 
on Monday, September 3rd due to 
the LABOR DAY holiday. Labor Day  
Early Deadlines
Run Date:
Wed, Sept. 7thDeadline:
Fri, Aug. 31st
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified advertising
Display:  376-4482     Classifieds:  373-3463 LABOR DAY HappyVidya Narine / Alligator Staff
Visitors at the newly opened $4.5 million honeybee research lab observe honeybees. A 
ribbon-cutting ceremony and open house last weekend hosted about 1,000 attendees.
By Adam Turner
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new addition to UF’s campus 
has people buzzing. 
A $4.5 million honeybee research 
lab held a ribbon-cutting ceremony 
Friday, followed by an open house 
Saturday, which attracted about 
1,000 students, faculty and beekeep-
ers from around the state.
The lab houses research and edu-
cational facilities, from bee colony 
observation rooms to a beekeeping 
museum.
The project was paid for by the 
Florida State Beekeepers Association, 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultur-
al Sciences and state funding. 
Although construction began in 
October 2017, the concept of the hon-
eybee lab has been in the works for 
six years, said Branden Stanford, the 
lab manager. The project was road-
blocked when Gov. Rick Scott vetoed 
allocating money for the lab.
 They secured state funding for 
the lab two attempts later, contingent upon the beekeepers contributing at 
least $200,000, said Tom Nolan, fun-
draising chair for the bee lab. 
The Florida State Beekeepers As-
sociation raised $1.4 million for the 
lab — seven times its original goal, 
Nolan said. 
“What we were looking for were 
people who had the vision, ability 
and willingness to give money, and 
it took two years to do that,” Nolan 
said.
The donations allowed the plans 
to expand from a one-building facility 
to a three-building area with a teach-
ing center, outdoor pavilion, museum 
and more, he said.  
“There is nothing else like this fa-
cility anywhere else in the world,” he 
said. 
Branden Pearson, a UF business 
administration sophomore, attended 
the open house to see how the facility 
will help expand UF’s presence in the 
beekeeping industry. 
“This is a resource I think is really 
going to propel our college of agricul-
ture,” Pearson said.$4.5 million UF beekeeping lab celebrates grand opening 10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
THE BOX TURTLE IS THE EIGHTH 
OF 11 STOLEN ANIMALS TO BE 
FOUND.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
David Beckham can soon go back to eating 
hard boiled eggs in his exhibit after he went 
missing three months ago. 
The box turtle was found by a mother and 
daughter on Northwest 83rd Street when he 
was walking across the road, said Jade Sal-
amone, an education specialist at Santa Fe Teaching Zoo Conservation. The pair recog-
nized him as one of Santa Fe Teaching Zoo’s 
missing animals because of the holes in his 
shell from veterinary procedures.
On May 23, two gopher tortoises and two 
box turtles were stolen from the Santa Fe 
Teaching Zoo, according to Alligator archives. 
Seven more animals were stolen May 30, in-
cluding three box turtles, two red-foot tortois-
es, a skink and a squirrel monkey. In June, 
seven of the 11 animals were found. 
The zoo wasn’t expecting to find the final 
four, so when David Beckham showed up, 
they were pleasantly surprised, said Charlee 
Strunk, a Santa Fe Teaching Zoo student. “I was a little shocked and very excited,” 
Strunk said when she heard about David 
Beckham’s whereabouts.
The box turtle is currently quarantined for 
check-ups, but he is expected to return to his 
exhibit in October, she said. He has been do-
ing well since his arrival.
The zoo is still missing one other box turtle 
and two gopher tortoises, Salamone said.
“The only reason we’ve gotten any of our 
animals back has been from community sup-
port,” Salamone said. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgDavid Beckham returns after being stolen
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Dancing for the kids
Morale captains for Dance Marathon, Nicole Allison, Zeni Quinn and Anthony T emeliescu, perform a line dance on Turlington Plaza  
Friday afternoon. This dance will be performed at Dance Marathon events until March 30. 
THE CARNIVAL WAS 
HELD FROM WEDNESDAY 
THROUGH FRIDAY. 
By T aylor Sharpe
Alligator Contributing Writer
They came for the Gator-themed 
bounce house and free pizza, but 
more than 1,000 people left Plaza of 
the Americas registered to vote.
The Voter Registration Carnival, 
held from Wednesday through Fri-
day, was hosted by Gators for Un-
derrepresented Voters, a student-run 
organization that aims to bring more 
college-age voters to the polls, and 
NextGen Florida, a progressive polit-
ical organization. The carnival cost 
under $1,000, said NextGen Youth 
organizer Gracey Jean-Bernard.
Those who attended recieved in-
formation about the primary election 
that ends Tuesday, registered to vote 
and ate free pizza. 
Jean-Bernard, 23, aims to make 
it easier for young people on college 
campuses to vote.
“The goal is to make sure that our 
voices are being heard,” Jean-Ber-
nard, a UF political science graduate 
said. “That young people are actu-
ally exercising their right to vote.”
It’s important for voters to update  
their registration every time they 
move, especially freshmen who  may 
have recently moved to Gainesville, 
she said.
The event was hosted during the 
first week of school because it’s 
when students, especially fresh-
men, start to get involved in the 
Gainesville community, she said.
“We want to incorporate voting 
into it,” Jean-Bernard said. “They 
are moving away from home and 
gaining some civil independence.”
Dionna Shine, an 18-year-old UF 
pharmacy freshman, said she recog-
nized the importance of voting fol-
lowing the mass shooting that killed 
17 people at Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School in February. 
“My school (Darnell Cookman 
Middle/High School) went up to 
Washington. We marched,” Shine 
said. “I feel like being politically ac-
climated to this environment is re-
ally important for me.”
Shine attended the carnival and 
said it was easy to register to vote 
there, and she encouraged her peers 
to do the same.
“If you don’t register to vote, 
… you can’t really be upset when 
something doesn’t fit into what you 
believe,” Shine said. “Voting is that 
way that we voice our personal be-
liefs.”Carnival 
registers 
more than 
1,000 voters 
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Four years of beer
Karl Sault, 52, plays Scrabble while sipping a beer at First Magnitude Brewing Company’s Fourth Anniversary Party Saturday 
afternoon. “If your spread doesn’t look good, you didn’t have enough beer, ” Sault said.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 27,2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, AUGUST 27,2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
HOUSE 5 MIN WALK TO UF LAW SCHOOL,
106 NW 25th St, 3Bd/1Ba, Wood Floors, 
Garage, Carport,, Screened Porch, Large 
Fenced Yard, HVAC, $1250/Mo,
AVAIL NOW. Call 352-246-5566            8-27-
18-4-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 27,2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
TUESDAY, AUGUST 28TH ONLY
BETWEEN 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
If absolutely unavailable in that time frame,
please call 352-376-4446
for alternative arrangements.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.Copytalk is hiring typists!
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive production-based pay
- Close to campus
www.ctscribes.com              8-29-18-3-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Build my Word Press E-Commerce site. 
15.00 per hr. and maintain website by piece -
meal on a monthly basis, I need someone 
who is up to the task. treemancarson@
gmail.com    8-29-2-14
Part-time office assistant for law office. 
Wed. & Thurs - Noon to 5:00 p.m. Answer 
phones; take information from potential 
clients; schedule appointments; run er -
rands. Reliable transportation necessary. 
Proficiency in Microsoft Word required. 
Email Resume with salary requirements to 
receptionist@millerelderlawfirm.com.     9-7-
18-5-14
Yardwork/some light housecleaning. Student, 
P/T a few hrs/wk. Wanted by retired UF grad. 
Close to UF, all equipment furn. $10-12/hr 
depending on exp/effectiveness. Reply w/ 
sched/ short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com     
9-7-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
P/T and F/T front desk positions in Gainesville 
dental office. Day and evening hours avail -
able. $14 and up, depending on experience. 
Answer phones, submit insurance claims, 
interact with patients. Email resume to gden -
taljob@gmail.com    8-31-18-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-5-18-6-14
Make $400 a week 
completing Surveys. Get Paid Immediately! 
Best Surveys from the brands you love! Go 
to collegejobs.team     8-31-18-5-14
NCF Public Charter School is a local drop -
out recovery high school in Gainesville. The 
school is located minutes from the UF & SFC 
campuses on NW 13th Street. Tutors are 
needed in math and are needed M-F from 
8:00 to 1:00. Tutor scheduling can be flex -
ible. $12 per hour. Call 352-379-2902    8-31-
18-5-14
Make up to $500 weekly
with this simple method. 
www.extracollegecash.club 
JOIN THE CLUB!                  8-31-18-5-14
MAKE MONEY FROM YOUR DORM 
ROOM!! Email grassed24@gmail.com for 
details     9-5-18-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    8-31-
18-4-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, AUGUST 27,2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1.  Not qualified 
1.  Not fair5.  ____ Statham
2.  Severe, harsh6.  Dodge
3.  Connection7.  Decline
4.  ArticulateAELUBN
JSUUNTOJANS
DAEEV
UAEREST
NIEGLKATCJREE
LFNTEUANSWERS: 1A-Unable  5A-Jason  6A-Evade  7A-Reject
1D-Unjust  2D-Austere  3D-Linkage  4D-Fluent  B-Juneau8-27-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This U.S. state capital is the second 
largest city in the U.S. by area. 
BONUS1. In 2017, the University of Florida 
became the fourth Division I school 
since 1954 to win championships in 
men’s basketball, football and baseball. 
Name two of the other three to do it.
2. Who held the New York Yankees 
record for most home runs by a rookie 
(29) before Aaron Judge hit 52 home 
runs in 2017?
3. Name the first player in the Super 
Bowl era to score on a run, a catch and 
a kickoff return in an NFL postseason 
game.
4. How many times has the University 
of Cincinnati’s men’s basketball team 
won 30 or more games in a season?
5. How many games did Chicago 
Blackhawks play to start the 2012-13 
NHL season before they suffered a 
loss in regulation? 
6. Who is the only female skier to 
win three alpine gold medals in a sin-
gle Olympics?
7. Name the last male golfer to win the 
U.S. Open in consecutive years before 
Brooks Koepka did it in 2017-18.
Answers
1. Michigan, Ohio State and UCLA.
2. Joe DiMaggio, in 1936.
3. New England’s Dion Lewis, in 
2017.
4. Three times (2001-02, 2016-17, 
2007-18).
5. Twenty-four.
6. Croatia’s Janica Kostelic, in 2002.
7. Curtis Strange, in 1988-89.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
August 27, 2018King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Apple remnant
5 Picket line
crosser
9 Proverbial waste
maker
14 Like die-hard fans
15 Furry red Muppet
16 Snake River
state
17 Sam Houston
served twice as
its president
20 Rapper Dr. __
21 Shade tree
subject to blight
22 Lubricated
23 Black __ : covert
missions
25 Cost for an online
pop-up
28 General guideline
31 Safari automaker
34 Wraps up
35 Fish trapped in
pots
36 “Word is ... ”
38 Geronimo’s tribe
40 Board meeting
outline
41 Motherless calf
42 Tear canal
45 Actresses Long
and Vardalos
46 Jeanne d’Arc,
e.g.: Abbr.
47 Credible quality
50 Intermittent, as
fog
51 “To each __ own”
52 Bill Belichick, e.g.
54 Boathouse item
56 One __ million
59 Hint that a storm
is approaching
63 Quite heavy
64 Cookie in dirt
pudding
65 Extremely tired
66 Desires
67 Florist’s
arrangement
68 Indy 500 racers
DOWN
1 Birthday __
2 Finished
3 One’s golden
years
4 Academic URL
ender
5 Pitch
successfully6 Long-term
weather
conditions
7 “The Walking
Dead” channel
8 Unhappy fan’s
shout
9 Win the jackpot
10 One-named
“Skyfall” singer
11 __-Coburg,
Bavaria
12 Former
Mississippi
senator Cochran
13 Dawn goddess
18 Kiss, in Cancún
19 Shaving lather
24 Joe of “My
Cousin Vinny”
26 FedEx rival
27 Country with 11
time zones: Abbr.
28 Curls up with a
Kindle
29 Take out of its
container, as a
houseplant
30 Service charge
31 “That’s super-
creative thinking!”
32 Angry with
33 Wall Street
disaster37 Painter Matisse
39 Performer of the
12 labors, to the
Greeks
40 Justice dept.
division
42 Party gp. chaired
by Tom Perez
43 “That’s gross!”
44 Prairie canines
48 “Am __ only one?”
49 Drive-__ window
50 Blue Ribbon beer52 1962 Missile
Crisis country
53 Dark clouds, to
some
55 Sailor’s hail
57 Close by
58 Creative pursuits
59 Movie theater
division
60 Comics’ Alley __
61 To’s partner
62 Peacock logo
network
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/27/1808/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, August 27, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Knot remover
8 Not pointless?
15 Took too many
courses?
16 “Marvelous”
17 Sent along
18 One pulling his
weight around
Christmas
19 Caper
20 Stuff on the deck
22 Proactiv target
23 European
underground
nickname
25 Forbids
26 Flood insurance,
once upon a time
29 Copycat’s talent
30 Alley goop
31 Toasting
candidate
33 Grizabella the
Glamour Cat’s
solo
36 Single from
Dylan’s “Blood
on the Tracks”
38 Some navels
39 Puerto Rico’s __
de Morro
40 Hosp. sections
41 Warehouse
supplies
42 Darn things
43 Vince with 18
CMA Awards
45 Lacking versatility
47 Raised eyebrow,
e.g.
48 Nine Inch Nails
founder Reznor
49 Stomach
53 Brewery sugar
55 Where old
records may be
kept
57 Congo line?
58 Do an inside job?
59 Fair rewards
60 Small restaurants
DOWN
1 “Brothers &
Sisters” matriarch
2 Square
3 Gael, for one
4 Nocturnal Asian
snake5 Singer ranked
#10 on Rolling
Stone’s list of the
100 Greatest
Artists of All Time
6 Sporty truck,
briefly
7 Framework for
retiring
8 “Yowza!”
9 “Honestly!”
10 Matching
11 Toronto’s prov.
12 Party bites from
the toaster oven
13 Maroon at a
chalet, maybe
14 Coppers
21 Hybrid roast
24 Olympic gear
25 Film fawn
26 Basic studio
class
27 “Deadpool” actor
Reynolds
28 Group concerned
with good
breeding
30 Camper’s
anchors
32 Speakeasy
circulator
33 Bungle34 Word with home
or slide
35 Stinging
response
37 House coat
41 Ugly looks
43 Xbox devotee
44 Kirkuk native
45 Name on “The
Magnificent
Ambersons”
theater poster46 Pulitzer-winning
film critic
48 Terry’s role in 
the original
“Wizard of Oz”
50 Structural beam
51 Inflict on
52 They’re split
54 Check for drinks
56 Org. with an
“Odd News” web
page
By Patti Varol and Doug Peterson
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/25/1808/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, August 25, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsRapper Kodak Black posted on 
Twitter, asking "What College 
Should I Go T o?" and mentioned 
UF as a choice. Coach Dan 
Mullen has said the team listens 
to his music during practice. Hawaii wins third Little League World Series title
The team from Honolulu blanked South Korea's squad 3-0 in the Little 
League World Series championship Sunday afternoon. The Hawaiians al-
lowed just three runs throughout the tournament.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
Dan Mullen’s an interesting 
person. 
He completed the Boston 
Marathon. 
He earned First-Team All-
Centennial Conference honors 
as a tight end at Ursinus College. 
I don’t know how good that 
is, but it’s interesting.
So, it shouldn’t be a surprise 
that Mullen hired coordina-
tors and assistants that are not 
only interesting, but make up a 
strong, experienced unit. 
Here’s a look at the cabinet of 
the Mullen administration. 
Billy Gonzales and John 
Hevesy, Co-offensive Coordi-
nators
Mullen, Hevesy and Gon-
zales. Florida’s offensive hive mind and probably the most 
important pieces since they’ve 
coached together for such a long 
time. Hevesy and Gonzales have 
been on the same staff as Mul-
len dating back to the Bowling 
Green days (2001-02). They trav-
eled to Utah with Urban Meyer 
and Mullen and spent time as 
the Utes’ wide receivers coach 
and offensive line coaches until 
2005, when the party moved to 
Florida. 
The trio served as assistant 
coaches on both UF champion-
ship teams under Meyer. 
Hevesy moved to Mississippi 
State with Mullen in 2009 and 
hasn’t left his side. The Bulldogs 
limped 11th in rushing in the 
SEC in 2008 (100.6 rushing yards 
per game). Mississippi State rose 
to ﬁ  rst in the SEC in Mullen and 
Hevesy’s ﬁ  rst season, averaging 
224.6 rushing yards. Gonzales joined the staff as 
wide receivers coach in 2013 
following stints with Illinois and 
Louisiana State. In 2014 he was 
named co-offensive coordinator 
and coached wide receiver Fred 
Ross, who received two First-
Team All-SEC distinctions and 
broke school records in recep-
tions, receiving yards and 100 
yards receiving games.
It’s obvious when Mullen’s 
quarterbacks are throwing to 
Gonzales’ receivers, and Heve-
sy’s line is establishing the run, 
good things happen.
Todd Grantham, Defensive 
Coordinator
Grantham has a long coach-
ing history. He joined Mullen’s 
staff last season as defensive 
coordinator at Louisville from 
2014-16 and Georgia from 2010- Learning more about the Gators' assistant coaches
Justin Time / Opinions
Coach Mary Wise has built one of 
the premier programs in Gator athlet-
ics. Since 1991, Wise has constructed a 
volleyball program that is constantly at 
the top and rarely struggles to ﬁ  nd its 
footing.
Wise and her players have always 
found a way to be competitive and rep-
resent the SEC with true class.
And this year won’t be any different.
Following a 2017 season that saw the 
Gators take the SEC championship and 
ﬁ  nish runner-up in the NCAA Champi-
onships, Wise has reloaded her arsenal 
of players and already played two of the 
toughest opponents the Gators will see 
this season.
Despite losing four key seniors in  Gators volleyball 
is the best sport 
to follow at FloridaSOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
It wasn’t until the 103rd minute that 
Oklahoma State’s Marlo Zoller hit the 
back of the net from 14 yards out and put 
the hopes of a Gator victory to rest.
The Cowgirls (3-0) bested UF (2-2) 
at Neal Patterson Stadium in Stillwater, 
Oklahoma, on Sunday, emerging victori-
ous 1-0 at the end of double overtime. The 
loss is UF’s second in a row, coming after 
a defeat against Ohio State on Friday.
The ﬁ  rst half played out largely in fa-
vor of Oklahoma State. The Cowgirls took 
seven shots, while the Gators only got two 
off. OSU also had a slight edge in corner 
kicks, taking four to UF’s three.
Coach Becky Burleigh recognized the 
lack of offensive effort as the game con-
tinued.
“It was tough. We were trying to 
bounce back and for very long, long 
stretches of that game we had the play,” 
she said in a release. “But ultimately, we 
didn’t really create many offensive oppor-
tunities out of that possession. That needs 
to change.”
The second half looked much better for 
the Gators as they zeroed in on the Cow-
girls. Oklahoma State’s lead in the shot 
count narrowed to a 6-5 margin in the 
second period, and Florida produced more  Oklahoma State defeats UF 1-0 in double OT
Justin Ahlum
@justinn_case1SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Alligator File Photo
UF forward Deanne Rose has been sidelined during the last two games due to a minor 
injury, according to team ofﬁ  cials. 
 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Alligator File Photo
Coach Dan Mullen has assembled a staff of former assistants and new hires 
to man Florida's sidelines this season. MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Graduating four starting All-Americans 
isn’t ideal for any team in any sport. Losing 
multiple senior leaders usually gives way to 
a follow-up year headed by confused under-
classmen.
That is, unless the team in question is 
Florida volleyball.
The No. 7 Gators (1-1) finished their first 
tournament of the season in Lincoln, Nebras-
ka, Saturday evening splitting matches with 
a four-set win against No. 2 Nebraska — the 
reigning national champions — and a five-
set loss against No. 3 Texas.
It’s difficult to overlook the fact that for-
mer mainstays like Carli Snyder, Shainah Jo-
seph, Rhamat Alhassan and Caroline Knop 
are not on the court this season.
However, the new squad, with seven new 
faces added to this season’s roster, seems to 
have adjusted just fine.
It might be a little premature to say just 
two games into the season, but the team that 
played Nebraska Friday night was a different 
Gators squad compared to the team that lost 
to Texas on Saturday.
Friday night’s squad was fresh and ready 
for revenge after losing the NCAA Champi-
onship Game to the same program just over 
eight months ago. But Saturday night’s team 
looked tired and was out-played by a well-
oiled machine. 
If Florida played every game like it did 
Friday night, it would have one hell of a sea-
son. If not, the team could be in for a long 
one.
Despite the unfamiliar look on the court, 
coach Mary Wise seems to have used her 
roster shrewdly enough to get the most out 
of her available players.
Unlike last season’s lineup, which ran a 
5-1 system (one setter and five hitters), this 
year’s 6-2 rotation (six hitters and two set-ters) allows more flexibility and exposure on 
the offensive front.
Freshman outside hitter Thayer Hall 
stole the spotlight during the tournament, 
logging 20 kills on 60 swings in Friday’s 
contest against the Cornhuskers. She added 
another 21 kills and 59 swings on Saturday 
against the Longhorns. 
No matter where she was on the court, 
Hall seemed to be an offensive option to help 
close out rallies and secure a point for the 
Gators. However, she also logged 15 errors, 
leading the team in that field in both outings.
Hall’s play is very similar to Snyder’s in 
her aggression and positive output on the 
court. 
Sophomore Paige Hammons played the 
other left-side pin attacker. The hitter from 
Louisville, Kentucky, didn’t secure nearly 
as many kills (11) as Hall did (41). But her 
playing experience from last season will be 
beneficial moving forward.Junior middle blocker Rachael Kramer 
had an off weekend, logging as many kills 
(14) as she did errors in both matches.
Opposite of Kramer was senior Taelor 
Kellum. The 6-foot-2 middle blocker had an 
impressive weekend logging 14 kills in two 
matches.
Kellum hasn’t seen much time on the 
court in her previous years at Florida, but 
she decided to stick with the program in-
stead of transferring. Her work seems to 
have paid off in full with a starting position 
in the Gators lineup.
There is plenty of time to see how she will 
form her game over the next few matches, 
and Kellum’s approach should not be over-
looked. 
Redshirt sophomore Mia Sokolowski 
also had a good weekend, proving herself 
to be one of the most consistent players on 
the court after she made most of her attacks 
from the right-side pin.UNC redshirt sophomore transfer Holly 
Carlton was opposite of Sokolowski for both 
matches. The 6-foot-7 left-handed attacker 
proved to be a critical weapon for the squad 
with some trick plays that were run out of 
middle front.
It’s hard to replace a powerhouse like Jo-
seph, but together Sokolowski and Carlton 
could combine their talents to create the 
right mix to imitate a style of play similar to 
Joseph’s. 
Redshirt senior Allie Monserez and 
freshman Marlie Monserez led the Gators 
offense by splitting the setter role for both 
matches. 
The older sister was paired with more ex-
perienced players like Kramer, Sokolowski 
and Hammons while the younger sister was 
paired with fresh faces like Kellum, Carlton 
and Hall.
Together, the Monserez duo could be just 
the ticket for exposing the Gators’ offense to 
the best of their ability.
Allie Gregory took control of the back 
row from a defensive perspective, racking up 
21 digs against Nebraska Friday night and 16 
on Sunday against Texas.
Gregory did a good job of keeping most of 
her digs off the net and allowing the setters 
to run in-system plays, as well as controlling 
things from the service line. Gregory logged 
four aces over the weekend and three service 
errors.
Like her fellow All-Americans, Knop also 
had a demanding presence on the court, but 
Gregory appears to fit right into this style of 
play. 
The Gators will return to the court again 
Friday night when they take on No. 10 South-
ern California at the O’Connell Center at 7.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgMonday Takeaways: Looking back at UF's opening weekend
13. 
He made a huge impact on Mul-
len’s staff in 2017. Mississippi State 
improved from 12th in total defense 
in the SEC (459.1 yards per game) 
to third (306.3 yards per game). 
They also allowed the fewest first 
downs per game in the conference, 
only 13.5 per contest. 
Grantham also has plenty of NFL 
coaching experience. He spent time 
as the defensive line coach for the 
Houston Texans (2002-04), defen-
sive coordinator for the Cleveland 
Browns (2005-07) and defensive 
coordinator for the Dallas Cowboys 
(2008-09). 
Grantham’s defense in 2005 
with the Browns led the AFC in 
red zone defense (44.0 touchdown 
percentage) and ranked fourth 
against the pass (179.2 passing 
yards per game). The Browns also 
finished 10-6 in 2007 (although 
they didn’t make the playoffs) un-
der Grantham’s defensive direction 
after going 4-12 the season before. 
This man made THE BROWNS 
pretty good at one point this cen-
tury. A resume doesn’t get much more impressive than that. 
Brian Johnson, Quarterbacks 
Johnson is well-known for quar-
terbacking Utah to a Sugar Bowl 
victory over Alabama in 2009. He 
also led the Utes’ to a 13-0 record 
the same season.
Johnson pursued a professional career in the United Football League 
but was released by the New York 
Sentinels before joining the Utes’ 
coaching staff in 2010 as a quar-
terbacks coach. He became co-
offensive coordinator in 2013 then 
signed on as quarterbacks coach for 
Mullen in 2014. He coached Dak 
Prescott and Nick Fitzgerald until 2017, when he moved to Houston 
to become its offensive coordinator. 
Sal Sunseri, Defensive Line  
Florida will have a deep rotation 
of pass rushers this season, play-
ing under a coach in Grantham that 
loves to bring pressure. 
Sunseri is the perfect compli-
ment to this philosophy. 
Sunseri, like Grantham, has NFL 
pedigree. Coaching the D-line for 
the Oakland Raiders from 2015-17, 
he’s worked with elite defensive tal-
ent: Super Bowl XLVIII Most Valu-
able Player Malcolm Smith, three-
time Pro-Bowler NaVorro Bowman 
and one of the best pass rushers in 
the game, Khalil Mack. 
And Sunseri’s laundry list of 
successes in college include two 
National Championships in three 
campaigns (2009-11) as defensive 
line coach under Nick Saban at Ala-
bama. 
Nick Savage, Strength and 
Conditioning
Perhaps the assistant that has 
made the biggest impact on the 
Gators is coach Savage, who Mullen 
pried away from Ohio State. 
There’s a noticeable difference in how every player looks. Defensive 
lineman T.J. Slaton has trimmed 
down significantly from his near-
350 pound weight from last year. 
Quarterback Feleipe Franks said he 
lost some weight and packed on 15 
pounds of muscle in the offseason. 
Even running back Jordan Scarlett 
looks bigger and more intimidating 
up close. 
Savage has been working full 
time this offseason, and if you 
watch him at practice, he’s pushing 
just as hard. 
There’s never been a human be-
ing more enthusiastic about hydra-
tion and nutrition. When players 
finish drills where they’re yelled 
at to give maximum effort, Savage 
steps up and yells at them louder to 
drink water. He even wears a porta-
ble water tank on his back like he’s 
Bobby Boucher before he knocked 
out the quarterback. 
The effort that Savage has given 
and continues to give should be one 
of the biggest reasons Florida sees 
an improvement after a 4-7 season. 
And he may be one of Mullen’s 
most important hires. 
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14QB coach Brian Johnson pursued a career with the USFL Alligator File Photo
Coach Mary Wise has had to deal with high turnover on her roster from last year.
The Associated Press
Coach Nick Savage has implemented a different workout routine for UF.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2018
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
MONDAY NIGHT 
Burger Night
$3.99 BURGER
5PM- CLOSE
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • (352) 505-3595MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
FRIDAY
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
FRIDAY
PICK UP YOURset-piece chances with a substan-
tial 6-0 advantage on corner kicks.
UF had a chance to go up in 
the 74th minute. Midﬁ  elder Sarah 
Troccoli delivered a header close 
to goal, but it was deﬂ  ected just 
above the bar by OSU goalie Han-
nah Warner. 
The two teams remained score-
less until the end of regulation and 
beyond. The ﬁ  rst overtime period 
was relatively uneventful, with 
both teams taking only a single 
shot. The second overtime period 
didn’t last long though, as Zoller 
hit the far post with a shot that ric-
ocheted in behind UF goalie Kay-
lan Marckese for her ﬁ  rst goal of 
the season.
The Cowgirls ﬁ  nished the game 
with 15 shots (seven on goal) to 
the Gators eight shots (four on 
goal). Despite the loss, UF led the 
game in corners, taking nine to 
Oklahoma State’s four.
Florida’s offense appears to be 
severely hindered by the absence 
of forward Deanne Rose, the team’s 
leading scorer last year. Rose suf-
fered a minor strain in practice ac-
cording to team ofﬁ  cials, and she’s 
being cautious with her injury in 
preparation for a stint with the Ca-
nadian National Team on Sept. 2 
when it faces off against Brazil.
Ahead of its match against 
UCLA this Friday, Burleigh told her 
team there’s no time to mull over 
its defeat.
“We have two big games next 
weekend so there’s no time to feel 
sorry for ourselves,” she said. Now 
it is the time to ﬁ  nd answers.” 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14UF has not scored a goal in its previous two matches
Rhamat Alhassan, Carli Snyder, Shainah Jo-
seph and Caroline Knop, the Gators did work 
on the recruiting trail prior to their seniors 
hanging up the jerseys.
Following a weekend where they beat the 
defending national champions and fell in ﬁ  ve 
sets to No. 3 Texas, the future looks solid for 
Florida.
The Gators added six freshmen and one 
transfer to the squad to try to replace the All-
American talent that left the program.
Leading the pack is Thayer Hall, the most 
highly touted recruit from the 2018 class. The 
Gatorade National Player of the Year is already 
making an immediate impact to the team. Her 
41 kills in two contests over the weekend led 
the team and backed up her accolades she 
achieved in high school.
In addition to the new faces, junior middle 
blocker Rachael Kramer returns to the front 
of the net following her breakout year. She’ll 
maintain a presence in the middle that oppos-
ing teams will have to gameplan for. Kramer 
will also have senior setter Allie Monserez up 
front, a pair that should provide the Gators 
with plenty of offensive aggression throughout 
the season.
It’ll be tough for UF to make a run like they 
did last season once again. Losing talent in ev-
ery area of the court is tough for any team to 
rebound from.
However, the Gators’ volleyball program 
will take the crown as the best fall program 
in Gainesville. An SEC championship is never 
out of reach for Wise’s team, and a trip to the 
NCAA tournament is almost guaranteed while 
she sits on UF’s bench.
Regardless of their standing at the end of the 
season, the Gators will always provide a show 
inside the O’Connell Center. So when you have 
the time, take a few hours to go watch UF’s vol-
leyball program work its magic.
Not only will you be watching the best team 
at Florida, you’ll be watching one of the most 
entertaining programs across the entire nation.
Justin Ahlum is a multimedia producer 
for The Alligator. Follow him on Twitter             
@justinn_case1 and contact him at jahlum@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Alligator File Photo
Midﬁ  elder Sarah Troccoli nearly won the match for UF against Oklahoma State with a 
header. The attempt was deﬂ  ected just over the goal post by the OSU goalie. 
