We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Dan Mullen will be the next Accent Speaker
He will not be paid to speak, pg. 4
A breakdown of campaign ﬁ  nance spending
A look at the money that went into the Student Government 
Spring election, pg. 5HUDSON OVERCOMES HARDSHIPS
Jalen Hudson dealt with a divorce that split his family and a coach who didn’t want him before eventually landing at UF, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 65
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
A UF STUDENT WAS 
DROPPED OFF 40 
MINUTES FROM HER STOP .
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
As Halle Berliant watched her 
bus creep farther away from the 
Tampa airport on her phone’s map, the knot in her stomach tightened.
Berliant, a UF health science 
freshman, called her mom, Eliza-beth Berliant, and said she was ner-vous.
“I’m sure they know what they’re 
doing,” her mom said. 
As the bus traveled down Inter-
state 75, Halle Berliant realized the mistake and asked to be let off. 
So the bus drivers dropped her 
off — at exit 229 in Palmetto, along the side of the road with her green suitcase, Berliant said. She looked around in the hopes of seeing a gro-cery store, gas station, any sign of civilization, but saw nothing. 
“I was very scared,” the 18-year-
old said. “I didn’t know where I was.” 
The incident raises questions 
about the practices of bus compa-nies serving students. A variety of 
bus lines operate throughout Flor-
ida, with three of the most popu-lar options being RedCoach, GMG Transport and Megabus — all of which boast their safety record but still have complaints.
RedCoach has several mea-
sures in place to ensure the safety of passengers and drivers, Daniel RedCoach incident raises questions of bus companies’ protocols
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
CATCHING THE REDCOACH
Students and other passengers walk toward a RedCoach bus to begin boarding Thursday afternoon at the Commuter Lot as UF will begin 
its Spring Break this upcoming week. 
 SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8FEATURE FRIDAY:
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Three days. Five mountains. Six 
pairs of burning thighs and toned 
calves.
This Spring Break, David Di-
Mauro, a UF biology senior, will 
guide a group of ﬁ  ve students up 
ﬁ  ve of the 10 tallest mountains east of the Mississippi River to raise $14,000 for a Gainesville-based philanthropy, the Climb For Cancer Foundation, which donates nearly all of its proceeds to cancer patients at UF Health. DiMauro hopes to raise the $14,000 to participate in 
the non-proﬁ  t’s Mount Kilimanjaro trip. The students on the Spring 
Break trip planned to raise $1,000 but have collected $1,200 in total.
DiMauro, 22, was going to com-
plete the hike alone but opened the trip up to other participants when he saw other UF students were interested in a Facebook post he shared Feb. 15.
“It’s like a wildﬁ  re,” he said. 
“These people are getting excited for something that I’m excited about, and that’s really cool.”
Within a week, he had recruits: 
his brother Thomas, friends Sam Saffer, Grace Plass, Haley Surdyke and Delaney Sagul, who has gone on another trip DiMauro helped lead.
The ﬁ  ve peaks are Mounts 
Mitchell, Craig, Gibbes, Potato Hill and Balsam Cone, which are all 
on the same ridgeline of the Black 
Mountains in North Carolina. The trip from peak to peak is about 23 miles on foot. Each peak they reach will yield a view of the taller moun-tain next in line, DiMauro said. 
“I was pretty nervous about do-
ing it,” said Plass, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering freshman. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely going to push us 
pretty much to our limits.”
At the start of the trip, hikers 
can expect a steep incline at Deep Gap Trailhead, said Surdyke, a good friend of DiMauro, who is helping guide on the trip.
“It’s like doing stadiums for ﬁ  ve 
hours straight,” the 21-year-old UF 
nursing senior said.
Stadiums are actually one of 
closest ways to mimic the burn of a 
backpacking trip, she said. 
Out in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, 
the group of six stands out from the other athletes. For nearly an hour, the group bounces up and down the stadium steps in hefty water-
proof hiking boots they’ll wear 
during the trip. In addition, hikers ﬁ  lled their backpacks with jugs of water and textbooks — enough weight to set off the seat belt alarm in Surdyke’s car — to emulate the hike’s intensity, she said.
Packing as light as possible with 
dehydrated food packets is neces-
sary. They will still be hauling 25 
to 50 pounds of gear each, includ-ing water, supplies and tents.
DiMauro said he has climbed 
Mount Mitchell and Craig before but never in early spring, when trails are still fresh with snow and temperatures dip easily below freezing after nightfall. 
“It’s rough,” says Mount Mitch-
ell State Park employee Shelby Longtrear. “You can get into some trouble if you’re not as experi-
Six UF students to climb ﬁ  ve mountains during Spring Break
SEE MOUNTAIN,  PAGE 8
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
HIGH  77° LOW  44°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Student Government Fair
 Student Government’s Spring 
Housing Fair will be held from 
10 a.m. to 1 p.m. March 16 on 
the Reitz Union North Lawn. This is a way to get familiar with off-campus living op-
tions.
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops
The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law 
in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops” from 4:30 to 6 p.m. March 22 at Cone Park Library Branch, located at 2801 E. University Ave. Attorneys will meet with people who have been con-
victed of a felony and are in-
terested in applying to have their civil rights restored. For more information, visit aclib.us/law.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper.
Clarification
 In story published Wednesday 
titled “GPD: UF student rapes 
friend after fraternity event,” Thomas Peter Maletta was ar-
rested and charged with raping 
a woman he'd known since high school. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 65
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
A small group of students participate in a solidarity rally on Turlington 
Plaza  on Thursday evening to raise awareness for the Karam Foundation’s Emergency Aid Campaign for the Children of Eastern Ghouta.Sophia Timm, a 21-year-old UF biology and anthropology senior, participates in a solidarity rally for Eastern Ghouta children along with Kelly Sutter, a 19-year-old UF psychology  sophomore, and Afrah Ahmed, a 19-year-old UF health science senior.
On Turlington Plaza, students rally in solidarity for Syria
By T aylour Marks
Alligator Staff Writer4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
A HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT 
WAS ARRESTED FOR TAKING 
A GUN TO SCHOOL THE 
SAME DAY.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Tallahassee man was arrested and 
charged with bringing a loaded gun to 
Santa Fe College on Tuesday night on, 
Santa Fe College Police said.
Nicholas Robert Thompson, 30, had 
a loaded 9mm Taurus PT111 handgun tucked in his front waistband while he was attending a class in Building O on 
Santa Fe’s northwest campus at about 
6:30 p.m., according to an arrest report. Jay Anderson, Santa Fe’s communica-
tion manager, said a student saw the 
gun and told the teacher who then called police.
“The system worked the way it 
should,” Anderson said.
Thompson was arrested for having the concealed gun on Santa Fe’s cam-
pus, police said. 
Thompson isn’t a student at the 
school and was attending an Occupa-tional Safety and Health Administration 
safety class taught at the college, Ander-son said.
Anderson said Thompson told police 
he forgot he was carrying the gun when he went to the campus and had a con-
cealed carry permit.
Thompson’s arrest was the same day 
a junior at Eastside High School was ar-rested on charges related to his bringing 
a loaded revolver to school in his back-pack, according to Alligator archives. 
Thompson was arrested on a charge 
of carrying a ﬁ  rearm on a school cam-pus and taken to the Alachua County 
Jail. He was released Wednesday night 
on a $50,000 bond. 
He could not be reached for com-
ment. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgPolice: Tallahassee man 
brings gun to classBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Zachary Roberts wants to 
know what Coach Dan Mullen 
has in mind for the future of 
Gator football. 
The UF exploratory engi-
neering sophomore will get an 
opportunity to ask the head 
football coach March 20 in the 
University Auditorium. The dis-
cussion is organized by Accent 
Speakers Bureau. The doors 
will open at 7 
p.m., and the 
event will be-gin at 8 p.m.
About 800 
tickets will be 
available at 
the Accent 
ofﬁ  ce on the third ﬂ  oor 
of the Reitz Union beginning 
March 19, from noon to 5 p.m., 
Accent chair Shelby Buchanan wrote in an email. Students with a valid Gator 1 ID card receive 
two tickets. Any remaining tickets will be 
distributed at the University Au-ditorium box ofﬁ  ce from noon 
until the start of the show. 
Mullen will speak about his 
professional experience. 
Mullen is not being paid to 
speak, and the estimated cost to host the event is under $5,000, 
Buchanan said. 
“We have received several 
requests for a sports-oriented show, and we feel this show will 
deﬁ  nitely satisfy that demand,” 
Buchanan said. “We hope that this event can serve as introduc-tion between Coach Mullen and 
the Student Body before next year’s football season.” 
Buchanan said this event is a 
partnership between Accent and 
the University Athletic Associa-
tion to allow for university sport 
ofﬁ  cials to speak. 
“While we love to bring 
speakers from all over the coun-
try and all walks of life, partner-
ing with the UAA gives us the 
opportunity to showcase a little hometown pride,” Buchanan said. “We’re excited to bring Dan due to his history of excel-
lence in the sports world, and 
we hope that students in atten-
dance feel a stronger connec-
tion to him after the program is over.” 
Roberts, 19, said he has been 
a fan of Mullen since he started 
as UF’s offensive coordinator in 
2005. 
“He seems to just be happy 
to be here at the University of Florida and some coaches in the 
past have not seemed excited or happy to be here,” he said. 
Roberts said he’s curious 
to know why Mullen chose to 
come back to UF after his coach-
ing job at Mississippi State Uni-
versity. 
“I would probably ask him 
what his goals are for the next 
year and ﬁ  ve years for the foot-
ball program,” he said. “I want 
to know whether we are, as a 
program, reaching the goals that 
he sets out.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgDan Mullen to give Accent talk
Mullen
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested and 
charged with shooting and injuring an in-
fant and the infant’s father Tuesday night, 
Gainesville Police said.
Darrell J. Wilson, 26, was to babysit the 
1-year-old child at his East Gainesville home, 
and the mother and father were dropping off 
the infant at about 10 p.m., GPD spokesper-
son Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said. Wilson became offended when the father, Torrance Lee, was kiss-
ing and hugging the child 
in his car, and Wilson grabbed the infant out of the father’s hands, accord-
ing to a press release.
The father got out of 
his car and asked what 
was wrong, and the mother moved her child 
from Wilson’s hands to the father’s, Tobias said. Wilson, who keeps a gun on him at all times, pulled out the handgun and shot 
twice, hitting the father in the abdomen and 
the child in the face, Tobias said.
“I cannot believe, I can’t understand, 
can’t fathom why someone would look any-
where toward the direction of a child, an in-
fant, a baby and make the decision to pull 
the trigger,” Tobias said.
Both were taken to the hospital for non-
life threatening injuries. Police found the gun in Wilson’s home, and he was arrested on a charge of attempted murder, Tobias said. 
Wilson told police he shot the father be-
cause he had a mean look on his face, To-bias said.
The Florida Department of Children and 
Families will run a parallel investigation 
with police. 
Wilson was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail where he remains in lieu of a $500,000 
bond. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: Gainesville man shoots, injures father and his baby
Wilson
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Gainesville resident ﬁ  led a lawsuit 
against Rep. Chuck Clemons, R-New-
berry, on Monday for blocking him on Twitter. 
Peter Morgan 
Attwood, 45, tweeted at Clemons on Feb. 20 asking why he voted 
against HB 219, a bill that would allow the Florida House to dis-cuss a possible ban on assault weapons. The next day, Attwood 
discovered Clemons had blocked him on Twitter and later Facebook, Attwood said. Now, Attwood’s attorney is asking the courts to declare Clemons’ actions as viewpoint exclusion from a public forum and a violation of the First Amendment. 
“He doesn’t have a right to do that if 
he’s operating his Twitter and his Face-book as a representative of the people,” Attwood said. 
Clemons represents District 21, which 
includes part of Alachua County and Gil-
christ and Dixie Counties.
Attwood retweeted a tweet by Emma 
Gonzalez, a survivor of the Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas School shooting, about the House vote and added a per-sonal message for Clemons. 
“Hello @ChuckClemons21 I’m a con-
stituent. Please explain this vote please. Thank you,” the tweet reads. 
The next day he was blocked, 
Attwood said.  
Clemons didn’t respond to requests 
for comment but posted his thoughts about the lawsuit on social media Mon-day.
“This lawsuit is frivolous and a waste 
of taxpayer time and money,” he wrote in a Facebook post. “Any legislator, or 
any citizen, has the right to decide who 
they will or won’t allow to interact with them online.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgRep. Chuck Clemons faces 
lawsuit for Twitter block
By Heaven Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Levin College of Law saw 
applications double from 
2015 to 2016, and a national study said this is due to the presidential election. 
Kaplan Test Prep, a stu-
dent testing service, con-ducted a nationwide survey in December 2017 and Feb-ruary that went out to more than 500 students applying to law school. It found that 32 percent said the election impacted their decision to 
apply, said Jeff Thomas, an 
executive director of pre-law 
programs at Kaplan. 
He said there was specula-
tion about why this number increased in the past year be-cause in the ﬁ  ve years prior, there was a decline in LSAT test takers. Consequently, Kaplan decided to survey stu-dents who have went through their preparation services about why they applied to law school. 
“If the passion is there, it’s 
a great time to apply to law school,” Thomas said. 
Elizabeth Lear, the associ-
ate dean for strategic initia-tives at Levin College of Law, said she noticed a massive increase in the law school ap-plications since the election. 
Lear said since the elec-
tion, the school saw an in-crease of more than 1,000 applications. She said 1,359 students applied in 2015 and 2,703 applied in 2016. The number stayed around the 
same in 2017 at 2,875 appli-
cations. 
“Applications have gone 
up in the last two years,” Lear said. “I have seen pas-sion among our students since the election.”
Marina Bahmad, a 20-year-
old UF telecommunication ju-nior, said she had thoughts of applying to law school before 
the election. But when Presi-
dent Donald Trump won and implemented his restrictive immigration policies, it reaf-ﬁ  rmed her decision to apply. 
Bahmad said she was born 
and raised in Brazil. She moved to the U.S. when she was 11 years old and didn’t 
become a citizen until Febru-
ary. She wants to be able to help other immigrants by go-ing to law school and study immigration law. 
“Immigration is a soft 
spot for me,” Bahmad said. “There are people that need help who don’t have the money, especially if you are an immigrant.”
UF Law school sees applicant 
increase after 2016 election 
Clemons
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Campaign ﬁ  nance reports indicate Impact 
Party spent about nine times more and Inspire 
Party spent about seven times more than their 
competitor, Challenge Party, in the recent Stu-
dent Government election. 
Impact raised $10,325 in donations, includ-
ing $1,300 from President-elect Ian Green, $1,100 from Vice President-elect David En-riquez and $1,200 from Treasurer-elect Stefan 
Sanguyo. The party spent a total $9,963.91.
Jackie Phillips, the co-campaign manager of 
Impact, wrote in an email the party requires its executive candidates to donate.
“While money doesn’t win a campaign, it is 
necessary to run a large campaign,” she said. “Ian, David and Stefan worked to raise money 
from family and friends who supported and believed in them to donate to the campaign. 
Money doesn’t represent dedication but just 
like they put their all into every other aspect of the campaign, they chose to help ﬁ  nance it as well.”
Impact spent $576.20 more in this campaign 
than in Spring 2017 but also raised $3,769.11 
more in donations this year, according to Al-
ligator archives.
Inspire raised $7,250.80 in donations, with 
$3,590 coming from Matt Hoeck, who was one of the founders of Access Party in 2015.
“There weren’t any strings attached,” said 
Casey Witte, Inspire’s treasurer. “Rather, he just wanted to see another independent voice on campus.”
Of Inspire’s executive ticket, president can-
didate Revel Lubin donated $300, vice presi-dent candidate Bijal Desai donated $500 and 
treasurer candidate Alyssa Bethencourt donat-
ed $5. Witte said they don’t require candidates to donate to the campaign.
The party also spent $6,627.83 this cam-
paign season, leaving them with $622.97 re-maining. 
Witte said the party intended to use the 
money to continue campaigning if there was a runoff election, but it will now use it for the Fall campaigning season.
If the party had more money, it could’ve 
been a factor in winning the election, Witte said.
“At the end of the day, as unfortunate as it 
is, money does fuel politics,” he said. 
Impact and Inspire fed their volunteers 
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts and pizza. Inspire spent $197.34 for pizza and $133.62 on dough-nuts, and Impact spent $212.98 on pizza and 
$85.46 on doughnuts. 
The three parties also spend money to boost 
Facebook posts. Impact spent $11.16, Inspire spent $788.51 and Challenge spent $40. 
Challenge raised only $1,390 in donations 
and spent $1,349.94 in the campaign. The party’s executive candidates Janae Moodie do-
nated $440, Chase Werther donated $430 and Shayli Patel donated $80.
Challenge President Anthony Rojas said he knew the party had a disadvantage in man-
power and money in its campaign. Like In-
spire, Challenge didn’t require the executive candidates to donate. 
“We hoped that money wasn’t going to be 
the difference,” he said. “We just wanted to do things that resonated with most students and we just had to generate our own buzz organi-
cally. The reality is that money does play as a 
factor, but I wish it did less.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgImpact, Inspire spent more on election than Challenge
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Student Government political party donations and spending for the Spring elections.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
It’s ﬁ  nally Spring Break. After spending the last two weeks 
cooped up in Library West, you come to ﬁ  nd you’ve forgotten 
what it feels like to breathe in fresh air or to feel sunlight on 
your skin. Needless to say, you have been in desperate need of 
some rest and relaxation, far away from UF’s campus.
You and your friends decided to take the classic college kid 
route this Spring Break. That’s right, you booked a three-day 
cruise to Mexico. Passport in hand and already wearing your 
swimsuit underneath your clothes, you make your way onto the ship. All you want to do is throw your bags in your room and make a beeline to the pool, where you can sit leisurely and drink a margarita.
After you ﬁ  nally make it to the pool bar and retrieve your 
victorious, tequila-laden drink, you start walking around the pool deck to ﬁ  nd an empty chair. A little too focused on your hunt, you accidentally bump into another cruiser and your 
margarita topples to the ground.
As you look down at the mess of what could have been 
your saving grace, you see the liquid has coagulated into an 
odd formation. In fact, it actually spells out a message … 
Darts & Laurels
Russian President Vladimir Putin made a speech Thursday 
with the clear intent of instilling fear in the minds of those in western nations like the U.S. In his State of the Nation address, 
the president boasted about the country’s slew of new weapons, 
including an intercontinental nuclear cruise missile. 
According to The New York Times, toward the end of his 
speech, Putin gave a shout-out to Europe and the U.S. He report-edly displayed the newly developed weapons on giant screens and said he was prepared to use them, along with traditional nuclear arms, if Russia were attacked.
His threats, whether they are based on merit or just another 
ploy to make the nation seem strong, are terrifying. As the world inches closer to the threat of nuclear war, we can only hope na-tions across the globe soon realize we need to forgo these meth-ods of attack. To Putin and his attempts to get the world closer 
to total destruction, we award our ﬁ  rst dart.
In our own country, however, we saw some positive move-
ment when it came to weapons. Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. and Walmart Inc., two of the nation’s leading gun sellers, announced 
this week they would no longer sell ﬁ  rearms to anyone under the 
age of 21, regardless of local laws. Dick’s Sporting Goods even went as far as to say they will end sales of all assault-style riﬂ  es 
in its stores and would no longer sell high-capacity magazines.
As we wait for movement on a federal level, it is promising to 
see changes being made in the arena of gun sales. We award our 
ﬁ  rst laurel to Dick’s and Walmart for their sensible efforts to 
limit the dissemination of harmful weapons.
This week, activist groups in the U.S. made strides in urging 
the White House to allow transgender people to continue serv-ing in the military. This is after President Donald Trump said he plans to ban transgender people from serving in the armed forces.
As of Friday, TV advertisements will begin airing on channels 
like Fox, MSNBC and CNN, using a series of quotes from Trump, a former senior military leader and several Congress members who were in the armed forces to argue all qualiﬁ  ed Americans should be able to serve.
To the groups behind this commercial, we award our last 
laurel. Thank you for striving to promote equality in our country and our armed forces.Column
“Sooo does anyone else not open 
Snapchat anymore? Or is it just 
me... ugh this is so sad.”
This was the tweet that caused 
Snapchat’s market value to drop 
$1.3 billion last week. Kylie Jenner, reality televi-
sion star and author of the tweet, was the sole 
cause of Snapchat’s 6 percent stock decline. 
That’s right — one individual tweeted her opin-ion and left a billion-dollar dent in a publicly traded company.
If you want Kim Kardashian to promote you via Insta-
gram, it’s going to cost you in the neighborhood of $250,000 per post. This ﬁ  gure probably sounds absurd; however, upon further consideration, it starts to look like a steal.
Kardashian currently has 108 million followers on Insta-
gram. Each post tends to get between 1 million and 3 mil-lion likes. However, this number is likely far lower than the actual reach of her posts. Nonetheless, if you conservatively assumed only 5 million people view each post, the $250,000 promotion cost would equate to about 50 cents per view.
Take this 50 cents per view and compare it with the rates 
for other digital marketing mediums. The average cost-per-click is $2.32 through Google AdWords and $1.72 on Face-book. This is if you go by cost-per-action, in which an adver-
tiser pays a designated price per desired action, which often 
is a sale. These, logically, are more expensive, averaging $59.16 on Google and $18.68 on Facebook.
As a marketer, a consumer seeing Kardashian use your 
product is nowhere close to an actual transaction or sale tak-
ing place, but it’s a start. It is hard to put an exact price on 
exposure and brand recognition, the effects of which might not be measured in immediate sales or return on this particu-lar investment.
That being said, celebrity endorsements have a unique 
reach and inﬂ  uence potential of almost immeasurable value. Nowadays, marketers have a nearly inﬁ  nite source of access and inﬂ  uence into the pockets of consumers via mobile de-vices.
Recent data suggests the average U.S. consumer spends ﬁ  ve hours a day on their phone. They’re exposed to an almost inﬁ  nite number of avenues through 
which marketers can reach them.
Why is a celebrity endorsement so inﬂ  uential? 
Because it effectively and efﬁ  ciently taps into two 
of the three components of persuasion: pathos and ethos.
Ethos is associated with credibility. Regardless 
of whether it is merited, we perceive celebrities as credible sources. We’re familiar with them, and they almost feel like artiﬁ  cial friends or family to 
us. Like anyone else in our personal life, if we like them, we tend to trust them. Whether the celebrity is an expert in the ﬁ  eld of whatever is being endorsed or simply a well-liked person with a massive following, consumers often feel a con-nection and form an association with the product that is built 
upon trust.
Pathos deals with emotions and can be incredibly pow-
erful in persuasion/inﬂ  uence. If you are a fan of someone, 
there’s a good chance you will be open to and receptive of whatever they like. Many of us want to be like our heroes 
and people of interest, a habit that doesn’t necessarily leave 
people as they grow up. The association here is simple but potent. If someone loves Jenner, then there is a good chance those same positive emotions will become associated with 
the product she is endorsing.
Voila! The marketer has now harnessed part of your love 
for Jenner and applied it to its own product.
The obvious downside to this marketing method is that 
it entirely hinges upon the reputation of the celebrity. If a scandal breaks out with your celebrity, then the endorsement 
can have just as powerful negative effects.
Overall, it might be a steep price to pay for some compa-
nies but because of their massive reach and cultural impact, celebrity endorsements might be the single most powerful 
marketing tool of the future.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
focuses on entertainment.Celebrities’ opinions make or break marketing
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  
Representation matters. It's almost al-
ways clear if an organization is hiring enough people of color or isn’t helping 
them ascend to leadership roles. 
Representation is important in sec-
tors of government, especially where the presi-dent has power to appoint many of the people within them. The composition of a president’s appointments reveal whose voices are being heard. The U.S. president has the power to se-lect whose advice he pays attention to when it comes to his judges, cabinet members and, of course, the staff of his White House.
President Donald Trump likes to say he has 
helped minorities and women through things like reducing the black unemployment rate and hiring women through the Trump Organiza-tion. His daughter and advisor, Ivanka Trump, seems to support this in her public statements. This, however, has been contradicted by his statements and actions over the years. Despite his history, what do his appointments say? 
According to an analysis by NPR, which has been updated with each new Trump appointment, Trump’s choices are less diverse than his pre-decessors. Former President Barack Obama had the lowest amount of 
white men as appointments so far 
at 36 percent. Trump raised that to 71 percent, and his appointments are just 19 percent nonwhite and 19 percent women. This represents a signiﬁ  cant step backward. How can the concerns of all Americans be heard when a cabinet skews toward one demographic? 
Some might say it’s unfair to compare 
Trump to the previous democratic administra-tion. However, the overall trend — Democrat or Republican — is toward more inclusive ap-pointments. Among recent presidents, Trump is only surpassed by former President Ronald Reagan in his appointments of white men. The most recent former President George Bush’s cabinet was 59 percent white men. 
Often those who oppose afﬁ  rmative action will say it’s more important to have someone who is qualiﬁ  ed in the po-sition as opposed to focusing on a racial balance. This is a false equiva-lence: You can have both. 
Some of Trump’s appointments 
have been questionable, with many not having experience relevant to their position. Secretary of Hous-ing and Urban Development Ben Carson, a neurosurgeon known for 
separating conjoined twins and who recently allegedly ﬁ  red a staffer for not approving out-landish expenses to decorate his ofﬁ  ce, may 
not be the most qualiﬁ  ed person to serve as 
the secretary of his department. Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao, who served as a deputy secretary of transportation and a secre-tary of labor, shows how someone who is both qualiﬁ  ed and not a white man can be chosen. 
Other leaders have taken an active role 
in making sure their advisors are representa-tive of the population. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's cabinet was the ﬁ  rst Canadian cabi-net to have an equal amount of men and wom-en and included a refugee and two aboriginal members.
Trump’s leadership style is revealed not 
just in his press secretary’s statements and his tweets, but also in who he chooses to repre-sent him. There are few women and minori-ties whispering to the president’s ear, and this may end up having policy consequences down the road. Instead of bragging about how he’s improved things for minorities, Trump should instead think about how he can ask them what he can improve — but that requires having a 
more representative inner circle. Trump’s cur-
rent cabinet does not represent America as a whole.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her column focuses on 
race and culture.
Does Trump’s cabinet represent America or just people who are like him?Column
President Donald Trump recently re-
vealed his plan to improve America’s 
infrastructure. I believe the plan falls short when it comes to solving prob-
lems. Infrastructure can be deﬁ  ned as 
anything from bridges to electrical grids, but 
I'll focus on three sectors in desperate need of 
reform: roads, dams and water systems.
While everyone has experienced the frus-
tration of trafﬁ  c congestion, it is important to see infrastructure beyond the daily commute. 
According to historian and engineer Henry 
Petroski, delays caused by trafﬁ  c congestion 
alone cost the economy more than $120 bil-
lion every year. With many of America’s road 
networks built back in the 1950s, they were 
never built with the intention of supporting to-
day’s growing population. From the lack of in-
vestment for repairs and modiﬁ  cations, roads 
that once provided jobs during the Great De-pression and stimulated economic 
growth in the 1950s now hinder 
economic productivity.  
Dams have provided power to 
millions for more than 50 years, 
but many have been neglected. In 
2015, the Association of State Dam 
Safety Ofﬁ  cials listed over 2,000 
state-regulated dams in the U.S. for 
needing repairs, and 70 percent of these dams will be more than 50 
years old in the next two years. Dam failure 
has already occured in California and Nevada 
since January, devastating local ecosystems 
and causing millions of dollars in damage. As 
the federal government stalls in providing the 
money to repair these aging dams, the chance 
for more dam failures only increases.
Living in a developed country, one would 
think every American has access to clean wa-ter. Unfortunately, as many as 25 
million have been recently exposed 
to water that does not meet the Safe Drinking Water Act standards. 
SDWA violations are rooted in the inability for many rural municipali-
ties to adapt to a 2002 Environmen-
tal Protection Agency rule change 
on chlorination disinfection. While 
chlorine is a popular disinfectant, recent research has shown chlorine 
can yield toxic by-products. Cities have the op-tion to further treat the water once chlorinated 
or switch to another disinfectant, yet both op-
tions cost money municipalities don’t have. 
There are more aspects of America’s infra-
structure Trump’s plan fails to address, but the 
coinciding problem comes down to a lack of 
funding. The current plan’s budget allocates 
$200 billion for the 2019 ﬁ  scal year. To put that into context, the EPA estimates repairs and up-
dates to America’s water infrastructure alone 
will require $632 billion over the next decade. In order to achieve next year’s infrastructure 
objectives, the proposed plan expects $1.3 tril-lion from state and private investments. How-
ever, if the state and local governments had 
that kind of money to invest, they would have 
done so already. The money needs to come 
from the federal level.
Improving infrastructure shouldn’t be used 
as a political strategy or polling boost. The dai-ly life of every American is shaped by the state 
of this country’s infrastructure. The federal 
government must address current infrastruc-
ture problems with a plan that actually works.
Joshua Udvary is a UF environmental 
engineering junior. His column focuses on 
science.Trump’s infrastructure plan inadequately addresses America’s situationColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
Sant’Ana, the operations manager of 
RedCoach, said.
Each bus is equipped with GPS 
tracking and a system to notify a call center of any mechanical issues. The headquarters also receives weekly reports on drivers to check for vio-lations. 
“We take safety seriously. It’s not 
something to take lightly,” he said. “Our main goal is to provide a great experience for the passengers.” 
Standing on the side of the road 
with her suitcase and backpack for 15 minutes, Berliant scrambled to call an Uber to make it back to Tam-pa for her 7 p.m. ﬂ  ight.  
She couldn’t ﬁ  nd any landmarks 
to tell the driver, she said. Sant’Ana said she was dropped off near a ﬁ  re station and commercial plaza, at 
9312 49th Ave. E in Palmetto, but 
Berliant remembers seeing nothing. 
One $56 Uber ride, and $60 Red-
Coach ticket, later, Berliant made it to the airport. But her family still doesn’t know how it was allowed to happen. 
On the bus leading to the Tampa 
drop-off location, Berliant asked one 
of the two men driving, who was 
not in uniform, if the next stop was for the airport, she said. He said no.
After about an hour, Berliant ap-
proached the driver again, who told her to ask the other driver. Berliant hesitantly tapped the man, who had been asleep, and asked. 
He laughed, she said. 
They had passed Tampa ages 
ago, he told her. The next stop was 
Naples.
“It felt very degrading, like he 
was judging me for being a young girl, and like I didn’t know where I was and made me feel like I was re-ally clueless,” she said.
The drivers, whose names were 
not released, will receive a written warning for breaking protocol and letting Berliant off at a non-designat-
ed stop, Sant’Ana said. The driver 
not in uniform was a trainee, who was being supervised by the sleep-ing driver. 
“Ideally he should be awake 
through that, but I would not rep-rimand the driver if he falls asleep while he is not driving if he is just the companion for the second driv-
er,” Sant’Ana said. 
Twenty days after the incident, 
Berliant’s mom received a response 
from RedCoach saying she was let off due to her insistence. Sant’Ana said passengers are responsible for knowing their stops.
The company offered Berliant 
20 percent off on her next trip, but 
Elizabeth Berliant vowed to never 
use the company again. 
“My beautiful 18-year-old daugh-
ter standing on the side of the road with nothing around her was abso-lutely a parent’s worst nightmare,” she said. 
Over the past three years, Red-
Coach, which only serves Florida, 
has closed 28 complaints through 
the Better Business Bureau and an overall “A” rating. The complaints include buses being several hours late, ignoring requests for refunds and trips being canceled last minute. 
RedCoach was also issued six 
citations in Broward County during 2017 for operating buses without a 
current valid permit, according to 
court records. Two of the citations have been dismissed and the other four cases are open. Megabus, an international bus 
company that began servicing Gainesville in 2011, has had 908 complaints submitted to the bureau in the past three years. The compa-ny has been around for four years longer than RedCoach and serves 33 
states. 
Megabus has invested $1.5 mil-
lion in safety precautions like GPS 
technology and a 24/7 call center that monitors drivers in real time, according to a brochure from Sean Hughes, the director of corporate affairs for Megabus. The company also requires drivers to take at least 
nine hours between each shift, one 
hour longer than the federal require-ment. 
 “We feel that we’re the industry 
leader as far as safety goes,” he said. 
Elana Goldstein, a UF accounting 
graduate student, said she doesn’t know if Megabus is the industry leader but certainly feels safe on it.
The 22-year-old has ridden a va-
riety of commercial bus lines includ-ing Megabus, GMG Transport and Greyhound but has become a loyal customer to Megabus, she said.
“I don’t know any bus company 
that does a better job,” she said. 
Kevin Chi, a UF psychology 
sophomore, prefers to use GMG 
Transport — a bus company servic-
ing only Florida — when he travels back to Miami. The 20-year-old said he feels safer because it speciﬁ  cally serves college students and their friends.
Jennifer Socorro, a manager at 
GMG Transport, said the company serves between 200 and 300 stu-
dents weekly. The company has had 
two complaints through the bureau within the last three years. 
None of their drivers have ever received a ticket while operating 
a bus since the company began in 
1983, she said. Socorro believes it’s due to their high standards. Most of their drivers have at least 10 to 12 years of experience with other bus companies before they join.
Though RedCoach won’t sus-
pend either of the drivers, they’re planning a meeting Tuesday to dis-
cuss what happened, Sant’Ana said. 
“We need to make measures to ensure drivers don’t repeat the same exact kind of mistakes,” he said. 
Elizabeth Berliant wants to make 
sure nobody else goes through what 
her daughter did. Although she’s not satisﬁ  ed with the company, she is thankful her daughter made it home safely.
“We are lucky that she’s un-
harmed,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
FEATURE,  from pg. 1RedCoach has faced 28 complaints over the past three yearsenced.”
Longtrear, 26, has worked the 
park for two years now and knows the weather is the most unpredict-
able factor for climbers. Thick fog 
can roll in quickly and affect vis-ibility.
“There’s no real forecast,” she 
said.
To keep spirits high over the 
course of the three days, once the reality of the climb and the pain set in, Surdyke said she’ll be remind-ing everyone why they’re doing it in the ﬁ  rst place.
“You foster a whole differ-
ent level of strength when you’re 
climbing for a cause,” she said. 
“You feel very inspired.”
It’s a metaphor Climb For Can-
cer’s co-founder Ron Farb has lived by since the organization started in 2003. The foundation has already raised more than $2 million since its founding. Farb, 72, said fund-ing comes from people whose lives 
were affected by cancer.
“If you ask the 90,000 peo-
ple on game day at the Swamp, 
‘Raise your hand if you haven’t been touched by cancer,’ nobody could,” he said.
Farb said he’s been astounded by the passion for philanthropy among these students, who have embraced using this trip as an op-portunity to climb for a cause.
“I’ve done (Mount) Everest, 
which may seem like something great to you,” Farb said. “But the 
cancer kids are climbing Everest 
every day of their lives.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
MOUNTAIN,  from pg. 1W eather could be the most unpredictable factor for the students
Courtesy to the Alligator 
David DiMauro, a 22-year-old UF biology senior, ascends the T ongariro Alpine Crossing in New Zealand 
during Summer 2017. He will guide a hike up ﬁ  ve mountains over Spring Break.
Elliott Nasby / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the trail the group of students will take. 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Halle Berliant’s Uber path from Interstate 75 exit 229, where RedCoach dropped her off, to the T ampa International Airport. 
T ampa
St. PetersburgFRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
$10 eGift Card
DONATE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE OneBlood 
T-shirt & $10 
eGift Card for  
all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!YouMAKE A DIFFERENCE!SALES REP
OF THE MONTH
CONGRA TULATIONS!FEBRUARY
JOHN VIANELLO
major: advertising
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
An orange and blue sign on the 
Plaza of the Americas is a quiet re-
minder of the Hare Krishnas’ legacy at UF.
The group has been serving 
lunches on campus for nearly 50 years, and last Fall, they donated about $200,000 to renovate the pla-za. 
“Krishna Lunch Lane,” the metal 
plaque reads.UF added the street sign as part 
of its renovation of Plaza of the Americas in the Fall, university spokesperson Steve Orlando said. Orlando didn’t know how much the sign cost.
The $2.2 million renovation proj-
ect to the plaza was mainly funded by a private donation of $1.3 million from donors Herb and Catherine Yardley. Most of the rest of the mon-ey came from the ofﬁ  ce of UF Chief Operating Ofﬁ  cer Charlie Lane, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
The Hare Krishnas also gave a $200,000 donation for the renova-tion. The sign commemorates the donation and daily lunches they have served on campus since 1971, Orlando said. 
Audrey Gonzalez whipped out 
her phone immediately after spot-
ting the sign Monday.
Gonzalez, a UF business manage-
ment senior, was driving with her 
friend past the Plaza of the Americas when she saw the sign and knew she had to post a photo of it on Snap-chat. Her caption read, “Krishna lunch lane! Best thing UF has ever done with my tuition money.” 
The 22-year-old said she has eat-
en Krishna lunches since her fresh-man year.
“It is the highlight of my week 
sometimes,” she said. “It’s some of my best memories just sitting in Pla-
za of the Americas hanging out with 
friends or just eating it by myself.”
Animesh Adhikasi, 20, a Santa 
Fe College computer science sopho-more and Hare Krishna member, said the group contributed to the plaza’s renovation to continue its re-lationship with UF and its students. The donation was partially 
funded by student lunch donations, which are about $5 per meal, he said. The lunches feed about 700 people a day, he said.  
Adhikasi said he’s proud to see 
the Krishna lunch lane sign.
“For me personally, seeing 
Krishna lunch up there shows how Krishna lunch has touched so many people’s hearts and bellies,” he said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
UF adds street sign on campus in honor of Hare Krishnas
By Celeste Mahfood
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF alumni created an app to 
make carpooling easier and safer for students looking for rides to and from Gainesville. 
The idea for the app, “Wahi Ride,” 
came from the start of the Facebook group “UF Ride Board!,” which has more than 19,000 members, said Di-ego De La Hoz, one of the app’s co-
founders and group administrators. 
The ride board allows students to 
make posts on when they’re looking 
for rides back home and to school. De La Hoz said he saw some users were having issues with scammers and stu-dents not paying others for the ride.
To ﬁ  x this, De La Hoz and Jon-
ny Petrucco created Wahi Ride and launched it Feb. 1. Since the launch, it has had more than 1,000 down-loads, De La Hoz said. 
Wahi Ride users need an email ad-
dress from any Florida university and an active Facebook account to use the app, De La Hoz said. The app veri-ﬁ  es phone numbers and conducts a preliminary check on the drivers for security measures. 
De La Hoz said they chose to use 
the word “Wahi” for the app because the word means “share” in one of New Zealand’s ofﬁ  cial dialects, Mao-
ri. 
“Could we just advertise Wahi as 
a carpooling app?” De La Hoz, 24, 
said. “Absolutely, but I really believe that we as humans have the capabil-ity to connect with each other.”
BrinnLee Lambert, an 18-year-
old UF microbiology and cell science freshman, said she joined the “UF 
Ride Board!” in November. She said 
she would use it if there was an emer-gency back home in Bonita Springs but her grandma usually picks her up for breaks.
Lambert said the app sounds easy 
to use and is convenient in compari-son to the Facebook page.
“I think it’s safe since it’s all Flo-
ridian kids — we’re all smart and in-telligent, so I think it’s a good thing to use,” she said.UF alumni start app 
for students to carpool
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
As Gynell Walker shopped 
for Nike shirts in the Butler Plaza 
Dick’s Sporting Goods, she was 
unaware of the hunting riﬂ  es and shotguns in the back of the store. 
Walker, 45, of Gainesville, 
didn’t realize the Archer Road lo-cation sold ﬁ  rearms until after the 
company pulled assault riﬂ  es from 
afﬁ  liated stores Wednesday. 
Two weeks after the Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in Parkland, Dick’s CEO Edward Stack announced the 
company will no longer sell as-
sault-style riﬂ  es and high capacity magazines in its stores. Customers 
must be over the age of 21 to buy 
ﬁ  rearms. Walmart, which stopped selling assault riﬂ  es in 2015, also 
announced it will no longer sell 
ﬁ  rearms to customers under 21 years old in a statement Wednes-
day evening. In November 2017, Nikolas 
Cruz, the suspected Parkland 
shooter, legally purchased a shot-gun from a Dick’s store. It was 
not the weapon or type of weapon 
used at the shooting, but “it could have been,” Stack wrote.  
“Clearly this indicates on so 
many levels that the systems in place are not effective to protect 
our kids and our citizens,” he 
wrote. “We believe it’s time to do something about it.”
Walker, a stay-at-home wife, 
said she likes Dick’s new age re-quirement because it will regulate 
who purchases ﬁ  rearms but thinks 
more should be done.
“The assault riﬂ  es are not the 
problem. It’s who’s buying them that’s the problem,” she said. “You don’t have to stop selling them, 
you just have to know who you’re 
selling them to.”
Although Dick’s locations 
stopped selling assault riﬂ  es after the 2012 Sandy Hook massacre, the weapons were still available 
at the company’s 35 subsidiary 
Field & Stream stores, according to Stack’s statement. The closest 
Field & Stream to Gainesville is in 
Charleston, South Carolina.
The statement from Dick’s also 
supports stronger gun control re-form, including universal back-ground checks and an assault riﬂ  es 
ban. 
Daniel Quinones, a UF econom-
ics freshman, said he’s shopped at Dick’s for new running clothes 
since Sports Authority announced it would close in 2017. The 19-year-
old said he was impressed with 
Dick’s for deciding to establish the new age requirement and expects 
other companies to follow.
“I think it’s a good move to take 
a stand like that because it can set an example for any other store,” 
Quinones said. “They have inﬂ  u-ence and a large reach, so they’re 
sending a message to a pretty large 
number of people.”Dick’s Sporting Goods stops selling 
assault riﬂ  es, restricts ﬁ  rearm sales10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
By Anais Roache
Alligator Contributing Writer
Courtney Matthews gave 
“Get Out” audience members 
small Ziploc bags containing a plastic spoon, cotton ball and bingo card outside the 
Reitz Union Auditorium on 
Wednesday night.
During the interactive 
screening of the film, which criticizes the treatment of blacks by whites, about 20 people followed along with scenes, stirring the plastic spoons along with the protag-
onist and putting cotton balls 
in their ears during another scene. 
The Reitz Programming 
Board and Black Graduate Stu-dent Organization hosted the screening as an end to Black History Month, said Mat-thews, the BGSO Black Histo-
ry Month chair. The showing 
was a way to talk about race relations in the U.S. with a highly celebrated and award-winning film.
“No matter what your race 
or ethnicity is or how you identify, people can resonate with this movie,” Matthews, 
24, said.
The screening was Aliya 
Miranda’s second time watch-
ing the film but first time in-teracting with it. 
“It reminded me of ‘The 
Rocky Horror Picture Show,’” the 21-year-old UF telecom-munication senior said. “It 
was fun to be able to inter-
act to the movie with other people, and I noticed things I didn’t catch the first time.”
After the screening, BGSO 
held a panel about race rela-tions, diversity and inclusion with Reginald Lane, the asso-ciate director of Sorority and Fraternity Affairs, and Patri-cia Hilliard-Nunn, an African American studies professor.
Solange Douglas, the Reitz 
Union associate director for 
programs, said the discussion 
was unusual considering the film came out a year ago.
“I think it’s also our desire 
to start that conversation and continue that conversation forward,” she said. “That pan-el piece adds that to the dis-cussion so that way you watch 
the film, you experience the 
film in a new way.”
SHE WAS PAID 
$20,000 TO SPEAK.
By Vivian Nguyen 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Angela Rye knows the U.S. is moving 
toward two societies — one black, one white — and she’s exasperated. 
On Tuesday, Rye told a room of 
about 200 students she believes African 
Americans’ position in the country has 
remained the same because nobody has continued fighting for the equality Martin Luther King Jr. envisioned 50 years ago.
 “I can’t help but be deeply frustrated 
about how far we have yet to go,” she said. 
The Black Student Union and the 
Women’s Student Association hosted 
the CNN political commentator and NPR 
political analyst in the University Audito-rium to celebrate the closing ceremony of 
Black History Month and the opening cer-
emony of Women’s History Month, said Rebecca Kravitz, the president of WSA.
The organizations paid $20,000 to 
bring Rye to UF, the 22-year-old said. 
On stage, Rye said racism has hin-
dered the country’s progress. 
“The fact that systemic oppression is 
alive, well and real and has caused some 
tremendous injustices and has prevented 
our ability to achieve purpose is a real thing, and we have to address it,” she said.
Kassidy Wallace, a 21-year-old UF vi-
sual art studies senior, attended the event and said it’s important to talk about issues affecting African Americans.
“Celebrating Black History Month at 
UF is important because it is a predomi-nantly white institution, so being able to have a very visible celebration is some-thing very important to me,” she said. 
By Christi-Anne Weatherly
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cheyenne Heflin has been getting stares 
since her right leg was amputated because of a rare bone cancer. She was 14.
But she isn’t ashamed of her silver and 
black prosthetic leg.
“I always like telling people what happened 
so they can realize that this is a thing. It hap-pens,” said 19-year-old Heflin, who’s been cancer-free for five years. “But it’s also not the end of the world.”The UF biology freshman was one of two 
who spoke about their experiences with child-hood cancer — in Heflin’s case, osteosarcoma 
— Wednesday evening in Pugh Hall. The 
panel discussion, “A Childhood Cancer Dia-logue,” was part of “Do You Believe In Happy Endings?,” a UF public relations campaign that started this semester and brings awareness to pediatric cancer, said Langston Dunbar, an ambassador leader and social media manager for the group.
UF Bateman team, a group of five public 
relations students, created the Happy Endings campaign for its client, With Purpose, a non-profit organization that raises money for and brings awareness to children with cancer. 
“We have all the facts, we have all the data, 
but it’s a lot different when you hear the story and you hear the survivors and how it affected them,” Dunbar said.
The other speaker, Katie Sloan, a 20-year-
old Seminole State College special education junior, shared the story of her friend Alex Ra-mos. Ramos was 15 when she died from Ew-ing’s sarcoma, another rare form of bone can-
cer. “I didn’t think that there was going to be a 
normal, or a different kind of happy after her,” 
Sloan said. “But I realized that she’s still here 
in everything that I do all the time.”
Wendy Velez, a UF international studies ju-
nior, said she attended the event because she 
knew Sloan. She also wanted to learn more about lesser-known forms of cancer. 
 “I think it really does genuinely motivate 
me to want to act more toward helping the research, helping the awareness for childhood cancer,” Velez, 21, said. Students talk race relations, 
host interactive ‘Get Out’ film  CNN political commentator 
Angela Rye speaks at UF
UF student talks about experience with childhood cancer BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
One bedroom for rent in a three bedroom two bathroom furnished apartment. Private bed-room, shared bathroom. Males Only. Rent is $459 a month which includes utilities/cable/internet. Email jrk12b@my.fsu.edu for more info      3-14-18-3-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
VARIETY OF AFFORDABLE,Eastern Montana propertiesFor Sale! Many opportunitiesin a great recreational area!Please go to our websitewww.montanalandauctions.comor call (406)366-5588.      3-2-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      3-2-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-
441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    
3-14-18-12-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR 
BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  352-256-8370,352-246-86452-28-18-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-21-25-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
AVIATION Grds work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.      3-2-1-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
We need After School Program Staff for ages 3-6 & 1st- 8th grade. M-F 2:00-6:00 PM. Starting Immediately. Submit resume to mmschool@millhopper.com     2-28-18-3-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Part time bilingual assistant (English/Spanish) for law office. Please send your resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com    3-2-18-4-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     3-14-18-6-14
Photographer making underwater
Youtube videos at Blue Springs seeks
female models. Gig pays $25 for 90 minutes
plus pictures and park reimbursement.
Call for more info  352-286-4579
3-19-18-5-14
LOOKING FOR
KEYBOARD PLAYER
For 2 Sundays each month. Gospel music.Call 352-870-8077    3-14-18-3-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE Interactive Town Hall
Youth Tobacco Prevention Policy Panel
UF HealthStreet, 2401 SW Archer Road 
Feb 28, 5:30-7p. Live and Live Stream
More details at www.myhealthstreet.org
2-28-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Designated drivers are the greatestBUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Leftover bit in a
basket
6 Taken out by
Buffy?
11 Farm home
14 Lash LaRue’s
“FrontierRevenge,” e.g.
15 Critical circulation
aid
16 Op lead-in17 Ratting to the
cops andcarrying a tune?
20 Chem. class
suffix
21 Buddy type
22 Scots Gaelic
23 More than moist24 Dupe
gatherings?
27 Kept away from
31 National
Grandparents’
Day mo.
32 Trumpet players?33 Regions
36 RN workplace
39 What rain may do
to a bad toupee?
43 Hold one’s __44 Cook in the oven45 Walk unsteadily
46 Prince in
“Frozen”
48 Diplomat’s
headquarters
51 Place to buy a
chair?
55 Sounds of
hesitation
56 Forearm part
57 Last European
colony in Asia
59 Dallas sch.62 Cowboy outfit?66 Consumed67 Like many
squawkers
68 Immerse
completely
69 Nickname for
Edward
70 Cruel sort71 Deli cheese ... or,
in three parts, ahint to the fivelongest acrosspuzzle answers
DOWN
1 “__ fan tutte”2 Prohibition
surprise3 __ Reader
4 Not much
memory, thesedays
5 Greased6 Droops7 University of New
Mexico team
8 Kitchen drawer?9 U.S.
manufacturerfounded as a
communications
co. in 1920
10 “Don’t think so!”11 Trunks often
contain them
12 Private meeting13 Approvals18 F-sharp, for one
19 “Willow __ for
Me”: jazz
standard
23 Bit of smoke25 H.S. junior’s
exam
26 Net fabric
27 Too
28 Condo selling
point
29 Generous
30 Duchamp genre34 Legal thing35 Romain de
Tirtoff, famously37 Parlor sticks38 Like some moods40 Footed vases
41 On-the-run bite
42 Big periods47 The teensiest bit49 Nourishment
provider
50 Stews (over)
51 1940s-’60s top-
10 girl’s name
that ranked
922nd in 201652 Thrill
53 __ vincit amor
54 Certain 
polytheist
58 Sch. in Harlem
59 Feng __
60 Slob’s 
production
61 Versatility list63 On the __: 
hiding
64 “__ had it!”65 Drag behind
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/02/1803/02/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, March 2, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Tell target
6 Look for
10 Letting in some
air
14 Dakota natives
15 Lyft alternative
16 Record, in a way17 *Man Booker
Prize winner for“Life of Pi”
19 Put out
20 When the fewest
pieces are on the
chess board
21 Detoxification diet23 Lean-__: sheds
24 [Boring!]
26 “Letters From
Iwo __”:Eastwood film
27 *Star of ’70s TV’s
“Good Times”
29 “Thwack!”32 Less ingenuous
35 __ window
36 Through37 Scuttlebutt40 Souvenir shop
display
42 Farm sound43 Farm animal45 Watering hole46 Brimless hat47 *Actor in two
“Jurassic Park”films
50 Steamboat fuel52 Inflates, as
expenses
53 Significant time56 Eurasian plains59 ADHD medication61 Fuzzy fruit or
fuzzy bird
62 Whole new
person who can
literally be foundin the answers tostarred clues
64 OPEC member
65 2-point G, e.g.
66 Dreadlocks
wearer
67 Island goose
68 Zipped69 Sp. titles
DOWN
1 Up to now2 Composer John
Cage’s “Suite for
Toy __”3 Cold cream
name
4 Organ with
alveoli
5 Richard M. 
Daley and Ed
Koch
6 Scattered
7 Put down a hero8 Corp. head9 Party poopers
10 Elite squad11 *Gomer Pyle
portrayer
12 Driving company
that sounds more
like a flying
company
13 “Thy love did
read by __, that
could not spell”:“Romeo andJuliet”
18 Eastern nurse
22 Frozen Wasser25 Capture
27 __ chicken:
Jamaican dish
28 Floor covering
30 Start to trust?31 Fool (with)32 Worn out33 “The Last Jedi”
general34 *“Atonement”
novelist
36 First antibacterial
soap
38 Confucian text,
with “The”
39 November tuber
41 Oater belt
attachments
44 Economic fig.
47 Plant juice48 Made49 “With ya so far”51 State one’s
views
53 Slasher film
setting: Abbr.
54 Western prop
55 Actresses Gunn
and Kendrick
56 Hide
57 Wear out58 Armada unit60 Purim month63 Full Sail 
Amber __
By Craig Stowe©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/01/1803/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 1, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Truck lineup 
1.  Abide by5.  Chop
2.  ____ flight6.  ____ wave
3.  Late7.  Optimistic 
4.  Swiss ____VYOCNO
YCOLMPNIEMC
LATDI
OOPNSTN
VEUERODBUTAPE
ETCALHANSWERS: 1A-Convoy  5A-Mince  6A-Tidal  7A-Upbeat
1D-Comply  2D-Nonstop  3D-Overdue  4D-Chalet  B-Tom Clancy3-2-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This author was born in Baltimore, Md.,
on April 12, 1947.
BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Outﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz hit 
a pair of home runs, including a grand slam, during the Florida softball team's pair of wins over Loyola Marymount and Cal State Fullerton on Thursday.Correction: Feb. 28, 2018
In the story "AGENT DOUBLE ZERO: Delicia Washington's journey to UF and 
her tough decision over whether to stay" published Wednesday, it was stated 
that Florida women's basketball player Delicia Washington did not play AAU basketball. Washington did play on the AAU circuit as a teenager.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
LeBron James, JaKarr Sampson 
and Jerome Lane.
The trio of St. Vincent-St. Mary 
High School alums have all played 
basketball at the highest level, com-
peting in the NBA for a combined 23 
seasons.
Florida guard Jalen Hudson, a for-
mer player at the Akron high school, is hoping to follow in their footsteps.
“He’s deﬁ  nitely in the top ﬁ  ve,” 
said St. Vincent-St. Mary coach Dru Joyce II on where Jalen sits among the school’s all-time best players. 
“We’ll see how it all pans out.”
Jalen, now in his redshirt junior 
year of college, is having a breakout 
2017-18 campaign at UF, scoring at a higher rate than any Gator over the last eight years.
However, the success he has had 
during his ﬁ  rst season in Gainesville — leading Florida to a 10-7 confer-
ence record ahead of the team’s regu-
lar season ﬁ  nale against Kentucky on Saturday at noon — is a stark con-trast from the hardships he has faced throughout his life.
Between a divorce that split his 
family down the middle and a coach who didn’t want him, Jalen has prov-en resilient at every turn, leaning on hard work, discipline and his faith.
“I’m a big follower of Christ,” 
Jalen said, “so I feel like it’s already written.”
Jalen and his father, Jerry, used to 
grab pizza and watch movies together 
every Friday night, a father-son ritual 
that strengthened their bond.
The two shared everything to-
gether, from their passion for sports to their love of Italian food.
“Anytime I went to the store, any-
where I went, he wanted to come with me,” Jerry said.
Jalen was close with the rest of his 
family — his mother, Theresa, and his older sisters, Bri and Chanel — as well.
He would stay up late and watch 
TV with Bri, four years his senior, as the two siblings laughed and joked 
with each other. They were fans of 
“The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air,” but their favorite movie was “All About the Benjamins.” Jalen, a Martin Law-rence fan, also loved “Blue Streak.”
“He would always fall asleep be-
fore me,” Bri said. “I would put him on my back and carry him upstairs to his room.”
As the years went by, Jalen grew. 
Eventually, he stood taller than Bri.
“He was so big that when I would put him on my back, his feet would drag on the ﬂ  oor,” she said. “I couldn’t carry him anymore and he was only in the ﬁ  fth grade.”
However, in 2004, Jalen’s family 
started to unravel.
His parents ﬁ  led for a divorce. 
Jerry moved to Akron, Ohio, with Chanel, while Theresa, Jalen and 
Bri stayed put at their home in Rich-
mond, Virginia.
The siblings traveled to see each 
other whenever they could, with Cha-nel regularly coming back to Virginia during the summer.
This was the routine Jalen and his 
sisters followed for years until The-resa began to suffer health problems, 
causing another shift in the balance 
of their lives.
Jerry, who declined to go into spe-
ciﬁ  cs of his ex-wife’s medical condi-tion but said she is “doing well, but she's not in the best health,” decided it would be best for Jalen to ﬁ  nish out his ﬁ  nal two years of high school in Ohio with him.
“It’s not something that we talk to 
anyone but family about,” he said.
After moving away from Virginia, 
Jalen enrolled at St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in Akron the summer between his sophomore and junior years.
Jalen impressed Joyce II and then-
assistant coach Willie McGee as soon as he arrived on campus. McGee — now the athletic director at St. Vin-cent-St. Mary — recalls Jalen putting his head down and working hard that offseason, attending every summer workout, open gym and training ses-sion held at the school.
“He didn’t miss,” Joyce II said. 
“He didn’t make any excuses.”
He did make a lot of shots, leading St. Vincent-St. Mary in scoring both years he played there. Despite having to defer to Jalen — the new guy — his teammates respected his athletic abil-ity and team-ﬁ  rst attitude.
“I think he adjusted well,” McGee 
said, “being part of the St. Vincent-St. Mary community.”
One of Jalen’s most memorable 
moments came during his senior year at a showcase in Dayton, Ohio.
Joyce II vividly recalls Jalen driv-
ing to the rim from the top of the key and throwing down a crowd-pleasing dunk with a 6-foot-8 defender in his face.
“It was one of those kind of dunks 
that you’re always gonna remem-
ber,” Joyce II said. “I’ve seen a lot of 
great dunks before, with LeBron be-ing here, but that one ranks right up there.”
Jalen guided the Fighting Irish to 
deep postseason runs during his two years at the school, leading St. Vin-cent-St. Mary to the state champion-ship game as a junior and the state semiﬁ  nals as a senior.
“We stumbled and didn’t win,” 
Joyce II said, “but without him, we couldn’t have gotten to either of those 
games.”
From the moment Jalen started 
evaluating his options for college, he knew he wanted to compete in the 
ACC.
He watched Bri run track at North 
Carolina for four years and hoped to follow in her footsteps.
His wish eventually came true 
when he signed his National Letter of Intent to play for Virginia Tech and coach James Johnson.
Johnson wanted him on the ros-
ter, and athletes already on the team told Jalen that with his abilities, he would almost certainly get substantial playing time. 
“(Johnson) was very aggressive in 
trying to recruit Jalen,” Jerry said.
But his career in Blacksburg, Vir-
ginia, was derailed before it even 
started.
Prior to Jalen’s arrival on campus, 
Johnson was ﬁ  red on March 17, 2014, 
and replaced with former Marquette coach Buzz Williams four days later.
Suddenly, Jalen was in limbo.Unsure of what Virginia Tech had 
in store for him, he looked into the 
HUDSON OVERCOMES HARDSHIPS  
SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 16
Alligator File Photo
Guard Jalen Hudson has had a breakout 2017-18 campaign for Florida, leading the team in scoring 
with 15.4 points per game. However, his journey to UF didn't come without hardships.
WHO: FLORIDA MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM (19-11, 10-7 SEC) VS. KENTUCKY MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM (21-9, 10-7 SEC)
WHAT: REGULAR SEASON 
FINALE
WHERE: THE STEPHEN 
C. O'CONNELL CENTER IN 
GAINESVILLE
WHEN: SATURDAY AT NOONTV: CBSGATORS VS. 
WILDCATSFlorida star remained resilient prior to joining Gators
•   •   ••   •   •FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/16/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
When asked what it has been like 
to play under the wing of ﬁ  rst-year 
head coach Cameron Newbauer, the waterworks began to ﬂ  ow. Trans-fer Paulina Hersler had just ﬁ  nished her ﬁ  rst and only season in a Florida 
Gators uniform and couldn’t hold 
back the tears.
“I want to thank coach, personally, 
for giving me…,” Hersler stopped, as the tears began to well up in her eyes. 
“For giving me a chance to be here for 
my ﬁ  fth year. He believes in his play-ers. He coaches like we can do any-thing.”
It was the ﬁ  nal time Hersler would 
sit behind a mic for a postgame press conference as a UF player. She was 
one of three (Haley Lorenzen and Dy-
andria Anderson) seniors to start in 
every contest this season. She also av-
eraged double-ﬁ  gures for the ﬁ  rst time in her career (11.8 points per game).
For Lorenzen and Anderson, the 
four years they signed up for when 
they scribbled their names on the dot-
ted line have come and gone.
Lorenzen, the 6-foot-3 forward 
who came from a basketball family, 
hangs up her jersey in the Florida 1,000-point club. She leaves the uni-versity as the 25th player to achieve the milestone.
Anderson will look into teaching 
the game after being accepted into the Women’s Basketball Coaches Asso-ciation’s “So You Wanna Be a Coach” program earlier this year.
“I’m really proud of what the se-
niors have done this year to build the foundation of our program,” Newbau-er said.
Now, the Gators — who ﬁ  nished 
2017-18 with a record of 11-19, 3-13 in the SEC — will have to replace three 
starters over the summer.
But navigating the waters next sea-son shouldn’t be tough if they main-tain the mindset Newbauer instilled 
all season: ﬁ  ght.
“I can’t say enough about him,” 
Lorenzen said. “He’s pushed us, and 
myself included, to do things that 
you never thought you could. To his 
credit, he helped us believe we can ac-complish anything.”
But in Newbauer’s ﬁ  rst year, he 
couldn’t get Florida back above .500. 
And that was to be expected. UF lost 
its best scorer – First Team All-SEC for-ward Ronni Williams – to graduation and struggled with depth throughout the season.
Florida lost players to injury. Some 
left the team. It was a tough situation for any coach to come into.
Can he revitalize a program that 
has consistently struggled over the last 
few decades? Only time will tell.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgFlorida builds “foundation” in Newbauer’s debut season
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
In his ﬁ  rst year at the helm of Florida’s women’s basketball 
team, Cameron Newbauer led the Gators to a 3-13 SEC record.
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
What do the magic bullet theory, 
particle physics and long-distance re-
lationships have in common?
They’re all topics that are easier to 
understand than the Gators baseball 
team’s offense.
On the surface, Florida’s bats 
look great. They’ve driven in 76 runs through 10 games, good for 20th best in the nation.
But like Transformers, there’s 
more than meets the eye to that ﬁ  g-ure. The 7.6 runs per game UF’s of-fense averages are inﬂ  ated after scor-ing 10 and 19 runs apiece in games against Siena in its opening weekend. 
Expecting a team to score 10 or 
more runs per game is ludicrous.  
However, UF’s offense remains an 
anomaly after Wednesday night’s 8-3 
win over North Florida. In the ﬁ  fth 
inning of that game, the team pro-duced ﬁ  ve runs thanks in large part 
to three colossal homers.
So is Florida a power-hitting 
team? Before that inning against the Ospreys (3-6), Florida hadn’t hit 
a ball out of the park since its ﬁ  rst game against Miami on Feb. 23. But 
leading up to that matchup with the 
Hurricanes, the Gators had smashed at least one dinger in every game. So the dry spell between the Miami 
series and Wednesday night could 
be the exception to the rule that the 
Gators are indeed a power team.
Or is UF more of a small-ball club? 
In their 4-0 shutout against UNF on 
Feb. 27, the Gators scored three of their runs on plays that also resulted 
in outs. In Game 2 against the Hur-
ricanes, Florida scored two runs on bases-loaded walks, and another 
three on a passed ball, a bases-loaded 
hit by pitch and a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y. Actual hits accounted for just three of the 
Gators’ eight runs that night.
These are all features of teams that are aggressive on the base paths 
and not necessarily looking to hit for 
power. Yet Florida is eighth in the 
country in total home runs hit (14).
When the Gators take on Stony 
Brook (6-1) tonight at 6:30 at McK-
ethan Stadium, maybe the two styles 
of play will harmonize and work in tandem.
Pitcher Greg Marino will take the 
mound for the Seawolves. He’ll at-tempt to neutralize what has been an 
amorphous-yet-effective Florida of-
fense. Marino, a 6-foot-6 right-hand-er, has given up four earned runs in 
his nine innings of work. For a little 
added drama, the redshirt sopho-more has not allowed a home run in either of his appearances. 
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan doesn’t 
seem to need to deﬁ  ne his offense, 
choosing instead to get younger play-
ers experience as opposed to formu-
lating a set offense. 
“We gave some other guys some 
other opportunities to start (Wednes-day),” he said in a release. “All in all, 
we had a chance to get some other guys in there to pitch and to play, 
and for the most part it was a clean 
game.”
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n 
mmcmullen@alligator.orgGators diversifying oﬀ  ense with power and fundamentalsWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
BASEBALLtransfer process. He wanted to go 
about two hours northeast to the Uni-versity of Virginia, but strict transfer rules stopped that plan in its tracks.
Since Jalen had already signed 
his National Letter of Intent with the Hokies, if he wanted to leave for an-other ACC school, he would lose a year of eligibility and have to receive permission from Williams to leave.
“It was just too much,” Jerry said.Jalen stayed the course and gave 
Williams a chance.
During his freshman season, Jalen 
registered three starts and averaged 6.9 points per game. He also put up 32 points and nailed the game-win-ning shot in the ﬁ  rst round of the ACC Tournament to propel Virginia Tech past Wake Forest 81-80.
Jalen’s heroics off the bench 
earned him the ACC Digital Net-work’s title of ACC Star of the Day.
As a sophomore, he started 24 
games and increased his scoring out-put to 8.4 points per game.
But despite playing well enough 
to put himself on the map, something was wrong at Virginia Tech. Jalen felt like he was on the outskirts of the team, playing for a coach in Williams who hadn’t recruited him.
“It was just kind of an awkward 
relationship,” Jalen said.
Williams’ coaching style, predi-
cated on hard-nosed defense, simply didn’t ﬁ  t Jalen’s skill set as a free-ﬂ  owing scorer.
“You come into a new program, 
you’re going to want your guys,” Joyce II said of Williams. “A lot of coaches are like that. They have a mindset about the kind of player they want. If that person isn’t that player 
right away, they don’t give them as 
much time to grow.”
And at the end of the day, Jalen 
came to the same conclusion.
“I felt like that really hurt me,” he 
said. “I wanted to maximize my po-tential.”
 After two years in Blacksburg, 
Jalen had enough.
He was ready to compete for a 
coach who wanted him and in a sys-
tem that ﬁ  t his playing style.
On April 6, 2016, Williams an-
nounced that Jalen had been granted 
his release from Virginia Tech.
As for the Hudson family, faith 
would light the way.
“We’re a very spiritual family,” 
Chanel said. “We know that every-thing happens for a reason.”
Jalen, who was receiving inter-
est from schools including Florida, Alabama, Arkansas and Texas, didn’t know much about the Gators, or their head coach, Mike White. What he did know was that his relationship with 
his next coach was more important than any other consideration.
“He wanted to make sure that 
wherever he went, the coach wanted 
him,” Jerry said.
After going through all of his op-
tions and making ofﬁ  cial visits to Florida and Texas, Jalen made up his mind: He would ﬁ  nish his college ca-
reer in Gainesville.
Jerry was impressed by the lengths 
White went to pursue Jalen.
“(White) didn’t just send his as-
sistants, he got on a plane himself,” 
Jerry said. “That struck a chord with 
Jalen.”
After sitting out the 2016-17 sea-
son per NCAA transfer rules, Jalen 
ﬁ  nally took the court for Florida on Nov. 13 in the team’s season opener against Gardner-Webb. He scored 16 points as the Gators rolled past the Runnin’ Bulldogs 116-74.
“I was just so happy for it to ﬁ  -
nally come,” Jalen said. “I was just so happy to ﬁ  nally be there.”
But he was just getting started.Three games into the season, UF 
took part in the Phil Knight Invita-tional, a 16-team tournament held 
in Portland, Oregon, from Nov. 23 
to 26. Jalen averaged 25.3 points and 
5.7 rebounds per game during the 
event, leading the Gators to wins over Stanford and 2017 NCAA runner-up Gonzaga.
He recorded 24 points and 10 re-
bounds in Florida's ﬁ  nal game of the bracket, a three-point loss to then-No. 1 Duke.
If people didn’t know Jalen Hud-son’s name before, they did then.
With the ﬁ  nal regular season 
game of the year set for Saturday against No. 23 Kentucky, Jalen will do his best to focus on the task at 
hand: securing a crucial win to bump 
up Florida’s national standing head-ing into the SEC and NCAA Tourna-ments.
He tries to stay in the moment, 
though.
He’ll tell you there’s no use in wor-
rying about the future. He’ll echo his family’s love. He’ll repeat his words on faith.
“I try not to think about it too 
much,” Jalen said. “It’s already writ-ten.”
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
Courtesy of Bri Hudson
Jalen stands with his father, Jerry, who enrolled him at St. Vincent-
St. Mary High School in Akron, Ohio, in 2012.
Courtesy of Bri Hudson
Jalen poses with sisters Bri (left) and Chanel (right) after a game between Virginia T ech and Virginia.
MEN'S B-BALL,  from pg. 14Hudson transferred to Florida after two years with Hokies
•   •   •