We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
INDIA CONTINUES HITTING STREAK
Florida third baseman Jonathan India increased 
his hitting streak to 15 games on Sunday in UF’s 8-2 win over Vanderbilt, pg. 14Alligator Staff
Editor’s note: This is not an 
April Fools’ Day joke. 
Since the beginning of his ten-
ure, UF President Kent Fuchs has made it a mission to leave stu-dents at the university confused 
on April 1st. 
In 2015, he pretended to 
switch roles with former UF foot-
ball coach Jim McElwain.
In 2016, he joked UF would 
merge with Florida State Univer-sity. 
In 2017, he claimed he would 
“drain the swamp.”    
But on Sunday, Fuchs made 
an announcement that broke his streak of pranks. 
In a 38-second video, Fuchs 
announced UF would have an am-nesty program for parking ﬁ  nes. 
“For many years, parking tick-
ets have been a source of con-tention between the university administration and our students, staff, faculty, alumni and visi-tors,” he said in the video. “And today, I’m calling on Scott Fox, the director of Transportation and Parking Services to create, by to-morrow, a program that will al-low the past 12 months of parking tickets to be forgiven.” 
Scott Fox, director of transpor-
tation and parking services, con-ﬁ  rmed the details to The Alligator. 
The “Food for Fines” program 
will apply for all unpaid parking citations issued by the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Transportation and Parking Services between April 1, 2017, and Sunday, April 1. 
“We know people don’t like 
receiving parking tickets. We also don’t like issuing them,” Fox said. “We do it reluctantly, and we do it as our duty because we need to maintain some sort of order on our campus.” 
The program works like this: 
Any person with an unpaid park-ing ticket needs to donate ﬁ  ve food items or other supplies listed on the Field and Fork Pantry’s wish list to the Parking Services ofﬁ  ce, located at 1273 Gale Le-merand Drive, any time before 5 p.m. Friday. Items can be dropped off any time between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
Some items that can be donat-
ed include toiletries, canned and boxed nonperishable food, baby formula and diapers.
There is no limit on the num-
ber of tickets that can be covered by the program, as long as partici-
Aprils Fools’ Day at UF through the years
See the past pranks UF President Kent Fuchs has played on the Student Body, pg. 8
Exhibit shows sexual assault survivor’s art
Survivors recreated what they wore during their assault, pg. 4VOLUME 112 ISSUE 75
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE SUSPECT’S IDENTITY HAS 
NOT BEEN VERIFIED BY POLICE.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was arrested Sunday afternoon af-
ter police responded to a domestic violence and possible hostage situation, Gainesville Police said. 
An 18-year-old woman called 911 and 
told police in Spanish her husband struck her with a handgun at an apartment at 3717 SW 28th Terrace, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  -cer Ben Tobias said. As University Police interpreters helped translate, she told police the violence had started Saturday and she ﬂ  ed while her husband was still inside the apartment with a handgun and possibly a 6-year-old child.
Police ofﬁ  cers responded to the apart-
ment around 11:30 a.m. Sunday and found the child unharmed in the crowd that formed outside, according to a press release. Negotiators were able to call the suspect, 
who initially said he was inside the apart-ment but later said he was not, Tobias said. Police found him half a mile away and de-tained him. 
The identities of the suspect and victim 
have not been veriﬁ  ed by police, but the suspect is believed to be a Guatemalan na-tional, Tobias said.
Police closed Southwest 28th Terrace 
and Southwest 31st Drive and evacuated nearby homes for about four hours, Tobias said. 
Additional weapons are believed to be 
inside the apartment, and police are wait-ing to secure a search warrant, said GPD Lt. Dan Stout.
The suspect is expected to face aggra-
vated assault, domestic battery and false imprisonment charges, according to a news release. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
Man detained by police after possible hostage situationTHE PROJECT HAS 
BEEN DELAYED AFTER 
CONTROVERSY ABOUT 
THE REDESIGN.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
David Horne said a rock thrown 
at Tigert Hall in the ‘70s sent things 
out of control. 
Horne, a former UF student, 
helped organize the sit-in that fol-
lowed on April 15, 1971, when doz-
ens of students occupied the ofﬁ  ce of Stephen O’Connell, UF’s president at the time, to demand a black student cultural center on campus. 
The peaceful protest, later called 
Black Thursday, escalated when someone unafﬁ  liated with Horne’s group threw the rock. Police were 
called, Horne said.
That day, 66 students were ar-
rested. O’Connell didn’t comply with their request for the center until 10 months later, when the Institute of 
Black Culture was dedicated on Feb. 11, 1972.
“We raised hell, we got spanked, 
and y’all got some buildings,” Horne said. “But apparently the struggle, the work is still not done.”
Horne and three other panelists, 
including two student activists and 
the former Institute of Hispanic-La-
tino Cultures director, discussed the future of the now-demolished cultur-al centers with a crowd of about 40 in Pugh Hall on Friday as part of the “Tale of Two Houses” event hosted by the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. 
In June 2017, UF’s Department of 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suggested the remodeled institutes be a single, “U” shaped building that would house both cultural centers.
Daniel Clayton, a UF electrical 
engineering senior and one of the Panel discusses history, 
future of La Casita, IBC 
SEE PANEL,  PAGE 4SEE APRIL FOOLS,  PAGE 8
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
MOVING BELLIES
Members of The Belly Gators dance during the ﬁ  nal performance of the Belly Gators Haﬂ  a at 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Sunday night. Several dancers were elected to different club positions following the event. See the rest of the photos on pg. 10. 
No joke: UF to forgive parking tickets for food donations
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Finding Eternity in Cyber Land’
Jerald Milanich, a professor 
emeritus in anthropology, will reveal backstories for four books which recently became e-books, 
at 2 p.m. Wednesday in Smathers 
Library, Room 100. The accounts will reference a number of notable people, places and things, includ-ing former UF historian Samuel Proctor and former Florida Gov. Bob Graham, frozen peas and Gatorade, Antarctica and Gainesville’s own Winnjammer 
Bar. The presentation is the first 
in the “Florida and the Caribbean Open Book Series.” 
‘Take Back the Night’
Strive at GatorWell’s “Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence” will be held from 5:30 to 9 p.m. Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas. Survivors can speak on the nature of their sexual assault and recov-ery, and anyone demonstrating 
support for survivors is welcome. 
Free T-shirts or tank tops for the first 300 marchers. For more in-formation, contact 352-273-4450.
Communication skills workshop
A communication skills work-shop that focuses on listening will be held at 6 p.m. the first Wednesday of every month at the Civic Media Center, located 
at 433 S. Main St. Eze Sanchez, a 
local life coach, will be the host.
'Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops'The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 5:30 to 7 p.m. Thursday at Tower Road 
Library Branch, located at 3020 
SW 75th St. Attorneys will pro-vide one-on-one assistance to those who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in applying to have their civil rights restored. For more information, call 352-334-3900.
Live storytelling event
In partnership with Guts & Glory GNV, the Florida Museum of 
Natural History will offer “When 
Nature Calls: A Live Storytelling Event” from 6 to 9 p.m. Thursday featuring original, true, first-per-son storytelling. Attendees must be 18 years or older. For more in-formation or to register, visit flori-damuseum.ufl.edu/event/when-nature-calls or call 352-273-2062.Poetry jam
The Civic Media Center, locat-ed at 433 S. Main St., will hold Gainesville’s longest-running 
open mic poetry reading, 25 years 
and counting, starting at 8 p.m. Thursday. All forms of word-based art welcome, including po-etry of every possible sort, short prose, miniature theatrical pieces, word-centered performance art, acoustic music and/or hip hop.
Open jam and art show
The Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., will hold an 
open jam and art show from 8 
to 11:40 p.m. Friday. The center encourages people to play some songs they know, some riffs or progressions they’ve been work-ing on or just feed entirely off the moment and co-create something new with strangers. The open jam comes with all the accoutre-
ments, drum kit, bass and guitar 
amps, microphones and room on the board.
Florida Museum plant sale
The Florida Museum of Natural History will host a sale with more than 175 species of difficult-to-
find and pollinator-friendly plants 
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday, and from 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Accent, host, native and nectar plants as well as edible plants from Natural Treasures Farm & Nursery will be available for purchase, with proceeds ben-efiting the museum’s “Butterfly 
Rainforest” exhibit. For more in-
formation, call 352-273-2057.
UF Bug Week scavenger hunt
To celebrate UF’s annual Bug Week, the Florida Museum of Natural History will hold a free scavenger hunt from 10 a.m. to noon Saturday. Teams will 
be given bug-related clues for 
a chance to win prizes. Visitors may also touch live insects at the UF entomology department’s Bug Zoo near the “Discovery Zone” exhibit. For more information, call 352-846-2000.
Wikipedia Edit-a-thon: Art + 
FeminismJoin members of the campus and community from 11 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Saturday at the Harn 
Museum of Art to edit and cre-ate Wikipedia pages related to art and feminism and underrep-resented peoples in the arts. No experience is required. Interested people can bring their laptop. The event is organized by the Harn and the UF School of Art 
+ Art History, and presented 
with the worldwide fifth annual Art + Feminism Edit-a-thon. For details, visit artandfeminism.org/our-story/.
The Fine Print 10-year bash
The Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., will hold a bash to celebrate the 10-year 
anniversary of The Fine Print, 
Gainesville’s only “alt” magazine, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Saturday. The event will feature music from EW, Piss Test and The Co-Pilots. Activities include Twister, cake, bubbles and Nintendo games.
National Library Week
During National Library Week, which is Sunday to April 14, 
Alachua County Library District 
joins libraries nationwide to cel-ebrate the many ways libraries lead their communities with the transformative services, pro-grams and expertise they offer. Celebrations include National Library Workers Day on April 10 and National Bookmobile Day on April 11.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: 
The byline on Friday's front page incorrectly credited Aaron Ritter for taking the photo. Alligator 
writer Meryl Kornfield took it.
Correction: 
A story that ran Friday titled 
"Disability Resource Center struggles with growing demand" incorrectly stated that more than 11,000 students take exams in the center a year. Instead, more than 11,000 exams are administered in the DRC annually. The article also stated the center requested 
an increase in funds from 4 cents 
per credit hour to 5.2 cents per credit hour. The center requested an additional 5.2 cents per credit hour.
HIGH  85° LOW  61°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 75
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator
Hundreds of students celebrate Passover Seder on Friday at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student 
Center. Traditionally celebrated with family, the event provided students with a community away from home, said co-director of the center, Chanie Goldman.
Passover service in Gainesville offers home away from home
After church services, children enjoy hunt for Easter eggs
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Children and their families rushed around with excitement at Gainesville Baptist Church’s annual Easter egg hunt on Sunday morning. The hunt was split into two age-appropriate areas, each filled with eggs full of an assortment of treats and prizes.
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
GracieElla Chaffin, 2, scours for colorful eggs to fill her basket at the annual Easter egg hunt on Sunday hosted by Gainesville Baptist Church. The hunt immediately fol-lowed the church’s worship service but was open to everyone.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator 
Rabbi Berl Goldman leads the Passover service on Friday at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student Center. “Passover inspires, empowers and illuminates our innate desire to be the best we can be, ” Rabbi Goldman said.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The simple black dress pinned 
onto a board caught Erin Andres’ 
eye as she made her way around the artwork displayed at the Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., on 
Friday night.
Andres, a 36-year-old Gainesville 
resident, maneuvered past the peo-
ple crowding the food bar to reach 
the dress. She caught her breath when she realized what it repre-
sented.
The card next to the dress told the 
story of an anonymous 17-year-old 
UF student who was raped by a fra-ternity brother after a semi-formal. As a survivor of mental and physical abuse herself, Andres said she was amazed by the student’s bravery.
“When you realize that’s what 
someone was wearing when their life changed forever, it’s just inspir-ing that they would share it,” she said. “It’s a powerful image.”
About 60 people attended the 
fifth-annual “Survivors of Violence Art” exhibit, hosted by Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center, to commemorate Sex-
ual Assault Awareness Month, said 
co-organizer Ashley Flattery. The free show featured spoken word, dance performances and artwork submitted by abuse victims and ad-vocates.
The exhibit will remain in the 
center until Thursday. It will be 
moved to the Harn Museum of Art, 
located at 3259 Hull Road, on April 10 and stay until April 29, Flattery said.
Flattery said the event gives sur-
vivors an opportunity to express 
themselves freely in a safe space.
“Instead of speaking for them, we 
pass them the mic,” she said.
The black dress was on loan 
from the UF “What Were You Wear-
ing?” exhibit, which is installed in the Ustler Hall Library from Mon-day to April 30, Flattery said. The exhibit, hosted by Sexual Trauma 
Interpersonal Violence Education at 
GatorWell and the American Medi-cal Student Association, displays rec-reations of the outfits students wore the day of their assault, according to Alligator archives.
Cassandra Moore, the crisis cen-
ter project coordinator, said “What Were You Wearing?” challenges the connection between a victim’s cloth-ing and sexual assault. The outfit 
recreations range from jeans and a 
sweatshirt to child-sized pajamas.
“You have the right to wear 
whatever you want, and no one has the right to assault you,” Moore said.
Andres, who lists her artwork 
under her nickname Katniss, felt inspired by the vulnerability of her fellow artists. She submitted “Girl on Fire,” a painting done by an acrylic pouring technique, to the “Survivors of Violence Art” exhibit. She said her art has been part of her healing process after enduring 25 years of abuse.
“I learned that my art is one of 
the best ways to get out my emotions and get out my feelings if I can’t get it out verbally,” she said.
Although she has been an artist 
since childhood, she began experi-menting with paint pouring a month ago. 
By spilling yellow to black shades 
of fire onto the canvas, Andres said she lets herself lose control. “Girl on Fire” depicts both her pain and heal-ing, she said.
“Sometimes the only way out is 
to go through the fire. That’s how abuse is,” Andres said. “You may 
have a few scars and burns but ulti-
mately, you survive.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgExhibit displays sexual assault survivors’ art, clothing
Amanda Rosa / Alligator
Eddie Valiant, 28, and Katie Zarada, 24, view artwork displayed at 
the “Survivors of Violence Art” exhibit in the Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., on Friday night.
Amanda Rosa / Alligator
Elle Eclectica, 32, performs a lyrical dance about her experience escaping an abusive relationship inside the Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Regal Entertainment Group movie 
theater is opening in Gainesville at Cel-
ebration Pointe and offering preview 
screenings to benefit charities ahead of 
its grand opening.
Crown Pointe 10 & RPX, located at 
4901 SW 31st Place, will open for three 
days of preview screenings April 8 ahead 
of a grand opening on April 12, Richard Grover, Regal Entertainment Group’s vice president of communications, wrote in an email. During the preview event, 
tickets, popcorn and soda will be $3 
each, and 100 percent of the proceeds will go to March of Dimes, Ronald Mc-Donald House and Child Advocacy Cen-
ter, Grover said.
The new theater will have 10 screens, 
reclining chairs and surround sound 
technology, Grover said.
The theater will join a Bass Pro Shops 
store, which opened November 2016, as the anchor of  Celebration Pointe, a 160-acre mixed-use development in Gainesville near the intersection of 
Southwest Archer Road and Interstate 
75, according to Alligator archives.
A Tommy Hilfiger store and Nike fac-
tory store are among the shops planned to open near townhouses, restaurants and live entertainment, according to Al-ligator archives.
Alyssa Marotta, an 18-year-old UF bi-
ological engineering freshman, said she likes the reclining chairs feature but is 
looking for a closer theater.
“If (the theater) was super high tech I 
would probably go once, but would oth-
erwise find something closer,” Marotta 
said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgNew movie theater 
coming to Gainesville
panelists, said the design was a “disaster.” 
He said it was an insult to combine the two buildings, which had distinct and hard-fought histories.
“That’s what diversity is to the Univer-
sity of Florida, homogenizing culture,” the 23-year-old said.
MCDA’s initial design sparked student 
protests and the “No La IBCita” movement, which fought to keep both student centers separate, according to Alligator archives. In July, MCDA announced the two buildings would remain separate and designers would start over, according to Alligator archives. 
Christopher Garcia-Wilde, 22, serves as a 
student co-chair for the reconstruction proj-ect. He said construction will begin this sum-mer in the institute’s lot on West University Avenue. Construction is estimated to finish in April 2019, according to UF facilities’ website. 
He said it’s a battle to hold the architec-
tural firm DLR Group and UF accountable. He said they strike down students’ requests 
to recreate the look of the old wooden build-
ings, citing city codes requiring buildings on West University Avenue to look commercial.
Cooperating with administration has been 
demanding, but he said he’s proud of how he pushed UF to pay more attention to minority student needs. 
enasby@alligator.org 
@_elohelPANEL,  from pg. 1Construction is expected to start 
this summer and finish in 2019
Timeline:
April 15, 1971: “Black Thursday:” 
black UF students protested unfair representation and lack of a cultural space on campus. 
February 11, 1972: IBC officially 
dedicated
1994: La Casita foundedApril 2016: UF announces IBC 
and La Casita are to be torn down, remodeled
July 12, 2017: Students march 
against the idea of a unified building, organized by the “No LaIBCita” group
July 18, 2017: Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs announce the IBC and La Casita will remain two seperate buildings
August 19, 2017: The IBC and La 
Casita are demolished. 
Spring 2018: Initial projection for 
when construction on the institutes would end, deadline later pushed on April 2019.Movies that will be 
available for $3
• Baby Driver
• Coco
• Despicable Me 3
• Dunkirk
• The Fate of the Furious 
• Justice League
• Logan
• The Nut Job 2: Nutty by Nature
• Spider-Man: Homecoming
• Star Wars: The Last Jedi
• Transformers: The Last Knight
• Wonder
• Wonder Woman 3DBy Veronika Vernachio
Alligator Contributing Writer
Casa Vina, in a blue sequined 
dress, and Selena Minogue, in a ﬂ  a-
mingo skirt, joked about the terrible things their interpreters have done through American Sign Language. 
Falling asleep, arguing and never 
showing any expressions were com-mon problems.  
The two drag queens, who gath-
ered internet fame through their You-Tube channel called Deaﬁ  es in Drag, performed Friday night at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The event was hosted by Signing Gators, a UF stu-dent deaf culture organization. About 80 deaf, hard of hearing and hearing people attended the event, which 
ended Gainesville’s Deaf Awareness 
Week events.
The Deaﬁ  es in Drag channel, 
which they started in 2015, has more than 2,400 subscribers. The two queens have comedy videos on the worst types of interpreters, drag slang in sign language and sketches about deaf culture. Their Facebook page has more than 50,000 likes.  
At the show, the drag queens 
played games with the audience members, including trying to lip read what people were mouthing and us-ing foam hands to sign sentences. 
Vina said drag works well for the 
deaf community because it’s an excit-ing visual art and goes against nega-tive stereotypes of the community, 
such as hearing people thinking deaf 
people can’t be performers. 
“We needed something different, 
something happy, something fun, something big,” she said. 
The queens also said they use 
their show as a way to connect with the hearing community about what it means to be deaf.
“Deafs aren’t going to bite you,” 
Minogue said. “We like interacting with hearing.”
Kia Vallery, a deaf Gainesville resi-
dent, said through an interpreter she wants the hearing community to un-derstand she can do the same things they can do despite being deaf.
“We want people to understand 
that we are not sad because we’re deaf,” the 47-year-old said. “We don’t want to be treated differently. We 
want equality.”
Ashleigh Poole, the Signing Gators 
president, said this year the organiza-
tion held its longest Deaf Awareness Week, going from ﬁ  ve-day events to seven. 
Friday’s show of Deaﬁ  es in Drag 
had the most deaf community mem-bers to attend a Signing Gators event 
in the past four years — about 50.
It cost $3,000 to bring the queens, 
which was funded by Signing Gators 
and other student organizations, Poole said. 
Poole said she encourages UF stu-
dents to learn from the deaf commu-nity members themselves.
“As hearing students, even though 
we’re ofﬁ  cers of the club, we don’t want to be the ones teaching deaf cul-ture or ASL to students,” Poole said.MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Veronika Vernachio / Alligator
Deaﬁ  es in Drag stars Casa Vina (left) and Selena Minogue (right) 
were paid $3,000 to speak at UF on Friday in the Reitz Union.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Christine Infantolino rides her bike to 
campus from her Oxford Manor apartment 
every day, totaling up to at least 30 miles 
a week.
“It’s nice to be out, feel the weather 
and get some fresh air,” the 21-year-old 
UF political science senior said.
To recognize students like Infantolino 
who ride their bikes to campus, Sustain-
able UF hosted its inaugural “Bike to Cam-pus Day” on Friday morning on the Plaza 
of the Americas. About 50 bike-riding 
students ate free breakfast, learned safety precautions like mapping out their routes. They also received free bike lights and black helmets from University Police.
Jacob Adams, the ofﬁ  ce manager for 
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability, said the event was one of many the organization held during March to honor Florida Bicy-cle Month.
Bike riders only account for 6 percent 
of students who commute to campus. He said he hopes these events will bring at-tention to the environmental, economic and health beneﬁ  ts that come from biking 
to campus. The advantages include not 
releasing harmful gases from automobiles and saving money on gas and insurance.
“We just want to take this really easy, 
sustainable solution that works for people 
very well and make it more available and 
a more desirable option,” Adams said.
He also said the bike-friendly campus 
will help. There are about 13,000 bike 
spots across campus, he added.
“That’s something UF recognizes as an 
option and wants to encourage,” Adams 
said.Sustainable UF encourages 
students to ride bikes  Internet-famous drag queens connect with community
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was charged with drunk driv-
ing early Friday after she was accused of driv-
ing in the wrong direction, Gainesville Police said.
Hannah Choi, 29, drove 
a black 2014 Mini Cooper north in the southbound lane of Northeast Waldo 
Road near Northeast 16th Avenue when an ofﬁ  cer noticed her and pulled her over, an arrest report said. The ofﬁ  cer smelled alcohol and told Choi to park, but 
Choi reversed and began driving away.
When two ofﬁ  cers yelled at Choi to stop, 
she exited the car, the report said.
Ofﬁ  cers handcuffed her and placed her in 
a patrol car, where she was able to squeeze a hand out of the handcuffs, the report said.
She told police she had two drinks at a pub 
called Munegin’s On 13th, the report said. She initially agreed to sobriety tests but then told the ofﬁ  cer he was “drunk and coked out” and put her hands on his chest.
Her blood alcohol content measured by a 
breathalyzer was 0.198, more than twice the legal amount to drive, the report said.
“(Choi) made statements of ‘Try me!’ as she 
looked at me with the meanest expression she could muster,” an ofﬁ  cer wrote in the report.
Choi is a UF student, according to a UF di-
rectory.
Choi was charged with driving under the 
inﬂ  uence and resisting arrest without violence. 
She was released from the Alachua County Jail 
on Friday afternoon on a $20,000 bond.
Choi did not respond to a request for com-
ment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF student accused of drunk 
driving in the wrong direction
Choi
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Delete Facebook — it may make you feel better
Over the past few weeks, #deleteFace-
book has been rampant across the web. Cambridge Analytica, a political data-mining and consulting ﬁ  rm, got a hold of the personal information of 50 
million Facebook users. It may have later used the information to craft ads and messages for President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. Now, according to a survey from Raymond James in-vestment ﬁ  rm, 84 percent of users are somewhat or very concerned about how their data might be used by Facebook. However, nearly half of these people said this would not affect how much they use Facebook.
American Facebook users, on average, spend 50 minutes 
each day browsing the social media platform. We obsess over how many likes we get and how many people com-ment on our statuses. If we don’t break our like record on Instagram, we wonder whether it is because our picture is bad or because we posted at a bad time. We Google the best time each day to post to hit ideal engagement. They have us hook, line and sinker. We wake up and the ﬁ  rst thing we do is check social media. Our whole lives are documented, and plenty of people we have as friends or followers have no way of keeping up with us aside from our proﬁ  les.
It doesn’t really seem like what a giant company does 
would affect us so much. But it does. Think of everything on your Facebook page. Think of everything you have sent over Facebook Messenger. Even if you are among those who try to keep their most personal information off Face-book, there is probably a lot more about you on that web-site than you realize. From your personal information such as where you work and where you went to college to pic-tures of you and your friends and everything in between, anyone who looks at your page can tell a lot about you.
Research has shown using social media can cause anxi-
ety, stress and depression, and it can negatively affect sleep quality. It can be addictive and hurt your self-esteem. The culture of comparison can be toxic, but generally we only worry about the people we interact with. Now we worry about being “on the grid.” We worry the same way we worry our Amazon Echo is always listening, and anything we even think about is used for targeted advertising.
We’ve been taught from an early age to be 
careful what we put online. Future employers, signiﬁ  cant others’ parents and our own parents can see what’s on our pages, and even if you delete it, someone could have already seen it or 
taken a screenshot. This is not news to us. It causes some stress because we have to carefully monitor what we are tagged in and who captures our behavior in a photo or on video. However, this aspect is fairly easy to keep track of. If it’s “on private” or in a direct message, only our friends and ourselves can see it.
Except that’s not true. Advertising and analytics compa-
nies have your information. It’s out there. We absentmind-edly click “I agree” on those thousand-page privacy and usage agreements. Is it a little shady our information gets sold to these companies? Maybe. The issue is not even the legality here. The issue is how we feel about it.
So, dear readers, be careful. If you try too hard to be in 
complete control of what information of yours is out there, you’ll drive yourself crazy. But, for your own sanity, try to keep some things private. You’ll feel more in control. A large cause of stress is feeling as though you have no control over your life. Try to hold some things close to the vest. You may feel better. Also, don’t feel like you can’t de-lete social media. If that’s the best choice for you and your mental health, do it. Your friends will still talk to you, and you’ll still know what’s going on in the world. Do what’s best for you.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
junior. Her column focuses on mental health.It’s time for a women’s 
history museum
Earlier this month, the head of the Smithsonian Institute an-
nounced the museum complex will launch a Women’s His-tory Initiative to highlight women’s achievements through-out history. Unfortunately, according to The Washington Post, Smithsonian Secretary David J. Skorton said he does 
not support the idea of creating a stand-alone museum to honor this initiative — at least not right now, anyway.
Skorton pledged the Smithsonian would hire curators and cre-
ate programs that would focus on women and their contribution to history but said the museum is in no position to initiate any new museums in the near future. In support of the initiative, Congress passed a $2 million spending plan.
Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), the author of the bill that 
would establish a stand-alone museum, believes the initiative 
will prove crucial in achieving this goal. But she told the Post 
she remains frustrated at the lack of support she has seen for the project from the Smithsonian.
This Smithsonian’s American Women’s History Initiative is 
certainly admirable and long overdue; however, so is a museum dedicated solely to women and their accomplishments. 
As a country, America has been guilty of neglecting women 
when it comes to recognition for their accomplishments. Not only have women been consistently left out of historical narratives 
but are often times overshadowed by their male counterparts.
Think of Frida Kahlo, who, in her obituary, was described 
ﬁ  rst as the “wife of Diego Rivera,” before she was dubbed a “not-
ed painter.” Or consider the life of Ida B. Wells. Wells wasn’t even originally given an obituary in The New York Times after devoting her life to ﬁ  ghting racism in the deep South.
Look at Abigail Adams, who proved to the nation that women 
had the ability to be more than just the silent and poised wives of statesmen. Nonetheless, she is still most commonly referred to as 
the wife of the second president of the U.S. rather than a political 
trailblazer of her own accord.
In recent years, we’ve seen some of these snubbed women 
start to get the acknowledgement they deserve. The ﬁ  lm “Hidden Figures,” which came out in 2016, highlights the achievements of three African American women at NASA. Without these women, astronaut John Glenn may have never made it into orbit. Sadly, few people knew they ever existed until their story became an item of popular culture. But, as a result, most of America knows 
the important role these women played in American history.
Since 1851, obituaries in The New York Times have glossed 
over impressive females and instead allowed the pages to be dis-
proportionately saturated with the life stories of white men. In 2018, after nearly 170 years of disregard, the paper is rectify-ing their mistake and publishing obituaries of the women who should have been honored years before.
In 2017, three women enlisted as the U.S. Marine Corps’ ﬁ  rst 
female infantrymen. That same year, ImeIme Umana was elected 
as the ﬁ  rst African American woman to serve as president of the 
Harvard Law Review, and in 2016, Carla Hayden became the ﬁ  rst female Librarian of Congress.
Women have made great strides, that’s for sure, but they cer-
tainly aren’t done yet. And although as a nation we have started to improve when it comes to recognizing women and their ac-complishments, there is much room for improvement. We need a place that is devoted just to women — a place that will hold their accomplishments throughout time and protect their lega-
cies.
It’s time we give women the museum and the honor they 
deserve.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
For the past century, cars 
have had a continuing im-
pact in shaping American 
lives. Ever since people 
started to come up with 
ways to take people from one place to another, cars have coin-
cided with progress and develop-
ment.
One hundred years ago, it was 
the horseless carriage. Today, it is the driverless car. Scientists envision a safer 
world with driverless cars, and engineers are 
already planning futuristic cities where indi-vidual vehicle ownership becomes obsolete.
Although autonomous vehicles could be  
beneﬁ  cial to society, car companies are pre-maturely pushing the possibilities of driverless 
technology. All of them are trying to be the 
ﬁ  rst company in the driverless car market. It might seem that it would be best if car compa-nies paved the way for driverless cars. How-
ever, these companies are focused on ambi-
tious ﬁ  nancial goals. As a result, the U.S. is 
rushing to embrace a technology that is not 
ready.
The major drawback to the current cars 
we so heavily rely on are the dangers they bring. Car accidents kill more than 30,000 
Americans every year. The National Highway 
Safety Administration estimates more than 90 percent of car accidents are caused by human error. With human error virtually eliminated 
with driverless vehicles, the world would be 
a safer place.
Of course, this signiﬁ  cant societal beneﬁ  t 
only comes to fruition if everyone chooses to 
use autonomous vehicles. Realistically, con-
sumers are hesitant to use them. According to 
a recent study from Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, half of the participants research-ers contacted for a survey would never pur-
chase a car that completely drives itself. 
If a signiﬁ  cant portion of the driving popu-
lation refuses to use driverless cars, human er-ror will continue to be a part of driving, leav-
ing the primary purpose of even developing driverless technology as nothing more than a 
gross exaggeration of what’s possible.
Another problem is car companies over-
selling the capabilities of their driverless tech-nology, giving drivers a false sense of safety. 
Most brands on today’s market are at level 2 automation. That means cars can drive them-selves on highways, but drivers must be able to take over at any time. Under 
this impractical assumption  that 
passengers will be attentive of the 
roadway even though they are not 
driving, car companies are not de-signing driverless cars to the level consumers look to use them.
Now, many may think they 
can avoid this technology by simply choosing not to purchase 
driverless cars nor use services 
with autonomous vehicles. However, Con-gress has recently proposed legislation that 
yields a legitimate cause for concern. The pro-posed American Vision For Safer Transporta-
tion through Advancement of Revolutionary 
Technologies (AV START) Act would lower safety standards and liability for driverless car 
companies. It is a trade-off of safety for the 
hopes of major advancements in autonomous vehicle technology. Nevertheless, in just the past two weeks, a pedestrian was struck in 
Arizona by an Uber autonomous vehicle and a 
driver was killed in California while using the 
autopilot feature in a Tesla. The government 
would be unjustiﬁ  ably asking every American to assume more risk when using roads as car 
companies tinker with unproven technology.
Instead of developing full-ﬂ  edged autono-
mous vehicles, car companies should focus 
on driver-assist technology. Lane departure warning and blind spot detection systems are already reducing the number of accidents 
that occur on the road. The Institute for High-
way Safety calculated lane departure warn-ing systems reduced injuries from sideswipe and head-on collisions by 20 percent in 2016. 
People make mistakes, but don’t take people 
out of the driver seat. Driver-assist technology 
can prevent accidents caused by human error 
without the over reliance on the technology itself.
In an ideal world, driverless cars would 
save lives. In reality, car companies are cur-rently pushing autonomous vehicles on con-
sumers that don’t want them, and the govern-
ment is looking to dissolve safeguards that would protect users of the road while this 
technology develops. Driverless technology 
may be beneﬁ  cial one day, but not today, nor in the near future.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineering junior. His column focuses on 
science.We're not ready for driverless technologyColumn
College is the time to 
spread our wings, gain independence and dis-cover who we are. How-ever, sometimes the 
unexpected occurs and changes plans. More often than not, we are not prepared for that and we ﬁ  nd ourselves in trouble. This happens because we spend too much time planning one day at a time and don’t stop to think about the “what-ifs.” 
As The Band Perry says in their hit song, 
“If I Die Young,” “A penny for my thoughts, oh no, I’ll sell them for a dollar. They’re worth so much more after I’m a goner.” Your words, thoughts and wishes are invalu-able when you’re no longer able to speak for 
yourself. You deserve to be your own health 
care decision-maker. When the unexpected 
requires urgent medical attention, the best 
plan is to have advance directives in place. 
If college is the time for people to gain inde-pendence, then they can start by ﬁ  lling out an advance directive.
Advance care planning involves making 
health care choices, executing advance direc-
tives and informing our loved ones. Comple-
tion of an advance directive enables an in-dividual to state his or her wishes for care, 
even during a period of incapacity such as 
after unexpected illness or accident or at the 
end of life. Now is the time to engage in these important conversations with loved ones and legally document your medical care choices. Talking about your end-of-life-care decisions is one of the most important things you can 
do, and it is never too early for anyone to 
start the conversation.
The Alachua County Board of County 
Commissioners has declared April to be “National Healthcare Decisions Month.” UF, UF Health, Haven Hospice, LifeQuest Organ Recovery Service and other organizations across Alachua County have planned activi-ties to show how these conversations can make a difference.
Interactive “Before I Die” walls will be in-
stalled at the Reitz Union, Bo Diddley Com-
munity Plaza, Depot Park and UF Health Sun Terrace among other locations. 
The walls are public art projects that enable people to express their creativity and jot down bucket-list items. Postcards at 
the sites will encourage partici-
pants to document their medi-cal preferences.
A group of about 70 UF stu-
dents dedicated to raising the advance directives completion rate have volunteered to con-
struct the walls around Gainesville. They will 
study the likelihood that adults who visit the 
walls proceed to document their health care 
decisions by completing advance directives.
National Healthcare Decisions Day is cel-
ebrated April 16, right after Tax Day because only two things in life are certain: death and 
taxes. This is the day the Reitz Union’s “Be-
fore I Die” wall will be up for participants 
to start writing. Students are encouraged to 
take this interactive activity to really think 
about how they want their health care deci-sions handled in cases of emergency.
April 30 is the last day students can par-
ticipate in the Reitz Union wall, but there will also be a lawyer present near the wall 
all day to answer any questions and help stu-
dents ﬁ  ll out advance directives on the spot.
On April 23, an interdisciplinary panel at 
the Alachua County Senior Recreation Cen-
ter will also help citizens seeking assistance 
in the completion of advance directives. If you’d like to attend this forum, call 352-265-9040.
Visit ufhealth.org/advance-directives to 
ﬁ  nd details about this month’s activities and 
more about advance care planning or like us 
on Facebook at facebook.com/gnvNHDD/. If you have any further questions, you can reach out to Anne Meiring at meiria@shands.uﬂ  .edu.
Do you really want your mom and dad 
still making decisions about your health care? 
April is the month for independence.Now is the time.
Veronika Vernachio is a UF Health 
intern. This is a guest column.College students, proclaim your 
independence in your health careGuest Column
Veronika 
Vernachio
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: This story originally ran 
on April 2, 2017.
UF President Kent Fuchs announced 
Saturday a new executive order would ban 
all alligators from UF’s campus and effec-tively “drain the swamp.”
In an April Fools’ Day Facebook vid-
eo, which received about 450,000 views, 
Fuchs declared alligator statues, Gators 
merchandise, the Gator Chomp and the Rowdy Reptiles would be banned from UF.
“We’ve all worked hard over the past 
two years to make our campus inviting, supportive and friendly,” Fuchs said in the video posted on UF’s social media pages Saturday. “The image of the swamp, and Gators, does not convey the message that 
I want associated with our great univer-
sity.”
Last April Fools’ Day, UF spent $9,000 
in private funds to make a series of videos announcing that UF and Florida State Uni-versity would be merging, WUFT reported.
This year, Fuchs’ April Fools’ Day joke 
didn’t cost anything, said UF spokesper-son Steve Orlando.
No money was required for traveling, 
and a video team from the UF College of 
Journalism and Communications shot the 
announcement for free.
Around noon, UF released a second 
video with Fuchs rescinding his executive 
order and wishing everyone a happy April 
Fools’ Day.
UF College Democrats member Dani-
ella Mora said she thinks some students may have perceived Fuchs’ joke as poking 
fun of President Donald Trump, who fre-
quently used the term “drain the swamp” during his campaign speeches.
“I do see how some students would 
have taken it as a form of mockery,” the 19-year-old UF telecommunication fresh-man said.
Fuchs could not be reached for com-
ment.In 2017, Fuchs joked of banning alligators from campus
Alligator File Photo
In a 2017 Facebook video on April Fools’ Day, UF President Kent Fuchs said he intended 
to ban all alligators from UF’s campus.Alligator Staff 
Editor’s note: The full version of 
this April Fools’ Day story originally 
ran on April 1, 2016.
In what will probably be remem-
bered as the single most definitive 
move in Florida educational history, UF and Florida State University an-nounced today the two schools will be merging.
The name of the new super-uni-
versity is yet to be determined but has already been cited as a major 
source of contention between the 
two concerned parties. For the sake of clarity, The Alligator will hence-forth be referring to the new uni-versity as the University of Florida Florida State University (UFFSU).
With many aspects of the 
schools’ futures up in the air, one thing is certain: the new location. 
The two schools will combine in 
the charming town of Perry, Flori-da, whose main attractions seem to be church-sponsored barbecues and breakfasts hosted by Christian motorcycling interest groups. Both schools’ campuses will then be con-verted to theme parks.
“With all these smart kids com-
ing to town, maybe we’ll finally be able to boast a ‘Wheel of Fortune’ champion!” said one Perry resident excitedly.
Most UF students had the same 
concern.
“So are we moving Balls there or 
what?” asked one UF junior.
Currently, there are no plans to 
move the entirety of Midtown to Perry, but a merger with popular 
Tallahassee scene The Strip Enter-
tainment group is being considered, sources say.
With the quality of nightlife in 
Perry still questionable, other stu-dents were worried about academ-ics.
“Um, don’t they know that 
we’re ranked the No. 1 school in 
the state?” asked one frazzled UF 
freshman. “And what on earth am I supposed to do with my #UF20 T-shirt?”
One group on campus particular-
ly upset by the change are the UF Ci-cerones. One was seen pacing back and forth across Turlington Plaza and appeared to be muttering under his breath, “They expect me to just give tours without making potato and french-fry jokes? What else am 
I even supposed to say?”
To help ease the transition, the 
UF Counseling & Wellness Center is 
currently offering extra counseling sessions for former UF students who may suffer trauma. Causes could include prolonged exposure to the War Chant or an overdose of garnet and gold.
One major draw to the move 
is the combining of both of the schools’ vast resources. In fact, the merger will produce a campus that hosts a whopping eight Starbucks locations.
“Maybe I’ll finally be able to get 
a freaking breakfast sandwich,” grumbled one UF biology junior stomping out of the Marston Sci-ence Library Starbucks, which had just run out — although The Alliga-tor is currently conducting an inves-tigation as to whether they ever had any pastries in stock at all.
UF President Kent Fuchs and 
FSU President John Thrasher both acknowledge the difficulties in forg-ing ahead with a merger of two schools so deeply set in their rival-rous ways. However, both say they are “look(ing) forward to a bright future for higher education in Flor-ida,” according to a release from the universities.
With such a positive outlook on 
the future of the brand-new Univer-
sity of Florida Florida State Univer-
sity, the presidents are sure to work together and make the university the best it can be.
The football team and coaching 
staff, however, could not be reached for comment on the situation.
In 2016, UF announced intent to combine UF, FSU
Alligator File Photo
On April Fools’ Day 2016, UF announced that it and Florida State Uni-
versity intended to merge, making Perry, Florida, the main campus.
pants bring in five items for each. It also applies for anyone who is in the process of appealing their parking ticket. But indi-viduals who have paid off the ticket can-
not be reimbursed. 
The Parking Services office doesn’t rely 
heavily on parking fines for revenue and 
doesn’t plan on having the costs of fines covered by the program reimbursed to it, Fox said. As of March 15, 12,145 citations have been issued since April Fools’ Day 2017, he added. 
Fox said he’s looked at other places 
where similar food-for-tickets programs have been successfully implemented. Ul-timately, he said, the food drive will help the food pantry and help others save mon-ey. 
“This is a way for members of the uni-
versity community to satisfy parking tick-ets and save some money in the process,” Fox said. “We think it’s a real win for ev-erybody.”
Online, clueless students who have 
presumably amassed parking fines plead-ed with Fuchs to stop kidding. 
“Don’t toy with me UF I’m emotion-
al,” one student wrote. Another posted a screenshot of more than 30 unpaid tickets from Fall and wondered if he’ll be reim-bursed.  
In the video, Fuchs only offered a sly 
grin before signing off. 
“It is great to be a Florida Gator.”More than 12,000 citations have been issued in the past year
APRIL FOOLS,  from pg. 1 Items You Can Donate: 
• Canned food
• Condiments
• Boxed food
• Non Perishable drinks
• Baby food, formula and diapers 
• T oothbrushes, toothpaste 
• Feminine hygiene products 
• Cleaning suppliesMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
maymester.usf.edu/uf
Maymester
MAY 7-25, 2018
EARN THREE CREDITS IN THREE WEEKS
Get one step closer toward completing your degree. The University 
of South Florida is now offering Maymester – a selection of fully 
online, three-credit-hour courses that run from May 7 to 25.
Benefits of Maymester:
• Get one step closer  
to graduation
•  Satisfy part of your State  
of Florida summer  
enrollment requirements• Complete an  
elective course
• Learn anywhere anytime 
with fully online courses  
Current offerings in:
• Arts & Language
• Business & Career
• Criminology
• Cybersecurity
• Education• Health
• History 
• Music
• Social Sciences
Deadline: May 9, 2018
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
DRINK ALCOHOL 
RECENTLY?
www.edgelabresearch.org
352.214.4047
UF study. No medication. 
Must be someone who drinks alcohol regularly & be willing to participate in an in-person session & 2-week period using smartphone technology. Compensation.
Alligator Staff
Editor’s Note: The full version 
of this story originally ran April 
1, 2015.
In a highly unorthodox move 
reminiscent of the Lindsay Lo-han smash-hit movie “Freaky Friday,” UF President Kent Fuchs and Gators head football Coach Jim McElwain are trading jobs — permanently, The Alliga-tor learned.
Speaking on condition of ano-
nymity, sources in the UF admin-
istration close to the decision say 
the move is the result of Fuchs exercising a little-known clause in his employment contract. The clause states Fuchs retains the right to swap jobs with anyone else at the university he chooses for as long as he wants. 
Fuchs said he opted to exer-
cise the option after learning he would not have a reserved park-ing spot behind Tigert Hall.
“Coach McElwain has a won-
derful space right inside the sta-dium,” he said. “It’s mine now. You want to talk about preemi-
nence? That’s preeminence. Not 
only that, it cuts at least 90 sec-onds off my morning commute.” 
“Besides,” Fuchs added, “be-
ing president is nice and all, but frankly, it’s a lot more dull than I thought it would be. I’m an en-gineer. I could use a little excite-ment in my life.”
Though he admits his experi-
ence with athletics is “somewhat limited, although I did play mid-dle school basketball when I was growing up in Alaska,” Fuchs said he’s been giving a new game plan plenty of thought.
For instance, he said, one bed-
rock of the research world would 
translate well onto the gridiron: 
the peer review process.
“Here’s my idea,” he said. 
“I’d like to submit our playbook to the coaches of the teams we’ll be playing this Fall. If they think our plays will work, then we’re in good shape. Isn’t that bril-liant?”
McElwain wasted no time ex-
ercising his new authority. His ﬁ  rst project: commencement, which will be held in Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium this Spring.
“I’m thinking we skip the 
stage for the graduates to walk 
across,” he said. “Now picture this: Instead, we have them run out of the tunnel while the band plays the ﬁ  ght song. Of course, they might trip on those gowns they wear — I need to work on 
that.”
Also on McElwain’s agenda: 
a solution for UF’s perennial 
parking woes. 
“Why make people buy park-
ing permits? I say we handle it just like we do tailgating. Let people park wherever they want. Everything is fair game — side-
walks, lawns, Plaza of the Amer-
icas.”
The switch-up has drawn 
mixed reviews among students.
“Um, who thought that was a 
good idea?” said Ugada Bejoshin, a 26-year-old graduate student.
But Ima Kiddin, a 20-year-old 
junior from Miami, said she’s ex-
cited.
“Can Coach Fuchs get me 
some good seats?” she asked.
In 2015, Fuchs, McElwain switched places for prank
Alligator Staff
Football coach Kent Fuchs and UF President Jim McElwain pose in their new 
environments. They switched jobs thanks to a loophole in Fuchs’ contract.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff 
Cristina Metral, a 20-year-old UF zoology senior, dances at the Belly 
Gators Haﬂ  a at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Sunday night. About 20 people attended the event. 
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Caitlin Macfarlane, a 19-year-old UF health sciences sophomore, performs her dance routine at the Belly Gators Haﬂ  a hosted by The Belly Gators at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Sunday night. She said she chose to do belly dancing over karate.
HIPS DON’T LIE
AP ROUNDUP
Trump on deal to protect ‘Dreamer’ immigrants: 
‘NO MORE’
PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — President Donald 
Trump on Sunday declared “NO MORE” to a deal to 
help “Dreamer” immigrants and threatened to pull out 
of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does 
more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they’re coming to take advantage of protec-tions granted certain immigrants.
He tweeted Mexico must “stop the big drug and 
people ﬂ  ows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!” The U.S., Canada and Mexico are par-ticipating in tense negotiations over the North Ameri-can Free Trade Agreement at Trump’s insistence. 
Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.
“Mexico has got to help us at the border,” Trump 
said. “If they’re not going to help us at the border, it’s 
a very sad thing between our two countries.” 
“A lot of people are coming in because they want to 
take advantage of DACA,” he added.
Former President Barack Obama created the De-
ferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to pro-vide temporary protection and work permits to hun-
dreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in 
the U.S. illegally after being brought here as children. Trump ended the program last year, but gave Con-gress six months to pass legislation enshrining it. A 
deal has so far proved elusive and Trump has blamed 
Democrats.
It was not immediately clear what Trump was refer-
ring to when he said people are coming to take advan-tage of the program.Family of man killed by police joins rally for 
reform
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — The family of Ste-
phon Clark joined hundreds of people at a rally urg-
ing California’s capital city not to let his memory or 
calls for police reform fade nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old unarmed black man was killed by Sacra-mento ofﬁ  cers.
Clark’s ﬁ  ancee, Salena Manni, stood on stage with 
his two young sons, grandmother and uncle for the gathering Saturday organized by Sacramento native and former NBA player Matt Barnes, who pledged to 
create a scholarship fund for the children of black men 
killed by police.
“All he wanted to do was go see his sons again, and 
unfortunately he can’t,” Curtis Gordon, Clark’s uncle, 
said as he recalled seeing his nephew hours before 
the shooting. “So remember that — while we mourn, while we shout, while we cry — because it ain’t just our pain, it’s their pain.”
The peaceful demonstration that drew between 200 
and 300 people to a downtown park came a day after a private autopsy released by the family showed Clark was shot from behind.
Clark was killed March 18 by two police ofﬁ  cers 
responding to a call of someone breaking into car win-
dows. They yelled that he had a gun before shooting, 
but it was only a cellphone. The police department says it has not received an ofﬁ  cial autopsy report from the county coroner’s ofﬁ  ce.
After 20 shots, ofﬁ  cers called to him, apparently 
believing he might still be alive and armed. They even-tually approached and found no gun, just a cellphone.Trump EPA expected to roll back auto gas 
mileage standards
DETROIT (AP) — The Trump administration is ex-
pected to announce that it will roll back automobile 
gas mileage and pollution standards that were a pillar 
in the Obama administration’s plans to combat climate change.
It’s not clear whether the announcement will in-
clude a speciﬁ  c number, but current regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency require the ﬂ  eet of new vehicles to get 36 miles per gallon in real-world driving by 2025. That’s about 10 mpg over the existing 
standard.
Environmental groups, who predict increased 
greenhouse gas emissions and more gasoline con-
sumption if the standards are relaxed, say the an-
nouncement could come Tuesday. EPA spokeswoman 
Liz Bowman said in an email Friday that the standards are still being reviewed.
Any change is likely to set up a lengthy legal show-
down with California, which currently has the power to set its own pollution and gas mileage standards and doesn’t want them to change. About a dozen other states follow California’s rules, and together they ac-count for more than one-third of the vehicles sold in the US. Currently the federal and California standards 
are the same.
Automakers have lobbied to revisit the require-
ments, saying they’ll have trouble reaching them be-
cause people are buying bigger vehicles due to low gas 
prices. They say the standards will cost the industry 
billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices due to the cost of developing technology needed to raise mileage.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
4-6-18-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
INTERIOR / EXTERIOR PAINTINGDrywall repairs, caulking, pressure wash-ing, wood replacement, through final coat. Insured. Call Daniel to set up free quote 352-535-4642     4-2-18-2-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Smallest chess
piece
5 Intl. alliance with
a phonetic
alphabet
9 Test for fit
14 Where to find
Columbus
15 Surrounded by
16 Like a wolfman
17 Made it possible
(for)
20 Bit of campaign
ugliness
21 In a jittery way
22 Food storage
cover
24 Big pic from a
small neg.
25 Reason for
“Fahrenheit 451”
fires
31 Yr.’s dozen34 Smoothie berry35 Pet store cry36 Resell
exorbitantly, astickets
38 Iowa crop
39 Extreme fear41 First website
page
42 Last Greek letter
44 Lucy’s sitcom
partner
45 Neighborhood46 Stark in “Game of
Thrones”
47 Achieved desired
results
50 Math basics:
Abbr.
51 Tweeter’s titter52 White ursine
critter
58 Hand prettifiers62 It’s designed to
elicit a certain
answer ... orwhere the end of17-, 25- and 47-Across may befound
64 Dickens’ Drood
65 Garage goop66 Opponent67 Hit __: ran into
trouble
68 Wise, as advice69 Twice-monthly 
7-Down
DOWN
1 Seasoned
senators, say2 “If I may say
something ... ”
3 Edith, to Archie
4 Teacher’s “Shh!”
5 “Uh-uh”
6 Confirmation
from the
congregation
7 Ocean
phenomenon
8 Reason for a
diaper change
9 Big crowds
10 Phantom’s rival,
in “The Phantomof the Opera”
11 Pet store cries
12 Baseball’s
Hershiser
13 Big Apple
address letters
18 Chicago paper,
for short
19 Toaster __23 Dilapidated joint
25 Breakfast partner
of 55-Down
26 “__, all ye 
faithful ... ”
27 Rowed28 Verify, as totals
29 Octet plus one
30 “If only”31 New Zealand
native32 Early
Mesoamerican
33 “Bark, Bowser!”
37 Phony
40 Sky over Paris43 Loving and
devoted, as 
fans
48 Library vol. ID49 Gobbling guys?
50 Gymnast
Comaneci
52 Ardent request53 Voluminous syn.
and etym.sources
54 Mowed expanse
55 See 25-Down
56 Water color
57 Ladder step
59 29-Down count60 Kappa preceder61 Barbershop
sound
63 Barely make,
with “out”
By Brock Wilson©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/02/1804/02/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, April 2, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Dandies
5 Space Invaders
genre
14 Blue dye
15 Quintet that won
a Grammy for
their a cappella
version of“Dance of theSugar PlumFairy”
17 ’20s tennis star
Lacoste
18 1996 McDonald’s
offering
19 Gold mine
21 Shellac
ingredient
22 Egg, in Ecuador
23 Former
Monopoly token
25 Fair-hiring letters
26 Anthony of
“black-ish”
29 Cleaning staff
members
31 Sgt., e.g.
32 Hawaii’s __
Coast
33 Split-resistant
wood
34 Bit of progress36 Dynamite guy?
38 It’s administered
by the College
Board, briefly
42 Brooding genre44 Welsh national
emblem
46 Downed47 Mine
countermeasure
49 Game with a
disc
51 “The Lead With
Jake Tapper”channel
52 Gutter locale54 Greek strings55 What Santa
Claus makes andgets
57 Ornament60 Really easy to
use
62 “Crash __ Me”:
Dave MatthewsBand hit
63 Dwindled to
nothing
64 Poetic units65 Hospital
employees
66 ClosesDOWN
1 Field worker
2 Like the most
valuable
American GoldEagle coins
3 Attached, as a
ribbon
4 Magical hiding
place
5 Minor fight6 Berliner’s address7 Rarely8 Survey question
option
9 Little bit
10 For all time11 Insidious insider12 Idle13 Short cuts
16 Foreign opening?
20 Pennsylvania city
where Peppermint
Pattie was firstproduced
24 Folded fare27 State bordering
Arizona and NewMexico
28 Wish Tree artist30 “Here comes
trouble” type
35 “Dancing With
the Stars”
achievement37 Grown elver
39 Gateway Arch
designer
40 Bore witness
41 They may be
long drives
43 Musical chairs?
45 Last word of two
James Bond filmtitles
47 Twisted Sister
frontman Dee
48 In the plant, say50 Billy Joel hit 
with the line “Idon’t want you to tell me it’stime to comehome”
51 Cut
53 Salsa __
56 Socks cover
them
58 Set of rounds59 Young newts61 X’ing one?
By Neville Fogarty©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/31/1803/31/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, March 31, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Intense 
1.  Show off5.  Relating to
2.  Soil ____6.  ____ finger
3.  Tower, fortress 7.  Cornered 
4.  Stretched RECEFI
AUFTNLOTBUA
XEIDN
OOINSER
TLCEIADLNEDAG
EEFDLXANSWERS: 1A-Fierce  5A-About  6A-Index  7A-Angled
1D-Flaunt  2D-Erosion  3D-Citadel  4D-Flexed  B-Butterflies4-2-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are about 20,000
species of these. BONUS1. Florida State’s Mike Martin 
entered the 2018 college baseball sea-
son second on the career wins list for a head coach. Who is No. 1?
2. When Maury Wills of the Los 
Angeles Dodgers led the National League with 104 stolen bases in 1962, the runner-up was a teammate. Who 
was it?
3. Who holds the Big Ten football 
championship game record for most 
passing yards?
4. Name the last NBA center to have 
a triple-double in which he scored 50 or more points?
5. Bill Stewart was the first Ameri-
can-born NHL coach to win a Stanley Cup (1938). Who was the second to do it?
6. Who was the first Asian-Ameri-
can to win an Olympic medal?
7. Between 2001 and 2010, Tiger 
Woods and Phil Mickelson combined to win six of the 10 Masters golf tour -
naments. Name two of the other four winners. 
Answers
1. Augie Garrido (Cal State-Fuller -
ton, Texas), with 1,975 wins.
2. Willie Davis, with 32 stolen bas-
es.
3. Trace McSorley of Penn State, 
with 384 yards in 2016.
4. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, in 1975.
5. Pittsburgh’s Bob Johnson, in 
1991.
6. Platform diver Sammy Lee, who 
won gold in 1948 and 1952.
7. Mike Weir (2003), Zach Johnson 
(2007), Trevor Immelman (2008) and Angel Cabrera (2009).
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 2, 2018King Features Weekly Service19 Connections
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.21 Entertainment 24 PetsSenior Anna Danilina and the 
rest of the Florida women's 
tennis team fell to T exas 4-0 on Sunday to end a ﬁ  ve-match winning streak.Ogunbowale's shot leads Notre Dame to NCAA title
The Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated Mississippi State 61-58 
on Sunday in the national championship game. Guard Arike Ogunbowale hit a three-pointer with 0.1 seconds remaining to win the contest for the Fight-ing Irish.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The outcome between No. 
2 Florida and No. 8 Vander-bilt on Sunday at McKethan Stadium had become nothing more than a sideshow. Even though it was still a ballgame — 5-2 in Florida’s favor in the bottom of the fourth — everyone’s focus was on UF 
third baseman Jonathan In-
dia.
India came into Sunday’s 
series ﬁ  nale riding a 14-game 
hitting streak. He hit .565 
over that span with 12 extra-
base hits. Eleven of those 14 
games were multi-hit perfor-mances.
In short, India has wielded 
a bat more destructive than 
Thor’s hammer.
So when he came up to hit 
in the bottom of the fourth 
not having recorded a base 
knock in his ﬁ  rst two plate 
appearances, it was under-
standable that the tension among the crowd was rising. The anticipation crescendoed until a 2-1 pitch from Com-modores left-hander Jackson Gillis made its way to the plate.
India clubbed the 92-mph 
fastball toward right-cen-ter ﬁ  eld, over the heads of Vanderbilt’s outﬁ  elders and into the Commodores’ bull-pen to extend both the lead and his streak. His bomb served as one of three hom-ers for the Gators (25-5, 7-2 SEC) in an 8-2 win in Flori-da’s sweep of Vanderbilt. For the Commodores, it was the ﬁ  rst time in 59 series they had been swept in confer-ence play.
“I think that just goes to 
show you how well of a run they’ve been on and what kind of a great program they have,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “We needed to play at a high level, obvi-ously, to win all three games this weekend.”
India’s dinger — his 11th 
of the season — would’ve lifted him back into the team lead in home runs had out-ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton not se-cured his 11th an inning ear-lier. 
“We have fun with it,” 
Dalton said of the budding Florida sweeps Vanderbilt, India continues hitting streak 
Jeff Pearlman, a feature 
writer for The Athletic and well-known sports biographer, recently made an observation about March Madness. 
He said, following No. 16-
seed University of Maryland-Baltimore County’s win over No. 1-seed Virginia, that a de-cade or two from now, nobody will remember who won the 2018 NCAA Men’s Basketball Champion-ship, but everyone will remember the Ter-riers beating the Cavaliers. With tonight’s ﬁ  nal — a matchup between Michigan and Villanova — set to tip off at 9:20 p.m., I can say that I agree. 
Indeed, UMBC’s victory over Virginia is 
probably one of the most iconic upsets of this young millenium. But until Saturday, this year’s tournament had a chance to hoist an even bigger underdog to the level of Rudy or the Miracle on Ice. I’m talking, of course, about Loyola-Chicago. 
Just compare the odds: 
UMBC’s to beat Virginia? 20-to-1. Loyola’s odds to win it all when the tournament started? 250-to-1.
It obviously didn’t happen, 
and now few outside Phila-
delphia and Ann Arbor will remember this season’s champs. But until their elimination against Michigan on Saturday, the 11-seeded Ramblers gave the nation an unforgettable story to root for that just couldn’t quite reach the level of Hollywood blockbuster. Nevertheless, Loyola gave sports fans and non-sports fans alike an example of what makes these games so wonderful and im-
UMBC’s and Loyola-Chicago’s postseason 
runs have implications beyond sportsSweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida third baseman Jonathan India extended his hitting streak to 15 games during UF's 8-2 win over Vanderbilt on Sunday. The junior blasted a two-run homer in the bottom of the fourth inning.
FOOTBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Week 3 of spring practices saw a couple 
new developments for Florida’s football 
team.
The Gators held a full scrimmage on 
Friday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium and hosted their pro day on Wednesday.
Friday’s scrimmageThe three-hour-long scrimmage was es-
sentially a dress rehearsal for the annual Orange and Blue Game held this year on April 14.
All eyes were on the quarterback battle, 
which yielded mixed results for a pair of redshirt sophomores in Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask. Ofﬁ  cial stats were not provid-
ed, but Robbie Andreu — the Gainesville 
Sun’s football beat writer since 1993 — re-corded statistics from the scrimmage on his own.According to Andreu’s stats, Franks 
completed 7-of-22 passes for 127 yards, two touchdowns and three interceptions. 
Both touchdowns and 113 of Franks’ pass-
ing yards came in the second half. 
Trask ﬁ  nished with 182 yards on the 
day, completing 12-of-18 attempts with 
three touchdowns and one interception.
“It’s always hard when you get a new 
playbook in,” Franks said after the scrim-
mage. “I think all the quarterbacks did a good job.”
Franks started eight of 11 games in 
2017. The Crawfordville, Florida, native impressed with his arm strength but strug-gled with his decision making last season 
as a redshirt freshman.
Trask missed the entire 2017 season 
recovering from a foot injury sustained 
shortly before the team's ﬁ  rst game on Sept. 2 against Michigan. Spring Camp Roundup: Week 3SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
TRACK & FIELD
By Alanis Thames
Sports writer
Lloydricia Cameron waited four years to 
hear her name called over the speakers at 
James G. Pressly Stadium.
Shortly after she won the women’s shot 
put, Cameron gripped her white flowers with 
her left hand and clutched a family member’s 
wrist in her right as she received her senior plaque from coach Mike Holloway.
And she wasn’t the only one.Each year, the Pepsi Florida Relays mark 
a time when the veterans on UF’s men’s and women’s track and field teams celebrate both the highs and lows of their collegiate journey. And on Saturday, four of those seniors took 
home a win in their final opportunity to com-
pete at UF’s biggest home event of the season.
“Senior Day is always very emotional for 
me. Today, like all the other days, we hug each other and talk,” Holloway said in a re-lease. “Then to see them all together, all the emotion kind of rushes over me because they all kind of have their own special story.”
Cameron’s story includes two SEC titles, 
three All-American honors and an SEC sports-manship award.
She’s also the No. 3 discus thrower, as well  
as the No. 4 outdoor and No. 5 indoor shot put thrower on UF’s All-Time Top-10 List.
Another special story came from transfer 
Avione Allgood, who has only competed in two meets as a Gator. Her first season with Florida’s women’s track and field team would 
have been in 2017 after she transferred from Oklahoma. However, an injury kept her out 
the entire season.
The sixth-year senior javelin thrower made 
an emotional UF debut two weeks ago at the FSU Relays, where she threw for 53.59 me-ters. “Watching her, after the injuries she 
fought through, it was emotional,” Holloway said. “You could see the fear in her eyes a little bit. But she’s a great athlete.”
In her first and last Florida Relays, the 
two-time outdoor All-American won the women’s javelin throw. And in her short time as a Gator, Allgood is already fifth on the pro-gram’s outdoor All-Time Top-10 list.
For Darrielle McQueen, Saturday was an 
opportunity for several members of her family to gather on Percy Beard track to watch the crowd cheer as she received her plaque.
In addition to her long jump win on the 
second day of the meet, McQueen is a nine-time All-American and sits in the top three on UF’s indoor and outdoor All-Time Top-10 lists in the event.
KeAndre Bates described his journey as a 
Gator as one that was centered around prog-ress.
“I’ve grown a lot, especially these last two 
years,” Bates said. “It’s pretty much change, growing up, and seeing what my place in the world is.”
He has compiled 10 All-American honors, 
three national titles and three SEC titles.
The El Paso, Texas, native was named SEC 
Indoor Field Athlete of the Year as well as USTFCCCA National Indoor Field Athlete of the Year in 2017. He’s also the seventh man 
in Division I history to sweep the triple and 
long jumps at the NCAA Outdoor Champion-ships and the eighth man to record top-three finishes in both jumps at consecutive NCAA Outdoor Championships.
“The whole time (at Florida) I was in a 
chrysalis like a caterpillar,” Bates said. “I’ve turned into a butterfly now.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFour UF seniors record wins at Florida Relays to cap off Senior Day
Alligator File Photo
Thrower Lloydricia Cameron was honored during UF’s Senior Day ceremony on 
Saturday at the Pepsi Florida Relays.
MEN’S TENNIS LACROSSE
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
McClain Kessler had no en-
ergy left to give as he walked 
off Court 6 of the Carolina Ten-nis Center.
With his head down, Kessler 
was met with pats on the back from coaches and teammates after losing a match-clinching singles contest against South Carolina’s Wood Benton.
After prevailing over No. 
1 Wake Forest on Friday, the No. 10 Gators fell to the Game-
cocks 4-3 on Sunday in Colum-
bia, snapping a five-match win streak.
“Have to give South Caroli-
na a lot of credit,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “They played a great match and were well prepared for us.”
Florida’s struggles began 
with doubles play.
The No. 1-ranked duo of 
sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and junior Alfredo Perez lost its third doubles match in a row, 6-3. In their previous two defeats, Ingildsen and Perez’s teammates picked up their slack. But on Sunday, that was 
not the case.
On Court 2, Kessler and 
freshman Duarte Vale fell to 
South Carolina’s senior tandem of Gabriel Friedrich and Thom-as Mayronne 6-3. The loss snapped Florida’s five-match win streak in doubles competi-tion.
UF’s frustrating play contin-
ued into singles.
Ingildsen — who Shelton 
placed on Court 1 for the first time since Feb. 3 against Flori-da State — blew a 5-2 second-set lead in a 6-3, 7-6 loss to Friedrich.
Ingildsen’s doubles partner, 
Perez, lost his third consecu-tive singles match on Court 2 in straight sets 6-4, 6-1. The junior struggled to land accurate shots with his forehand for much of the match. Of the three matches in Perez’s current losing streak, he has lost in straight sets each time.
On Courts 3, 4 and 5, how-
ever, Florida saw a glimmer of hope.
Oliver Crawford, who en-
tered Sunday on an 11-match winning streak, continued his impressive run with another win over South Carolina’s Yancy Dennis on Court 3. The 
freshman’s 6-3, 6-2 win pushed 
his overall singles record against SEC opponents to 9-0 on the season.
Chase Perez-Blanco re-
bounded from his loss on Fri-day against Wake Forest to also secure a singles victory in three sets, 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, on Court 4. 
The senior from Miami has now won seven of his last eight 
singles matches.  
Vale, who tied Friday’s dual 
match against Wake Forest after winning his singles con-test, delivered for UF again on Sunday after he came back to win 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 against South Carolina’s Mayronne.
“It was an uphill battle, but 
we continued to fight back on several courts,” Shelton said.
Even with all the momen-
tum, Florida (13-7, 7-2 SEC) still fell short.
Kessler’s 6-3, 6-7, 6-3 singles 
loss on Court 6 was his first since his March 21 return to the lineup.
The captain faced multiple 
controversial calls throughout 
the match, including one in 
the third set that caused him to throw down his hat and yell at the umpire.
His defeat snapped UF’s 
four-match win streak over the Gamecocks (15-6, 5-4 SEC) dat-ing back to the 2012-13 season.
The Gators will have time 
to recover before they get back on the road later this week. The team will travel to College Sta-tion to play No. 6 Texas A&M on Friday. First serves are set for 6 p.m.
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org
Gators lose nailbiter against Gamecocks 
to end five-match winning streak
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Gators have every reason to be 
happy. The team remains undefeated 
in conference play, and its only three losses of the season came against ranked opponents. 
But junior attacker Lindsey Ron-
beck hasn’t been happy. 
“We haven’t re-
ally been doing our best the last couple games,” she said.
The overall play 
of UF took a dip recently in the ab-
sence of two of its 
leaders, Ronbeck and senior defender 
Aniya Flanagan.
However, Ronbeck’s return against 
Connecticut on Saturday proved to be beneficial to the Gators’ struggling at-tack. No. 8 Florida (8-3, 3-0 Big East) dominated the Huskies 21-8, and Ron-
beck scored six goals and four assists 
in the win, making her only the sec-ond player in school history to score 10 points in a single game.
Ronbeck suffered a knee injury in 
UF’s 19-16 win over Navy on March 13, and Flanagan was sidelined with an undisclosed injury prior to that game. Flanagan returned after two 
contests, but Ronbeck missed the 
Gators’ following three.
Florida’s offensive production took 
a significant hit during the games in which Ronbeck didn’t play. When she has seen the field this year, UF averag-es 16.8 goals per game. Without her, the team only averages 12.7 goals.
“Having (Ronbeck) there I think 
gives us a certain advantage,” coach Amanda O’Leary said.
The team is at full health for the 
first time since its loss at Syracuse on March 7, and starting with their home matchup against Temple on Wednes-day, the Gators will finish their regu-lar season with a slew of winnable games. Villanova, Cincinnati and 
Butler, three of Florida’s final six op-
ponents, have a combined 0-9 confer-ence record. 
Florida, the preseason Big East fa-
vorite, is in a good position to reclaim the conference title for a fourth con-secutive year as well as make a run beyond the first round of the NCAA tournament for the first time since 
2015.
Ronbeck’s return to Florida’s line-
up has not only improved the team’s 
play on the field, it has also changed the team’s mindset moving forward.
Senior attacker Shayna Pirreca said 
that the team viewed the UConn game as a chance for a fresh start, and it cer-tainly got the result it desired as the 
explosive and now fully recovered UF 
attack notched a season-high 21 goals.
“The biggest change right now is 
the mentality,” Pirreca said. “We’re just trying to stay hungry and moti-vated.”
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgRonbeck’s return helps Florida 
overcome recent offensive woes
Ronbeck
“It is what it is,” Trask 
said. “Around Christmas 
(2017), I was feeling 100 per-
cent. I love being out there.”
Pro Day
The most prominent story-
line of UF’s pro day was the 
return of former Gators Anto-
nio Callaway and Matt Elam.
Callaway, a wide receiver, 
did not play in 2017 due to a suspension for his alleged involvement in a credit card scam and chose to enter the NFL draft over returning to 
school.
Elam, a safety who last 
suited up for the Gators in 
2012 and spent three seasons 
in the NFL, also participated 
in drills during UF’s pro day.
First-year coach Dan Mul-
len did not coach Callaway or Elam, but said he’s a big be-liever in second chances.
“They’re part of the Gator 
family,” Mullen said on 
Wednesday.
Former safeties Marcell 
Harris and Nick Washington 
were both hoping to prove 
to scouts they can overcome 
their respective 2017 season-
ending injuries. Harris missed 
the entire year with a torn 
Achilles tendon, while Wash-ington missed the Gators’ ﬁ  nal six games after hurting his shoulder against LSU.
Defensive lineman Taven 
Bryan, kicker Eddy Pineiro and punter Johnny Townsend were also among the 18 for-
mer Gators to participate on 
Wednesday.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2018
SALES REP
OF THE MONTH
CONGRA TULATIONS!FEBRUARY
BENJAMIN SHERRY
major: advertising
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
portant. 
At this point, I should prob-
ably mention I’m not a big bas-
ketball fan. On my sports hier-
archy, it’s in competition with 
hockey for the No. 3 spot, just 
as baseball and football compete for No. 1. So in past years, even as someone who came of age as a huge Florida Gators fan dur-ing UF’s title runs in 2006 and 2007, I never cared to watch the games. Not Florida’s, and cer-tainly not any of the others’. 
That started changing when 
I got to college, and I’d say it reached its peak this year. After spending ﬁ  ve days in St. Louis for the SEC Men’s Basketball Tournament, where I familiar-ized myself with different teams and positions and possible tour-nament seedings, I was pumped for March Madness to begin. 
When it did, I couldn’t turn 
the TV off day after day after day. As someone who has nev-er really cared for basketball, I started asking myself why. 
The answer I came up with 
is embodied by Loyola, or even by UMBC. In every single game, there’s an underdog. That goes for any sport. But when March Madness starts, some underdogs — like Loyola and UMBC — are massive. They face those 20-to-1 or 250-to-1 odds that, in some way, we all face. Whether those low odds are to ﬁ  nd a new job, buy a new house or get a good grade on a paper about some-thing that — despite your best efforts — you don’t fully under-stand.
And with a 64-team ﬁ  eld, 
there’s always at least one of those big upsets. The kind of upset that reminds all of us, just brieﬂ  y, that anything is possible.
That’s why I was rooting for 
Loyola to win it all, or for UMBC to advance past the round of 32. Neither happened, but regard-less, I’ll remember both teams. I may not remember that they made their runs in 2018, or where exactly they ended up in the tournament, but I’ll remem-ber Loyola and UMBC for show-ing me and the rest of the world that life can be reduced to mo-ments and decisions. And even though sometimes the odds against us are great, they can be rebelled against and overcome. 
I’d much rather remember 
that than the winner of the Michigan-Villanova game.
Ethan Bauer is a sports writ-
er. Contact him at ebauer@alli-gator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14Alligator File Photo
Former UF kicker Eddy Pineiro was one of 18 players who participated in Florida's pro day on Wednesday.
friendly rivalry between the two home run leaders. “It’s kind of a competition. Every time he hits a home run, I’m like, ‘Well, I guess I gotta go hit another.’”
Florida pitcher Tyler Dyson made his 
seventh start of the season and came away with mixed results. He recorded four strike-outs before surrendering the ﬁ  rst Commo-dores hit, a single into left ﬁ  eld, in the top of the third. The next Vanderbilt batter 
crushed a two-run homer out to right ﬁ  eld, 
dealing the only damage the Commodores 
could manage on the day. 
Vanderbilt (17-11, 5-4 SEC) did, how-
ever, load up the bases against Dyson with 
no outs in the ﬁ  fth off a pair of singles and 
a hit batsman. 
After a strikeout against the ﬁ  nal batter 
he faced, Dyson was pulled by O’Sullivan 
in favor of freshman Jordan Butler. The 
left-hander combined with fellow fresh-
man Jack Leftwich to shut down the Com-
modores over the next 4.2 innings, allow-ing just one hit while striking out four.
After career milestones from closer Mi-
chael Byrne — who broke UF’s program 
record for career saves on Friday — and 
catcher JJ Schwarz — who tied UF’s pro-gram record in career RBIs on Saturday — O’Sullivan presented both players with 
lineup cards to commemorate the occa-
sions. While he’s proud of the accomplish-
ment of snapping Vanderbilt’s streak of 59 SEC series with at least one win, he laughed when a reporter suggested he give one to himself.
“No no no, I move on,” O’Sullivan said. 
“I’m already thinking of who’s going to start on Tuesday.” 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Leftwich struck 
out three batters FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Callaway and Elam participated at UF pro day