We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
GATORS FACE TIGERS TONIGHT AT 7
The Florida women’s basketball team is in Columbia 
after a week off from action, pg. 14Visitors can experience life in the 1870s
Some of the events they can do include feeding sheep and pumping water, pg. 10.
UF Senate committee fails amendments
One concerned not using social media during meetings, pg. 5VOLUME 112 ISSUE 54
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THERE WAS A 20-MONTH-
OLD BOY IN THE CAR 
THAT WAS SHOT.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua man was arrested for a 
ﬁ  ve-person shooting in the city about 
three weeks ago, Alachua Police said.
Kenzel Lashod Edwards, 22, was ar-
rested on six counts of attempted mur-der Friday morning. Police are search-ing for his brother, McKenzly Alphae 
Edwards Jr., 24, who is wanted on the 
same charges, as well as possession of a ﬁ  rearm by a convicted felon, said APD Chief Chad Scott during a press conference.
On the night of Jan. 15, Jasmine 
Thomas, 24, drove her three children — a 3-year-old boy, a 4-year-old girl and a 20-month-old boy — to 14223 
NW 156 Place. Resident Clifford Snead, 
18, and Ron Fairley, then 19, walked out of the house and to the passen-ger side of Thomas’ 
black Ford Expedi-
tion, Scott said.
A black four-
door sedan drove 
behind Thomas’ SUV, stopped and Edwards Jr., who is also known as “Ken-
ny Poo Poo,” and his brother stepped 
out. They used an assault riﬂ  e to ﬁ  re 
at least 25 bullets at the Ford Expedi-tion, said Sgt. Jesse Sandusky, an APD spokesperson.
Both men got back in the sedan and 
drove away, Scott said. Police do not know who the driver was.
Thomas and her older children were 
shot along with Snead and Fairley, 
Scott said. Fairley is still hospitalized, 
he said.
Bullets hit the car seat of Thomas’ 
20-month old son, but did not pass 
through and injure the child, Scott said.
Wallace Mazon, a 23-year-old UF APD arrests member of 
gang for shooting five
Edwards
SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4
By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Michael Gaither lay in his bed with a 
breathing mask strapped around his face, his 
best friend Honey nudged his hand. 
The house was quiet aside from the hiss-
ing of air from Gaither’s oxygen tank and the worried whines from Honey, his 8-year-old service dog.
The 72-year-old U.S. Army veteran and 
the German shepherd have lived together since 2011. They’ve been best friends since. “She’s a part of me,” Gaither said. “I don’t 
know what life would be like without her.”
Now, both are terminally ill — Gaither 
with multiple sclerosis, and Honey with a 
fungal infection and spinal cord disease. 
When veterinarians found Honey’s 
diseases in January 2017, they said she 
wouldn’t live to see her 100th treatment. But 
on Jan. 26 of this year, black and tan Honey 
celebrated her 100th procedure at the UF 
Small Animal Hospital surrounded by fam-ily, friends and bone-shaped treats. 
Gaither lives in Chieﬂ  and, Florida, with his 75-year-old wife, Kaye Gaither. Gaither’s bedroom is occupied by a hospital bed and 
various medical instruments, but memo-
rabilia of Gaither’s time as an able-bodied 
young soldier line the walls. 
He has suffered from post-traumatic 
stress disorder since he sustained injuries in 
the Martin Luther King Jr. assassination riots 
in Atlanta. He regularly experiences violent 
ﬂ  ashbacks. 
Every day is a struggle — a life that would 
be impossible without Honey, he said.
Honey was assigned to Gaither by the Malcom Randall Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center as part of a national study. She now 
wears a camouﬂ  age service jacket fashioned 
from an old Air Force uniform once worn 
by Gaither’s daughter in Afghanistan. The 
study ended in August 2012 due to allega-tions of miscare, according to a 2016 article by The Associated Press. Honey’s and Gaith-
er’s treatments have been funded by the VA. 
Before Honey, Gaither would throw 
punches while having night terrors, his wife 
said. ‘She’s part of the family’: A veteran and his dog ﬁ  ght to live
SEE VET & PET,  PAGE 4Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
A GAME FOR THE BOOKS
Austin Wilson, a 22-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior, cheers on the Philadelphia Eagles during the Super Bowl at The Swamp Restaurant. See the photo story on pg. 9.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Three black women will challenge two 
incumbents in the City of Gainesville regu-
lar election in March.
Five candidates have qualiﬁ  ed for the 
March 20 election, and for the ﬁ  rst time in about two decades, all of the challengers are black women, according to city records. 
Gail Johnson, 40, hopes to unseat incum-bent Harvey Budd for the 
At-Large Seat 1, while Gigi 
Simmons and Tyra “Ty 
Loudd” Edwards aim to defeat incumbent Charles Goston for the District 1 seat. The ﬁ  ve-day period 
to register to run ended 
Friday. 
“It’s really exciting to just be a part of 
an incredible group of women ready to take action and run for ofﬁ  ce in Gainesville,” Johnson 
said. 
Johnson, a single 
mother and owner of 
delicious.delivered., a 
Gainesville catering com-
pany, is hopeful to see a 
ballot that includes sever-
al black women in the community, she said. If elected, she said she’d mend the increas-ing racial and economic division in the city.
Budd feels that although the representa-
tion of people of color and women in the City Commission may fall short, it has rich diversity in other ways. Budd feels he can offer a unique perspective as a senior citi-zen and naturalized American. 
Overall, Budd said he is pleased to see 
more women getting involved in local poli- Three black women challenge incumbents in local election 
SEE CITY,  PAGE 4Johnson
 Budd
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
HIGH  70° LOW  45°
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-
zation, is holding “Stomp the 
Swamp for Autism” to benefit 
the UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities at 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. CARD sup-
ports individuals with autism 
and their families through 
training and assistance. To 
learn more about autism and register for “Stomp the Swamp,” visit card.ufl.edu or search the Facebook event 
page.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ raceRegistration is now open for 
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers’ Five Points of Life Race Weekend on Feb. 17 and Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. Gainesville’s largest running 
race begins on the UF Cultural 
Plaza. Both days will include food, free massages and mu-sic. All proceeds go to the Five Points of Life Foundation, 
which educates people on 
ways to share life with oth-ers, including the donation of blood, organs and tissue.
Student Government Elections
Spring Student Government Elections will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Feb. 
20 and 21 at locations across 
campus. All absentee ballot requests are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday. Visit sg.ufl.edu/
elections to request an absen-
tee ballot before the deadline.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWords on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing competition at the Harn Museum of Art, lo-
cated at 3259 Hull Road, for UF 
and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. The selection of artwork features a variety 
of media, including pieces 
from Asian, Contemporary and Modern collections. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.
ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The 
deadline is Feb. 25. 
Free citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship class-es from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. ev-ery Thursday until March 29 at the Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. To 
register, email info@latinawo-
mensleague.org.
Tango classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? 
The UF Argentine Tango Club 
will hold free classes for all UF students. No dance experi-ence is necessary. Join them 
from 6:15 p.m. to 8:15 p.m. 
Sundays at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets at 5:45 p.m. every 
Tuesday in the Entomology 
Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to all. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
News around the world
Amtrak crash in South Carolina 
leaves 2 dead, over 100 hurt
 An Amtrak passenger train 
slammed into a parked freight train in the early-morning darkness Sunday after a 
thrown switch sent it hurtling 
down a side track, authorities said. Two Amtrak crew mem-bers were killed, and more 
than 100 people were injured. 
It was the third deadly wreck involving Amtrak in less than two months.
Greeks rally in Athens to 
protest use of the name Macedonia 
 Well over 100,000 protesters 
from across Greece converged 
Sunday on Athens' main square to protest a potential Greek compromise in a dispute with neighboring Macedonia over Macedonia's official 
name. The name dispute broke 
out after Macedonia gained in-dependence from Yugoslavia in 1991. Although about 130 countries refer to it simply as 
Macedonia, many Greeks refer 
to it by the name of its capital, Skopje. Greece argues the use of the name implies territorial 
claims on its own province of 
Macedonia.
Child abductions rise amid 
South Sudan civil war
 In South Sudan's five-year civ-il war, child kidnappings be-tween clans have increased as people become more desperate 
amid widespread hunger and 
a devastated economy, human rights groups say. One child, no matter what his or her age, can sell for 20 cows, worth 
about $7,000, said a Murle 
tribe youth leader who knows some of the abductors. One opposition governor blamed 
South Sudan's government for 
the increase in kidnappings, saying it's trying to create a wedge between the Murle and Nuer tribes to advance its mili-
tary agenda. South Sudan's 
government denied it.
Same-sex marriage a key issue 
as Costa Ricans elect leader
 Costa Ricans voted Sunday in a presidential race shaken by an international court ruling saying the country should let 
same-sex couples get married. 
The outlook of the elections was cloudy because none of 13 candidates polled at more 
than 17 percent. If no candi-
date reaches 40 percent of the total vote, the top two finish-ers advance to an April 1 run-off. The January decision by 
the Inter-American Court of 
Human Rights came to play a central role in the campaign. The court ordered the country 
to grant same-sex couples such 
rights as the ability to inherit estates and adopt children.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 54
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Advertise in The Alligator’s
STUDENT LIVING 
GUIDE
Spotlight your property 
by advertising in the Student Living Guide, which publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair.
Quarter page ads and larger 
receive free map spotting.
Run DateMar. 16DeadlineMar. 14
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482there’s no such thing as a little flu, protect yourself today
practice frequent and thorough hand washing
clean and disinfect frequently-touched surfaces regularlycover  your mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing
follow basic good health habits to help fight off virusesthe flu virus can travel up to 12 feet
through the air at 100 mph
By Veronika Vernachio
Alligator Contributing Writer
A $2 million complex is being 
built in East Gainesville in an ef-
fort to redevelop the area.
The building will house Méri-
eux NutriSciences, a food-testing company. Construction for the 22,700-square-foot facility start-ed Jan. 22, said Tricia Lopez, a Gainesville Community Redevel-opment Agency project manager.
Lopez said she didn’t know the 
speciﬁ  c address, but the construc-
tion is on Southeast Hawthorne 
Road. The construction, which is set to last between six to eight 
months, is part of a plan to devel-
op 13 acres along Southeast Haw-
thorne Road in East Gainesville.
The company hopes to bring in 
about 30 new jobs and strengthen 
the industry’s relationship with UF.
The facility is being built in a 
cornerstone, which is a mixed-use complex with space for up to 
10 new buildings. The Commu-
nity Redevelopment Agency has 
been redeveloping the plaza as 
part of its Gainesville East initia-tive, Lopez said, and the $2 mil-lion comes from the Community Redevelopment Agency Eastside budgeted funds. 
The plan is to have a mix of 
businesses that complement each other, which could be anything from ofﬁ  ce spaces to restaurants, she said.
The agency wants to attract 
new residents, businesses and in-vestments to the east side while preserving what makes it unique, said Stephanie Seawright, a 
Gainesville Community Redevel-
opment Agency project manager.
Lopez said the initiative will 
add jobs and amenities to an area 
that has not seen the same growth other areas of Gainesville have. Lopez said there’s no deﬁ  nitive reason why East Gainesville’s growth has lagged behind, but 
said negative perceptions of lack 
of income, crime and inadequate 
schools have viliﬁ  ed development 
on the East Side.
“It’s a positive step for the 
growth on the east side of Gainesville,” said Brian Craw-ford, the president of Concept Companies, which owns the Nu-triSciences building.
Mérieux NutriSciences is head-quartered in Chicago but is cur-rently located in 22 countries. The company promotes public health 
through analysis, consulting, au-
diting, training, contract research 
and sensory analysis services in the food industry, said Lindsey Roberts, a marketing manager at Concept Companies.
Susan Davenport, the presi-
dent and CEO of the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce, said 
Mérieux NutriSciences will ben-
eﬁ  t from the talent, research and 
innovation that comes out of UF.
“The selection of East Gaines-ville’s cornerstone site for Méri-eux NutriSciences’ newest lab 
will not only bring new jobs to the area, but it will also strengthen 
the industry’s relationship with 
the University of Florida and our 
regional business community,” 
Davenport said.City building facility, trying to redevelop East Gainesville
SHE WAS TAKEN TO THE 
HOSPITAL AND IS EXPECTED 
TO MAKE A FULL RECOVERY.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman facing an unknown medical 
emergency drove a van over several mailbox-
es before crashing into a bank Friday morn-ing, Gainesville Police said.
The woman, was not identiﬁ  ed by police, 
drove a Chrysler van across three lanes of on-coming trafﬁ  c before driving onto a sidewalk, over several mailboxes and into a SunTrust bank, located at 5080 W. Newberry Road, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. The outside of the bank was damaged, but the car was left in far worse 
shape, he said.
The driver, who is in her 40s, was taken to the hospital with possibly life-threatening 
injuries. As of Sunday, the driver’s condition has improved, and she is expected to make a full recovery, Lt. Jaret Weiland said. 
Police are still investigating the crash. If 
the driver did have a medical emergency, then she won’t be cited for the crash, Wei-land said.
Tobias said the medical problem is likely 
what caused her to lose control of the vehicle.
Gainesville Fire Rescue responded to con-trol hazardous engine ﬂ  uids that were leak-ing from the car, according to a GFR press release.
An off-duty paramedic was behind the 
van on West Newberry Road and saw the van driving strangely and crossing lanes of trafﬁ  c before hitting the mailboxes, Tobias said. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org Woman who hit bank likely won’t face charges, police sayCourtesy to the Alligator
This is the model of a $2 million complex that will house Mérieux NutriSciences, a food-testing company. 
The construction along Southeast Hawthorne Road is expected to last between six to eight months.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018“But now, Honey just comes over 
and puts her wet nose against his 
side,” she said. “She just calms him down.”
During the day, Honey helps Gaith-
er maintain a routine. She fetches his socks, picks up items and keeps him safe. 
Just three months ago, Honey 
saved Gaither’s life while Kaye tried to fix a lawn mower. Fumes from the mower were engulfing Gaither in his scooter chair. Kaye said she didn’t notice until Honey tried to push his scooter out of the way.
Honey has won five awards for her 
service, including four bronze medals from the American Kennel Club for canine excellence between 2011 and 2015 and a medal from U.S. War Dogs in 2015. 
In 2013, Gaither and Honey found-
ed an educational program called Kids For K9s. The duo went to various school assemblies in Levy County, educating children on proper service animal treatment, he said.
But as Honey teaches children and 
assists Gaither, she suffers from her own medical conditions. Her fungal infection took her left eye, and her spinal-cord disease may take her hind legs. Lately, she’s been collapsing, unable to support her own weight.
Even in Gaither’s condition, he 
brings Honey to the UF Small Animal Hospital twice a week for treatments.
“She’s part of the family,” he said. 
“That’s why I’m bringing her over here twice a week. To do for her what she’s done for me.”
When Honey received her 100th 
treatment, a tribute was held to hon-or her bravery. A handful of close friends and supporters came, includ-ing fellow therapy dog, Sola, and Sgt. Lauree’ Allen of the Levy County Sheriff’s Office.
The U.S. War Dogs president 
Barbara Snow brought a cake say-ing “Congratulations 100 visits” and “Happy Birthday Honey the Wonder-dog.” 
As the visitors ate and Gaither 
looked on from his chair, Honey played with Sola, carefree. 
Kaye watched over as well, eyes 
welling up with tears.
“I say they’ll recover a lot,” she 
said. “And I keep hoping its a self-fulfilling prophecy. The reality is that neither one of them is going to make it much longer.”political science and African Ameri-
can studies senior, is the uncle of 
Fairley, who turned 20 on Sun-day, and shared Edward’s photo on Facebook the next day after the shooting. He said he heard through 
word-of-mouth Edwards was the 
culprit.
“It’s messed up,” Mazon said. 
“It just happened recently, so I 
haven’t really had a chance to di-
gest it.”
He posted again after Edwards 
was arrested and said his brother is still on the loose while Fairley re-
covers from seven bullet wounds.
The U.S. Marshals Task Force 
and Alachua County Sheriff’s War-
rants Division arrested Kenzel Ed-
wards and Rakeidra Alexandria 
Neal, 27, on Friday, Scott said.Neal was arrested on a charge 
of aggravated assault with a deadly 
weapon and pointing a gun while 
taunting another person last Tues-day, Sandusky said. Police are in-vestigating if she is connected to the shooting.
Police suspect gang violence 
was the cause of this shooting and a fatal shooting of Dana Walker 
Jr. in Maude Lewis Park the day 
before. The Edwards brothers and Neal are known associates of a small, local gang, which rivals the 
gang Kemarri Hampton, who was 
charged in the shooting of Walker, is in, police said.
“The investigation into these 
local gangs and their criminal in-
volvement will continue until they 
are dismantled at their core,” Scott said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
Investigation continuing 
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator
Michael Gaither, a U.S. Army veteran suffering from multiple sclerosis, lays in bed with his service 
dog, Honey, by his side. Both are fighting terminal illnesses and need constant medical treatments.  
VET & PET,  from pg. 1Gaithers started Kids For K9s, an educational program in 2013
tics.  
“I think it’s a very positive change,” 
he said. “I’m just sorry that one’s running 
against me.”
As of press time, Johnson has raised 
$14,316 and Budd has raised $7,450, ac-
cording to candidate finance reports.
Goston said he isn’t worried about main-
taining his seat as the District 1 commis-sioner because he has the political experi-ence and qualifications his opponents lack. Although he’s happy 
to see three black female 
candidates running for lo-
cal office, it’s going to take more than just one or two seats occupied by women of color to make a differ-
ence, he said. 
“Let’s see if they’re 
willing to allow some other people of color 
to represent districts that are not heavily 
populated by minorities,” he said. 
Edwards was not available for comment.
As of press time, Simmons has raised $3,330 for her cam-paign, Goston has raised 
$5,971.60 and Edwards 
has raised $770.
Simmons, a fourth-
generation resident of the 
Porters Community and 
owner of Simmons Tax 
Services, doesn’t feel the 
City Commission accurately represents the demographic of Gainesville. But she hopes 
the results of this election will begin to 
change that. 
“We’re trying to put people in place that represent the diversity of the community,” she said. 
“I knew that I could make 
a difference because I’ve already made a difference in my own community.”  
     Early voting begins 
March 10 and ends March 17, and candidate forums 
will run throughout February. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCITY,  from pg. 1Five candidates are running for the two commission seatsSHE ASKED HIM FOR
 A DIVORCE.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrest-
ed for trying to kill his wife early Saturday, Gainesville Police said.
Michael James Reuschel, 62, 
stabbed his wife 
repeatedly after 
the pair argued 
about getting divorced, ac-
cording to an 
arrest report. Reuschel then forced her to 
stay in bed as she bled profusely and cut himself so they could die together, police said.
Reuschel and his wife had been 
separated for several months and lived in different homes in dif-ferent counties, according to the report. On Saturday, his wife re-
turned to the Alachua home they 
shared to discuss their marriage, police said.
Police said the argument es-
calated in a bedroom when Re-uschel jumped on his wife and stabbed her in the arm, neck and stomach repeatedly.
“Michael, you are going to kill 
me,” she said.
“Yes, that’s exactly what I 
want to do,” Reuschel replied, according to the report.
Reuschel then cut his own 
arm and got in bed, police said. After about an hour, Reuschel 
told his wife she could live if she 
went along with the story that someone broke in, according to the report.
He took off his bloodstained 
clothing and covered his wife with a robe before calling 911, police said. He gave police con-flicting versions of what hap-
pened, officers said.
Reuschel was charged with 
attempted murder, false impris-
onment, obstructing police and tampering with evidence. He was 
taken to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remains on no bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgGainesville man stabs wife 
then cuts himself, police say
Reuschel
Simmons
 Edwards
 Goston
SHOOTING,  from pg. 1MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jackson Fugate helped engineer a 
toy Jeep to start by pressing a steering 
wheel button instead of a pedal for chil-
dren who are bound to wheelchairs to ride. 
The 16-year-old was one of about 
15 students and five mentors from P.K. Yonge Developmental Research 
School’s First Robotics Club who drove 
about two hours to Orlando on Satur-day, said Leigh Anne Brewster, the 
club’s faculty sponsor. They presented 
altered toys like the Jeep in the first Assistive Technology Industry Associa-
tion’s Maker Day. 
They showed the toys to children 
with disabilities, like blindness or mus-cular limitation, and demonstrated how 
to use them, said Fugate, a sophomore club member.   
“Before (Saturday), I didn’t really 
get the chance to see the way (our work) impacted actual people,” he said. 
Brewster said the conference put ev-
erything into context by allowing them to meet the people they have impacted 
through their work. 
“They learned that robotics is more 
than robots,” Brewster said. “It’s about making a larger impact across their 
state, potentially the nation.”
The conference gave the students 
the ability to interact with the families and children who receive their altered toys and speak with assistive technol-
ogy experts from all over the world.
Andrea Wright, a 17-year-old high-
school senior, said she helped demon-strate the toys at the conference. 
“Seeing the families that were so 
grateful that people like us were work-ing on things like this was really heart-
warming,” she said.Local students makes toys for 
children with disabilities
Lauren Staff / Alligator
A student from P .K. Yonge Developmental Research 
School’s First Robotics Club, 12th-grader Rebecca Schlafke, demonstrates how to use the club’s adapted creations to a child at the Assistive T echnology Industry Association Maker’s Day on Saturday.
THE COMMITTEE ALSO 
TABLED A SENATE BILL.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The Student Government judi-
ciary committee met Sunday and 
unanimously voted down two 
amendments and tabled a Senate 
bill.
The committee voted not to 
amend Senate rules and procedures 
to limit the amount of committees 
senators can serve on from two to one. Currently, eight senators serve on more than one committee.
Senator Olin Calvin (Inspire, 
Graduate-07) authored the amend-ment and said four judiciary com-mittee members who serve on other committees were biased because 
they didn’t want to lose their posi-
tions. 
“I’m also concerned there might 
have been a conflict of interest in their decision,” he said about Sena-
tors Libby Shaw (Impact, Sopho-
more-03), Angel Zavala (Impact, Liberal Arts-04), Dylan Santalo (Impact, District A-08) and Graham 
Boone (Impact, Sophomore-06).
Senator Emily Dempsey (Impact, 
District A-01) said she doesn’t think 
there’s a problem with senators serving in two committees. 
“There’s many ways to serve 
your constituency in Senate, like working on projects or advocating for your constituency through reso-
lutions,” she said.The committee also unanimous-
ly failed an amendment that would 
call for senators to report other 
senators to the Senate president if 
they were using social media during meetings. If senators were caught on multiple occasions, they’d be referred to the rules and ethics com-
mittee for further investigation. 
Dempsey said the committee 
failed the legislation because the 
process for the rules and ethics 
committee was unclear and could 
be a distraction in Senate meetings because it would interrupt the meet-ing. 
Dempsey said the authors should 
instead write a resolution, which is more informal than an amendment, or talk to the Senate president to remind senators to not use their 
phones during meetings. 
“I definitely think it’s something 
my committee believes could be 
helped,” Dempsey said.
Calvin said he thinks some of 
the co-authors of the social media amendment will write a resolution. 
“It was good to hear from the 
committee that they agree that this 
is an issue,” he said. “I think a reso-
lution will still be a good idea.”
The judiciary committee also ta-
bled a Senate bill to put closed cap-tioning on all videos in SG to give 
it an opportunity to go to the code 
revision committee before coming back to them.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgSG judiciary committee 
unanimously fails two 
amendmentsBy Sabrina Conza
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Joey McGinn and dozens 
of others pulled on different 
strings, a wall of colorful bricks and words tumbled down.
McGinn, 21, and other UF 
students saw the bricks cov-ered in negative words col-lapse on the Reitz Union North 
Lawn on Friday afternoon. 
By the end of it, the bricks 
lay in a pile, the insults and slurs turned into rubble. 
The annual Inter-Residence 
Hall Association “Writing on 
the Wall” project focused on how the current political and cultural climate has affected the community, said Anthony 
Sanchez, the association presi-
dent.
McGinn said this was his 
third year attending the event, 
but it meant more this year be-cause President Donald Trump has said many of the words 
that were on the wall.
“Us tearing it down shows 
that just because they’re be-
ing said by people in power 
doesn’t mean that we’re going to stand for it,” the UF political 
science junior said.
Sanchez said this year’s 
wall, which included more 
than 300 words, had new phrases like “illegal,” “terror-ist” and “s------- country.”
Event Director Samantha 
Boddupalli, said some words 
can reappear since the event 
began in 2002, but no two words come with the same ex-perience.
With everything going on 
in the world, Boddupalli said, 
the project is a way to create a 
positive impact. 
“There are people on cam-
pus who will stand with you,” 
the 20-year-old UF chemistry junior said. ‘Writing on the Wall’ project takes on political climate
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Students participated in the annual Inter-Residence Hall Association’s Writing on the Wall Project on Friday, 
tearing down a wall composed of bricks painted with negative words and stereotypes.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
Some might think diversity is not worth praising. That 
“it’s 2018,” so diversity and acceptance aren’t things we have to keep in check. That racism and prejudice aren’t things we have to worry about anymore. That cruelty, judgement and downright bigotry are a thing 
of the past. Well, dear reader, these assumptions are, unfor-tunately, incorrect.
This past Friday, the Alligator put out a front page that 
read “Bigger than Us: Three black UF students vie for presi-dent.” The story, focused on the three Student Government Student Body candidates running in the Spring election, de-tailed discrimination each faced during their lives, as well as how historic this election will be. It also shed light on the fact UF has had only one black female Student Body presi-
dent in 1986. To top it off, there hasn’t been a black Student 
Government president in more than ten years.
The race between Ian Green, Janae Moodie and Revel Lu-
bin is historic. More than that, it’s something our school should be proud of, because it signiﬁ  es a positive change in our campus community. Nonetheless, people continue to question diversity, whether it should be celebrated and if it’s a discussion worth having. 
For those who think America has reached a point where 
we no longer need to celebrate diversity, we invite you to take a look at the numbers.
A look at the statistics on minority representation in the 
federal government is an example of the lack of diversity. Out of 45 U.S. presidents, one has been black. To date, only 10 African Americans have served in the U.S. Senate. There have been eight members of the Senate who were Asian American, nine who were Hispanic and three who were Na-tive American. These numbers show the racial representa-
tion through America’s entire history — not just this past 
year. The 115th Congress was labeled as the most racially diverse group to be sworn in in America’s history. When you look at the numbers, however, only 19 percent of this Con-gress is made up of nonwhites. In our opinion, this means there is still progress to be made. 
As of October 2017, there were only four black CEOs of 
Fortune 500 companies and only 32 were female. Let’s keep in mind, this is out of 500 companies and 500 possible CEO 
positions. Moreover, according to the Atlantic, even when 
people were able to break through the racial glass ceiling, after retirement, their positions were often ﬁ  lled by white men.
The simple fact is this: Minorities and women are not 
represented as they should be in positions of power in this country. Is representation improving? Yes. But still, it is do-ing so at a staggeringly low rate. 
The U.S. will never reach a point where we are ﬁ  nished 
celebrating diversity and equal representation. Our country is nearly 160 years old, and we are only just now starting to see a positive change in terms of diverse representation. To be frank, we have about 150 years of disrespect through lack of diversity we need to make up for, and this is why we won’t stop celebrating.
At a school where only 6 percent of the Student Body 
is black, having three black students run for president is a huge deal and an incredible stride toward diversity. Sixty 
years ago, black students weren’t even allowed to attend UF, 
but the highly qualiﬁ  ed candidates are proof that diversity is important. Diversity is still 
worth celebrating
Don’t use free speech to mix education and religion
Between all of the chaos to come from 
the current White House administra-tion, it’s been frighteningly easy for us to miss important news or dismiss seemingly innocuous political moves as 
insigniﬁ  cant. This is something we need to take note of. At this point, we need to learn to ignore nothing.
Last December, while working to reauthorize 
the higher education bill, Republican lawmak-ers introduced the PROSPER Act. The acronym stands for “Promoting Real Opportunity, Success and Prosperity through Education Reform,” but frankly the details don’t seem to encourage anything opportunistic, successful or prosperous at all.
As The New York Times reported last week, the PROS-
PER Act is making its way through Congress with inten-tions of reforming education on a national scale. It deﬁ  -nitely will not be for the better.
For one, the bill would allow colleges with religious 
backgrounds to ban same-sex relationships without legal consequences. Yes, you read that right. I repeat: A bill currently waiting for votes in Congress could let religious universities openly prohibit students in the LGBTQ+ com-munity from dating.
I shouldn’t have to say this, but the repercussions of 
this bill are amiss. Why should any educational institu-tion have a say when it comes to who its students date? Some Christian colleges already limit same-sex dating and cohabitation. Having a bill like this — a bill that doesn’t seek to change or address problems associated with this, loom in the political background is both disheartening and shameful.
It’s shameful, not only because it discriminates against 
human beings on the basis of love, but also because it operates under the guise of expanding freedom. I’m sorry, expanding whose freedom exactly — the religious, right? I don’t care what kind of university you are; the First Amendment should not grant you the abil-ity to interfere in the lives of the LGBTQ+ com-munity and its allies. Further, the separation of church and state should make it so political institutions like Congress cannot uphold these practices.
Higher education stands for just that: a 
heightened level of intellectual thought, a broader understanding of the world, its prob-lems and their potential solutions. Education is 
not the place for bigotry, prejudice or terrible -isms; it is the place where we seek to rid ourselves of those practices and ways of thought through careful analysis and intense discussion. Too often, educational institutions are twisted and used to promote just the things they ought to prevent. This is exactly what I accuse the PROSPER Act of doing.
And what else could the PROSPER Act bring about? 
The New York Times article states “Controversial speakers would have more leverage when they want to appear at colleges.” This seems ﬁ  ne at ﬁ  rst: Shouldn’t colleges bring in diverse and interesting orators to promote intelligent discussion on campus? But then you’ll have to look at the speakers some colleges have either invited or reluctantly hosted over the past several years: disgusting “alt-right” bigots and white supremacists like Richard Spencer and Milo Yiannopoulos. These are not the sorts of speakers who invite rational thought and logical conversations.
We ought to be more careful when we write legisla-
tion regarding our educational system — one of the most important institutions in this country. Don’t let news like this fade into the background as our president’s Twitter account attempts to steal the spotlight. Even if our elected ofﬁ  cials don’t seem to think so, we’re paying attention.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column focuses on education.
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The summer of 2016 will 
always be one of the most memorable periods of my 
life — I graduated from 
high school, watched for-
mer Secretary of State Hillary Clinton become the ﬁ  rst female 
presidential nominee from a ma-
jor political party and voted for the ﬁ  rst time all in the span of two months. It was a time of joy and ex-citement for me, and, for better or worse, 
the news events I witnessed at this stage in 
my life exposed me to the real world and forced me to develop my own views.
Around the same time Clinton won the 
nomination, a county judge in Santa Clara, California, sentenced a male college stu-dent to a few months in jail for sexually assaulting an unconscious woman. The assault had been witnessed by numerous 
people, and the assailant had confessed to 
his wrongdoing — nevertheless, the trial remained preoccupied with misogynistic questions about the survivor’s past and 
infuriating reductions of the young man’s 
crime.
Progress for women’s rights is often a 
give and take, an alternating rotation of tri-umph and frustration. No year singularly 
encapsulated this more than 2016, and as 
the aforementioned Brock Turner case re-turns to the public eye, 2018 promises to be another impactful one.
In Turner’s case, the sexism underlying 
the court’s treatment of the victim, in it-self, wasn’t what made the case so upset-ting to so many survivors and advocates; sexist speculation directed at female survi-
vors is the norm rather than the exception. 
What distinguished this case was it had met all criteria to appease the usual skep-tics and satisfy the frankly ridiculous stan-
dards sexual assault survivors must meet 
to be believed. And yet, despite this, the assault was still trivialized and the female victim’s voice and experience still margin-alized — all with a six-month county jail 
sentence for Turner.
I remember hearing about Judge Aar-on Persky for the ﬁ  rst time that 
summer, as justiﬁ  ed outrage over the Turner case unearthed 
his problematic history of leni-
ency involving gang rape and child sexual abuse. At one point, he presided over a trial in which 
scantily-clad photos of a sexual 
assault survivor were displayed before the jury, which only re-
inforces the sexist, age-old “asking for it” trope. Recently, Persky was made relevant 
once again when the Santa Clara County 
Superior Court announced a petition to recall Persky had garnered enough signa-tures to be included on the California pri-
mary ballot. In other words, come June, 
Santa Clara County voters will decide Per-
sky’s fate — and in doing so, could decide whether survivors past and future will re-ceive justice.
In many ways, the vote for Persky’s re-
call is taking place in a society vastly dif-ferent from that of People v. Turner. In the age of #MeToo, the bravery and sheer 
force of women speaking up for them-
selves and for each other has revamped the political climate into one that ampliﬁ  es women’s voices and holds men account-
able. Of course, there’s work to be done. 
But the results of Persky’s recall vote could be a crucial measure of how much prog-ress we’ve made since 2016, and the year 
that a man convicted of sexual assault was 
sentenced to six months for assaulting a young woman, the year that media identi-ﬁ  ed him not as the purveyor of an unfor-gettable crime, but as a gifted swimmer, 
and withheld his mugshot from the public.
A version of this column by Kylie Cheung 
originally ran in the Daily Trojan.You may recall a story 
hitting the news in June 2014 about three girls 
in the woods in Wis-
consin. Two 12-year-
old girls lured a third into the woods in Waukesha, Wiscon-
sin, attacked her and left her 
for dead. This past week, the girl who carried out the attack, Morgan Geyser, was sentenced to 40 years in a mental institution. Her 
accomplice, Anissa Weier, was sentenced 
in December to 25 years in a mental insti-tution. To provide a little context, Geyser didn’t merely attack the third girl, Pay-
ton Leutner. She stabbed her 19 times, all 
over her body. Why in the world would they do this? Apparently, they were try-ing to appease a character from a popular online horror game called “Slender Man.”
So, clearly, these two girls were not in 
their right mind at the time. Fortunately, the victim survived. As a result, Geyser was not charged with ﬁ  rst-degree murder. 
Weier did not actually do the stabbing, 
but she was charged as a party to the crime. This brings to mind the question that applies to a decent amount of crimi-nal cases: Should this person go to prison 
or be put in a mental institution? You may 
think the insanity defense is used often, but it is only used in about 1 percent of cases in the U.S. Out of this 1 percent, 
the insanity plea is accepted in court less 
than 25 percent of the time.
That’s extremely infrequent, especially 
when we consider how many crime cases go to trial across the country. If you are a 
frequent viewer of “Law & Order” or “CSI: 
Crime Scene Investigation,” you have probably had your impression of crimes and pleas of insanity tainted a little. Of 
course, massive, fascinating crimes do oc-
cur, but the cases in these popular crime shows are often dramatized. There is a reason the case of these girls has been in the news for years — it’s different and in-
teresting. Homicides, both attempted and successful, happen every day. 
In fact, in 2016, there was a to-tal of 17,250 reported murders 
and non-negligent manslaugh-
ters in the U.S. That amounts to an average of more than 47 deaths per day.
In order for a person to be 
convicted of a crime, the pros-ecution must not only prove a person committed a crime, but 
that he or she had guilty intent. If a per-
son lacks the psychological capacity to 
understand what they did was wrong or to conform their behaviors to the law, they should not be held accountable in 
the eyes of the law.
There is some debate over this idea. 
How can we prove if someone is actually 
not in their right mind? How easy is it for people to lie and then evade a pris-
on sentence? Many other countries build 
their prison systems around rehabilitation rather than punishment. The U.S. doesn’t.
If people commit a crime due to mental 
illness, sending them to prison to serve time rather than try to help them is in-humane. Pleading insanity should not be seen as a cop-out but as a chance for heal-ing. We should not be punishing people 
who truly do not know the harm they are 
doing. I believe time behind bars would do more harm than good. How can you punish someone effectively if they don’t 
understand why they’re being punished?
I truly hope Geyser and Weier’s time 
in the mental institution helps them. I am 
conﬁ  dent it will prove more helpful than time in prison as they need real psychi-
atric help. With the publicity their case 
received, I hope the two girls can serve as a modern example for the idea that those who are mentally unstable and do not un-
derstand the wrong they do should not be 
punished the same as those who do.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focuses on 
mental health.You do uterus: Turner judge recall 
signals progress for women's rightsThe insanity defense: We should try 
to help rather than simply punishU-Wire Column
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgKylie Cheung
opinions@alligator.org
“Progress for women’s rights is often a 
give and take, an alternating rotation 
of triumph and frustration.”
Kylie Cheung
Daily Trojan columnist8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
Gainesville’s Greek life: food, tradition at debut festival
Nate Bustamante / Alligator Staff 
Crowds gather to get tickets for the first Gainesville Greek Festival, which was held Friday night at St. Elizabeth Greek Orthodox Church, located at 5129 NW 53rd Ave.
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff 
Massina Arvanitis, of Canada, and Olga Petrovic, of Gainesville, sport 
traditional western Greek attire from the 1800s at the festival. They helped put on this festival to maintain their culture and to fundraise for the St. Elizabeth Greek Orthodox Church, located at 5129 NW 53rd Ave.Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff 
Demetrios Pyliotus, originally from southern Greece, prepares traditional Greek octopus Friday night at the Gainesville Greek Festival. 
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff 
Traditional worship is practiced Friday night during the Gainesville Greek Festival at St. Elizabeth Greek Orthodox Church, located at 5129 NW 53rd Ave. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
 AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Super Bowl at The Swamp: Crowd gathers for food
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Gainesville residents (from left) Brian Fink, 38, and Michael Jackson, 47, and 
West Palm Beach resident Amy Allred, 39, enjoy game-night eats during the Super Bowl outside at The Swamp Restaurant on Sunday night. They said they weren’t rooting for a particular team and were enjoying themselves.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
From left: UF students Garrett Morgan, a 20-year-old aerospace engineering sophomore; Philip Ciancimino, an 18-year-old civil engineering freshman; Sammy Cordahi, a computer science freshman, and Jeff Lowell, an 18-year-old criminology freshman, take in the Super Bowl at The Swamp Restaurant, located at 1642 W. University Ave., on Sunday night.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
A packed crowd at The Swamp Restaurant watch the 52nd Super Bowl game between the New England Patriots and Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday night. Those in attendance wore jerseys from the teams playing.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
By Rachel Chang
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sitting in a circle of kids, 2-year-old 
Evan Bickford patiently waited to pet Lt. 
Dan, a red rat snake.
Evan and his brother, Zane Bickford, 
4, were two of about 10 people who at-
tended “Frogs and Friends Friday” at 
Morningside Nature Center, located at 3540 E University Ave., to learn about reptiles and amphibians. The free educa-tional program is held the first Friday of each month and has been teaching tod-dlers and preschoolers for more than a decade, said Sally Wazny, the nature edu-cation supervisor for the city department 
of parks, recreation and cultural affairs.
The program will continue through 
May and then start back up in September, 
Wazny said.
Shermi Liang, Evan and Zane’s mom, 
said they try to visit the nature center ev-ery month.
“This is the most interactive they’ve 
been,” Liang said, noting how the chil-
dren mimicked animal sounds and move-
ments.
Wazny, who also directed the class, 
had the kids work on small, interactive activities such as coloring frog diagrams to take home. In addition to petting the snake, the kids were able to see a box turtle, snapping turtle and toad.
Wazny said she came up with the ini-
tial conception of the program more than a decade ago, and its success has allowed it to continue.
“We’re hoping to inspire an appre-
ciation of the natural environment,” she said.Toddlers pet reptiles, jump like 
frogs at educational program
By Will Clewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
This Spring, a group of 19 UF se-
niors will be traveling about three 
hours south to take their midterm and final exams.
The reason, one professor said, 
is because their designs for a pro-posed Sarasota cultural arts center will be judged by local architects.
Martin Gold, a UF associate ar-
chitecture professor, said the proj-ect will be part of a capstone class for architecture and graduate con-struction management students. In Newtown, a neighborhood in Sarasota, the class will be divided into six groups and tasked with submitting a design to members of the community and the Newtown Community Redevelopment Agen-cy.
The students will work with 
CityLab Sarasota, a UF-affiliated studio focused on architecture, fac-ulty and other local organizations to develop plans for the proposed center, said Gold, a program direc-tor for the studio.
“Sometimes they refer to these 
projects as service-learning projects where we try to find a need in the community or an interest in the community,” Gold said.
The project, titled Good Will Re-
considered, is the reason why the students in the Integrated Project Delivery Studio course have al-
ready taken two trips to Newtown 
and plan to make more, he said. 
On the trips, they assess the exist-
ing building on the designated plot, 
which may be used in the redesign 
for the cultural arts center.
“That could include partial shell 
or by using the materials in a re-use situation with careful deconstruc-tion,” Gold wrote in an email.
Students will also complete bud-
get studies, analyze costs and study the local culture, Gold said.
The Newtown Community Re-
development Agency can choose to use the proposed designs, said Ravi Srinivasan, an assistant professor in UF’s Rinker School of Construc-tion Management.
“The local architects, come and 
critique the designs of each of the teams,” he said.
Jasmine Jimenez, a 21-year-old 
UF architecture senior, is one of the students involved in the study. She said the groups met with locals to learn more about the local culture. She said she’s looking forward to seeing how the arts center contrib-utes to Newtown.
“I think at the very least it’ll 
bring the community together and inspire them to unite and work as one to keep their community alive,” she said.UF students to design 
proposed Sarasota cultural arts center
Rachel Chang / Alligator 
Sally Wazny shows kids the checkerboard pattern of a red 
rat snake belly.
By Laiz Do Carmo
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the past decade, Angelica 
Torres and Rudy Volenec have 
made the five-hour drive from Mi-
ami to Gainesville to travel back in time.
Sitting in two rocking chairs, 
Torres, 71, and Volenec, 65, ad-mired how peaceful Florida in the 
1870s was at the Morningside Na-
ture Center on Saturday morning. The married couple sometimes 
bring their grandchildren to breathe 
in fresh air at the center’s Living History Farm for a monthly Liv-
ing History Day. The all-day event, 
which is free to the public, is on the first Saturday of every month from 
September through May and has 
been hosted since the farm opened in 1976.
“We came here for the biscuits,” 
Volenec said of the homemade bis-cuits historical actors prepared at 
the Living History Day.
The actors showed what life was 
like on a farm in the 1800s, from pressing sugarcane to making a 
glaze for the biscuits to churning butter.
Bricky Way, a 47-year-old 
Gainesville resident and the event organizer, said the actors show how difficult life was before tech-
nological innovations.
“It’s important for them to real-
ize the amount of work that goes into daily life,” he said.
George Chappell, a 78-year-old 
Gainesville resident, demonstrated how to use a corn sheller, which re-
moves kernels from a cob. He said some aspects of Gainesville haven’t 
changed since that time period.
“Gainesville stayed an agricul-
tural community,” Chappell said.Visitors experience life in the 1870s at history event
    Visitors can:
• Feed chickens, sheep and 
a cow
• Pump water
• Shell corn
• Harvest the center’s garden
• T our a one-room school-house
• See tools from a black-smith’s barn
• Walk through a home, which includes a working kitchen
Courtesy to the Alligator 
The one-room Half Moon Schoolhouse was one of Alachua County’s early African American 
schoolhouses. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Designated drivers are the greatestCOPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!
- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
ATTENTION INDIVIDUALS WITH GRITResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-14-18-10-14
HOUSE/DOG-SITTING OPPORTUNITYMay 28th - June 22nd. 2 acres in McIntosh, FL (16 miles south of Gainesville). 5 dogs $900 plus bonus if job done well. Please call 352-207-2717    2-5-18-5-14
Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-14
THE FLOOR STORE AT THORNEBROOK2441 NW 43rd Street, Suite 18$10.00/ Hour Sales cleckApply in person                           2-5-3-14
NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 15 ServicesMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit 
our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    
1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Progressive talk radio is on
WGOT 100.1 FM
along with indie rock, punk, jazz, electronica, 
folk and more. Visit wgot.org     2-9-18-4-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Another Saturday night 
without a date?
READ THE ALLIGATOR.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Closest pal, in IM
shorthand
4 Fish-eating raptor
10 Wretched
14 Period of history
15 Put a new flannel
layer in, as a coat
16 Fruit punches17 Nonconformist
Harley-riding
groups
19 Picky details
20 Chief Norse god
21 “Hulk” director
Lee
22 Photoshop
creator
23 Longtime “SNL”
announcer Don
25 Rose and
Orange
28 Hoppy brews, for
short
30 Dog command
31 Shake, as with
fear
34 Demeanor
35 “__ on a Grecian
Urn”
38 Places where
critters procreate
41 Camera initials
42 35-Across, e.g.
43 Gulf War reporter
Peter
44 Cancún house
45 Quick cash
sources, initially
46 Honey Ryder and
Mary Goodnight
50 “Fantastic!”
54 Like beer in a
cooler
55 Unit of resistance57 Lost fish in a
Pixar film
58 Letter before eta59 Barry, Robin and
Maurice Gibb ...
and a hint to 17-,25-, 38- and 46-Across
62 Rowing tools
63 Pine secretions
64 Antonym of post-65 Gin fizz fruit
66 Remove, as a
chin strap
67 The “S” in iOS:
Abbr.
DOWN
1 Jazz style
2 Mexican artist
Kahlo3 Fire-walking
mystic
4 Bruin legend
Bobby
5 Nintendo rival
6 Backup
strategies
7 Drummer Starr
8 London’s land:
Abbr.
9 “Okay”
10 Graffiti creator,
perhaps
11 Figure of speech12 Do not disturb
13 Letters before
tees
18 Curly salad green
22 Child
psychologists’
benchmarks
24 Where to find
columns with
views
26 Millard Fillmore,
partywise
27 Ogle29 Melodic passages
31 NFL play callers
32 Internet address33 __ Lingus: Irish
carrier
34 Roaring-lion
studio
35 Washington’s bill36 Banned pesticide37 Winter hrs. in
most of Michigan
39 Not far40 Like heroes
deserving morerecognition
44 Jewel box45 Hearth
receptacle
46 Obnoxious
clowns
47 Basketball’s Shaq48 Part of TNT49 Rich soil51 Pals, in slang52 Nail-filing board
53 Kentucky Derby
flowers
56 “American
Beauty” actress
Suvari
59 __TV: Turner
channel
60 Farm layer
61 Telepathy, e.g.
By Jeff Eddings©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/05/1802/05/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 5, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Bundles together,
as wheat
7 EPA concern
10 Cab alternative
14 Field meeting15 Choral extreme17 Predestine18 Countermeasure19 Jesse Owens, e.g.21 Advance22 Part of NAFTA:
Abbr.
23 Rats along the
Rhine?
26 Rage27 Where snowbirds
flock in winter?
31 Feller’s tool?34 Cheap smoke35 Stick36 Hamm from
Alabama
38 Windows
predecessor
39 Five-book
collections
41 Serious betrayals
43 Henry VIII’s third
45 Kunal Nayyar’s
role in “The Big
Bang Theory”
46 Ultra-secret org.47 River to the Seine48 Winged figure of
myth
50 Canine epithet56 Monthly subtitled
“The Magazine ofMaine”
57 Portugal’s capital,
locally
58 Having an accent59 Speedily60 Astronomical dist.61 Slight opening?62 End zone quartet
DOWN
1 Wave off
2 Fling
3 Result of pulling
the plug?
4 __ apple
5 Real estate
investment
strategy
6 Year-ending
ceremony
participants7 Quatrain rhyme
scheme
8 Airline with a
kangaroo on its
logo
9 Common canal
site
10 Position near the
top of someorganizationalstructures
11 Spare tyre site
12 Kitchen finish?13 “Pioneer Woman”
cookbook writer
Drummond
16 Voting bloc term
used by Nixonand Trump
20 Backups’
backups
23 Bank nos.
24 Techie on “24”25 Hirsute
28 __ Heath:
Thomas Hardy
setting
29 They have their
pride
30 Championship
ice dancer __Virtue32 So to speak
33 Verbal deftness37 Rue stop?40 Naval 
fortification
42 Winter cap
feature
44 Piece maker49 Twine fiber50 Suffragist who
co-foundedSwarthmore51 Off the mark52 EPA 
issuances
53 Iberian river54 Truth or
consequences,e.g.
55 Aykroyd and
Patrick
56 Broadband
choice, briefly
By Pawel Fludzinski©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/03/1802/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, February 3, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1. Four players have hit at least 250 
home runs for the Philadelphia Phil-
lies. Name three of them.
2. How many times did New York 
Yankees legend Mickey Mantle have 
a season in which he had 40 or more 
home runs, but did not have 100 or 
more RBIs?
3. Ahmmon Richards set a Universi-
ty of Miami (Fla.) record in 2016 for 
most receiving yards by a freshman 
(934). Who had held the record?
4. Who was the last No. 1 overall 
draft pick by the Philadelphia 76ers before Ben Simmons in 2016 and 
Markelle Fultz in 2017?
5. How many years had it been before 
2017 that the San Jose Sharks won a 
regulation NHL game in Buffalo?
6. In 2017, Lewis Hamilton set the 
Formula One record for most poles won (72). Who held the old mark of 68?
7. How many Wimbledon singles 
finals has Roger Federer been in 
during his 20-year pro career?
Answers:
1. Mike Schmidt (548 homers), 
Ryan Howard (382), Del Ennis (259) and Pat Burrell (251).
2. Twice — 1958 (42 home runs, 97 
RBIs) and 1960 (40 home runs, 94 
RBIs).
3. Michael Irvin had 840 receiving 
yards on 46 catches in 1985.
4. Allen Iverson, in 1996.5. It was 12 years (2005).6. Michael Schumacher.7. Eleven, with eight wins.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 5, 2018King Features Weekly Service
20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 18 PersonalsBy Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
A common approach to sports is to 
“control the controllables.” Teams can 
only focus on their own effort and at-
tention to detail. They have no way of 
affecting their opponent’s preparation.
In the 2017-18 season, the Florida 
men’s basketball team is ﬁ  nding that 
out the hard way, as it has struggled to 
overcome its deﬁ  ciencies while compet-
ing in one of the toughest conferences 
in Division I men’s basketball, the SEC.
Florida’s offense, averaging 78.5 
points per game this season, showed 
major signs of regression in Saturday’s 
68-50 home loss to Alabama, just days 
after losing 72-60 to Georgia.
UF (15-8, 6-4 SEC) had a stretch 
against the Bulldogs in which it missed 20 out of 21 shots, a mark of futility per-
haps matched by the Gators’ 17-point 
second half against the Crimson Tide, 
the fewest points scored in a half this season by Florida.
The 50 total points scored against 
Alabama was a season low as well. In 
fact, UF has more than doubled that 
total four times this season, scoring in 
triple ﬁ  gures against Gardner-Webb, 
North Florida, then-No. 17 Gonzaga and Stanford.
“It’s pretty frustrating,” forward 
Keith Stone said. “I know the players are mad, I know the coaches are mad, I know the fans are mad, so we just gotta turn around and get better.”
Consistency has been an issue for 
the Gators all season.
But for all the things White and his 
players can control as they try to hold 
things together, the competitiveness of 
the SEC this year can’t be ignored as a 
factor in some of the team’s struggles.
One of the barometers used for 
selecting the 68 NCAA Tournament qualiﬁ  ers is the RPI (Ratings percent-
age index), which ranks all 351 Divi-
sion I teams based on wins, losses and 
strength of schedule. It’s not the end-all-be-all evaluation system, but it can 
help show how much the SEC has im-
proved since last year.
In 2017, the ﬁ  nal RPI rankings had 
six SEC teams — Kentucky, Florida, Arkansas, Vanderbilt, South Carolina 
and Georgia — in the top 68. Of those 
six, only Georgia failed to make it to the 
NCAA Tournament.
As it stands now, 11 SEC teams — 
all but LSU, Ole Miss and Vanderbilt — 
meet that criteria.
Another way of looking at it would 
be to compare the average RPIs, from 
last season and today, of all 14 SEC 
teams. The 2017 league average was around 86. Right now, it’s in the high-
40s.
Top to bottom, the SEC is a much 
tougher league than it was last season.
White said these improvements start 
with experience and depth, adding that 
Former Florida tight end 
Trey Burton threw a 2-yard touchdown pass on Sunday night in Super Bowl LII to help the Eagles pull off an eight-point victory over the Patriots.Eagles top Patriots in Super Bowl LII
The Philadelphia Eagles defeated the New England Patriots 41-33 on 
Sunday night to win their ﬁ  rst Super Bowl in franchise history. Nick Foles threw for 373 yards and three touchdowns to win the game's MVP award,  
while T om Brady broke a Super Bowl record with 505 passing yards.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
After Florida scored a season-low 50 points against Alabama on Saturday, forward Keith Stone was not happy with the team's offensive production. "It's pretty frustrating, " he said.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
 Gators trying to stay aﬂ  oat in midst of back-to-back losses
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
I know nothing — I mean ab-
solutely nothing — about video 
games. 
I owned an Xbox as a kid and 
spent most of my limited video 
game time playing either college 
football or baseball. I still play those games almost exclusively, even now in college. 
It took one of my gaming-
savvy friends to introduce me to Overwatch, one of the most popular games released in recent years. I re-member watching him play it after it debuted 
in May 2016 while having no idea — as usu-
al — what was going on. As he talked to a friend through a microphone and the two of them played together online, I couldn’t even understand something as obvious as how their characters were dying. It was all just a blur.
What was apparent in the blitz of color 
and gunﬁ  re and magical healing lights was that he and I were opposites. I en-joyed playing catch with a base-ball or football, shooting around a basketball with friends and then, maybe, an occasional video 
game. He enjoyed playing Over-
watch and occasionally playing softball or basketball or whatever else outside with me. 
When I’m at his apartment 
now, rather than watch him play Overwatch, I watch other people 
play Overwatch on teams. Teams that look and sound and function like teams in the NFL, 
MLB or NBA. There’s the Boston Uprising, the 
Dallas Fuel, the Houston Outlaws and even the Florida Mayhem. All of them are members of the Overwatch League. 
When he started watching these games, I 
didn’t understand the intrigue. Again, I still By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
For Florida women’s basketball play-
ers Haley Lorenzen and Funda Nakkasoglu, there’s one phrase that comes to mind to de-scribe the past week.
“Much needed.”
That seems to be the collective attitude to-
ward UF’s bye week, which comes to an end 
tonight at 7 when the team takes on No. 15 Missouri in Columbia.
This past week was the ﬁ  rst time since 
New Year’s Eve that the Gators didn’t play on a Thursday night. Coach Cameron New-bauer said the off days served a few different purposes: a recruiting trip for himself, and an 
opportunity to recuperate on and off the court 
for his players.
With the team ﬁ  nally back together, how-
ever, the Gators will need to move past the second-half woes that have plagued them this season if they want to pull off an upset tonight over the Tigers.
On Jan. 25, Florida (10-12, 2-7 SEC) 
trailed No. 2 Mississippi State by two halfway through the second quarter. But MSU’s high-octane offense put up 31 points in the third to run away with the game.
Three days later, Florida took a seven-
point lead over then-No. 21 Georgia heading into the fourth quarter. Florida surrendered another 31 points in that frame and lost by nine.
After the UGA game, the team took the op-
portunity to have individual ﬁ  lm sessions with the coaching staff to address those issues.
“We’ve had a bit of a tendency to come 
out a bit sluggish in the third quarter,” Na-kkasoglu said. “If we just clean up some small things, we’ll be going in the right direction.” Esports are just as interesting and 
competitive as traditional sportsFlorida facing No. 15 Missouri 
tonight following bye weekSweet and Bauer / OpinionSEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriMONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Alex McMurtry was more than ready. 
She had just recorded her first ever 10.0 
on balance beam one week prior against No. 1 Oklahoma, making her the second UF gymnast in program history to tally a perfect score in every event.
So on Friday night in a road matchup 
with Auburn, she mounted the beam with a smile.
It was a smile, however, that quickly 
disappeared behind a shadow of disap-pointment 18 seconds later.
As she prepared to land on the beam 
at the end of a flip, she misplaced her 
feet and fell onto the ground, resulting 
in a season-low score of 9.225.
The feeling was far from foreign to 
McMurtry, who fell flat onto the mat 
during a bars routine last year against 
Missouri on Feb. 24. Similar to her mis-
step off the beam on Friday against the 
Tigers, McMurtry’s fall last February fol-lowed a previous perfect 10.0 on bars in the Gators’ match against Georgia just 
two weeks prior to the Missouri meet. 
“We finished off with a solid beam 
rotation,” coach Jenny Rowland said in 
a release. “We had a miss from Alex, but the rest of the team did really well.”
Though her performance didn’t fol-
low the same perfect procedure that got her two 10.0s against Oklahoma on Jan. 26, No. 5 Florida (4-1, 2-1 SEC) still took a win over No. 17 Auburn (2-5, 1-3 SEC) 197.400-197.000. Even with the victory, McMurtry wasn’t oblivious to her mis-take Friday night. Her 9.225 came just after freshman Alyssa Baumann’s 9.675, a score the team was hoping to make up for with McMurtry’s routine. McMurtry recalled the atmosphere of the team was a little off from the beginning.
“We started a little conservative,” 
McMurtry said. “Luckily, we picked up the energy as the night went on.”
Despite the small stumble, McMur-
try claimed event titles in both bars and vault, with scores of 9.975 and 9.950, respectively. Junior Alicia Boren, who took first in floor and beam, rounded out the Gators domination in each event.  
“We have more to give and more to 
show,” Boren said. “We are going to get back to the gym and work on that.”
Boren matched her collegiate best 
Friday night in her floor routine with a score of 9.950. Both her and McMur-try’s performances were a shining light for the Gators, who were happy to take home their second SEC win of the sea-son. 
“The team seemed to take a little 
more confidence on the road with us af-ter our last home meet,” Rowland said. 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgMcMurtry leads Florida past Auburn despite minor mishap
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry recorded a season-low 9.225 on the balance beam Friday night  against Auburn, but claimed event titles in both bars and vault, leading Florida to a victory over the Tigers.
MEN’S TENNIS TRACK & FIELD
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
Alone with only the sound of 
music playing from his phone 
and the power of his imagination, freshman Oliver Crawford pre-pared to serve.
Ahead of the Florida men’s 
tennis team’s season opener 
against UCF 
on Jan. 22, 
Crawford had 
been excused 
from practice that day after 
spending the 
previous week 
in South Florida competing in a 
professional tournament.
But Crawford didn’t waste the 
moment. On a back court at the Ring Tennis Complex, he stood 
beside a small basket of balls and served.
The pop echoed in the empty 
air. Crawford watched the serve pass through the court untouched 
by his imaginary opponent and 
began pumping his arms over 
his head, exciting his imaginary 
crowd.
Less than a week later, Craw-
ford played for a real crowd. He 
loved it. “I’ve never been that excited 
to step foot on a court,” he said 
of his first dual match as a Gator.
After three dual matches, 
Crawford was 2-0 in singles play 
and 3-0 in doubles with his part-
ner, senior Chase Perez-Blanco.
On Saturday night against 
Florida State, however, Crawford tasted his first defeat since the start of the dual-match season.
To begin the match, Florida 
and FSU split the top two courts in doubles play, leaving the opening 
point down to the duo of Craw-
ford and Perez-Blanco to fight for. It was losing late in the match, but two consecutive forehand 
winners from Crawford fought off 
a series of match points for their 
opponents and evened the score. 
In celebration, Crawford turned to the wildly enthusiastic crowd 
and pumped his arms over his 
head, calling for more noise.
“He stepped up big getting us 
back in doubles,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “He kept us alive.”
But the Gators’ pair couldn’t 
string together enough points to 
fight off the eventual 7-6(3) de-
feat, losing Florida the doubles point for the first time this season.
In singles, Crawford played 
on the No. 2 court after junior Al-
fredo Perez was held out of the 
lineup due to a coach’s decision. The biggest match of his young 
Gator career became even big-
ger when Florida State evened the score at 3-3. Like in doubles, the final point was determined on 
Crawford’s court.
Every player and fan watched 
as the freshman battled from be-hind, carrying his team’s only 
hope. He fought off one, two, three match points, never letting 
the pressure slow him down.
At 6-5 in the second-set tie-
breaker, Crawford was a single point away from extending the 
match once more. But, just like in doubles, his efforts weren’t enough. Redshirt senior Lucas 
Poullain sealed Florida State’s 
4-3 victory with a forehand win-
ner, winning the match 7-6(4), 
7-6 (5).
The match was the first of 
what will likely be many oppor-tunities for Crawford to be a hero for his team. Florida’s captain, 
junior McClain Kessler, trusts his 
teammate will grow from playing under that pressure.
“Even when he was down, I 
would’ve bet on him winning,” Kessler said. “But I think from this match, he’s going to learn for 
way bigger moments.”
 
@bhb1227By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
AJ McFarland chuckled after Fri-
day’s meet in Baton Rouge. He had 
just broken a school record for the 
second consecutive outing — regis-tering a mark of 21.89 meters in the weight throw — and took a moment 
to soak it all in.
Then, his mindset moved on to his 
next scheduled event: the SEC Indoor Championships.
With the conference champion-
ship coming up at the end of Febru-ary, McFarland’s record-setting night 
on Friday at the Bayou Bengal Invita-tional merely scratched the surface of 
where he wants to be.
McFarland entered Friday’s meet 
having improved his weight throw mark in each of the three meets he 
has competed in this season.
He hopes that this momentum 
peaks at the right time to carry him through SECs and into a successful 
run at the NCAA Indoor Champion-
ships.
“You get to indoor nationals, and 
I’m rolling on a good amount of con-fidence,” McFarland said. “Maybe that’s the meet where I go 22.50 (me-
ters).”
His performance at Carl Maddox 
Fieldhouse showed that he’s putting himself in position to be a major con-tributor to his team’s success when it comes time for championships.
The redshirt junior’s six-throw se-
ries on Friday featured two record-set-ting distances and three marks over 
21.70 meters.
McFarland recorded a foot foul 
on his fourth throw, which he said would have been good for 22 meters. This threw him off slightly, as he 
posted just 21.59 meters right after, 
which was his second-lowest mark of the night.
However, McFarland regrouped 
and locked in for his final throw of the series. He finished with a mark of 
21.89, which smashed a 21.76-meter 
school record he set earlier that night.
“I wasn’t crazy excited about it be-
cause I did have the goal of throwing 22 meters,” McFarland said. “Once we get that, it never stops. You come 
home … and then you get ready to 
throw 22.50.”
On a night in which the Gators had 
just six competing athletes, the team still showed progression, which it hopes will fuel itself heading into the 
SEC Indoor Championships.
“I just want to keep that engine 
rolling,” McFarland said. “Just try to keep getting a little bit better at every 
meet.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgCrawford being exposed to high-
pressure tennis early in UF careerMcFarland looking ahead 
to SEC Championships
Crawford
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2018
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, Baseball
Take the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Reach 50,000+ sports  
fans by featuring your  
ad on the NCAA Tournament  
Bracket! This special bracket  will be a pull out section that Gator 
fans can use for the whole three  
weeks of March Madness to track  
their favorite teams.
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Starting at
$227.12
includes full colorRESERVE YOUR SPACE TODAY!
376.4482
Contact Alligator Advertising
Run Date
Mon, March 12thDeadline
Thurs March 8thhe also thinks there’s more talent and athleti-
cism in the league.
“It’s an incredibly competitive league” he 
said.
Granted, Florida’s recent struggles can also 
be attributed to its lack of health. Roughly half of its frontcourt rotation is out with injuries, 
and its tallest active player, 6-foot-11 Gorjok Gak, has been limited by a knee injury all year.
Despite the peaks and valleys of this season, 
graduate transfer Egor Koulechov doesn’t want 
to overreact.
“There’s eight games left,” he said after 
playing Alabama. “We can win every single 
game on our schedule.”
White agreed.
“There’s time left. We just have to get to 
work.”
A video from FloridaGators.com contributed 
to this report. 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org 
didn’t understand the rules of the game. 
I still don’t for the most part, just like some-
one who’s never watched football might take a 
while to ﬁ  gure out the subtleties of the game. 
I have, however, become convinced that the 
Overwatch League is on equal footing with any other sports league, at least regarding its value as a sport. 
That starts with competition. The Over-
watch League, like the NHL or NBA, features 
players who are the best in the world at what 
they do. And while they might not be in top physical condition, their sport requires physi-cal skills that normal people just don’t have. 
As my friend pointed out, most people just 
can’t muster the ﬁ  nger strength, timing or re-ﬂ  exes required to play as effectively as these players do. Aside from the competition, the 
games are also interesting to watch. Maybe not 
for someone, like me, who understands so little about what’s unfolding in front of me. But for someone who plays the game, like him, there’s regular hollering and yelping and other sounds you’d also hear during the tense ﬁ  nal moments of a football game. It’s clear that if you take the time and learn the game, it has the potential to be as interesting as any other sport. 
It can also be as cathartic. One of the great-
est features of sports is how they allow us to escape from our lives and root for something with totally arbitrary value, like how many times men in helmets can move ovular leather up and down a 100-yard rectangle. They give us something to root for when our regular lives don’t. 
As evidenced by this friend watching the 
games nightly when he gets home, so does the Overwatch League. 
For those readers who think this friend is 
an outlier and that interest in the Overwatch League could never rival traditional sports, you’re right for now. Overwatch League num-bers trail the NFL, MLB and NBA by millions of viewers. 
But the inaugural match of the league, 
which featured the San Francisco Shock and the Los Angeles Valiant, hit a peak viewership 
of 441,000. The average NHL game during the 
2016-17 regular season pulled 459,000 view-ers, which isn’t too far ahead. 
Plus, the Overwatch League has one feature 
that’s yet to be achieved by any of the major sports leagues: It’s wholly globalized. There’s a Shanghai team, a Seoul team, a London team and various American teams, many of them owned by powerful, wealthy benefactors. New 
England Patriots owner Robert Kraft owns the Uprising, for example. 
So does all this mean parents should be 
as willing to push their children to play video 
games as to play T-Ball? Well, no, for a bunch of reasons. Traditional sports offer more ﬁ  t-ness than esports, as well as the opportunity to interact with other kids in person. Esports doesn’t have the infrastructure for that yet. 
Still, while esports have some differences 
from traditional sports, they shouldn’t be dis-
missed as lesser. With viewership rising and 
technology improving, it may not be long be-fore esports achieves the popularity of tradi-tional sports, and why not?
For the most part, after all, they serve the 
same purpose as their traditional counterparts. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Contact him 
at ebauer@alligator.org. Newbauer said he wasn’t as 
concerned about physicality, but 
rather his team’s knack for making hasty errors.
“I think you can get ﬂ  ustered 
and frustrated and sped up to where you try to make the right decision a little too quickly,” he 
said. “Sometimes you just hurry 
a little too much, and you become so anxious in the situation, the mo-ment, that ends up hurting you.”
The Gators will see if their 
work on those situations has paid off tonight against the Tigers. While Missouri (17-5, 5-4 SEC) has outscored its opponents by 93 total 
points in the second half this sea-
son, Florida has done nearly the opposite, compiling a minus-72 margin over that same span.
The Tigers are led by guard 
Sophie Cunningham, who’s aver-aging a team-high 18.4 points per game on 54.8-percent shooting from the ﬁ  eld. The 6-foot-1 All-SEC 
junior isn’t afraid to shoot it from distance either. Her next three-
point attempt will be her 100th on the year.
Where Florida has struggled 
defensively this season, however, is in the paint. The Gators will have to work to contain Missouri forward Jordan Frericks. She’s 
shooting an even 50 percent from 
the ﬁ  eld, with most of her shots coming from inside, and is second on the team in scoring with 11.2 points per game.
While Newbauer praised his 
opponent’s toughness, he’s excit-ed to see how his team responds to the challenge of facing its third 
consecutive ranked opponent. 
“(It’s a) great opportunity on 
the road to go into a challenging 
environment to see where we’ve grown and who we’ve become in the last week,” Newbauer said.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coach Cameron Newbauer used Florida's recent bye 
week as an opportunity to hit the recruiting trail.
Cunningham averaging team-high 18.4 points White: "W e just 
have to work" 
COLUMN,  from pg 14MEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14