We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 94
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Beat the h eat, Sign and Save !
Come CheCk out our preview speC ials while they last!
Over sized kitchens  
with granite counter 
tops and stainless 
steel appliances!3,100 square foot  
tOwn hO mes complete 
with a garage and half 
bathroom!come float with us  
at the O nLY Laz Y river  
in gainesville! 
3718 sw 24th a ve., Gainesville, Fl  32607  / theridG eFl.Com / (352) 792-0102By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 162,968 pounds of 
food later, the UF Field and Fork 
Pantry is set to make an appear-
ance on the online platform for 
NBC’s “Today” show.
The show is interested in 
learning more about the Alan 
and Kathy Hitchcock Field and 
Fork Pantry located on the UF 
campus, said Ambre Hobson, as-
sistant director of the Care Area 
for the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. 
The Food for Fines program that took place in early April got 
the attention of the show, Hob-
son said. Topics covered by the 
show will range from speciﬁ  cs of 
the program to the mission of the 
Field and Fork Pantry. 
The pantry is hoping its ap-
pearance will promote helping 
students who struggle with food 
insecurity on campuses across 
the country, Hobson said. 
“Food insecurity is a serious 
issue that needs serious atten-
tion,” Hobson said.
At UF, the goal of the Field 
and Fork Pantry is to combat this insecurity, Hobson said. The 
pantry helps students focus on 
schoolwork, extracurriculars and 
their personal lives rather than 
being distracted by hunger.
A student’s testimony will 
also be included in the show’s 
website feature, said Stephanie 
Muench, coordinator of care pro-
grams for the Dean of Students 
Ofﬁ  ce.
Part of the show will be fo-
cusing on one student whom 
Muench could not provide the 
name of.
The student’s story will show how the pantry assisted them in 
overcoming challenges they faced 
in their time at UF, Muench said. 
“I don’t really know too much 
about how the ‘Today’ show de-
cided on coming to UF and focus-
ing on the pantry.” Muench said. 
“But I know that we’re just hap-
py to have one of our students 
tell their story and their experi-
ence of using the pantry and how 
that has allowed them to become 
more academically successful.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgField and Fork Pantry set to appear on ‘Today’OCCUPANTS SAID 
THEY HAD TROUBLE 
WITH UNIT SINCE 
MOVING INTO IT.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Gaby Connor, a UF public re-
lations senior, came home from 
class Wednesday to a 4-foot hole 
in her ceiling that exposed wood-
en planks and showered debris.
Connor, 24, and her three 
roommates live in a four-bed-
room apartment in College Park 
Apartments near Midtown. The 
ceiling collapsed in one of the 
roommates’ bedrooms.
When Connor moved into the 
apartment at 414 NW 14th St. in 
August 2017, she said there was 
a leak coming from the air condi-
tioning for about two weeks that 
was never ﬁ  xed. College Park 
sent someone to ﬁ  x the leak two 
or three days before the ceiling 
collapsed, Connor said.
“These are really outdated 
units and homes that they just 
bought up, but they refuse to ﬁ  x 
anything,” Connor said. “They 
just put a Band-Aid over it. I feel 
like it was a long time coming for 
the ceiling to fall.”
One of Connor’s roommates 
tore her ACL three and a half weeks ago, and the ceiling fell 
onto both of her legs, Connor 
said. The roommate may be su-
ing College Park. She denied to 
comment.
Gainesville Fire Rescue Assis-
tant Chief Stephen Hesson said 
rescuers treated the incident as 
an emergency medical service 
call. The report said a piece of 
the ceiling fell on a person, and 
they evaluated her for injuries.
Fireﬁ  ghters told Connor that 
breathing in the debris was un-
safe, but College Park’s property 
manager didn’t advise them to 
leave, Connor said. Hesson said 
there may have been concerns 
about inhaling the drywall in the 
air and the structural stability of 
the apartment.
The property manager offered 
to relocate Connor and the other 
residents to a vacant one-bed-
room unit with a couch and sug-
gested she could provide them 
with air mattresses, according to 
Connor. Connor’s mom got The 
Collier Companies, the owners 
of College Park, to provide the 
girls with two hotel rooms for 
two days.
On Friday morning, Connor 
returned to the apartment from 
the hotel and said the hole still 
hasn’t been ﬁ  xed.Ceiling collapses at College Park Apartments
Courtesy of Gaby Connor
Gaby Connor, a 24-year-old UF public relations senior, said she 
has had problems with her apartment since moving into it in 
August 2017.
 SEE COLLEGE PARK,  PAGE 4CALLER HAS BEEN 
IMPERSONATING ACSO 
PERSONNEL. 
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Residents have called the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce reporting they 
were contacted to take part in a scam 
asking for money on behalf of the sher-
iff’s ofﬁ  ce.
A perpetrator claiming to be Col. Da-
vid Huckstep, the chief deputy at ACSO, 
demands money from the caller, accord-
ing to an ACSO media release.
The scam is well put together and is 
presented professionally, ACSO spokes-
person Brett Rhodenizer said.
The scam is so thorough the perpe-
trator has spoofed the non-emergency 
number to ACSO’s Combined Commu-
nications Center, according to the re-
lease.
By spooﬁ  ng the phone number, it 
can appear on a victim’s caller ID as 
an administrative number from ACSO 
starting with 352-955 or 352-367, Rho-
denizer said.
Reports from citizens started com-
ing in Friday and some have already 
become victims of the scam, ACSO 
spokesperson Art Forgey said.
“We see this from time to time, 
scams like this and other ones,” Forgey 
said. “We tell people that if you get a 
call from someone saying they are from 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and 
they are threatening arrest, that is not 
how we do things and they should hang 
up immediately.”
The scammers are not targeting any-
one speciﬁ  cally, and there have not 
been any leads, Forgey said.
If you have any questions, feel free 
to contact the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce at 352-955-
1818.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgPhone scam 
targets 
AlachuaT oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 94
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
HIGH  91° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Special city and county commis-
sion meeting
City and county commissions 
will conduct a joint special meet-
ing Wednesday. The meeting be-
gins at 5 p.m. in the Grace Knight 
Conference Room, located on the 
second floor of the Alachua County 
Administration Building at 12 SE 
First Street. The meeting agenda 
includes a discussion on alterna-
tives to reduce homelessness. The 
public is invited to attend this 
meeting. Free parking is available for citizens attending this meeting 
in the Southwest Parking Garage, 
located at 105 SW Third Street. Tell 
the attendant you are going to the 
meeting, and parking will be free. 
For more information, contact the 
Alachua County Communications 
Office at 352-374-5204.
GatorNights features the film ‘Love, 
Simon’ on Friday
This week’s featured film, “Love, 
Simon,” will play in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m.  GatorNights will fea-
ture a mechanical surfboard, sum-
mer photo booth, do-it-yourself flip flops and friendship bracelets and a 
limbo competition.  GatorNights is 
free for UF students with their Gator 
1 Card at the Reitz Union from 8 
p.m. to 12 a.m. Attendees must be 
current students to participate and 
are allowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 94
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10. Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m. Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl iT uesday, June 12th 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSPrior to joining UF , Hass was a litigator with 
Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP in Atlanta and 
New York. While in private practice, she repre-
sented financial services companies and individ -
uals in a wide range of government enforcement 
proceedings, civil litigation, white collar crimi-
nal defense, arbitrations and internal corporate 
investigations. Hass graduated with honors from 
the University of Florida Levin College of Law 
and received her undergraduate degree from Fur-
man University.
Vice President for Gov -
ernment and Community  
Relations
Mark Kaplan has been se-
lected as vice president for 
Government and communi-
ty relations. He comes to UF with in-depth gov -
ernment and community relations expertise and 
experience at the state, national and local levels.
Kaplan’s experience includes serving as the senior 
vice president for public affairs for the Mosaic 
Company, a Fortune 250 company, working as 
chief of staff to Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, directing 
the executive office’s day-to-day operations, de -
veloping and implementing strategic programs 
and initiatives, handling crisis management and 
overseeing coordination of 23 state agencies. He 
has also served as president and general counsel 
for the Carlisle Development Group LLC, a de -
veloper of affordable multifamily rental housing, 
and as executive director of the Florida Hous -
ing Finance Corporation, which sets affordable 
housing policy and finances development and 
purchases statewide. 
Kaplan graduated with highest honors from 
the Florida State University College of Law and 
earned a bachelor’s degree with honors in politi -
cal science from the University of Florida.dents to create an individualized action plan 
and develop goals to change their behaviors.  
This exemplary and inspirational program em -
powers students to make and sustain positive 
lifestyle behavior change that will positively im -
pact their overall wellness and academic success 
and potentially serve them throughout their life-
course.
Students interested in Wellness Coaching for 
Academic Success should go to gatorwell.ufsa.
ufl.edu or call GatorWell at (352) 273-4450 to 
schedule an initial consultation.
Winning Team. GatorWell’s staff recognized. From the left: Sara Ryals, Samantha Evans, Jennifer 
Kennymore, Natalie Rella, and Alicia Baker.Following national searches, UF has 
announced the appointments for 
three Cabinet-level positions:  
Chief Diversity Officer 
and Senior Advisor to  
the President   
Antonio Farias, currently 
vice president for equity 
and inclusion/Title IX 
officer at Wesleyan University, has been selected 
to serve as first chief diversity officer and 
senior advisor to the president. At UF , Farias 
will hold a Cabinet-level spot while oversee-
ing university-wide efforts to advance equity, 
diversity and inclusion, and establish a new 
standard of inclusive excellence.
At Wesleyan since 2013, Farias has worked 
closely with a range of offices on issues of 
inclusion and equity as they relate to race, 
ethnicity, sex, gender identity and expression, 
sexual orientation, disability, age, veteran sta-
tus, political affiliation, and national origin in 
the areas of recruitment, admissions, retention, 
hires, promotion and fundraising. He has 
also been responsible for maintaining proper 
university reporting procedures and policies as 
they pertain to federal and state laws. Prior to 
that, Farias was chief diversity officer for the 
U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where he was the 
inaugural CDO.
Vice President and General Counsel
Amy Hass was  selected as 
vice president and gener -
al counsel. Hass has been 
part of the Office of the 
General Counsel since 
2006 and has served as in-
terim vice president for the past year.GatorWell Health Promotion Services 
was named a recipient of the Best 
Practices in College Health Award 
– Health Education and Promotion, 
presented by the American College 
Health Association at their national 
conference in Washington, DC.  
The award was presented to GatorWel l for 
its Wellness Coaching for Academic Success 
program. The masters-level Health Promo -
tion Specialists meet one-on-one with stu-Three new Cabinet-level  
appointments announcedGatorWell recieves national 
award for Health Education 
and Promotion
Fanfares & Fireworks will return to 
Gainesville on July 3 at 7 p.m. at 
the University of Florida Bandshell 
at Flavet Field.  
The annual Independence Day eve event 
features an opportunity for families to picnic 
in the grass and enjoy musical performances. 
The evening will conclude with a spectacular 
fireworks show beginning at 9:40 p.m. Admis-
sion is free.Through UF’s GatorPerks Discount Program, 
faculty and staff are eligible for discounts on 
travel and entertainment, including sports 
events, concerts, hotels, rental cars, Disney and 
Universal tickets, and more. If you’re staying 
close to home this summer, don’t forget about 
GatorPerks’ discounts at local restaurants and 
stores, home goods, pet services, and health 
and wellness businesses. To learn more, visit the 
GatorPerks section of UFHR’s website at hr.ufl.
edu/benefits-rewards/gatorperks/.The musical line-up includes Bears and Lions, a 
Gainesville group performing music that parents 
and children alike enjoy; the soulful sounds of 
Billy Buchanan and His Rock’ n Soul Revue; and 
traditional favorites by the Gainesville Communi-
ty Band under the direction of Gary Langford.
Fanfares & Fireworks is presented by the UF 
College of Journalism and Communications 
and its media properties: public broadcasting 
stations WUFT-TV, WUFT/WJUF-FM and 
WUFT Classic 102.7 FM. Event sponsors include the VyStar Credit 
Union, the City of Gainesville, and Florida 
Credit Union, with additional support from 
GRU.
WUFT-FM Operations Manager Glenn Rich-
ards will serve as emcee.
Fanfares & Fireworks will conclude with a fire-
works display by Skylighters of Florida set to 
the music of the Gainesville Community Band.Celebrate July 4th on the 3rd 
at Fanfares and Fireworks!Remember  
GatorPerks  
as you travel
Winning T eam: GatorWell’s staff recognized. From left: Sara Ryals, Samantha Evans, 
Jennifer Kennymore, Natalie Rella, and Alicia Baker.
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Law enforcement arrested a 
man and woman from Ruskin, 
Florida, who are accused of rob-
bing a Wells Fargo bank, located 
at 6301 W. Newberry Road, on 
Saturday afternoon. 
Deionte Swinton, 22, and Eliz-
abeth Vagnier, 24, were charged 
with unarmed robbery and child 
neglect.
On Saturday around 12:57 
p.m., Swinton allegedly entered 
the bank wearing a surgical mask, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
media release.
He passed a note to the teller 
saying he was robbing the bank 
and then directed the victim to 
put the money from her drawer 
into a bag, according to the arrest 
report. Once the teller complied 
and gave him the money, Swinton 
left the bank and got into a car al-
legedly being driven by Vagnier.
A GPS device, hidden in the 
money, was activated as Swinton 
allegedly left the bank. When ac-tivated, the device sent an alert 
to a tracking system, according to 
the media release. The Alachua 
County Combined Communica-
tions Center and other GPD ofﬁ  -
cers received the alert and loca-
tion of the device.
The device was traveling 
north on Interstate 75, outside of 
Gainesville city limits. On-duty 
ofﬁ  cers and Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies began search-
ing for Swinton.
An ofﬁ  cer was able to stop 
Swinton’s car near Northwest 
218th Avenue and County Road 
235A because of information 
found in the investigation and 
from a helicopter holding ofﬁ  cers 
from multiple law enforcement agencies, according to the release.
Swinton was taken into custo-
dy and the money, clothes, a gun 
and other evidence of the robbery 
were in the car, according to the 
arrest report. His two children 
were also in the car at the time.
Swinton also had a warrant for 
a similar bank robbery from Hills-
borough County, according to the 
report.
After reading them their Mi-
randa Rights, Swinton confessed 
to robbing the bank and having a 
gun but not using it, according to 
the report.
Vagnier said she was aware of 
Swinton’s plans and helped him 
ﬁ  nd the bank using her phone. 
She also said she drove Swinton 
away from the robbery in Hills-
borough  County with children in 
the car.
Swinton and Vagnier remained 
in Alachua County Jail on Sat-
urday and Sunday in lieu of a 
$400,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgGPD: Pair charged in bank robbery
Swinton
 Vagnier
“I’ve been here since 9:30 
(a.m.), and I haven’t seen any-
body come yet,” she said. “I’m 
not really sure when they’re go-
ing to work on it. We deal with 
stuff like this and various issues 
at this apartment all the time.” 
Maintenance workers came 
Monday to remove dehumidiﬁ  -
ers from the apartment but said 
they were unable to because Col-
lege Park had not ﬁ  xed the leak. 
Connor said another maintenance 
worker came to check the air con-
ditioning unit around 10:30 a.m. 
and said he would return but 
never did.
Kali Blount, the co-chair of 
Alachua County Housing Author-
ity, said he has been advocating 
for affordable, safe housing in 
Gainesville at local government 
meetings. He said some landlords 
are not ﬁ  xing issues while apart-
ment prices increase and quality diminishes.
“If I were them, I would cer-
tainly call code enforcement,” 
Blount said. “Some of these 
places are doing particle board 
on top of particle board, and you 
can pretty much just end up with 
junk.”
Blount said that although there 
are minimal health and safety re-
quirements for housing, it tends 
to be difﬁ  cult to actually enforce 
them with some landlords.
“There is a whole set of stan-
dards, but there is no enforce-
ment unless the tenant engages 
adversarial enforcement,” Blount 
said. “I’m afraid they’re just 
‘SOL’ until they bring in code or 
the landlord feels like respond-
ing.”
The Alligator was unable to 
reach The Collier Companies or 
College Park for comment. 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgCOLLEGE PARK,  from pg. 1Ceiling still damagedTUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
Onye Ozuzu wasn’t looking to 
leave her career in Chicago, but she 
said Florida and UF itself inspired 
her move to the College of the Arts.
Ozuzu, the current dean of the 
School of Fine and Performing Arts 
at Columbia College Chicago, will 
be transitioning into her position as 
the dean of the College of the Arts at 
UF starting Aug. 1.
She was invited to apply for the 
position. 
Brandon McKinley, public rela-
tions and partnerships specialist 
for the College of the Arts, says her track record of 
success made her 
stand out against 
other candidates 
for the position.  
“She definite-
ly has the creden-
tials, and she’s 
also a really ac-
complished art-
ist as well,” McKinley said. “She’s 
done a lot of different research that 
really explores interdisciplinarity 
and also intersectionality between 
how dance can relate to your body 
and people around you.”
Ozuzu, a Florida native, gradu-
ated from Florida State University. She studied English literature dur-
ing her undergraduate studies and 
earned a Master’s of Fine Arts in 
dance and choreography. 
Ozuzu said she was aiming to 
attend law school when her plans 
were interrupted by a love for 
dance. She discovered this passion 
when she took classes at a commu-
nity organization.
Ozuzu started playing tennis at 
a young age, partially due to her 
dad’s intense analysis of movement 
in sports. If a ball didn’t land on the 
court, he would make her verbalize 
why, Ozuzu said.
“There was something about 
that early training that when I got on the dance floor transferred 
over,” Ozuzu said. “I was able to 
synthesize the physical information 
into action.”
She turned her passion for dance 
into a career as a choreographer, re-
searcher and administrator. She has 
served in her current position at Co-
lumbia College Chicago since 2015. 
She loves to travel, and her career 
has taken her around the world.
“I really love culture and to ex-
perience, by being there, how peo-
ple live and the differences and sim-
ilarities in the way people express 
their cultures,” Ozuzu said. “Dance 
is kind of like a peephole into the 
things that people do.”Ozuzu said she felt inspired to 
take the position after reading about 
UF and the way the college inte-
grates technology into its work.
“I’m really excited to be a part of 
a community of artists that have an 
opportunity to think about art and 
our intersection with educating the 
students for a world where there is 
going to be lots and lots of dynamic 
change, and where technology is 
currently and will continue to fun-
damentally shift what reality is,” 
Ozuzu said.
@sloanasavage
ssavage@alligator.orgNew UF College of the Arts dean to start in August
By Mark Stine
Alligator Contributing Writer
One by one, young pianists stepped to a black, 
9-foot-long Steinway and Sons Model-D and per-
formed their renditions of compositions by classical 
composers like Mozart and Beethoven. 
At Sunday night’s recital, young musicians filled 
Room 101 of the UF Music Building with notes 
played purely from memory. 
Pianists Quin Nardone, 17; Abigail Lee, 17, 
and Lien Nguyen, 23, gave encore performances 
from their previous night’s recital in the UF Health 
Shands Hospital’s South Building’s waiting area 
Monday at noon. For an hour, they played classical 
music for the patients. 
“It wasn’t the best place to perform noise-wise, 
but it was a nice performance,” Nardone said. 
“Hopefully, we helped the people waiting up there.”
Twenty-four musicians flocked to Gainesville 
last week to participate in the UF International Pi-
ano Festival, which began Saturday, June 9, and 
ends Saturday, June 16. 
The youngest participants are in the pre-college 
division, like Elise Brown, 13, from Fort Myers, and 
the oldest are in the artist division, like Nguyen, 
who is from Vietnam.
The pianists participate in personal lessons, re-
citals and master classes taught by UF faculty and guest lecturers. 
The first recitals were Sunday and Monday. The 
artist division competition will be held Friday at 7 
p.m., and the pre-college competition will conclude 
the festival Saturday at 9:30 a.m. There will also be 
a duet recital Friday at 3:30 p.m.
Both the competition and the duet performance 
are new to the festival, which started in 2007. This 
is also the festival’s first year under its new director, 
Jasmin Arakawa.
“I just wanted to have something festive, not 
so much into competitive things,” Arakawa said. 
“They get to play once without any kind of pressure 
and once at the end so they have something to look 
forward to.”
The students said they spend about four hours 
each day of the weeklong festival with scheduled 
practice on top of the two to three months many of 
them said they already took to learn their pieces. 
“We spend all day in the practice room,” Lee 
said. 
Despite spending most of their days at the fes-
tival either in lessons or practicing, Nguyen and 
some of her fellow student pianists said they pre-
fer the small classes and action-packed days to the 
larger camps they’ve attended in the past. 
“The level of playing in this festival is a lot 
higher,” Nguyen said. “We learn a lot of things in a 
short amount of time.”Young pianists headline the UF 
International Piano Festival
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man 
Sunday accused of leaving three chil-
dren unsupervised and alone for mul-
tiple days.
Zephaniah Freeney, 44, was charged 
with three counts of child neglect.
Freeney allegedly left three children 
alone and unsupervised in a home since 
June 4, according to the report. He did 
bring canned foods to the house on that 
day but left after.
The victims did not know where 
Freeney went and did not have a con-
tact number for him, according to the 
report. They said Freeney came to the 
house for a while Friday and left them 
unsupervised again.
There was little to no fresh food in 
the refrigerator and some canned and 
boxed foods on the counter that one of 
the victims had been making, according 
to the report.
The victims were told to leave the 
doors of the house unlocked so Freeney 
could enter as he needed, according to 
the report. Law enforcement officers found the doors were not capable of 
locking, leaving the juveniles vulner-
able.
While the children were left unsu-
pervised, one of them thought the pow-
er was turned off again so they rolled 
a napkin, dipped it in candle wax and 
tried to light it, according to the report.
The victims have three older broth-
ers who are living with a cousin’s ex-
girlfriend because they did not want 
to live in the conditions of Freeney’s 
home, according to the report. 
The victims and a witness said Free-
ney had allegedly left the victims alone 
before for a month, according to the 
report. During that month, the witness 
said she let the victims stay with her for 
the last three weeks.
After being read his Miranda Rights, 
Freeney denied all allegations and said 
he goes home to the victims every day, 
according to the report.
Freeney remained in Alachua Coun-
ty Jail on Sunday and Monday in lieu of 
a $90,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgMan accused of child 
neglect against three kidsOzuzu
Editorial
ColumnIt’s not a Trump problem
Why drink decaf if it’s just bean water?
An open letter to all citizens of coffee-
land who drink decaf: I do not under-
stand you. I recognize the merits of cof-
fee as a drink — its aroma, its ﬂ  avors, 
its warmth as it hits your tongue. The 
small stains it leaves around the rim of your mug. 
The brown crop circle it leaves on your desk is 
endearing — its repose as a hazel-colored halo 
on what is likely meaningless desk paperwork. 
But for me, its main beneﬁ  t is its ability to focus 
me on the task at hand. Coffee just doesn’t taste 
good enough to drink without the drug: caffeine.
Many American white-collar jobs have a coffee pot. 
This is what would be known on the Savanna as a water-
ing hole, without the crocodiles of course. Everyone in the 
ofﬁ  ce frequents it because clerical work is dull and coffee 
is stimulating. It helps us get through the slog of pale green 
Excel spreadsheets and protect-and-serve blue Word docu-
ments that are the lifeblood of ofﬁ  ce work. We need the 
extra energy to get through endless keystrokes that take us 
from one Microsoft product to another. Strong caffeinated 
coffee is a lifesaver. It elevates your heart rate. It doesn’t 
make your day more exciting, but it certainly makes it 
more exhilarating. The budget proposal for this ﬁ  scal year 
would have crumbled the walls of your mental faculties if not for the strong buttress of coffee to hold the 
wall.
For those of you who drink decaffeinated 
coffee: I do not judge you. You may have your 
reasons. Some of you may not be heart-healthy 
enough for caffeine. Some may not like the jit-
ters the drink will give you if you’ve imbibed it 
in excess. But if your reasons for drinking decaf 
are that you just like the way it tastes, I raise a 
skeptical eyebrow at you.
Firstly, decaf isn’t really decaf. Decaffein-
ated coffee contains about 7 milligrams of caf-
feine. Secondly, the health beneﬁ  ts of coffee are nothing 
compared to a simpler juice with better health beneﬁ  ts. 
I’ll illustrate it for you, these are all statistics coming from 
healthline.com: One cup of brewed decaf coffee provides 
2.4 percent of the recommended daily allowance (RDA) of 
magnesium, 4.8 percent of potassium and 2.5 percent of 
niacin, or vitamin B3. That’s about all you’re getting. On 
the other hand, a cup of pomegranate juice can get you 5.3 
percent RDA of magnesium, 11.3 percent RDA of potas-
sium and 15 percent of your RDA for vitamin B. Why drink 
plain bean water when you can double all those nutrients 
with, in my opinion, a better tasting drink?
If decaf is your thing, I do not understand you, but I ac-
cept you. Drink your bean water. Just don’t come running 
to me when you’re late on a deadline, and next time, drink 
a regular cup of joe.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political science junior. His 
column comes out Tuesday and Thursday. TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
You may have heard that President Donald Trump’s ad-
ministration has a certain policy of separating immigrant 
children from their parents if their family is caught ille-
gally crossing the border.
You may even have strong feelings about this deci-
sion one way or the other. We believe it’s safe to say, however, 
that a solid majority of Americans feel negatively toward it. It’s 
inhumane, unusual… you think of the stipulations outlined in 
sections of the Geneva Conventions and how they would apply 
to these heartbreaking situations.
“That’s not America!” you growl into your morning Cheeri-
os as you catch up on the latest story. You mutter about Emma 
Lazarus’ “The New Colossus” and how Lady Liberty doesn’t 
stand for such a thing.
And you forget.
See, coping with these current-day atrocities is more than just 
hiding behind symbols or words. It’s more than patriotic plati-
tudes or futile hope. 
It’s about confronting America’s original sin. It’s about ac-
knowledging we as Americans have always failed Lazarus’ mes-
sage, full-stop.
And this all happened long before the Trump administration’s 
policy. Let’s take Lazarus’ pipe dream line by line.
“Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame, with conquering 
limbs astride from land to land.”
Though Lady Liberty may not have her arms reaching for land 
and power, there was another nearly equally famous statue built 
52 years beforehand. This one resides at the Smithsonian Na-
tional Museum of American History. It was stationed on the U.S. 
Capitol rotunda before its move in 1964.
The statue is of George Washington, bare-chested and look-
ing more cut than Chris Hemsworth. Washington’s clutching a 
sword in his left hand. It’s positively divine in nature, which was 
no accident on the creator’s part. The original sculpture is based 
off a statue of Zeus. You know, a “brazen giant of Greek fame.”
“Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand a mighty 
woman with a torch, whose ﬂ  ame is the imprisoned lightning, 
and her name Mother of Exiles.” 
Well, she’s still standing, so that’s a mild win. She’s hardly 
mighty in the context of the treatment of any exile though. Every 
group who immigrated to America after the Protestants — Irish, 
Italian, Jewish, Catholic, you name it — was treated with abso-
lute disdain from those who came before. 
“From her beacon-hand glows world-wide welcome; her mild 
eyes command the air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame.”
She’s commanding and all, but Lazarus probably spins in her 
grave for every denied application for asylum. This stretches well 
beyond the Trump years. You don’t have to have a great memory 
to recall the vitriol immigrants from the Middle East received in 
the years following 9/11 or how Japanese migrants were treated 
in the buildup to and during World War II.
“‘Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!’ cries she with si-
lent lips. ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses 
yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming 
shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my 
lamp beside the golden door!’”
Immigrants from all over have always had to ﬁ  ght to keep 
their native customs. You cannot argue there isn’t pressure to 
assimilate even in neighborhoods like Little Italy or Little China.
The treatment of immigrants and the deiﬁ  cation of America 
predates Trump by about 200 years. The megaphone (“MAGA-
phone?”) may be a bit louder and the dog whistles a bit less sub-
tle, but they’ve always been there, goading the ignorant masses 
toward hate and self-importance.
Reconcile with the past. Acknowledge your own biases. Con-
front America’s original sin.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
“If decaf is your thing, I do not 
understand you, but I accept you.”
Stephan Chamberlin
Alligator columnist
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
In the song “Hurricane” 
from the Broadway play 
“Hamilton,” Alexander 
Hamilton sang, “In the 
eye of the hurricane there 
is quiet; for a moment, just a 
yellow sky.”
The song sends a message 
of preparedness and deter-
mination. Although the song 
leads into part of the demise of Hamil-
ton’s respected character, legacy and 
work ethic after an affair, Lin-Manuel Mi-
randa’s lyrics put responsibility in Ham-
ilton’s hands.
Though there may be quiet in the 
middle of a semester or for months of a 
hurricane season, being ready to tackle a 
torrential downpour of assignments or a 
deluge of wind, rain or tornadoes is key.
For a Summer semester, it can be easy 
to get caught up in sunny adventures. 
There’s Lake Wauburg or a short drive 
down to the springs or theme parks. Oth-
er students get into a cycle of nights in 
Midtown and put off assignments.
Between schoolwork and fun, it can 
be easy to forget the threat of hurricanes, 
even in “Rainesville.”
In both scenarios — school and 
weather — preparedness and responsibil-
ity are key.
College itself is like a storm of dead-
lines. Keeping a schedule, maintaining 
healthy habits and watching the calen-
dar and news for impending assignments 
and extracurricular duties is essential. Be 
sure to have a Blue Book on hand, and 
be careful to watch your stock of paper, 
pens and No. 2 pencils.
The same goes for hurricanes. Florid-
ians can be quick to belittle hurricanes 
and jump at the chance to get a day off from school or have a hurri-
cane party.
However, these situations 
can be dire and mean more 
than just missing a scheduled 
football game.
During Hurricane Irma, 
Gainesville faced ﬂ  ooding, 
downed trees, gas shortages 
and destroyed homes. On 
campus, historic trees were lost and UF 
agricultural researchers lost months or 
years of research across the state.
There were also the deaths of many in 
ill-prepared nursing facilities.
Beyond Florida, Hurricanes Harvey 
and Maria caused destruction that is still 
being dealt with today amid a new active 
season.
Already, the second named storm of 
the 2018 eastern Paciﬁ  c hurricane sea-
son, Hurricane Bud, has formed in the 
Gulf of Mexico.
Having at least a small stock of sup-
plies in your dorm or other living space 
is important. Ready.gov/hurricanes out-
lines a long list of things you can do to 
prepare for a storm.
But, the upsides of hurricanes, both 
ﬁ  guratively and literally, is that they teach 
us the importance of preparation and ap-
preciation. You can appreciate your edu-
cation and activities and the knowledge 
they give you. And you can appreciate 
blue skies, loved ones, air conditioning, 
electricity and living in a developed state 
where resources are available.
Do your assignments and prep your 
hurricane kits. Don’t wait for it to be too 
late.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column comes out Tuesday Hurricanes teach us preparedness 
and appreciationColumn
As one of the 1,149 students 
currently enrolled in UF’s 
Innovation Academy (IA), I 
spend a lot of time thinking 
about innovation and entre-
preneurship. Almost every 21st-centu-
ry company claims to be “innovative” 
or seeks “innovative employees.” 
This makes UF’s minor in innovation 
through IA attractive to students look-
ing to have a competitive edge in the job market. 
     Since we are now living in a knowledge and 
internet economy rather than a manufacturing 
one, the only way to create distinguished prod-
ucts that can compete for market share is to in-
novate. Most people know this, but they aren’t 
sure how to go about it. 
Innovation is literally just coming up with 
a new idea that seems easy enough to achieve. 
But in practice, we struggle to grab one out of 
thin air. We have great ideas all the time while 
driving or showering, but when we try to force 
it, the results are bleak. If you gather hundreds 
of people and ask them to come up with the 
next big business idea, I guarantee at least 10 
percent of them will suggest “grocery delivery 
service.” This frustrating response is an innova-
tive dead end that is reached more often than 
you’d think.
On “Shark Tank,” a lot of the ideas are 
presented as “the Uber of” or “the Netﬂ  ix of” 
These types of ideas lack what Uber, Netﬂ  ix 
and Airbnb have become famous for — origi-
nality and problem solving. These companies 
aren’t successful just because they digitized 
something that was previously not on the in-
ternet. They are successful because they found 
a solution to a customer problem. Innovation 
is about creating your own disruptive business 
model, not necessarily copying someone else’s. 
I agree that the best innovations come from 
compromise and combining different ideas, but 
the goal must stay clear throughout the whole process. 
So often, people’s innovative ideas 
are simply creating an app for some-
thing. They seek funding to design 
these apps and claim they will be 
groundbreaking. Most of these apps 
aren’t solving a problem that consum-
ers already have. They are creating a 
problem they think customers have. 
This is the opposite of innovation. 
It’s regressive. A real entrepreneur would begin 
trying to help customers solve the problem and 
work on the app later. 
UF “Principles of Entrepreneurship” profes-
sor Christopher Pryor uses an example of this 
when teaching his class. One of his students had 
the idea to create an app that linked people to-
gether to share meals. The student insisted that 
he couldn’t get the business started because it 
required an app and funding. Pryor insists that 
a real entrepreneur would ﬁ  nd a way to connect 
customers with whatever they’re lacking “by 
begging, borrowing or stealing” if necessary.
Innovation isn’t just arbitrary brainstorming. 
What differentiates a regular idea from an inno-
vation is the purpose behind it. It requires the 
entrepreneur to understand the customer and to 
empathize with them. Generating ideas can be 
more methodical than you think. There are spe-
ciﬁ  c formulas you can follow for more produc-
tive brainstorming sessions. If you run with an 
idea far past the point than what makes sense, 
that’s where you ﬁ  nd the best ideas. 
People are so focused on creating something 
different that their products have all become 
the same. In my experience, my most innova-
tive ideas have come from trying to think of 
the most unpredictable route. Now more than 
ever, companies that aren’t innovative will ﬂ  op. 
Luckily, innovation is something you can learn.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her 
column comes out Tuesday.Problem solving and originality lead to 
great innovationColumn
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
Food truck rally celebrates fifth anniversary in Gainesville
Photos by Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
The Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally celebrated its fifth 
anniversary as the first food truck rally in the city on Saturday at High 
Dive. Food trucks from around the area and beyond served unique, 
gourmet style fare at the one-of-a-kind local event.
Bailey licks Brielle, 8, on the chin to say hello during High Dive’s pet-friendly food 
truck festival.Kyle Keller, 25, performs on the High Dive stage. Keller was one of four live acts to 
perform at The Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally on Saturday afternoon.TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF researchers have found that 
techniques used to fight cancer in 
humans were able to treat similar 
tumors in sea turtles.
A team of experts from the Whit-
ney Laboratory for Marine Biosci-
ence published a study Thursday. 
They found that sea turtles in-
fected with a tumor-causing disease 
called Fibropapillomatosis, or FP, 
and treated with human anti-cancer 
drugs had a dramatic reduction of 
tumor regrowth after having a tumor 
surgically removed.“Personally, sea turtles offered 
me the opportunity to combine my 
previous zoological and human can-
cer expertise to conduct research 
with strong conservation relevance,” 
said lead researcher of the study, re-
search scientist and assistant profes-
sor David Duffy.
Sea turtles are facing numer-
ous human-related environmental 
pressures, including marine plastic 
pollution, global warming, habitat 
destruction, shoreline armoring and 
poaching, Duffy said. 
He said it was vitally important 
to study FP to combat individual tu-
mors and the disease’s global spread.The study was conducted by col-
lecting samples of FP tumors as well 
as tissues without tumors. The RNA 
from the tissues was extracted and 
sequenced to identify various genes 
using computers, Duffy said. 
The tissues were compared for 
differences, ultimately revealing the 
genes responsible for tumor growth. 
Vulnerabilities within the tumors 
were pinpointed and evaluated to 
see which anti-cancer drug works 
best against them.
Duffy said the study showed that 
the sea turtles’ FP tumors resemble 
a form of human skin cancer called 
basal cell carcinoma. He said the same underlying genetic alterations 
drive both turtle and human cancers.
“I think what Dr. Duffy is doing is 
really kind of taking this research in 
a new direction, which is awesome,” 
said Whitney Marine Sea Turtle hos-
pital manager Rachel Thomas. “I 
really look forward to what he has 
next for us to work on here.”
In the future, Duffy plans to ex-
pand the investigation of FP tumors 
outside of Florida, study subtypes 
of the tumor, increase the number 
of usable anti-cancer drugs and ex-
amine the development of different 
tumor types.
Duffy and his team hope in 10 years there will be a multitude of 
prognostic tests and medical treat-
ments available to treat a wide range 
of FP tumors. He also hopes to de-
sign preventative interventions to 
stop the spread of the disease and 
lessen its impact.
“Sea turtles serve as a warning 
that, given the wrong combination 
of virus and environmental triggers, 
oncogenic diseases can reach pan-
demic proportions,” Duffy said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF scientists find progress in treating sea turtle tumors 10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.orgBy Carly Rogers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Members of the Alachua County Labor Co-
alition have advocated for living wages for a 
number of years, but they’ve been putting in 
overtime after recent issues.
Hurricane Irma and Richard Spencer’s UF 
visit brought to light the problems of having no 
paid time off for the OPS workers.
A board meeting was held Thursday after-
noon in Emerson Alumni Hall to discuss grant-
ing beneﬁ  ts to OPS employees. 
OPS, or “other personnel services” employ-
ees, are people like medical residents and sec-
retaries whose jobs are designated to last less 
than a year. However, over 25 percent of OPS 
employees have worked at UF for almost ﬁ  ve 
years, according to a packet of statistics and 
testimonies the ACLC created.
Despite this, OPS employees are considered temporary, part-time employees. They do not 
receive beneﬁ  ts, such as sick leave and paid 
time off. On Wednesday, UF announced the 
base wage would be raised from $12 an hour 
to $13 an hour, but the change did not apply to 
OPS employees. 
Both UF Faculty Senate and UF Student 
Senate have passed resolutions calling for UF 
to move long-term hourly OPS employees into 
classiﬁ  cations that include beneﬁ  ts, but the de-
cision rests with the UF Board of Trustees.
Five people were given time to speak to the 
board on issues at the university. Among them 
was Jason Fults, co-chair of the ACLC.
Fults recounted his time as a UF employee 
and the strain it had placed on his health and 
ﬁ  nances.
“I received no paid time off, meaning that 
I sometimes came to work sick,” Fults said. “I 
often worked alone in our ofﬁ  ce during univer-
sity breaks because I couldn’t afford the un-paid time off.”
Over 20 percent of the visits to the on-cam-
pus food pantry are from UF employees, Fults 
said.
Alachua County Commissioner Ken Cornell 
talked about the beneﬁ  ts the community re-
ceives when employees are given a living wage 
and beneﬁ  ts. He said these beneﬁ  ts were seen 
when Alachua County raised its wages three 
years ago.
“We found that our employees were more 
productive, we found that our employee turn-
over was much less (and) we found that our 
hiring cost was much less,” Cornell said.
By raising wages, Alachua County was 
able to stimulate the local economy and create 
more jobs, Cornell said.
“What you do today is good for the em-
ployee, is good for UF… and it’s good for our 
community,” he said.
Sheila Payne, ACLC member and resident, said employees are also required to pay into 
the alternate Federal Insurance Contributions 
Act system — an act that taxes employees’ 
payrolls to fund Social Security and Medicare 
— without any contribution to their Social Se-
curity.
“The employees have to pay in (to FICA), 
but the employer doesn’t,” she said. “I’ve nev-
er heard of such a thing at any other institu-
tion.”
Payne said Alachua County has the greatest 
income inequality in Florida. 
UF and UF Health are the primary employ-
ers for the county and the eight neighboring 
counties, Cornell said. One in ﬁ  ve people work 
for either UF or UF Health.
For more information about the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition, visit its website at 
laborcoalition.org or its Facebook page at face-
book.com/laborcoalition.UF Board of Trustees discusses OPS employee beneﬁ  ts, wagesBy Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Health is opening three spe-
cialty medical practices within The 
Oaks Mall.
The three practices will be oto-
laryngology, audiology and oph-
thalmology. A surgery center is also 
opening to support the facilities. The 
Oaks Mall facilities are set to open 
in 14 to 15 months and will take pa-
tients with all kinds of insurance and 
those without. 
One of the anchors will be otolar-
yngology, which offer ENT services 
like ear, nose and throat care, allergy 
treatment and sinus surgeries, said 
Marvin Dewar, senior associate dean 
at the UF College of Medicine.
The other anchor will be ophthal-
mology, which covers general eye 
problems as well as specializations 
for parts of the eye like the retina and 
cornea, glaucoma and neuro-oph-thalmology, a subspeciality that com-
bines neurology and ophthalmology.
UF Health had services that were 
space restrained and could no longer 
grow in their current location, Dewar 
said.
This inspired the search for new 
facilities, which eventually led to the 
selection of the former Sears store at 
The Oaks Mall.
“It’s both a central location for the 
local community and easily acces-
sible,” Dewar said. “There were a lot 
of things that made it attractive.”
Dr. Sonal Tuli, the UF chair of the 
Department of Ophthalmology, also 
expressed enthusiasm for the ben-
eﬁ  ts of the new location.
Tuli, who is also the ophthalmol-
ogy clinic medical director, said the 
facilities will have a large space for 
expansion and will be easily acces-
sible being right off of Interstate 75. 
A surgery center will also be next to 
the facilities, allowing for minimal patient travel.
Dr. Patrick Antonelli, chair of 
otolaryngology at the UF College of 
Medicine, said the shopping experi-
ence that comes with being in a retail 
center is a very favorable aspect of 
the new location.
“A lot of our patients (that) come 
in from outside the area here really 
ﬁ  nd it a big positive to get not only 
their medical care when they come 
in but to get some shopping done,” 
Antonelli said.
Like Tuli, he is also looking for-
ward to the amount of space the new 
location has to offer. The additional 
space allows for patients to be seen 
faster, which will cut wait times.
“I’m very happy that my patients 
won’t have to run down to the main 
campus every time they need to get 
a scan, or to see an audiologist or an 
opthamologist,” Antonelli said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgNew UF Health medical facilities set to open in The Oaks Mall
Courtesy of UF Health
A conceptual rendering predicts how the new facilities will look. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers 
only. Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ 
walk to UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. 
CAC/heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 
352-215-4990,  tomdepot@gmail.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
Designated drivers are the greatestYou need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-1297 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
2000 BMW 528i silver 4 dr sedan, 1 owner, 
58K mi. manual 5 spd, 6 cyl, cruise, all pow -
er options, sunroof, premium leather int, cd/
cass/radio. Mint cond, no accidents/modi -
fications, reg serviced, garaged, excellent 
tires /spare.$6,000, Call/text 352-214-2512    
6-21-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches. Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$2000/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-3-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
College Students.  Learn how to make ex -
tra money daily by completing surveys go to 
www.legitimatextraincome.club      7-3-18-5-
14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://collegeopportunity. fun         6-19-
18-5-14
RETAIL SALES PERSON needed Part time.
Inquire within at
The Floor Store of Gainesville Inc.    
6-21-18-4-14
Learn how to make a 6 figure income easy! 
Gain the knowledge to financial freedom and 
a life of opportunity! Come join the club right 
here: http://sidemoneyonline.club     7-3-18-
5-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
18
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: http://collegeopportunities.club/     
6-19-18-5-18Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
20
Astonishing Little-known opportunities 
for students to earn an extra income.
Go To www.ExtraStudentIncome.com    6-19-
18-5-20
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://www.collegeopportunity.fun/    
6-19-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Condition before
a storm
5 Secure at the
pier
9 Swamp croaker
13 Hand lotion
ingredient
14 Triangular Greek
letter
15 Jackson 5 
hairdo
16 Area behind
velvet ropes,
often
18 Sci-fi hoverers
19 Cul-de-__
20 Completes a
sentence?
22 Cholesterol-
inhibiting drug
26 Smokey Bear TV
ad, e.g.
27 Scoundrel
28 Sports drink
suffix
29 Stockpile
31 JFK’s
predecessor
33 Favoring
relatives in hiring
35 Richter scale
event
37 Pinch in a recipe
38 Tourney winner
40 Rotisserie rod
42 Pride members
44 Baggage claim
bag
46 John of “Star
Trek” (2009)
47 Word of choice
48 So-so grade
49 Tribute in verse
51 Yellowfin tuna
53 Book buyers
55 Not-so-subtle
verbal nudge
58 “O Sole __”
59 Relaxing soak, or
a financial
soaking
60 Former “SNL”
regular known for
Sinatra
impressions
65 Draft
classification
66 Building
extension
67 Be acquainted
with
68 Knitter’s
purchase
69 Rock group
70 Planted, as seedDOWN
1 Cleveland
NBAer
2 “Moonlight”
Oscar winner
Mahershala __
3 Chop off
4 Argentine 
soccer superstar
Lionel
5 Net judge’s call
6 “Put __ on it!”
7 Hunches over
8 Underwear
brand
9 Tightly drawn
10 Commercial
rental property
11 Candle shop
allure
12 Provided with
medicine
14 “Wonder
Woman”
publisher
17 Bother a lot
21 Marquis de __
22 Arrive onshore
23 Perfect example
24 Beverage-
named Denver
arena
25 Reckless
30 Roaring success
32 Blu-ray buy34 “Looks like
trouble!”
35 Curry powder,
e.g. ... and what
each set of puzzle
circles contains
36 Unlikely
GoFundMe donor
39 “ABC World
News Tonight”
anchor David
41 Casual shirts
43 Ark builder
45 Bangkok natives47 Ryder of “Edward
Scissorhands”
49 “Yippee!”
50 Mythical hunter
52 Muslim woman’s
headscarf
54 Comes to port
56 Larger __ life
57 Ky. neighbor
61 One on foot, in
signs
62 Musician Yoko
63 “Kaboom!”
64 Part of MYOB
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/12/1806/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 12, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Trap
6 Leaps in tutus
11 “Major Barbara”
monogram
14 Dress style
15 Think the world
of
16 Roger’s relative?
17 Surveillance
camera?
20 Set of pieces
21 They’re for
members only
22 When the break
rm. gets busy,
perhaps
23 Opposite sides
26 Fine art and
antiques, say
27 Desires more
from Us?
28 Slithery danger
30 Holmes and
Watson, e.g.
31 Interconnected
irrigation
channels?
35 Garage sale term
37 Actor Stephen
38 Lose impact
39 Member of
Cassidy’s
baseball team?
42 One-time
connection
43 Put in
44 Signal on the
road
48 Religious
discourse
51 Had it up to here
52 Org. offering
puppy love?
53 Tenerife, por
ejemplo
55 Nutritional fig.
56 Obsessively
uniform French
fries?
60 Gardner on
screen
61 Ahi et al.
62 Take a little off
63 “Think you I am
no stronger than
my __”: Portia
64 Part of a caddie’s
burden
65 Unwelcome
companyDOWN
1 Bazaar figure
2 “Primary Colors”
screenwriter May
3 Bit of winter wear
4 Business end?
5 Bk. after Ezra
6 Two-faced god
7 Verge
8 Barnyard males
9 Diamond stat
10 Groups breaking
away
11 Began to overtake
12 Inherently
13 “Nothing wrong
that I can find”
18 Clarifying words
19 8-Down, for
instance
24 “M*A*S*H” figure
25 “Would that it
were true!”
26 Dian Fossey
subject
28 Down the road
29 Complication
32 Street __
33 Occasionally
newsworthy
comment
34 Bazaar array
35 Crash insurance?36 Short-lived 1760s
levy
39 Commonwealth
off Florida
40 Big name in chips
41 WWII peril
45 Like much
sandstone
46 Gung-ho
47 Toys with
49 Global sports
org. concerned
with wickets50 “Chicago Hope”
Emmy winner
51 Give short 
shrift to, with
“over”
53 Access-providing
fig.
54 Go across
57 NATO HQ 
locale
58 Handy 
program
59 Half of sei
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/08/1806/08/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, June 8, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Certain vertebra 
1.  Probably5.  Prominent
2.  Bright at night6.  Lariat
3.  Forgetful condition 7.  Stretch tight
4.  Howard directed itMRLBUA
IKYLLENWKON
SLOAS
TIMONOL
NSAAIMEAIRSNT
OCNCOOANSWERS: 1A-Lumbar  5A-Known  6A-Lasso  7A-Strain
1D-Likely  2D-Moonlit  3D-Amnesia  4D-Cocoon  B-Mike Wallace6-12-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Some of the people this person interviewed include
Yasser Arafat, Barbra Streisand and Salvador Dali.
BONUS
1. Name the first major-league relief 
pitcher to win an MVP award.
2. Pitcher Jim Kaat was in the 
majors for seven presidential admin-
istrations. Name the first and last 
presidents in office when he pitched.
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that Army beat Navy in football?
4. Who was the first European play-
er to win the NBA Defensive Player of 
the Year award?
5. After the Mighty Ducks of Ana-
heim joined the NHL for the 1993-94 
season, how long was it before the 
team made the NHL playoffs?
6. In 2018, Chip Ganassi Racing 
recorded its 200th overall victory. In 
which car series did Ganassi record a 
majority of its 200 victories?
7. When was the last time before 2017 
that France won tennis’ Davis Cup?
Answers
1. Jim Konstanty, in 1950.
2. Kaat pitched in the majors from 
1959 to 1983 (from Dwight Eisen-
hower to Ronald Reagan).
3. It was 2001.
4. Marc Gasol, with Memphis in 2013.
5. It was the Mighty Ducks’ fourth 
season (1996-97).
6. Ganassi captured 103 of its 200 
wins in IndyCar.
7. It was 2001.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
June 11, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 22 TicketsOn Monday, UF golfers Sierra 
Brooks and Andy Zhang were 
named to Golfweek's women's 
and men's All-American teams, 
respectively.RENOVATIONS BEGIN FOR UF SOFTBALL STADIUM 
Construction for an $11-million renovation at Katie Seashole Pressly Sta-
dium begins this week. All work should be completed in time for the start of 
the 2019 softball season. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
TRACK
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Florida needed everything to go 
right at the NCAA Outdoor Cham-
pionships.
Its men needed at least 53 points 
to complete the three-peat, and its 
women needed at least 47 to get 
their first podium finish since 2014.
Both teams came just short of 
reaching those aspirations as the 
men took second (42 points) and 
the women took fifth (42 points) 
at NCAA Outdoors in Eugene, Or-
egon.
“Things just didn’t go our way 
this weekend,” coach Mike Hollo-
way said about his men in an in-
terview after the meet. “We’re still second in the country, and that’s 
nothing to be upset about.”
Though the team could not 
complete a task that only three oth-
er programs have done since 1975, 
plenty went well in the individual 
events. 
The men’s competitions fea-
tured sophomore Grant Holloway, 
who appeared in four events at 
Hayward Field. He finished in the 
top five in three of them.
His most impressive was a nar-
row 110-meter hurdles victory in 
which he leaned over the finish 
line in 13.42 to beat Illinois junior 
David Kendziera by one-hundredth 
of a second. 
The second-straight title marked 
more historical entries for the Chesapeake, Virginia, native. 
Holloway is the fourth man to 
ever repeat as 110-meter hurdles 
champion and the first since for-
mer-Gator Josh Walker accom-
plished the feat in 2004-05.
With his consecutive indoor 
60-meter hurdles titles, Holloway 
became only the second man in 
Division I history (South Carolina’s 
Terrence Trammell in 1999-00) to 
repeat as champion in both indoor 
and outdoor high hurdles. 
Holloway also ran on Florida’s 
4x100 relay team on Friday, which 
included juniors Michael Timpson 
Jr. and Ryan Clark and freshman 
Chantz Sawyers. The third-place 
finish in the event was the best by 
a UF 4x100 group since winning consecutive titles in 2013 and 2014.
Later the same day, Holloway 
joined the 4x400 quartet with Saw-
yers, junior Kunle Fasasi and fresh-
man Benjamin Lobo Vedel for a 
fourth-place finish. 
The one event in which Hollo-
way did not collect points for the 
Gators was in the long jump on 
Wednesday. The No. 2-ranked long 
jumper in the nation only managed 
a 7.83 meter-mark for ninth place 
in the competition.
Junior Anders Eriksson was an-
other key contributor for the Gators 
this weekend despite competing in 
just the men’s hammer throw. 
Eriksson collected eight points 
for his team in the best NCAA fin-
ish of his career. He sat in seventh place entering his final attempt of 
the competition, but with three 
swifts spins of his body, he threw 
for 73.76 meters to boost himself 
into second place. 
His silver medal tied Jeremy 
Postin (2012) for the best finish in 
Florida history.
Eriksson’s come-from-behind 
performance, in addition to a sev-
enth-place personal-record finish 
by freshman Thomas Mardal and 
an eighth-place PR for redshirt ju-
nior AJ McFarland, made them 
the sixth trio of hammer throwers 
to score at NCAA Outdoors since 
1966.
Despite just missing the podium 
for the second-straight season, the Gators fall short at NCAAs despite solid solo performances
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
As his line drive popped out of the right 
fielder’s glove and over the fence, Florida 
Gators left fielder Austin Langworthy raised 
his left hand in triumph as he rounded first 
base on a walk-off home run to beat the Au-
burn Tigers.
AU catcher Brett Wright fell to his knees 
and put his head in the clay as he realized his 
team’s season was over.
Langworthy’s solo shot gave Florida the 
boost it lacked all night as it walked off on Au-
burn 3-2.
Nine innings weren’t enough to decide the 
winner of the Gainesville Super Regional at 
McKethan Stadium late Monday night as the 
walk-off bomb came in the bottom of the 11th.
“Right when I hit it, I knew it had a chance,” 
Langworthy said. “I wasn’t sure I quite hit high 
enough, but once I saw it go over the fence, I 
was just ecstatic for myself and my teammates 
to get us back to Omaha for another year.”
The Gators drew first blood in the bottom 
of the first inning when third baseman Jona-
than India went yard with a rocket to right-
center field to put Florida up 1-0.
Auburn struck back on UF starting pitcher 
and freshman Jack Leftwich in the top of the 
third. After Tigers shortstop Will Holland sent 
a two-out single to deep second base, he stole 
second to put himself in scoring position. The 
very next batter, right fielder Steven Williams, 
singled through the right side to plate Holland 
and make the score 1-1.
In the bottom of the fourth, UF regained the 
lead.OMAHA BOUND: Florida walks off against Auburn
Alligator File Photo
Left fielder Austin Langworthy's walk-off home run in UF's 3-2 win Auburn in the bottom of the 11th inning sent Florida to the 
College World Series for the fourth-consecutive season. 
TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
The better 
team won 
the 2018 
NBA Finals, 
just like we 
all expected. The 
Golden State War -
riors swept the 
Cleveland Cavaliers 
to repeat as NBA 
champions.
I’ve organized some of my 
post-Finals thoughts below, 
starting with a ridiculous nar -
rative I’m sure we’re going to 
hear about all summer.
Kevin Durant is not bet -
ter at basketball than LeB -
ron James. 
To his credit, Durant has 
been lessening the gap between 
himself and LeBron since sign -
ing with Golden State in 2016. 
This is a reflection of improve -
ments to his all-around game, 
primarily on the defensive end. 
It also helps that he plays 
with three other All-Stars. But 
regardless, he’s not close to the 
leader James is. The two best 
players in the world might be 
1A/1B in terms of skill level, 
but there’s a reason KD lost 17 
of 21 head-to-head matchups 
with LeBron before he joined 
forces with the 73-win Finals 
runner-up.
LeBron had no help in the 
Finals.  
The Cavaliers are a lot -
tery team without him. This 
postseason, he led Cleveland 
in scoring, assists, blocks and 
steals. 
Here’s a snapshot of the 
struggles his supporting cast 
had against the Warriors: 
Guard Kyle Korver, who has 
made the fourth-most threes 
all time during his 15-year pro 
career, went 1 for 11 from long range for the series 
and went scoreless 
in the final two 
games. Guard JR 
Smith’s gaffe at the 
end of Game 1 has 
been well docu -
mented, and center 
Tristan Thompson 
struggled with 6.8 
points and just 5.3 rebounds 
per game.
If the Cavs won Game 1, it 
would have caused a series-
changing domino effect. 
Allow me to explain: If 
Cleveland stole Game 1 in 
Oakland, it would likely lose 
Game 2 and split Games 3 and 
4 at home. We would have 
watched Game 5 of a 2-2 series 
Monday night.
But I guess that only applies 
if LeBron doesn’t hurt his hand 
after Game 1. 
He injured himself by 
punching a whiteboard in the 
locker room after the disap -
pointing loss. His injury nega -
tively affected his play and 
Cleveland’s chances at an up -
set.
LeBron will be back. 
This has to be the most 
frustrating end to a season he’s 
ever had. He worked so hard 
to drag the Cavs back to the 
Finals for the fourth-straight 
year, only to watch his team -
mates collapse as he dealt with 
a serious, self-inflicted injury.
He defied Father Time in 
his 15th season, but nobody 
knows where the King will 
continue his reign from in his 
16th.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports 
writer. Follow him on Twitter 
@AndrewJHuang and contact 
him at ahuang@alligator.org.Some afterthoughts on 
the 2018 NBA FinalsHuang Story Short / Opinion
Andrew Huang
twitter: @AndrewJHuangFOOTBALL
By Dylan Rudolph 
Sports Writer
 
Coach Dan Mullen will have 
another defensive lineman to 
work with next season. 
Graduate transfer Adam Shuler 
announced Monday on his Twit -
ter that he’s transferring to Flor -
ida from West Virginia. Because 
he is a graduate transfer, Shuler 
will be immediately eligible for 
all team activities for the next 
two seasons.
The three-star prospect from 
Longwood, Florida, finished his 
2017 redshirt sophomore season 
with 37 tackles, eight tackles for 
loss and three sacks in 12 games, 
including a big game in West Vir -
ginia’s opener against Virginia 
Tech where he tallied seven total 
tackles.
Shuler will join a strong defen -
sive line that already has weap -
ons, including senior CeCe Jeffer -
son, sophomore Elijah Conliffe, 
junior Antonneous Clayton and 
redshirt freshman Zachary Carter.
The Gators also have a new 
defensive line coach, Sal Sunseri, 
who was hired in January after 
three seasons as the linebackers 
coach for the Oakland Raiders.
The 6-foot-4, 268-pound line -
man is expected to be an imme -
diate upgrade and help generate 
sacks for the Gators, as the team 
struggled in that area in 2017 
with only 23.
Even though he missed all of 
spring practice, Shuler will have 
plenty of time to learn the new 
system before the team opens the 
2018 season on Sept. 1 against 
Charleston Southern.
 
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgFlorida lands graduate transfer 
Adam Shuler from West Virginia 
www.wvusports.com
Defensive lineman Adam Shuler is transferring from West Virginia to UF. 
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenuewomen got six top-ﬁ  ve performances throughout 
the meet.
Among the most notable were junior Yanis 
David’s runner-up ﬁ  nish in the triple jump, se-
nior Darrielle McQueen’s silver medal in the long 
jump and junior Sharrika Barnett’s fourth-place 
spot in the 400-meter race.
But two surprising performances came from 
a pair of freshmen in their ﬁ  rst appearances at 
NCAA Outdoors.
Amanda Froeynes entered Saturday in the No. 
17 spot in the heptathlon after ﬁ  nishing 23rd in 
the 100-meter hurdles and 20th in the 200-meter 
on Friday.
She recorded a throw of 44.63 meters in the 
javelin for second and completed the 800-meter 
with a third-place run to lift herself to ﬁ  fth overall 
in the heptathlon.
It was the second-highest heptathlon ﬁ  nish 
in school history (Heidi Mann in 1987), and she joined Kansas State’s Nina Schultz and Georgia’s 
Kendell Williams as the only other freshmen to 
score in the event in the last ﬁ  ve NCAA Outdoor 
Championships.
Froeynes’ score of 5,794 was also a personal 
best that put her at the No. 2 spot on Florida’s 
All-Time Top 10 list.
Nikki Stephens spent the ﬁ  rst half of her career 
competing alongside Froeynes in the heptathlon. 
Halfway into the season, she transitioned to the 
400-meter hurdles.
On Saturday, she became the ﬁ  rst Gator to ﬁ  n-
ish sixth or better in the 400 hurdles since Ugon-
na Ndu (ﬁ  fth) in 2013. 
Stephens later joined Barnett, freshman Taylor 
Manson and senior Taylor Sharpe in the 4x400 
relay and helped the team to ﬁ  fth in that race. 
“When you look at our team across the board 
… the future is very bright for us,” Holloway said 
about the women.
@alanisthames 
athames@alligator.org TRACK,  from pg. 14The UF men and women inished 
second and ifth, respectively
Alligator File Photo
Mike Holloway coached the UF men's and women's track teams to respective 
second-place and ﬁ  fth-place ﬁ  nishes at the NCAA Outdoor Championships 
in Eugene, Oregon.
Second baseman Blake Reese 
doubled in the left-center gap, and 
center ﬁ  elder Nick Horvath notched 
a single. But the hit was robbed of 
an RBI when Holland made a diving 
play up the middle to limit the dam-
age.
With runners on the corners, 
catcher Jonah Girand came up to the 
plate. But he wasn’t the one to score 
the run.
The Gators executed a bit of trick-
ery to bring Reese to the plate.In a play Florida had practiced 
and run before, Horvath began 
charging toward second before 
promptly falling over into the clay. 
Auburn starting pitcher Andrew 
Mitchell, stepped off the rubber and 
began to walk toward Horvath to 
apply the tag before he realized his 
mistake. 
As Mitchell stepped off the 
mound, Reese ran home and scored 
before the Tigers could make the 
play at the plate. The bizarre turn of 
events energized the crowd and put 
the Gators up 2-1.
“It’s just something that we work on, and it very seldom happens,” 
Reese said. “But when you get a 
chance to do something like that, the 
timing’s got to be perfect.”
Scoring ceased until the seventh 
inning.
AU second baseman Luke Jar-
vis launched a ball to right ﬁ  eld for 
a single. Jarvis advanced to second 
base when right ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton 
misplayed the ball and let it roll all 
the way to the fence.
Jarvis waltzed his way to third 
on a wild pitch from Florida pitcher 
Tommy Mace. Tigers ﬁ  rst baseman 
Josh Anthony ripped a sacriﬁ  ce lin-eout to Dalton in right, and a play at 
the plate was imminent.
Dalton launched a beautiful 
throw to Girand, but Jarvis snuck 
under the catcher’s tag to tie the 
game at 2-2.
AU threatened in the top of the 
tenth against UF closer Michael By-
rne when Holland singled to right 
ﬁ  eld and moved over to second on 
a wild pitch. Williams walked to put 
runners on ﬁ  rst and second, and 
Wright grounded out to third base to 
end the threat.
In the bottom of the frame, the 
Gators got runners on ﬁ  rst and third before Dalton popped out to end the 
suspense.
In the top of the 11th, Byrne 
mowed down three-consecutive 
Auburn hitters before Langworthy 
homered a 1-2 pitch in the bottom of 
the inning to end it.
Byrne threw four innings, an 
amount higher than usual for a clos-
er.
“He’s a starter in the back end of 
the bullpen,” O’Sullivan said.
UF now heads to the College 
World Series in Omaha, Nebraska, 
where it will play Texas Tech on 
June 17 at 7 p.m.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Gators advance to CWS for fourth-straight year