We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Art gallery and wine cafe coming to Gainesville
Here’s where you can ﬁ  nd it, pg. 8
Free champagne and pizza
 This Back to School Bash is happening Thursday, pg. 10From the pitch to the pool:
How UF swimmer Jack Szaranek’s gruesome 
leg injury altered the course of his athletic ca-reer, pg. 16VOLUME 112 ISSUE 44
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE CHAPTER VIOLATED FIVE 
STUDENT CONDUCT CODES.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After facing disciplinary action in 
December, UF suspended the fraternity 
Tau Epsilon Phi for violating ﬁ  ve stu-
dent conduct codes. 
A decision from the then-interim 
Dean of Students Heather White sus-
pended the fraternity from Dec. 7, 2017, until Dec. 17, 2021. Violations include serving alcohol to minors, drug posses-
sion and causing more than $3,000 in 
damages to a New Orleans hotel while on a weekend trip in September. 
The alcohol was given at an unregis-
tered event, which resulted in multiple intoxicated people being transported to a hospital, according to a disciplinary letter. 
TEP president Matthew LaTorre de-
clined to comment.
In the letter, White said the chapter 
took responsibility for the code viola-tions. 
Tim Smith, the international consul 
for the national Tau Epsilon Phi, wrote in an email that the Grand Council of Tau Epsilon Phi suspended UF’s chap-ter indeﬁ  nitely on Dec. 15., meaning the 
national fraternity would have to work 
with the university to decide when and if the chapter would return. 
White wrote that part of the reason 
for the current suspension was due to previous deferred suspensions. 
In 2008, the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce 
placed TEP under interim suspension af-ter a group of Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers 
entered the fraternity house and found 
36 pledges, or prospective members of the fraternity, kneeling shirtless on the ﬂ  oor of the basement. 
If the fraternity follows certain cri-
teria, like completing a membership re-view and vacating their house, it could potentially reduce the length of suspen-sion. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF fraternity suspended until 2021 following investigation 
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
UF’s chapter of T au Epsilon Phi faces a four-year suspension after allegations of drug 
possession, serving alcohol to minors and causing about $3,000 in damages at a hotel.
IN A RESIGNATION SPEECH, SHE 
SAID MINORITY VOICES ARE 
NOT VALUED.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
During the ﬁ  rst Senate meeting of Spring, 
SG Senate President Pro-Tempore Janae 
Moodie resigned and told the chamber her 
party — Impact — and SG tokenize minori-
ties. 
Since October, when Moodie was elected 
to her leadership position, she’s questioned 
why she serves an organization that doesn’t 
share her values, she said. Moodie has been a senator since Spring 2015, when she was ﬁ  rst elected with Swamp Party, according to 
Alligator archives. 
“The reality is that there is a diversity prob-
lem where minorities are tokenized across the 
board and not given a proper seat at the table, 
and even then, their voices are not valued,” 
Moodie said.
When Moodie was elected to her posi-
tion, alongside Senate President Ian Green, it marked the ﬁ  rst time two black students held the highest senate leadership, according to Al-
ligator archives. 
As Moodie left the room after her 10-min-
ute speech, senators gave her a standing ova-tion. 
Trevor Schaettle, who will remain Impact 
majority party leader, disagreed with Mood-
ie’s point and said SG is diverse.
“I believe we all come from different 
backgrounds and bring different ideas to the table,” Schaettle said. 
Schaettle said Moodie has shared her 
feelings with him in the past. When he saw Moodie leave, he said he walked out to hug 
her.
“I personally have been talking with Ja-
nae, and the best way was to resign with the 
way she’s been feeling recently,” Schaettle 
said. “I know that the Senate and I will miss 
her very much.”
Former Student Body Vice President Bren-
don “BJ” Jonassaint said Moodie’s speech re-ﬂ  ects what others have said in the past.
“I thought her speech was eloquently said 
,and she had a lot of valid points that mirrored past opinions,” he said.
Senator Mackintosh Joachim, who said he 
is one of three black senators, agreed diversity is an issue in the Senate. As Moodie spoke, he snapped his ﬁ  ngers. 
“I look forward to seeing the Spring elec-
tions regarding the black population in the 
Senate,” he said.
As of press time, Moodie and Green could 
SEE SENATE,  PAGE 5Student Government has diversity problem, senator says
Christina Morales / Alligator Staff
 Janae Moodie speaks during the ﬁ  rst Senate meeting of the semester on Tuesday.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
Local Events / News in BriefHIGH  73° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Student Government elections 
To learn more about qualify-
ing or running for office during the Spring elections, attend the informational meeting at 6:30 
p.m. Jan. 23 in the Reitz Union 
Chamber. Qualifying and slating for candidates will be in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, Suites A 
and E, on the following: from 3 
p.m. to 8 p.m. Jan. 28, from 9 
a.m. to 7 p.m. Jan. 29 and from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Jan. 30.GatorNights: Welcome Back
The Reitz Union this Friday night will hold its New Year’s rendition of GatorNights. Start the semes-ter with the stuff-a-gator activity (first 300 people, must check-in first) or dance all night in the 
atrium with live music from DJ 
Magnum. Comedian Moses Storm will perform at 9:30 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom. Learn some new dance moves with our hip hop fit-ness class in the Grand Ballroom or start your semester off creat-ing a vision board for your room. Relax with your own bath fizzy 
or create your own resolution door hanger in the Arts & Crafts 
Center. Paint a new painting with our 50-person GatorNights paint-ing class in Room 3315 at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. The film this week is "Blade Runner: 2049," showing in the Reitz Union Auditorium at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 44
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan de Sotomayor Alvarez,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
FREE PARKING BY 
SWAMP 4 CLASS!
Go to Parkonthefly.com or
Facebook pg. for FREE codes!Free parking for anybody  
who wants it this SPRING!
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
2018 BE ST ONLINE BACH ELOR’S PROGRAM SUS NEW S & WORL D REPORT
Inside
fl i
MLK2018
Inside
Wednesday, January 10, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:       To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Dear Gators,
It is such an 
honor to be 
selected as 
your new 
Dean of Stu-
dents and As -
sociate Vice 
President  
for Student Affairs. I’ve spent more than 
half of my career helping students find 
success in front of employers and part -
nering with academic units to tailor the 
job search process for students of different 
backgrounds and majors. I’m thrilled to 
have the opportunity to build on those re -
lationships and provide care holistically to 
the student experience.
In my interview, I talked about having 
the courage to care. At UF , we frequently 
use the term care, but that doesn’t always 
mean we are caring vulnerably or with grit 
in the face of adversity. 
UF students are unique and diverse, but 
we can all agree that individual well-being, 
feeling valued, and being respected are 
necessary to every student’s success in college. 
As Dean of Students, I’m here for you 
to listen, to be an ally and to care cou -
rageously. This means pushing beyond 
boundaries when it is right and going 
out of my way to learn more about what’s 
needed to serve you. 
In the next  several months, I will be work -
ing with our Dean of Students Office 
team to evaluate where we are now and 
how that’s going to lead us into the future.
I invite all students to share your thoughts, 
concerns, hopes and ideas with me. I 
would love to hear your ideas on the best 
way to connect with as many of you as 
possible. I will be holding regular Donuts 
with the Dean sessions throughout the se-
mester and will post about opportunities 
on social media. Be sure to follow me! 
I hope you  all have a wonderful start  
to the semester, and I look for -
ward to tackling 2018 together. 
Go Gators!
Dean WhiteFaculty and staff are invited to bring your 
lunch to the UF HR Building (903 West 
University Ave.) the first Wednesday of 
each month from noon to 1 p.m. for pre -
sentations on a range of wellness topics 
provided by UF experts.
To register for presentations and view  
upcoming speakers, visit mytraining.
hr.ufl.edu, log in and search for Wellness 
Wednesdays.
Want to watch at your desk? Email hrs-well-
ness@ufl.edu to sign up for a live stream.
  Jan. 10 – How  
 to Lose Weight  
     and Keep It Off
  Kathryn M.  Ross,  
   Ph.D. M.P .H., Asst.  
   Professor, Dept. of  
   Clinical & Health  
     Psychology
“ “  Losing  weight”  
  is a popular yet  
 challenging New 
Year’s resolution. This presentation will 
highlight evidence-based strategies to pro-
mote weight loss and successful long-term 
maintenance.“This month-long celebration is an amazing op-
portunity to educate the campus and community 
of Dr. King’s rich legacy,” said PJ Jones, assistant 
director of MCDA. “Our goal is to engage our 
entire campus community and inspire them to use 
their strengths, passions and talents to better the 
lives of others and allow his legacy to live on.”
The celebration starts this month on Jan. 11 
at 6:30 p.m. with a march and kick-off event 
from the Reitz Union Amphitheater. Then over 
the course of two weeks, there will be a series 
of events including the MLK Day of Service on 
Jan. 15, the Moment to Movement workshop 
on Jan. 19, the Advocacy in Action Panel on Jan. 
25 and the Social Justice Summit on Jan. 26-27. 
“This year’s theme is Building a Beloved Commu-
More than a fashion show, the expo offers re-
sume support, workshops on how to tie a tie, the 
art of an elevator pitch, and the anatomy of a 
paycheck.
Ambre Hobson, assistant director for the Care 
Team in the Dean of Students Office comment -
ed, “the Expo is a wonderful chance for students 
to prepare for spring Career Showcase. Learning 
new career skills is always valuable, regardless of 
where you are in your education or how far you 
are from graduation.” 
The Gator Career Closet Expo is Wednesday, Jan. 17 
from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Plaza of the Americas.  
Learn more about the Gator Career Closet at 
careercloset.dso.ufl.edu, and check out all the 
must-know details ahead of the Career Show -
case at crc.ufl.edu.
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSCOMPASS Release 3 will bring functionality 
within the myUFL Student Information System 
(Campus Solutions) to ISIR Processing (Finan -
cial Aid area), Student Program/Plan (Student 
Records), SHCC Immunizations (Campus 
Community, Student Health), and Residen -
cy Processing (Admissions, Student Records).  
Students will  also see new self-service func -
tionality via ONE.UF with the addition of  
“To-Dos” and “Academic Programs” cards, as 
well as a “Financial Information Release Form” 
accessible via the portal’s Main Menu. Read 
more and find links to training in a detailed 
Release 3 article (http://compass.ufl.edu/arti-
cles/2017/november/release-3-goes-live-janu -
ary-16-2018.html).Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life exemplified 
values of courage, truth, justice, service, com -
passion and nonviolence.
At UF , celebrating  the legacy of Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. is more than just a day. MLK 
Celebration committee co-chairs PJ Jones and 
Diana Moreno from Multicultural and Di-
versity Affairs are helping to re-imagine this 
university-wide celebration.  The MLK Cele -
bration planning committee includes student 
leaders, faculty and staff.
Landing the perfect job or internship is all 
about creating connections and having the 
tools to ace the interview. 
Ahead of the Career Showcase on Jan. 30 and 
31, the Career Resource Center, Dean of Stu -
dents Office and Student Government are 
teaming up to host the second annual Gator 
Career Closet Expo. 
Learn the difference between business casual 
and business professional attire and see how 
UF’s lending closet can help students look great 
and land that job. Changes to myUFL and COMPASS Release 3 
coming January 16
The myUFL portal (http://my.ufl.edu) will be 
upgraded Jan. 16 to include mobile-friendly 
navigation that adjusts and conforms to any 
smartphone, tablet, or large-screen device; 
cross-browser compatibility; and a new look 
and feel, including a navigation icon in the 
upper right corner instead of a dropdown on 
the left. Read more in the November issue of 
COMPASS Update (https://compass.ufl.edu/
articles/2017/november/new-navigation-sys -
tem-coming-to-myufl-january-16-2018.html).nity through Advocacy and Justice,” said Diana 
Moreno, assistant director of MCDA. “We want 
to help students move beyond reflection and 
understand the academic and practical impacts of 
the social media-based and grassroots advocacy 
campaigns we are witnessing. We are using the 
example of Dr. King’s vision of a Beloved Com -
munity as a framework for this exploration.”
The celebration will conclude with the Black 
History Month Opening event on Jan. 28 at 6 
p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
To learn more  about all the events asso -
ciated with the MLK Celebration, visit 
https://multicultural.ufl.edu/programs/mlk/  
or visit Multicultural & Diversity Affairs’  
Facebook page for additional information. MLK  
Celebration
Get  
Career-ReadyCOMPASS: 
Changes aheadMeet the 
New Dean  
of Students
Resolve to 
Check Out 
Wellness Wednesdays
THROUG H AD VOCACY
AND JUSTICEBUILDING A
BELOVED COMMUNITYThe following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBy Paige Fry and 
Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writers
Christopher Artiga knew the day 
would come.
Artiga, who was born in El Sal-
vador and came to the United Status 
in 1999, is one of nearly 200,000 Sal-
vadorans with TPS, or Temporary 
Protected Status. 
On Monday, President Donald 
Trump’s administration announced the program would end on Sept. 9, 2019, forcing people with TPS to gain citizenship, leave the country or risk deportation.
The decision came as no surprise 
to the 22-year-old Santa Fe program-ming and analysis sophomore. He and his family watched closely as Haitians fought for their TPS status 
in November and suspected some-
thing would come ever since Trump was elected. 
But Artiga has hope. “I’m just not going to let it get to 
me,” he said. 
After the news broke, Gainesville 
lawyers and affected residents pre-pared a way to keep the protected 
status, which the U.S. offered to 
Salvadorans in 2001 after a series of earthquakes left the country in a humanitarian crisis, according to the Washington Post. 
Gainesville immigration attorney 
Cary Torres, a UF alumna, said some of her Salvadoran clients had antici-
pated the TPS drop, and the lawyer 
has already spoken with three clients about the next steps for legalization.
“People have been already trying 
to ﬁ  x their problem that they saw coming down the pipe,” she said. “Salvadorans have been foreseeing it in the past month or so.”
Those affected can be sponsored 
by an employer or family member if the sponsor is a U.S. citizen and at least 21 years old. They can also ob-tain a student visa.
In November, the Department of 
Homeland Security ended TPS for 60,000 Haitians who arrived after a 2010 earthquake and for 2,500 Ni-
caraguans protected after Hurricane 
Mitch in 1998, the Post reported. 
In Gainesville, other immigration 
lawyers like Torres offer free legal consultations for those affected by the removal of their protected status. 
Immigrants like Artiga have made 
this country their home, but each year his family has had to spend 
about $1,500 to apply for a TPS ex-
tension, he said. Under the protec-tion, he and others aren’t eligible for citizenship or residency.
“I’ve spent the huge majority of 
my life here,” he said. “I couldn’t even tell you the street addresses of El Salvador or anything.”
His family doesn’t receive tax 
beneﬁ  ts, and Artiga can’t receive ﬁ  -nancial aid. Despite setbacks, Artiga said he’ll keep living his life to the fullest and hope Congress will take action. 
“I don’t know why I’m being 
so blindly optimistic, but it’s better than being sad over it,” he said. “My 
future’s uncertain, but life is uncer-
tain.”
White House revokes protection status, Gainesville preparesBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When former Miami Beach Mayor Philip 
Levine asked a room of about 20 UF students 
whether they watched Gov. Rick Scott’s final 
State of the State address on Tuesday morn-ing, not a single hand went up. 
“Well you didn’t miss that much, OK? I 
can tell you that,” Levine said. “A lot of things that 
he didn’t say were the 
things I think were most important to all of us.” 
Levine, who’s run-
ning for Florida gover-nor as a Democrat, spoke 
to students Tuesday at 
3 p.m. at the Lubavitch 
Chabad Jewish Center, located at 2021 NW 
Fifth Ave., as part of his statewide four-
day bus tour, “Live! from Florida’s Living Rooms.”  
Students sat on white leather sofas and armchairs that Chabad members and 
Levine’s campaign staff had arranged in a 
circle. Levine stood and spoke for about an hour on a range of issues, from sea-level rise 
in Miami Beach to making Florida a “start-up 
state” for businesses. 
For students from low-income families, 
Levine said as governor he would make col-lege debt-free, on the condition those stu-dents work in-state for a certain number of 
years after graduating. 
“We want to make sure everyone has the 
right opportunity to go to college if your par-ents can’t afford it,” Levine said. “There’s a 
lot of Einsteins out here, and we don’t want them to leave the state of Florida.” 
During the Q&A session, which lasted 
more than 30 minutes, students pressed the candidate on his exact plans for issues like 
homelessness among veterans and investing 
in poor, rural communities. 
When Eric Higbie, a UF political science 
sophomore, asked Levine exactly how high he’d raise the minimum wage, Higbie said he thought of his debt after college and his 
job as a Jimmy Johns delivery driver. Higbie, 
19, makes about $10 an hour, including tips, on a given shift. 
Levine said while he wants the minimum 
wage raised higher than $8.25 an hour, he didn’t want to mandate a statewide figure 
and would rather let locals decide.
“Buying a burger in Miami Beach is a lot 
more money than buying a burger out in Pensacola,” Levine said. “Let local commu-
nities decide specifically how high they want to go.” 
While Higbie said he was happy to hear 
Levine is for raising the minimum wage, he said he would have preferred a commitment 
to $15 an hour. 
“I feel like a specific number would be 
better,” Higbie said. “I look at my schooling and debt afterward; $15 would really help 
me have extra money in my pocket.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5  
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Xin Lin’s day came to a 
screeching halt Tuesday morn-
ing when he saw the sign. 
“Free Donuts,” it read. The fifth-year UF industrial 
engineering student made a beeline for Newell Hall. He 
would never pass up a free do-
nut, he said.
Lin, 23, was met with not 
only boxes and boxes of Krispy Kreme glazed donuts but also 
newly appointed Dean of Stu-
dents Heather White.
For two hours, White chat-
ted with students and handed 
out 200 donuts on the first floor 
of Newell Hall for the inaugu-ral “Donuts with the Dean.” 
Campus Diplomats and U 
Matter, We Care also tabled 
at the event and handed out 
stickers, bags, pens and small, squishy gators. The monthly event was meant to help White get to know the Student Body and make her position more 
visible, she said. 
“It was just a very infor-
mal way of saying ‘Hello’ and 
‘Good luck with the new se-mester,’” White said. 
White served as interim 
Dean of Students since July and began her permanent role this month, according to Alli-
gator archives.  She said she 
has made students a prior-ity by launching “Donuts with the Dean,” moving “Dine with the Dean” — a program where 
students can eat lunch with 
White — out of the Dean of Students office and into places like residence halls and the Re-
itz Union.
“I’m not really thinking 
about the past, I’m just think-
ing more about the future and focusing that way,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgDean of Students hands out donuts, meets students
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Christina Sedaros, a UF statistics freshman, talks with Dr. Heather White, the Associate Vice President for 
Student Affairs and Dean of Students, at the Donuts with the Dean event in Newell Hall Tuesday. Sedaros said she goes to Newell every day.
HE WAS PLACED ON 
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE 
PENDING INVESTIGATION.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
fice deputy was arrested for stealing 
$9,900 of evidence Monday morning, Gainesville police said.
Deputy Anthony James Simo-
neaux, while at the scene of a crime on Northeast 35th Place, hid money in a boot, according to a GPD arrest report. He then put the boot in a wooded area, near the crime scene, police said.
Police found the money during a 
search of the area that was unrelated to investigating Simoneaux.
Simoneaux has worked for ACSO 
for nearly 20 years and is currently assigned to the Gainesville and Ala-chua County Drug Task Force, ac-cording to a press release.
ACSO placed Simoneaux on an 
administrative leave as GPD conducts a criminal investigation, according to the press release. ACSO is also con-ducting an internal investigation. An ACSO spokesperson did not respond for comment or give Simoneaux’s salary. It is unknown if the adminis-trative leave is paid or unpaid.Simoneaux was charged with 
grand theft and taken to the Alachua County Jail where he was released on a $35,000 bond Tuesday.
Most recently, a GPD officer re-
signed over a month ago before an internal investigation into his alleged misconduct — making anti-Semitic remarks in Facebook posts from 2011 and 2013 — concluded. The investi-
gation found Officer Michael Hamill 
committed the violation and also didn’t notify his supervisor when he started working as an Uber driver.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org A Drug Task Force deputy stole 
nearly $10,000 from a crimeTwo resolutions were 
approved as wellLevine’s first-year goals
• Raise minimum wage
• Ensure every Floridian has 
health care
Levine’s platform points
• Make Florida a leader in solar 
energy
• Restore voting rights for ex-
felons
• Invest tax dollars on public 
education rather than charter 
and private schools
• Improve public transportation 
between major citiesLevine
not be reached for further com-
ment. 
Before Moodie’s speech, Sen-
ate passed two resolutions, one promoting political awareness of the Net Neutrality Act and the other encouraging awareness for 
the #GATORSFORVZLA, or Gators 
for Venezuela, by unanimous con-sent. 
Senator Benjamin Lima live-
streamed the meeting on his Face-
book page after the Live Stream 
for Accountability Transparency Act was tabled for review by the code revisions committee in De-
cember. The bill would require 
SG to live stream Senate meetings. Lima’s stream had about 1,000 views.
With Schaettle remaining ma-
jority party leader, Inspire Senator Nathan Morse was elected as the new minority party leader. 
“We’re really excited for this 
semester to see what we can ac-complish in a bipartisan manner,” Lima said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgSENATE,  from pg. 1Candidate for Florida governor speaks with UF studentsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
This year, I want to meet people diﬀ  erent from me        
I am conﬂ  icted about New Year’s resolutions. 
I doubt they do much beyond remind us of 
how ﬁ  ckle our willpower is. The culture of the new year itself entraps us in a cycle of 
goals, effort, failure and guilt. It’s not the 
culture’s fault, however. The culture is simply a reﬂ  ection of our society. 
There would be nothing to complain about 
if we could keep our goals, but, as it turns out, such a task is a serious challenge. “New year, 
new me,” gradually devolves into “new year, 
same me.”  I want to know why a new, better me has to 
accompany every new year. If I had kept my resolutions 
from last year and stayed away from empty carbs, would 
I have to obsessively drink smoothies and eat kale again? 
The idea, I presume, is to use each year to improve upon 
our different weaknesses, not to repeat the same goal. But 
who actually does that? In reality, I think the path to a bet-
ter self turns out to be like a treadmill — we get trapped in the same cycle. I also wonder if there’s something in-
nately off target about our typical approach to New Year’s 
resolutions.   
This year I have a resolution in mind that I’m actually 
excited about. Last year, in my opinion, was a historian’s 
dream. I predict it will be researched, discussed and de-
bated over like World War II or 1776. Academics in the 
future will drool over the questions 2017 raised — ques-
tions about identity, citizenship, culture and the media.
I think  that one of the central, yet latent problems that 
2017 revealed was a breakdown of relationships. “E plu-ribus unum” might be America’s slogan, but it is not our 
everyday philosophy. America is a nation with many sub 
nations that have increasingly lost contact with one anoth-
er. If you are a Republican, you’re probably not interacting 
much with Democrats, and vice versa. Even in universi-
ties, where worldviews collide, they instead segregate.
I grew up in a white, upper-middle class, Christian 
world, and the majority of people I have met or known 
in my life have lived in the same or a similar world. A Haitian-American friend of mine told me that 
he grew up with sparse contact with white 
people, let alone rich white people. My point is that the many subcultures and worlds of 
which America consists do not have as many 
relationships with each other as they should. 
Consequently, one culture treats another not 
as fellow citizens who are worthy of hearing and understanding, and who have legitimate 
reasons for their worldviews. Instead, people 
treat each other as the problem, the infection 
in the communal body that can only be healed if one re-pents of his pedagogical sin and believes what we believe. 
I think America is becoming a nation of strangers, and it’s 
my goal this year to try to meet and get to know as many 
people who are different from me as possible.
I want to do two simple things this year: talk, then 
listen. I want to talk with and listen to you, the person 
reading this, and anyone else who is willing to indulge the most sacred of arts, the art of conversation. This year will 
be deﬁ  ned by the quality of our national conversations, 
but anything national begins at the local level, with indi-
viduals like you and I. We have a part to play in the fate 
of our nation, a very simple part when you think about 
it. Talking and listening. Sharing what we believe, why 
believe it, how we came to believe it, and then listening 
to someone else do the same thing. Everything turns on 
our ability to do this, and not just with the citizens of the worlds we were born into.
So if you’ve read this far, and you’re hungry for a good 
conversation, don’t be a stranger. Regardless, I hope that 
this year will go down in history as the year people began 
to converse with each other.
Then again, about a month from now I’ll probably for-
get I ever made this resolution.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His column appears 
on Wednesdays.ColumnEditorial
Joe Arpaio does 
not deserve the 
people’s vote
It was only a matter of time before the next chapter in the 
Joe Arpaio saga came around. 
Some of you may need a prologue. Who is he? To most 
Floridians, he may not be a familiar ﬁ  gure. But Arpaio, a longtime sheriff in Arizona, had people of Hispanic or La-
tino descent in Maricopa County living in fear.
He prides himself in the nickname, “America’s toughest 
sheriff.” He set up “Tent City Jail” in Phoenix, where inmates endured the blistering summers in temperatures that surpassed 100 degrees. He had a habit of encouraging his deputies to ra-cially proﬁ  le and illegally detain Hispanics without evidence that they committed a crime. 
His actions were so egregious, the U.S. Department of Justice 
found that he oversaw the worst pattern of racial proﬁ  ling in U.S. history and subsequently ﬁ  led suit against him for unlaw-ful discriminatory police conduct. In his 24 years as sheriff, the 
taxpayer-funded government ofﬁ  ce paid more than $146 million 
in fees, settlements and court awards. 
He was a big name in Arizona, but the story of Arpaio, who 
was criminally convicted, was not over. In August, President Donald Trump pardoned him, sparing him a six-month jail sen-
tence, despite the fact that Arpaio had clearly broken the law. 
But none of this is new. On Tuesday, the Associated Press 
reported Arpaio would be running for a Senate seat. 
The prospect of someone who discriminated against and vili-
ﬁ  ed the very people he wants to represent is shocking. 
And even if you’re sitting in your apartment thinking this 
couldn’t possibly affect you in Gainesville, it can and will, es-
pecially if Arpaio is successful. As a senator, a man who has repeatedly broken the laws he was charged to enforce in Ari-
zona would be in a position to shape legislation enacted across 
the country. He’d be given a national stage to promote his racist opinions. He’d normalize a tolerance of racism and bigotry in Congress. 
He would not fairly represent the people he jailed based on 
the color of their skin.
In a perfect world, elected representatives take all of the 
opinions and backgrounds of those they represent into consid-eration. That reality, however, is far from common, and nothing 
in Arpaio’s track record indicates he would so much as listen to 
the roughly 2.1 million Hispanics he would represent. 
Arpaio will never be Florida’s senator, but he will still be 
your senator if elected — one of 535 people in Congress charged 
with shaping and revoking the laws that dictate your rights, 
your freedom and your ability to be yourself without living in fear. 
While we know you, dear reader, will likely not get a chance 
to vote in Arizona, we encourage you to stay informed, to chal-
lenge hate when you see it and to stand up for others. As our 
own gubernatorial elections near, we hope you consider all who can be affected by policy changes. 
People like Joe Arpaio do not deserve your vote. 
Melissa Gomez
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING EDITOR, 
PRINT
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Two words: Elevator pitch.
No matter your major, 
minor, dream job or resume 
font (with the exception 
of Comic Sans and Papy-
rus), you’re probably familiar with the good ol' elevator pitch — you 
know, the two-minute spiel that 
effortlessly encapsulates all your hopes, dreams and relevant expe-riences while ﬂ  ashing your killer smile and sprightly sense of humor (and let’s 
not forget about those marketable skills). The 
goal of this punchy-yet-professional pitch is to connect your experiences and skills to your aspirations in the amount of time you 
would hypothetically be in an elevator with a 
potential employer (or Miranda Priestly from “The Devil Wears Prada”).
College students, graduates and millenni-
als who are on the cusp of “the real world” 
are conditioned to quickly and effectively 
present themselves and their brand on the spot, so it’s no wonder the art of the elevator pitch has been a topic of discussion in just 
about every one of my classes that brieﬂ  y 
mentions the coveted personal brand. After a few years of tweaking and crafting my two-minute summary, my personal pitch is (de-pending on the day) practically more mani-
cured than my eyebrows. 
Thanks to all the buzz about personal 
branding, many people of my generation 
have become accustomed to talking about 
themselves in interviews and professional 
environments, but it almost seems as though we’ve forgotten how to balance the profes-sional and the personal when it comes to ca-sual social interactions. 
While at a New Year’s Eve party with my 
parents, I found myself cornered in the kitch-en at the intersection of veggie platter and vodka when I was, for lack of a better de-
scription, trapped talking to an older couple I 
had never met. It all happened so fast; I inno-cently dipped a carrot in the nearby spinach-artichoke-avocado dip, looked up, and there I was — in an imaginary elevator of sorts, 
faced with two eager faces who had exhaust-
ed the weather of small talk and wanted to hear my life story. And that made me wonder what 
the world would be like if we had elevator pitches for different situa-
tions.
I mean, think about it. Wouldn’t 
it be great if you had an already-re-
hearsed, already-timed response to 
whip out when your mom’s friend 
Phyllis asks about your relation-ship status? Or when that relative asks about your post-grad plans? 
How nice would it be to have a few pitch-
es ready for those awkward grocery store en-counters or for when your airplane seatmate would rather play 20 questions with you than respect the fact that all you really want to do 
is read SkyMall? Here’s an idea: We could 
have seasonal pitches. For example, make an elevator pitch to use as an excuse to leave the Thanksgiving table when the conversa-tion goes political or turns into, “Let’s talk 
about our medical ailments.”
I can write a lengthy cover letter about 
myself for an internship application, I can 
speak with poise during an interview and I’m 
not afraid to raise my hand in class and ask a 
question or spark a discussion — but why is it that some social situations that go beyond the perfectly packaged pitch or professional box just never get less dreadful? 
The truth is that not every interaction is 
an interview, and not every conversation will be as cookie-cutter-coordinated as we some-times wish. And after my veggie tray epipha-
ny, I realized that in an era where everything 
from gadgets to good conversation seems to be getting smaller, faster and more ﬂ  eeting, it’s more important than ever to embrace so-cial situations that go beyond the elevator, 
no matter how “awkward” or intimidating 
they may seem at ﬁ  rst glance. 
In honor of a new year and a fresh semes-
ter, let’s make the most of our conversations 
— whether they last for two minutes or 20, 
whether they’re with our best friends or ac-quaintances and whether they’re in person, over FaceTime — or in an elevator.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.The good, the bad and the elevator pitchColumn
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org I remember meeting seniors when I was a freshman al-most four years ago. It felt 
like I was meeting some-
one from another genera-
tion — another dimension, even. While I was struggling 
to remember which Regional 
Transit System bus would take me home, they seemed like they knew everything and had done everything. The word "se-
nior" seemed synonymous with "wis-
dom." And I hoped I would have this wisdom, too, by senior year. I had time. 
I started picturing myself as a college 
senior and painting a mental picture of the person I would be at graduation. She was probably a spin class instructor and the president of a really important club. She was a straight-A student with 
a huge friend group of girls who all had 
super soft hair. She had a boyfriend and a job offer. She was a journalist. I am none of those things, except maybe the 
latter, depending on who you ask.
I also thought senior year I would 
know how to make an omelet or how 
one even begins to run stadiums. I didn’t think I would still be quietly get-
ting confused between 13th Street and 
West University Avenue. But I graduate in four months, and here we are. 
It’s weird to call ourselves seniors 
when we don’t feel like seniors at all. It feels like a title I haven’t earned — not because “time ﬂ  ies” or any other cli-che our parents have spewed at us, but because we used to picture our senior 
year selves as these real adults, fully 
ready to leave college and completely on-track to become whatever (and whomever) we thought we wanted to 
be. I don’t know about you guys, but 
I’m not quite there yet. I have a long way to go before I become who I pic-tured four years ago. 
Seniors aren’t the only ones entitled 
to this impostor syndrome either. How I pictured myself as a college freshman differed completely from the real thing, too. Just 
as I’m sure the way I picture 
myself as a twenty-some-thing or a thirty-something will be a lot different from 
reality, too. 
Maybe that’s not such a 
bad thing. 
If we want to make our 
18-year-old selves happy, we have a lot to do in the next four months. We could 
spend it trying to accomplish all of the things we thought we would, or we could spend it enjoying the semester-
long syllabus week standing between 
us and graduation. I’m gonna go with B., semester-long syllabus week. 
Besides, if I had miraculously be-
come the person my freshman-self 
dreamed up, I would be nothing like 
the person I am now — a person that I’m starting to like. I wouldn’t have had time to meet the people I’ve met 
or space in my planner for “The Ofﬁ  ce” 
marathons with those people. 
The person I pictured freshman year 
sounds lovely, but she’s missing a few things — things I didn’t know I wanted 
for myself when I was 18. I never pic-
tured that I’d pick up a dance minor for fun, intern at a magazine in New York or spend nearly as much money at Salty 
Dog Saloon as I have. I never thought 
I’d get space for my opinions in the Al-ligator every Wednesday, and I never thought I’d end my ﬁ  rst column of the semester with a Taylor Swift lyric. 
To my freshman year self, I am sorry 
to say: Your idea of yourself as a se-nior can’t come to the phone right now. Why? Because she’s dead, and some-
thing better may be taking her place. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism se-
nior. Her column appears on Wednes-
days. Do not let impostor syndrome 
haunt you; enjoy your semesterColumn
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.org
100’s of
New Choices
Where:
Reitz Union-Tabling Area
When:
Monday January 8 
thru Friday January 12
Time: 
9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor: 
Programs
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
’80s Ski Lodge concert: 
Over Easy Creative will host a concert featuring 
electronic music acts at High Dive (pg. 9)Back to School Bash offers free pizza, champagne: 
Lucid Nightlife will host its fourth biannual bash at Simon’s Nightclub with headliner MarSHen (pg. 10)WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer
Mark Richardson had a vision of experienc-
ing art in a new way — he imagined a better 
way to enjoy art than standing in an art gallery with nowhere to sit. 
Richardson, the owner of art gallery and 
wine café Somewhere Along The Way, ﬁ  rst opened the gallery in Micanopy three years ago. As of 2018, Somewhere Along The Way will relocate to 201 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville, with a soft re-opening Wednesday and a grand re-opening later in the month.
Richardson’s motivation is to create an art 
gallery with a comfortable atmosphere that awakens the senses and allows art to be better 
enjoyed. 
“I want people to experience art, and to 
experience art means it can go beyond the 
boundaries of ‘it’s a sculpture or a painting or whatever’ – it can be a glass of wine with choc-olate,” Richardson said. “To me, that’s art.”
Richardson said Somewhere Along The 
Way offers a coffee and espresso bar, a selec-tion of local craft beers and his hand-picked 
selection of wines, likely to include California 
reds and Italian whites.
“I’m an art gallery ﬁ  rst, but then I want to 
make sure that there’s something for people to enjoy,” Richardson said. “If they’re looking at the art, they can sit here with a coffee, craft beer or glass of wine, chocolate.”  
The gallery’s artwork includes drawings, 
paintings, sculptures and mosaics from several 
regional artists. 
There are also regular live music perfor-
mances from jazz, blues, folk and acoustic 
artists, including the Damaged Daughters, a favorite American folk group of Richardson’s.
Richardson said he ﬁ  rst had a vision for his 
business after moving to Micanopy with his wife four years ago. For the 20 years before-hand, Richardson said he was traveling across the country as an information technology con-sultant.  
“At the end of the day, most consultants, 
you know, usually people just go back to their hotel room and go to bed and get up to go to work the next day,” Richardson said. “Well I would walk around to try and get the feel for whatever place I was in and take pictures.”After moving to Micanopy, Richardson 
thought about opening his own photography 
gallery, but thought that only showing his 
work seemed dull. While antique furniture shopping, he said he found his inspiration for Somewhere Along The Way.
 “There was a little, tiny red building for 
lease,” Richardson said. “So I did, I jumped in.”
Fast forward three years, and Richardson 
has outgrown Micanopy. He had hoped it 
would grow into a stronger art district, he said, 
but that his vision was just too much for the quiet town. He added that the move to down-town Gainesville was the next step for his busi-ness. 
“I like the energy here, and living in Boston 
and traveling usually I would go to larger cit-ies when I was working as a consultant, and I liked the downtown energy,” Richardson said. 
“And honestly I kind of missed it.”
Bruce MenNe’, a featured surrealist wood 
sculptor in the gallery, has been working with 
Richardson since the opening of Somewhere Along The Way in Micanopy. 
“Here Mark understands art — he under-
stands me,” MenNe’ said. “I don’t know about the other artists, but I have a feeling they feel the same way I do.”
A ﬁ  ve-year retiree from the aerospace in-
dustry, MenNe’ now has time to pursue his life-long carving hobby as a part-time job. MenNe’ has combined his love for music and passion of carving to create surrealist sculptures of mu-sical instruments out of ﬁ  ne and exotic woods.
“Taking Flight,” a sculpture of two harps 
and a violin twisted into the image of a swan, will be on display when the gallery opens Jan. 
10. 
“It’s two harps, and it’s a violin, but the 
harps and the violin are twisted into different 
shapes and go different directions,” MenNe’ said. “I affectionately call it a ‘swandelin’ – that’s my pet name for it.”
MenNe’ said that each musical instrument 
per sculpture takes about 45 hours to carve. MenNe’ said that parting with his sculptures is 
never an easy thing to do, but that Richardson 
makes it easier. 
“And the reason for that is I trust Mark. You 
know, he’s a great guy,” MenNe’ said. Micanopy art gallery and wine café moves to Gainesville
Photo by Gabriella Paul
Bruce MenNe’ smiles as he holds one of his ﬁ  nished surrealist wooden 
sculptures featured in Somewhere Along The Way’s art gallery. 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
The Georgia-based, one-man-
band Zach Deputy will share the 
High Dive stage with rising gypsy rockers Come Back Alice and local favorites Whale Feral and Losa Folk 
Thursday night.
The downtown venue will wel-
come guests starting at 8 p.m., and 
the show will start at 9 p.m. This show, which kicks off Deputy’s nationwide “Out of Hibernation” tour, will be open to children with a guardian and those 18 years or older. Tickets for the concert can be found at High Dive, Hear Again Records and through Ticketﬂ  y.com 
for $15 in advance and $17 on the 
day of the show.
Deputy is renowned for his live 
shows, creating the illusion of a full band though his own musical abili-ties and his artistry with a looping recorder. Instruments, beatboxing 
and soulful vocals merge seamless-
ly as audiences watch Deputy build a song piece by piece. Deputy’s per-formance is complex and precise — just the type of puzzle he loves to solve.
“There’s something peaceful 
about doing something so intently that you can’t think or focus on 
anything else,” Deputy said.
This intense focus is what keeps 
Deputy living in the moment. 
That’s a big part of what Deputy hopes to share with his audience. Being present in the present, he said, is the old way to accomplish anything.
“You can’t change anything 
in the past, and you can’t change the future because you don’t even know it yet, but you can affect the present.”
Deputy’s music carries a type of 
positivity that is rare among soulful 
artists, but he said this is no mis-
take. While music is traditionally inspired by the culture surround-ing it, Deputy said, music can also inﬂ  uence how culture evolves. For this reason, Deputy, a Christian, stays true to his own narrative and positive message.
“I speak in symbolism when I 
write my songs,” Deputy said. “I speak my truth.”
Deputy has released six albums 
during his solo career, and he is preparing to release his seventh. The new album, “Wellspring,” will be available later in 2018.
As for the supporting act, Come 
Back Alive, band members Tony 
Tyler and Dani Jaye met in 2010, 
started the band in 2012 and got married in 2016. The band’s key mix of blues, funk, classical and southern inﬂ  uences combine to cre-ate rock ’n’ roll with that special 
Come Back Alice spice, Tyler said.
Tyler grew up in Macon, Geor-
gia, with a drummer for a father to 
guide him musically and teach him the ins and outs of the music busi-ness. Jaye, a native of Bradenton, Florida, had to learn on her feet. Her family was not musical, and her ﬁ  rst real exposure to instruments 
came through a middle school mu-
sic class where a violin was put in her hands for the ﬁ  rst time.
“The violin was my Excalibur,” 
Jaye said.
From then on, music became 
her voice, her little rebellion, Jaye said. She began playing in a band with a few older men when she was 
about 15, learning to combine her 
classical skills with an improvisa-tional style. It was with this group that she met Tyler.
The ﬁ  rst night they met, Tyler 
joined Jaye’s band on the stage. 
Since their ﬁ  rst time performing 
together, the now-married couple said it just felt right. Though Tyler said that working with your spouse brings its challenges, he cannot imagine himself anywhere else.
“We don’t really argue much 
about dishes and laundry,” Tyler said. “It’s more about chord chang-
es and lyric structure.”
While the band continues to per-
form, Come Back Alice is preparing 
to release their sophomore album in late February or early March. Fans can expect the same gypsy rock sound that is Come Back Al-ice, Tyler said, but with even more rock ‘n’ roll.
“I feel like people always go 
back to that original brash attitude of rock and roll,” Tyler said.
Zach Deputy, Come Back Alice to perform at High DiveWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, BaseballBy T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Fans should expect to bring their warm-
est ski jackets to High Dive on Friday, where 
Over Easy Creative will host a concert fea-
turing dynamic electronic music acts MZG and FRQ NCY. With the help of event plan-
ner Eclectic Electric, High Dive will be trans-
formed into a retro ski lodge based in the 
’80s for the show. The event serves as an 
ofﬁ  cial precursor to Fractal Beach, a Miami music festival that will take place Feb. 2 to 4.
Les Voss, one of the founders of Over 
Easy Creative, said the company was created 
due to the desire to create immersive events 
that are more than just a DJ or a band in a 
room.
“Our motto is ‘hear, see, feel,’ and we 
aim to create atmospheres that stimulate all 
senses,” Voss said. “We don’t want to be a promotion company; we want to be an event 
curation company. Venues are our canvas, 
and our events are the painting.”
Over Easy Creative has been making an 
impact on Gainesville’s electronic music scene by introducing new, innovative and 
up-and-coming musical acts to the area over 
the past few years.
Voss said the ’90s were Gainesville’s 
prime for electronic music and it’s been a 
trek to get back to that legendary status, but 
by continuing to book more distinctive music 
acts, he hopes to get there again one day.
“I think Over Easy has carved out a spe-
cial place here, and I keep going knowing 
that friendships and memories made by our 
guests could last a lifetime,” said Voss.
 When picking the music acts that head-
line their shows, Over Easy Creative hopes their concerts reﬂ  ect their own tight-knit 
electronic music community, which is built 
on devoted friendships and a love for music.
MZG, which is short for Monozygotic, are 
identical twin brothers based in Florida who are professional DJs and self-taught musi-
cians and producers. Voss said the duo per-sonally played on his birthday at The JAM, a now-closed Gainesville concert venue, two 
years ago.
FRQ NCY, a bass producer from Atlanta, was handpicked due to a trusted request from a former Over Easy intern, Kole Friese, 
who Voss said has been begging him to get 
FRQ NCY to Gainesville for a few months 
now.
“We’ve been blessed with some great 
bookings in the last few years, and when I 
party in other places, I’m always reminded 
just how special our community is,” said 
Voss.
Julia Lewis, a 21-year-old UF psychology 
senior, said the fact that Over Easy was host-ing the concert conﬁ  rmed her desire to at-
tend the show.
“I love electronic music, and I love heavy 
bass the most, and Over Easy does a lot of events with those sounds,” Lewis said. “I’m usually down to go to most things they host 
because it’s usually good music in general 
and a little different.”
Lewis, who said she’s most looking for-
ward to seeing the supporting act Mystic 
Grizzly, singles out Over Easy Creative for being one of the main reasons she can ﬁ  nd 
a lot of unique music in Gainesville that she 
can’t ﬁ  nd in many other cities.
“They bring in really interesting artists, 
deﬁ  nitely impacting the community,” Lewis said. “Gainesville’s scene has grown since I’ve been here, even though great places close like The JAM and Realm, it still keeps 
on keeping on.”
With great acts like MZG and FRQ NCY 
keeping Gainesville warm this Friday night, it’s concerts like these that broaden Gaines-ville’s electronic music legacy, and Over Easy 
Creative has been striving to do their part.
“Fans can expect a transformed High 
Dive, with full immersion, great vibes and 
great friends,” Voss said. “Two lucky people 
will be leaving with tickets to Fractal Beach in Miami on Feb. 2 to 4. Let’s make some 
memories.”
The ’80s-themed ski lodge takeover will 
be Friday, Jan. 12 at High Dive from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. In addition to MZG and FRQ NCY, 
supporting acts include Mystic Grizzly, Frost-
byte, Dropkick, Rest in Pierce, SIDE TRAKD 
and Holden Howard. Hard copy and online tickets are $10 at ticketﬂ  y.com and $12 at the 
door. Over Easy Creative to host ’80s Retro Ski Lodge concert
Courtesy to the Alligator
MZG, the identical twin duo that has performed at festivals like Hulaween and Okeechobee, will stop in Gainesville this week.  
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Local production company Lucid 
Nightlife will host its fourth biannual 
Back To School Bash on Thursday at Si-mon’s Nightclub with headliner MarSH-en and supporting acts YUNG ADAM, KYRO and Acraze set to perform.
Instead of focusing on the headliners 
this time around, however, the produc-tion company chose to emphasize the 
party by presenting the event with Or-
lando event planning company Pizza & Champagne.
Matt Collins, CEO and founder of 
Lucid Nightlife, said the aim of Thurs-
day’s event is to create a house party 
atmosphere in a nightclub setting.
“I’ve had a lot of people ask when 
the Back to School Bash is, not even 
asking who’s playing it but when is it,” 
Collins said. “We just want to make a 
crazy kickoff party to set the bar for the semester.”
To drive this idea home, Collins 
teamed up with former business part-
ner and friend Eric Arroyo in Orlando 
to bring the Pizza & Champagne event to Gainesville.Arroyo created Pizza & Champagne, 
a weekly party at Tier Nightclub, in May 2017 with the same idea of empha-sizing the party over the headliners. He did this after hosting several successful pop-up parties in Los Angeles where people came for the event rather than the artists performing.
“I wanted to bring that concept over 
to FL (Florida) because I felt like the scene over here was getting too about who the DJs were,” Arroyo said. “Ev-eryone was forgetting about the times 
that we’d just go out with our friends 
and enjoy a fun party.”
With dirt cheap ticket and drink 
prices and, of course, free pizza and 
champagne, Arroyo said he’s seen the 
event grow over the past eight months. 
Plus, the performers enjoy the idea just as much as the attendees.
“[The performers] like it too be-
cause, at the end of the day, they’re 
always going to play for a fun crowd,” 
Arroyo said. “By doing it this way, where it’s just about the party and less about the artist, people who are going 
are going to have fun and are going to 
have the same amount of energy no 
matter the DJ.”The Pizza & Champagne event has 
expanded to Jacksonville and San Di-ego, with Gainesville as its third stop outside of Orlando. In addition to help-ing the event grow into a touring party, Arroyo said that Gainesville hits close to home because he used to throw Thursday night parties at Simon’s years ago with Collins.
“I’m very excited about this one in 
particular because I’m going back to my roots,” Arroyo said. “I’m going to bring it extra hard for this one because 
Gainesville did take a chunk of my 
heart back in the day throwing those parties.”
The 18 and up Back To School Bash 
will be Thursday Jan. 11 at Simon’s 
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Early bird pre-
sales have sold out, with general admis-sion and VIP tickets remaining at event-brite.com for $7 to $10. Walk-up tickets 
will be available the night of the show 
for $10.  
Back To School Bash oﬀ  ering music, pizza and champagne
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
With January now in full swing it’s time 
to start wondering what your favorite artists 
have up their sleeves for 2018. 
Whether they have been completely off 
the radar or ﬂ  ooding the radio with features to take off some pressure, these chart-topping artists are overdue for an album. Here’s who we need to see in 2018:
Nicki Minaj
Despite having verses on some of 2017’s 
top tracks like Migos’ “Motorsport” and Yo Gotti’s “Rake It Up,” 2018 marks four years 
since the release of Minaj’s third studio al-
bum, “The Pinkprint.” With the rise of Cardi 
B as the new princess of rap last year, 2018 
is set be the year of the female rap royalty.
HozierIn 2015, the alternative singer-songwrit-
er from Ireland was topping American pop 
charts with his politically charged song “Take 
Me to Church.” The hit came from his 2014 
breakout, self-titled album, “Hozier.” For 
months, the singer’s hypnotic vocals seemed 
to play on every radio station before he 
seemed to disappear from the music scene 
altogether.
Troye SivanTroye Sivan started his career as a You-
Tube sensation, creating a fan base that 
launched his ﬁ  rst album, “Blue Neighbor-
hood,” to major success. The 2015 project 
featured Sivan’s pop anthem “Youth” and a 
collaboration with Alessia Cara, “WILD,” that 
made both fandoms explode. Sivan followed 
up the ﬁ  rst album with an international tour 
and just announced the coming release of his 
new single, “My My My,” on Thursday. The top three artists we need albums from this year
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
This will be Lucid Nightlife’s fourth 
edition of the Back T o School Bash, which started in August 2016. BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
GOOD QUALITY
RATTAN DINETTE SET
Glass-top table, 4 chairs. $150. Call or text 
352-256-7977    1-12-18-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Charming Historic Cottage 2 BR 1 BA.Near Law school. CH/A, screened porch, granddaddy oaks. Available Now2703 NW 2nd Ave. 900 mo w/approved cred-it. No pets 352-332-5836     1-19-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14
WANTEDBartender & Barback Experienced, Reliable and ResponsibleDirty Bar, Gainesville FL(352) 373-1141     1-10-18-5-14
Psychology Office looking for Spring 
Semester Volunteer Office Interns. Two 
full-day a week commitment. Credit may 
be available through UF psychology and 
English Departments. Excellent writing and 
communication skills important.
Send vita/resume with letter of interest to
info@cpancf.com
1-17-18-6-14
Seeking PT help with admin and misc tasks. No exp nec, but professional communication, attention to detail, and willingness to learn are a must. Tasks include processing orders, data entry, folding apparel, and others. Exp with USPS, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office, and inventory are preferred. Flexible sched-ule is okay, but we need around 15 hrs/week split over 2-3 days. To apply, please send a resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com  1-19-18-5-14
Seeking part-time copy editor for scuba-related articles and educational texts and materials. Must have prior editorial/copy editing experience and must have advanced grammar knowledge. Please send resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com   1-19-18-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
1. GEOGRAPHY: What country has 
a region known as Catalonia?
2. SCIENCE: What do you call an 
animal that lives part of its life on land 
and part in the water?
3. HISTORY: When did the Spanish 
Civil War take place?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: A male 
bird is called a peacock, and the female is called what?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How 
many colors are in a rainbow?
6. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the princess in the animated Disney movie “Aladdin”?
7. WEATHER: What is the wind 
speed at which a tropical storm is des-ignated a hurricane?
8. AUTOS: What was the manufac-
turer of the Viper car model?
9. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was 
first national monument established 
by President Teddy Roosevelt?
10. MONEY: Whose portrait is on a 
U.S. dime?
Answers
1. Spain
2. Amphibian3. 1936-19394. A peahen5. Seven: red, yellow, orange, green, 
blue, indigo and violet.
6. Jasmine
7. 74 mph
8. Dodge9. Devils Tower, Wyoming10. Franklin D. Roosevelt
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 8, 2018King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ACROSS
1 Share-a-ride
pickup hrs.
5 Go wild with Wild
Turkey, say
9 Golden Horde
member
14 Pope __ VI
(1963-’78)
15 Copied
16 Be nuts about
17 “The Simpsons”
bus driver
18 Drink garnish
19 Old-time actress
Shearer
20 Blindsided
23 “Let’s see ... ”24 German city on
the Danube
25 Set ablaze
28 The hit in the
baseball mantra
“A walk is asgood as a hit”
30 Sugar source32 Cultural funding
gp.
33 Pumpkin pie
maker’s tool
36 Beef inspection
org.
39 401(k)
alternative, for
short
40 __ stick: incense41 One of a global
septet
46 Suffix with
percent
47 College city on 
I-35
48 Sharp52 Yom Kippur
month
54 “Who am __
judge?”
55 China’s Chou 
En-__
56 Flatbread lunch
items ... and, as
shown by circles,what 20-, 33- and41-Across are?
60 Work really hard
62 ’60s-’70s pitcher
nicknamed BlueMoon
63 Huge
64 Awards for
Asimov et al.
65 Computer list66 Concerning67 Suits
68 Musically low
69 Floral neckwear
DOWN
1 Geological
timespans
2 Woven Japanese
mat
3 Colorful period4 Plod (through)
5 Small pastry6 Poppy drug7 Keystone State
Ivy
8 Scandinavian
literary work
9 Brightly colored
songbird
10 Deck out
11 Attacked with
gusto
12 Limb with biceps
and triceps
13 “In Dreams” actor
Stephen
21 Netflix competitor
22 Flying aid26 Light shirts27 All __: listening29 Annoying bug30 First known
asteroid
31 Lab gel34 Play charades,
say
35 Open just a crack36 Ton, for one
37 Songs for one
38 Equestrian event42 Equestrian
equipment
43 In the center of44 Panama
landform
45 Grub49 Go by50 Elk51 Where much Bee
Gees music was
played
53 Mayhem54 Graphic symbols
57 Berth before birth58 It can come to
mind
59 Concrete60 Cow or sow61 Unilever soap
brand
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/10/1801/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 10, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Groups of orcas
5 Quaint “Holy
moly!”
9 Teases
14 Scott Turow
memoir
15 Stubborn critter
16 Calendario page17 *Crimes of
violence, e.g.
20 School sport, or
its setting
21 Inheritance
recipient
22 “Singin’ in the
Rain” dance style
23 *Jungle gym26 Operatic princess27 Mo. with no
holidays
28 Patriotic org.
since 1890
29 Lightly colored31 Fraction of a min.
33 Go quickly
36 Golden __:
seniors
37 *Not-so-
humorous
humerus spot
40 Formal will?
43 Trampled (on)44 Doesn’t keep up48 Lightweight straw
hat
50 Swiffer product52 Divide before the
deal
53 Departure notice?54 *Young boy’s role
model
58 Game with
matchsticks
59 “Catch a Falling
Star” singer Perry
60 Verdi opera “__
Miller”
61 Fledgling
enterprise ... andwhat the first wordof the answers tostarred clues canliterally do
65 __ limits:
extremes
66 The life of Riley67 Folk singer Burl68 Snorkeling spots69 Inventor’s spark70 Formally
surrender
DOWN
1 One who “rings
twice,” in an oldfilm2 Burdensome
3 Drive up the wall
4 Smooth-talking
5 Avian Aussie
6 Astronaut
Grissom
7 “Welcome to
Oahu!”
8 Schedule for later
9 Boo and hiss
10 Stopover with a
“keeper”
11 Slight trace
12 Barnes & Noble
Nook, for one
13 Steel wool
scrubbers
18 Gave one’s
blessing to
19 It may be
pumped in victory
24 Knitting need25 Full force
26 Well-behaved tot30 English golfer
Poulter
32 Key equivalent 
to B
34 Damascus is its
cap.
35 Weapon in a
1952 test
38 Einstein’s birth
city
39 Baking-soda-in-
the-fridge target40 One buying time,
perhaps
41 Regular patron
42 Bring to life, as
cartoons
45 Accomplish46 Acted
desperately on
“Jeopardy!,”
perhaps
47 German street49 “__ Ben Adhem”51 __ sci55 Rock and Roll
Hall of Famearchitect
56 Spoil
57 Roman garment
of yore
59 NBA big men:
Abbr.
62 Whistler between
baskets
63 Take advantage of64 Beach house
view
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/09/1801/09/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 9, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Blood ____
1.  Sweet5.  Tropical fruit
2.  Wander6.  ____ Airlines
3.  Handbill7.  Rough, severe
4.  Sudden stormAELSMP
GARSYUVAUGA
EADTL
NEARDME
TLLFEEATRAUBL
QALSLUANSWERS: 1A-Sample  5A-Guava  6A-Delta  7A-Brutal
1D-Sugary  2D-Meander  3D-Leaflet  4D-Squall  B-Guatemala1-10-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The territory of modern ____ once formed 
the core of the Maya civilization.
BONUS
24 Pets 16 Health Services
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.20 Events/Notices
How did Jack Szaranek bounce 
back from a gruesome leg injury during his childhood to earn a spot on Florida's swimming team. Read the story, pg. 16Former Gators forward called up by Wizards
Former Florida basketball player Devin Robinson was recalled by the Wash-
ington Wizards on Tuesday, according to a release on the team's website. Robinson averaged 13.5 points, 5.0 rebounds and shot 52 percent from the ﬁ  eld in 22 games for the Delware 87ers of the G League this season.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida men's basketball coach Mike 
White knew his team was lacking in offen-
sive conﬁ  dence before its Christmas break.
Going from scoring 100-plus points in 
four of its ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games this season to struggling to reach 70 points didn’t help Florida’s mentality. And it started to show 
on the court. In UF’s ﬁ  rst six contests, it shot 
46 percent from beyond the arc. In the six 
games after, that number dropped to 28.6 
percent.
However, if Florida’s current ﬁ  ve-game 
win streak is any indication, the Gators are 
ﬁ  nding their offensive identity just in time for conference play, where they sit alone in 
ﬁ  rst place with an undefeated 3-0 SEC re-
cord.
White said being on the “short end of 
the stick” a few times this season helped his 
team learn to adapt offensively.
“We’ve found more of an offensive 
rhythm,” White said on Monday. “I think we 
have a better understanding of who operates where.”
Florida (11-4, 3-0 SEC) will try and con-
tinue to develop that rhythm and build its conﬁ  dence tonight at 7 when it takes 
on Mississippi State (13-2, 1-1 SEC) at the 
O’Connell Center.
UF’s top scorers, guards Jalen Hudson  UF looks to continue win streak tonight against Mississippi State
It’s good to be king.
No, I’m not talking about 
NBA superstar LeBron James, whose seven straight NBA Finals appearances have re-afﬁ  rmed the moniker “King James” bestowed upon him as an 18-year-old kid.
I’m talking about the big-
gest, baddest, most dominant force in all of college football, the one that had to sacriﬁ  ce one of its own in Monday’s thrilling ﬁ  nale to the college football season: the SEC.
Including Alabama’s 26-23 champion-
ship win against Georgia — the second time the Tide have won an all-SEC title game — the SEC’s body of work the last 10 years is, frankly, absurd. In Janu-ary 2007, a young Urban Meyer led the Gators to a 41-14 demolition of prohibi-tive favorite Ohio State — Meyer’s current team — and won what was the ﬁ  rst of seven straight national titles by SEC teams.
It wasn’t until the 2013 
season, when FSU beat Au-burn with Jameis Winston’s last-minute touchdown pass to Kelvin Benjamin, that things changed. The 
next season marked the inaugural Col-lege Football Playoff, and Alabama was knocked out by Ohio State in the semi-ﬁ  nals.
People began to wonder, 'Could the 
SEC’s reign be coming to an end?' Af-ter seven years of sustained excellence, could two seasons in a row without a title be a sign that the landscape was The SEC needs Alabama more 
than Alabama needs the SECHuang Story Short / OpinionGATORS IN THE NFL
By Sam Campisano 
Sports Writer 
Demarcus Robinson picked a good time 
to score his ﬁ  rst NFL touchdown.
With the clock winding down in the ﬁ  rst 
half of Saturday’s wild card playoff game, 
Robinson caught a ﬁ  rst-down pass from Chiefs quarterback Alex Smith a few yards short of the goal line, sidestepped a defend-
er and danced into the end zone for the ﬁ  rst 
time in his career. The 14-yard reception gave Kansas City a 21-3 lead over Tennes-see with just three seconds before halftime.
The second-year wide receiver, who was 
a fourth-round draft pick out of Florida, had one of the best games of his career on the big stage. In addition to his touchdown grab, Robinson had three other receptions, rack-
ing up 57 yards on the day, the second most of his career. All of his catches came on the 
Chiefs’ ﬁ  nal drive of the second quarter.
Robinson was taken off the ﬁ  eld late in 
the game and did not return. He was later placed under concussion protocol. Kansas City eventually blew its big lead and lost by one point, 22-21.
The man who led Tennessee to that im-
probable comeback was coach Mike Mular-key, who played tight end at Florida from 1980 to 1982. The win was a long time com-ing for Mularkey, who coached 89 regular 
season games before coaching his ﬁ  rst play-
off game on Saturday. Despite leading the franchise to its ﬁ  rst playoff win in 14 years, there were still rumors surrounding his job 
status before and after the game.
Responding to a question at his postgame 
press conference asking if he felt his job sta- Robinson scores ﬁ  rst touchdown, 
Mularkey leads Titans to victoryAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
After watching his team lose three of its ﬁ  rst four games in December, Florida men's basketball coach Mike White is pleased 
with the recent play of UF's offense. "I think we have a better understanding of who operates where, " White said.
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE NFL,  PAGE 16SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
Andrew Huang
twitter: @icohenbchanging?
The answer is a little bit of a paradox. The 
conference with the most talented recruits and 
the most NFL Draft picks would, in theory, also win the most championships, but at times it cre-ates the opposite effect.
According to 247Sports, the SEC has claimed 
over half of the nation’s top-10 recruiting class-es over the last ﬁ  ve years. The SEC has 27 of the top-50 recruiting classes since 2013, mean-ing the rest of the country has had just 23. And those recruits are living up to their ﬁ  ve-star bill-ings, too, because the SEC has produced more NFL draft picks than any other conference 11 years in a row.
The unintended effect in all this is that the 
league can be top-heavy. Who, outside of Ala-bama, has consistently been a contender from the SEC? No one. Obviously, Georgia was this year, but we’ve seen how quickly things change. Auburn has been solid at times. LSU was good for a while there. Florida got the party started, technically, but hasn’t been a threat as of late.
See, the talent is there throughout the league. 
The SEC just beats up on itself. Its teams bru-talize each other during conference play, and it hurts in the long run because it’s so hard to ﬁ  nish the season unscathed. Then there’s Ala-bama, which, with the help of the greatest col-lege football coach of all time in Nick Saban, continues to weather that storm, watching the other 13 teams scramble to ﬁ  nd their place within the balance of power.
Saban just won his ﬁ  fth title in Tuscaloosa 
with the Crimson Tide, and second in the last three years. Or in other words, after not produc-ing a champion in back-to-back years (2013 and 2014), the SEC is back where it’s used to being.
Which begs the following question: is it 
wrong to give the SEC credit for the Tide’s suc-
cess?
The answer is yes. That hasn’t always been 
the case, but Alabama has been asked to carry 
the SEC more and more recently.
Perhaps Georgia lasts, and Dan Mullen 
brings Florida back to prominence, and Jimbo Fisher turns Texas A&M into a powerhouse and the SEC looks something like, say, the 2012 sea-son in which six of its 14 teams ﬁ  nished with 
10 or more wins.
Until then, the SEC needs Alabama more 
than Alabama needs the SEC.
Andrew Huang is a sports writer. Contact him 
at ahuang@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Saban won ifth title with 'Bama on Monday
tus was secure, Mularkey said, “No, I 
haven’t had any support to say that I was [secure]. No, I just assumed the 
worst.”
That comment, and the rumors 
that preceded it, prompted an ofﬁ  -
cial statement from Titans controlling 
owner Amy Adams Strunk.
“Mike Mularkey is our head coach 
and will be our head coach moving 
forward” she said.
Elsewhere, former Gators Keanu 
Neal and Bryan Poole had solid per-formances in Atlanta’s win over Los 
Angeles. Neal, a strong safety, record-
ed eight tackles, and Poole, a corner-back, had four. Other former Gators who saw playoff action include Bryan Cox Jr., Dante Fowler Jr., Lerentee 
McCray and Deonte Thompson.
Former Gators like Trey Burton, 
Marcus Gilbert, Maurkice Pouncey 
and Joe Haden should all be in action 
this weekend after having a week off 
because of the bye.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgNFL,  from pg. 14Titans owner says Mularkey will 
remain coach "moving forward"
The Associated Press
Former Gators tight end Mike Mularkey coached the T ennessee Titans to a 
one-point victory over the Kansas City Chiefs in the NFL playoffs on Saturday.
(16.9 per game), Egor Koulechov (15.0), Chris 
Chiozza (13.1) and KeVaughn Allen (11.1), will be needed to combat a Bulldogs team that has held opponents to 63.5 points per game this sea-
son.
While the Gators have beneﬁ  tted from the 
scoring of their older guards throughout the 
season, the past couple games have seen the re-surgence of center Kevarrius Hayes.
Since Florida’s 75-60 win over Incarnate 
Word on Dec. 22, Hayes has provided UF with the inside presence it had been missing all sea-
son, averaging 8.3 points per game while block-
ing 11 shots over the last four games.
Florida will look to Hayes to help limit Bull-
dogs big men Aric Holman and Abdul Ado, who 
lead Mississippi State in rebounds and blocks, 
respectively.“Kevarrius is our most vocal guy, so when 
he’s playing well, I think it gives our guys con-ﬁ  dence,” White said. “The great thing with him is he doesn’t need to get 14 points to consider it playing well.”
The Bulldogs have won ﬁ  ve of their last six 
games, including an SEC-opening victory against Arkansas. Although MSU has Holman and Ado in the frontcourt, most of its scoring comes from starting guards Quinndary Weatherspoon, Nick 
Weatherspoon and Tyson Carter.
“Their speed and quickness on the perimeter 
is probably as good as there is,” White said.
White is 2-0 against Mississippi State as UF’s 
coach, but said he is treating this game as if he has never faced the Bulldogs before.
“They’re really sound,” White said. “They’re 
a different team than they were a year ago.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Hayes has 11 blocks over last four gamesWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Jim Burgess / UAA Communications
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2018
How Jack Szaranek’s 
gruesome leg injury altered the 
course of his athletic careerBy River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Jack Szaranek breathed heavily as he 
sprinted down the ﬁ  eld.
His soccer coach had just announced mo-
ments prior at a scrimmage that the next player 
to score a goal would win the match for his 
team.
Jack, now a swimmer at Florida, was 11 
years old and living in his hometown of Dun-
fermline, Scotland at the time.
After gaining possession of the ball, Jack 
ﬂ  ew toward the opposing team’s half of the pitch, mounting an aggressive counterattack. As he got closer and closer to the 18-yard box, 
his potential to score grew greater and greater.
There was only one obstacle left in his way: 
a boy on the opposing team frantically running 
toward him. In an effort to avoid him, Jack quickly changed direction and cut inside.
As he made the maneuver, he planted his 
left leg behind him and felt a pair of cleats pen-etrate his ﬂ  esh.
Snap.
It was loud. So loud, in fact, that some of his 
teammates heard it from the other side ﬁ  eld.
Jack collapsed to the ground and screamed 
in pain, writhing back and forth as players and 
coaches noticed his broken tibia. Some ran to 
help, while others looked away.
It was too gruesome for them to stomach.Jack’s father, John, heard something had 
happened to his son and rushed to the scene. 
He’d played soccer in his youth and suffered a 
broken leg on three different occasions. When 
he saw the look of agony on Jack’s face, he 
didn’t have to think twice.
He knew what the boy’s slide tackle had 
just done to his son’s body.
What he didn’t know in that moment, how-
ever, was how drastically the injury would change Jack’s life.
It stripped away his dream of becoming a 
professional soccer player and forced him to fo-
cus entirely on swimming. It led him to a path 
of record-breaking times, olympic aspirations 
and the opportunity to compete for one of the most successful programs in the NCAA, the Florida Gators.
From the moment his leg snapped, Jack 
Szaranek was in hot water. He just didn’t FROM THE PITCH TO THE POOL: 
know how well he’d learn to thrive in it.
Shifting Focus
Jack wasn’t initially deterred from continu-
ing to play soccer after his injury. As one of the top young prospects in his age group, he hated 
the idea of walking away from his passion.
So after months of rehabbing his leg, he 
returned to the ﬁ  eld hoping to pick up where 
he’d left off.
But after playing for another year and half, 
a harsh reality began to sink in. He wasn’t the 
same player he used to be.
“I couldn’t run as fast and wasn’t as physi-
cal,” he said, “which were the two main as-
pects of my game.”
Jack had previously been offered a spot to 
play for the developmental team of Dunfer-mline’s local club, Dunfermline F.C. But once he broke his leg, those dreams died.
He knew he’d lost a step that he’d never get 
back, and after deliberating for several months, he turned his attention to another sport, one that had originally brought his family together: 
swimming.
John and Wendy Szaranek ﬁ  rst met at a 
swim meet when they were teenagers. The 
sport always held a special place in their hearts, and once Jack and his brother, Mark, were old enough to get in the water, their parents signed 
them up for the local swimming club.
The two boys swam and played soccer 
throughout their childhood, with the pool al-
ways taking a backseat to the pitch. But after Jack quit soccer, he and his brother started 
training full time under their father at the Carn-egie Swimming Club, one of the oldest swim-
ming facilities in Great Britain.
The more and more they trained, it soon 
became evident Jack had made the right deci-sion. After years of wanting to play profession-al soccer, swimming was where he’d belonged 
all along.
Testing the Waters 
After training rigorously under his father for 
the next ﬁ  ve years, Jack quickly ascended to the top of European youth swimming.
In 2014, he won three medals at the British 
Youth Games and won the 50-meter freestyle at the Scottish Team Championships.
To read the rest of this story online, go to 
alligator.org/sports.