T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 110
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018HIGH  92° LOW  73°
AP NEWS AROUND THE STATE
Court date set for man charged 
in videotaped fatal shooting
Prosecutors announced 
Monday they were charging a 
48-year-old white man, Michael 
Drejka, in the July 19 shoot -
ing of Markeis McGlockton, a 28-year-old black man, during a 
parking lot confrontation. That 
videotaped shooting revived 
debate over Florida's "stand-
your-ground" law.
"I know this is going to be 
a long road," said Michael 
McGlockton, Markeis’ father. 
"We are up for the task."VOLUME 112 ISSUE 110
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org  
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor   Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board  Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas  
 Photo Editor  T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief  Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors  Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives  Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Karla Paredes, Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Emily Perpich, Bismarie Plasencia,  
  Ruben Riera
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
CHRISTIAN CONCERT SUNDAY
$25 GEN ERAL * VIP $40 ( RECEPT ION)
TICKET S ON LINE: praize1075.com
GROUPS/C HILDREN /SEN IORS CALL
352- 380- 0043
PRAIZE 1 07.5 ST UDIOS, 309 N E 39T H AVENUE
AUGUST  26T H, 201 8 @5pm
Lincoln Audit orium
1001 SE 1 2th Str eet
Gainesville, FL
DOT TIE 
PEOPLES
BRYAN
POPIN
UNCLE
REECE
D.KING
 CVRTER
352-872-5677
M, Th, F 9:30am - 5:30am
T, W 9:30am - 7pm
S 11am - 3pmCome visit 
us in our 
NEW  location
9200 NW 39th Ave.
Next to Pomodoro Caf é
Mention/Show ad for 10% offNo Gimmicks,  
Just Great Frames
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
LOOKING FORWARD TO A NEW YEAR  
AND A GREATER TOMORROW AT UF.
You’ve chosen an exciting time to call the 
University of Florida home. We unite the 
brightest minds to create solutions for some 
of the greatest challenges facing the world. 
Because the Gator Good isn’t about a single 
issue or a single person. It’s about the power  
of all of us making a difference together.
For the #GATORGOOD
Welcome Home
Gators
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
By Stefano Ferreyros
Former Copy Editor
Editor’s note: Stefano Ferrey -
ros was a copy editor for The Alli -
gator for Summer 2018. He helped 
create The Avenue’s first podcast 
as well as The Alligator’s Pride 
Month logo. He recently moved 
abroad after completing his final 
semester of school on U.S. soil.  
 
    A family isn’t just biological, 
or something that you’re born 
into. A family could be a group 
of people, related or not, coming 
together. 
Common sense tells us what a 
family is: some parents, a sibling 
or two, maybe even a dog or a 
cat. White picket fence, church 
on Sundays, you know, the “nu -
clear family” we’ve all grown so 
accustomed to seeing in idealistic 
TV shows and old movies.
When I first moved to 
Gainesville, I was a bit disorient -ed because I was most definitely 
not in Miami, a place where your 
family spans generations and lan -
guage barriers. 
I knew a few people from 
back home, but as time passed 
by I stopped clinging on to them 
and began to branch out. I joined 
clubs and different organizations, 
and through there I began to meet 
people who became my family. 
I met people who would be 
there when times were rough, 
who would stop by and have a 
coffee while talking out prob -
lems. People who I went on road 
trips to new cities with. People 
who helped me experience things 
that I was too scared of doing on 
my own. People who would help me celebrate life and our achieve -
ments. 
At UF, I made my own fam -
ily. A family of people who are 
like me, but different. A family 
that supports each other no mat -
ter what the situation. When you 
feel like you’re alone and have no 
one to talk to, they’re there. 
Although this part of life is 
exciting and nerve wracking, 
you will meet your family. You 
will meet people who feel like 
you’ve known your whole life, 
and can’t even realize how you 
didn’t know them before. Don’t 
force it, and don’t think this will 
all happen in your first semester, 
because it might not. Give it time 
and let it happen naturally, little 
gator. 
My UF family is truly what 
makes me say that I’m proud to 
be a Florida Gator.  
@stef_ferr95
sferreyros@alligator.orgThe family we choose at college
“Don’t think this will all 
happen in your first semester, 
because it might not.”
Stefano Ferreyros  
Former Alligator copy editor
SEPT 1st - DEC 31st
Reservations and proper footwear are required
(904) 824-3337 • alligatorfarm.comZIP 
THE
ZOO50% OFF! 
Valid college student ID required. Nile River course only.  
Not valid with the Sepik River course.
999 Anastasia Blvd., St. Augustine, FL 32080
At Florida Credit Union, we’re owned by our 
members, not stockholders. That means our 
proﬁts go back to you in the form of better rates, 
advanced technology and higher dividends. 
Serving all your banking 
needs, no magic lamp 
required. 
Join Florida Credit Union today online, at one of our 
4 Gainesville locations, or call us at (352) 377-4141. 
● Free Membership
● High-tech banking features like mobile 
    check deposit & person-to-person payments
● Lower rates on loans
Benefits of joining FCU include: 
Federally Insured by the NCUA. 
flcu.org 
401 NE 23rd Ave-Near Main St.
(Next to TB Goods Pawn)
Monday - Saturday 11 am-3pm
gainesvilleramen.com
tasty ramen at great pricestasty ramen
steamed buns, 
& mochi at great prices
SweetBerriesGV
The best Frozen Custard ice cream around.
Walking distance from campus
505 NW 13th Street
Open Daily at 11 am till 10 pm
Fri. - Sat. till 11 pm
Deli Sandwiches, Soups, Salads and more
Happy Hour Beer & Wine Thur, Fri, Sat 7-close
352Delivery
Takeout: 352-378-4972
LIVE MUSIC THURSDAYS
Check Facebook Events page for schedule
SweetBerriesGainesvilleWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
BE AN ACTIVE MEMBER 
OF THE GAINESVILLE 
COMMUNITY
By Bailey LeFever
Alligator Staff Writer
UF can be your place if you work 
a bit to embed yourself in the com -
munity. The crucial “if” lies in how 
Gators make use of their time here.
Logically, the first step for many 
students is evaluating where their 
resumes and lives are lacking. Stu -
dents should then pinpoint what lo -
cal internships, jobs and volunteer 
opportunities can help them land 
a stellar internship next summer 
or post-grad. Even more so, Gators 
should enjoy their temporary home 
and allow it to influence them as it 
wills.
Here a few suggestions for a well-
rounded school year in the ‘ville:
• Look up more. Have you seen 
the trees in this city?! Gainesville is 
populated by some of the most beau -
tiful foliage in the state. You should 
spend an afternoon sunbathing with 
a friend or getting in some quality introspection.
• Explore the environment around 
you. Your argument that Gainesville 
is tired and uninteresting is com -
pletely untrue if you fail to explore 
what lies in your backyard. Take a 
weekend to check out First Magni -
tude Brewing Company and Bolen 
Bluff Trail. There are far more natural 
attractions and local establishments 
than we could ever suggest.
• Attend city commission meet -
ings. The agendas for these meet -
ings have tons of information on 
city planning, local politics and other 
Gainesville business. You’ll learn 
more by attending these meetings 
than in weeks of Twitter scrolling. 
Taking part in — and being informed 
of — decisions that will affect your 
day-to-day life is democracy at its 
finest.
• Cheer for local sports. There 
is far more to enjoy than the im -
pending football season. Become 
a “bleacher creature” at Gator soc -
cer games, or join a competitive in -
tramural team.  Florida is home to 
some of the best club lacrosse teams 
in the country. Sports are found in 
plain sight around campus, from vol -leyball games at dusk on the South -
west Rec courts to midday frisbee on 
the Plaza.
• Utilize area swimming pools 
and recreation centers. Swimming 
and team sports are the best way to 
incorporate exercise into your rou -
tine, allowing participants to build 
strong friendships and disconnect 
from the virtual reality for a while.
• Become a regular at a local 
coffee shop. There’s a reason why 
so many find “Cheers” romantic. 
Nothing fosters community quite 
like shared moments in a busy day. 
Places like Pascals, Curia and CYM 
also give you an opportunity to meet 
people of other disciplines and walks 
of life in Gainesville. Don’t live in a 
university bubble.
• Appreciate where you are. The 
phrase is cliché, but the sentiment 
still holds weight. Far too few stu -
dents realize how good we have it 
here. There are plenty of free events, 
services and advice you can enjoy. 
Ask any upperclassman what their 
favorite aspect of Gainesville is, and 
try to accompany them to one. 
• Above all, keep Gainesville 
weird.Learn your interests while you can
100’s of
New Choices
 COMING
AUGUST 27th
Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Mon. Aug. 27 thru Fri. Aug 31
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
$10 off 
For New Patients
Dragon Rises College 
of Oriental Medicine
352-371-2833
Student 
Acupunture 
Clinic
ACAOM Accredited 
License No 2425
The Florida Commission for 
Independent Education
Masters of 
Acupunture and 
Oriental Medicine
Degree Program
Worship Sundays  @ 5:30pm 
followed by a home-cooked meal
Activities & dinner  
Wednesdays @ 7pm
Welcome Week @ Chapel
M: Back to School BBQ @ noon
T:   Ice Cream Social @ 2pm
W: Syllabus Week Soiree 5-9pm
Th: Tie Dye & Treats @ 6pm
F:    Brunch on the Go  
        9:15-10:45am
1522 West University Ave.
ufchapelhouse.com 
SU2C_TuneIn_2018_ENG_StandardSizeA_BW_R6.indd
7-18-2018 12:04 PM eric.whitaker / Eric Whitaker1
Job
Client
Media Type
Live
Trim
Bleed
PubsTune-In 2018
SU2C
Page Ad
7” x 10”
7.625” x 10.5”
8.625” x 11.25”
NoneJob info
NoneNotesArt Director
Copywriter
Account Mgr
Studio Artist
ProofreaderNone
None
A Moncure
E Whitaker
M MillerApprovals
Fonts
Univers (67 Bold Condensed, 57 Condensed, 
75 Black), Helvetica Neue (67 Medium Con-
densed, 75 Bold, 77 Bold Condensed)
Images
SU2C_LA_Master_ENG_DaileyR1_Flat_Grey.
psd (Gray; 304 ppi; 98.54%), SU2C 10 
Year Logo_Transparent BG_TM_Grey.eps 
(11.37%), DonorLogos_Grey.psd (Gray; 389 
ppi; 153.94%), Network Logos USA_V6_grey.
psd (Gray; 947 ppi; 31.66%)
Inks
 BlackFonts & Images Saved at None from LANDLA-DMX1629 by Printed At
LIVE FRIDAY SEPT 7 8 |7C
STANDUPTOCANCER.ORG
STAND UP TO CANCER IS A DIVISION OF THE ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY FOUNDATION, A 501(C)(3) CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. IMAGES ARE FROM STAND UP TO CANCER TELECASTS AND EVENTS.
THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR CANCER RESEARCH (AACR) IS STAND UP TO CANCER’S SCIENTIFIC PARTNER.American Lung Association’s LUNG FORCE,  Breast Cancer Research Foundation,  Canadian Cancer Society,  Canadian Institutes of Health Research,   
Cancer Stem Cell Consortium,  Farrah Fawcett Foundation,  Genome Canada,  Laura Ziskin Family Trust,  LUNGevity Foundation,  National Ovarian Cancer Coalition,   
Ontario Institute for Cancer Research,  Ovarian Cancer Research Fund Alliance,  Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer
COMMON SIZE A: 
Crop excess bleed
S:7”S:10”T:7.625”T:10.5”The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley  
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
 Don’t get sued. 
That was my mantra heading into this semester. I near -
ly failed at it. The Alligator nearly copped a lawsuit on a 
couple of occasions based on our reporting of stories. 
Maybe it was an overabundance of caution. Maybe it 
was straight-up fear. Maybe I didn’t trust in The Alliga -
tor’s new reporters to begin the summer. 
Those concerns have all melted away with the muggy 
humidifier that is Gainesville’s summer. Instead of tiptoe -
ing around important issues or self-censoring over wor -
ries about what advertisers would say, we as a staff have 
grown to accept that not everybody is going to be down 
with independent student journalists, least of all the folks 
we report on. 
If you’ve read an editorial I wrote over the summer, 
there’s a good chance it had to do with the relationship 
between the media and the public. I find the topic fasci -
nating. Trustworthiness is a huge deal in news media, and 
I think media companies can always do more to bridge the 
divide between writer and reader. 
When journalists get to tell people what they do for a 
living, it may be met with a slight sigh of disappointment. 
I mean, who doesn’t love the dramatic spinning newspa -
per headlines in movies and reporting montages cut to 
upbeat jazzy tracks? So when I describe my normal day 
to someone whose knowledge doesn’t extend past that, I 
definitely get the, “Oh, really?” reaction. 
Journalism is a slow burn. It’s exciting in 20- to 30-min -
ute bits, usually when you’re interviewing someone or 
putting the finishing touches on an article that’s due in a 
few minutes. 
Just remember: Don’t get sued. 
I learned over the past semester that this is the reprise 
of scared men and women. It’s like walking into your job 
every day with the singular objective of not getting fired. 
The extra worry doesn’t do you any favors and actively 
interferes with your ability to get stuff done. I don’t want to use this space and time to say how much 
everybody meant to me or how The Alligator shaped my 
present and future lives. Those sentiments are well docu -
mented by my peers and coworkers. It’s all true. I could 
talk forever about how Managing Engagement Editor Bai -
ley LeFever supported me through the darkest times, or 
University Editor Sarah Stanley dropping sarcasm over 
the newsroom like free beads at Gasparilla, or Metro Edi -
tor Baylie Cainas perfecting her craft while working at a 
newsroom for the first time. 
Heck, it was all of our first times. I’ve worked for The 
Alligator as a sports beat writer but never claimed such 
a responsibility as this. LeFever has worked with me on 
some class projects, but we hardly knew each other when 
I hired her essentially as second in command. I didn’t 
know Cainas or Stanley outside of their resumes when 
I hired them to be the main point of contact for writers.
    Every conventional outcome should have been fail -
ure. There could’ve been someone suing us weekly. There 
could’ve been chaos and a longing for the semester to be 
over. Now, with a new set of editors ready to lead The 
Alligator, I feel a tinge of regret for not doing more, even 
with the odds ever not in our favor. 
    “Don’t get sued,” is like saying to yourself, “Don’t fail 
this class,” or “Don’t f--- up your relationship.” It invites 
failure. It stifles creativity. Don’t do this. Ever.
Everybody at The Alligator performed above and be -
yond anything I could’ve imagined. I’m luckier than Lou 
Gehrig holding seven horseshoes. All these blind fortunes 
got me to see everything from a different perspective.
It has yielded a new motto. 
Don’t get complacent.  
  
 Morgan McMullen was the editor in chief of The 
Independent Florida Alligator for Summer 2018. Don’t worry about the wrong things for too long
Dear readers,
What started as something of an experiment in media’s sus -
tainability has come to a successful end. Three of our editors 
now get a chance to say goodbye to our summer readers. 
Bailey LeFever, Managing Engagement Editor
This summer reinforced my “why” behind journalism. 
Quite simply, I believe that journalism is where justice, truth 
and love of writing meet.  Our job is to learn more about the 
world and to display the facts in a humanistic way. We write 
stories because we care. 
We wrote stories on everything, from the mildly controver -
sial Folta step-down to interactions with therapy dogs at UF. 
I learned that I’m passionate about story structure and cap -
tivating photos. Morgan taught me a lot about great editorial 
writing and made me listen to what I assume was every ver -
sion of ‘Africa’ available on YouTube. 
I helped decide what stories should run in print, helped a 
culture podcast and watched new writers glow after their sto -
ries ran on the front page. I realized why student newsrooms 
are special every single night on my ride home. 
Watching writers and editors duke it out over which sound 
bites are ‘essential quotes’ will teach you that. Sitting in silence 
while being briefed on active shooters will teach you that. 
Thank you for reading our words and caring about the 
state of our world and trying your best. To my coworkers: You 
make me want to be better, to lead with my heart in all that I 
do. All my love. 
I plan on sticking with the Alligator, but I wish it could 
always be with these people. 
Baylie Cainas, Metro Editor
After my first semester at The Alligator, I can say with 
confidence that real world experience teaches you everything 
classrooms can’t. 
A professor can’t teach how it feels to have your story on 
the front page. No group project can ever mimic the bond be -
tween an editor and their writers. You can’t learn how to talk 
to someone accused of rape from a textbook.
For all the Gators who want to get their foot in the door of 
the journalism world but don’t know how: You’re looking at it. 
The Alligator is a great paper with a strong readership. Get 
involved as a contributing writer or even a staff writer! No 
other first experience will prove as invaluable, I guarantee it.
While I won’t be in the newsroom much longer, I will never 
forget my experience with this paper and will always, now and 
for years to come, continue to read The Independent Florida 
Alligator. I hope you will, too. 
Sarah Stanley,  University Editor
When I started here, I expected to hunker down in a gray 
cubicle biweekly as pretentious writers and editors scoffed at 
so-and-so’s “abysmal” article and gloated about a fancy in -
ternship that their well-networked parents lined up for them. 
That’s what was rumored and what I saw from the outside.
But the inside was different. I met fantastic people who 
genuinely cared about others. We were all there to learn, and 
whether we enjoyed it or not, we educated ourselves. Sources 
bashed writers over minor details; corrections were run after 
the confusion of major details. Writers started avoiding their 
typical AP style errors, and I learned to re-write entire stories.
I’m grateful for the experience and for the friends made 
working here. I wish you all well and look forward to reading 
your stories – without a red pen in hand from now on.
See you later, Alligator.Our editors’ goodbyesWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7 
We caught up with Juliette Da -
vis and Joachim Polack, the French 
duo behind Pearl and the Oysters.
Q: What brought you guys to 
Florida from Paris?
A: “I came to Florida to do a 
PHD in musicology at UF," Polack 
said. 
“I was in New York at the time, 
and when he told me about the 
music life and the community in 
Gainesville I got really excited and 
was happy to tag along and to re -
ally put life into our project, Pearl 
and the Oysters in Gainesville,” 
Davis said.
Q: You’ve said in the past that 
Gainesville has been a big inspira -
tion in your music, how has the 
city inspired you?
A: "We were just in California 
touring with the band, and coming 
back to Florida it was such a shock just opening our ears to the nature. 
There’s so many birds singing con -
stantly, and we are very inspired 
by the greenery and the nature and 
the exoticism of it,” Davis said.
Q: You guys have a very unique 
sound. How would you describe 
that sound to someone who has 
never heard it?
A: "That’s always complicated. 
We love pop from the ‘70s…. we 
try to sort of bring back that way 
of writing songs and arranging, but 
we also bring in weird early elec -
tronic music and some later, more 
video game style music,” Polack 
said.
“We fool around with a lot of 
different synthesizers and sounds, 
even though the songwriting is 
pretty straightforward,” Davis said
“The main thing that we try 
to have is a signature in terms of 
sound and texture. It’s hard to de -scribe. There’s jazz R&B elements 
sometimes. Its indie pop, its bed -
room pop. We made both of the 
albums in our bedrooms,” Polack 
said.
Q: What are you guys working 
on now?
A: “We have an album that’s 
ready and it will be released in 
November on two different record 
labels…. We are really excited. 
We’re trying to prepare our shows 
for fall,” Polack said.
“We want to do a kickass re -
lease party in November, so get 
prepared for that!” Davis said.
Q: Do you have a name for the 
new album?
A: “It’s called ‘Canned Music,’” 
Polack said.
“’Canned Music,’ like music 
from a can!” Davis said.Pearl and the OystersQ&A: THE AVENUE TALKS WITH THREE LOCAL BANDS
Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
We spoke to Dillon Basse, Flipturn’s 
frontman.
Q: What was it that made you want to 
start a band?
A: “I’ve been playing music since I was 
about 5 or 6 years old. My mom plays the 
Irish fiddle, like the violin. We’re from 
Massachusetts originally so when I was 
really little she used to drag me to these 
Irish session things in the Boston area. 
She’d take me around in a little baby cart, 
and I kind of grew up around music…. We 
moved down to Florida when I got to high 
school. I started playing at local bars when 
I was like 15 around Fernandina beach. 
Then in my junior or senior year in high 
school, Madeline and Tristan came to me 
with this idea of starting a band. They both 
played instruments and we all had similar 
taste in music... we got Adrian on board 
and then Taylor came in a little after. We 
were all musicians and we all wanted to 
do something. It started as kind of a hob -
by, but once we played our first show in Gainesville at the high dive, we were like, 
‘This is what we want to do.’”
Q: If you had to describe each band 
member in one word, what would they be?
A: “One word you could say for Tristan 
would be like, the brain or like cohesive -
ness. One of those words. Just because he 
puts everything together. Madeline, you 
could say chill. She’s really laid back, and 
everyone loves her style. Taylor is kind of 
mysterious to other people. To me and the 
other band members, she’s not, but I guess 
you could see her in that way. Adrian is 
driven, because he, like, drives the beat. I 
guess you could say I’m imaginative, try -
ing to come up with new ideas all of the 
time.”
Q: What do you have coming up?
A: “We have a couple shows in august 
and in September…. We have some new 
music in the works and we have a new 
music video coming out for ‘August’ this 
Wednesday.”Flipturn
We chatted with Robbie Kingsley, lead 
singer for The Hails
Q: Tell me about what you guys have 
been up to?
A: “We played New York, which was 
huge. We played the lower east side. We 
played this play called Rockwood Music 
Hall…. That was our big trip. Then after 
that, we started recording. We recorded 
three new songs. We did that in July and 
we’re going to release those in the fall."
Q: You guys had a lot of success with 
your last single, ‘Younger.’ What do these 
new songs look like?
A: We approached them with the same 
thought as ‘Younger,’ at least production 
wise. They have that kind of sound, but the 
songs aren’t written in the same fashion. 
They are all three pretty different from each 
other and from ‘Younger.’ They’re cool. 
They have different vibes, and they don’t 
seem to sound like any particular genre, so 
I think they have the ability to reach many 
different types of people."
Q: What do you guys have coming up in 
Gainesville?
A: Our first big show is August 31. We’re 
playing at The Wooley downtown. We’re playing with Flipturn, King Complex and 
Arrows in Action. It should be a pretty big 
show."
Q: If you had to describe you guys band 
as a snack, what would it be?
A: “That’s tough! It’s something refresh -
ing, but like, old-school at the same time. 
How about a root beer float? I have no rea -
soning for that. It just sounds really good 
right now."
Q: I know you guys had a lot of success 
with ‘Younger.’ How does that success make 
you feel about moving into the next phase of 
the band, finishing up with college?
A: “It makes us really hopeful. It gives 
us a sense of direction too. We’ve put out 
something that’s stuck with people. At the 
same time, it’s kind of an experiment to see 
what people like. This is something within 
our sound. It didn’t completely dictate, but 
it showed us a way to go with how we want -
ed to do our new stuff…. I think you’ll see 
similarities in the new stuff. Also, as a band, 
it gives us a lot of hope for the future. You 
know, we release it as ourselves completely 
independently…. If we can follow that same 
formula, it shows us that we don’t have to 
be dependent on anybody."The Hails
Courtesy of Flipturn
"The biggest thing for me is when people sing along or say, 'Oh, I relate to that. '" - Dillon Basse
Courtesy of Juliette Davis and Joachim Polack 
"We are very inspired by the greenery and the nature and the 
exoticism of (Gainesville). " - Juliette Davis
Courtesy of The Hails
"We've put out something that's stuck with people. " - Robbie Kingsley
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
THE RESTORATION 
COMES WHILE THE 
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION 
REPORTEDL Y CONSIDERS 
FURTHER IMMIGRATION 
MEASURES.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Director of the Samuel 
Proctor Oral History Program and 
associate professor Paul Ortiz 
has worked with many Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals 
recipients during his career. He 
explained that they’re the hard -
est working students he’s had the 
honor of teaching.
“The program has really been a godsend both to the students 
and their families, but also to so -
ciety,” Ortiz said. “These are indi -
viduals in the program who bring 
skills and insights and experi -
ences that we desperately need to 
renew our country both in terms 
of how we position ourselves and 
global reality that we live in.”
The way in which the U.S. 
courts handle that reality is still 
uncertain. On Aug. 3, a federal 
judge ruled that the DACA pro -
gram must be fully restored. It’s a 
decision that could make its way 
to the Supreme Court this fall. 
DACA, a policy created in 
2012 that protects undocumented 
young people from deportation, 
was originally set to be rescinded 
by President Donald Trump’s ad -
ministration in September 2017.According to the U.S. Citizen -
ship and Immigration Services, 
around 800,000 people have been 
approved for DACA since its cre -
ation. In a report from March, it 
was recorded that there are al -
most 700,000 active recipients 
and more than 26,000 pending 
renewals.
Ortiz explained that he was 
initially shocked, appalled and 
saddened when the Trump ad -
ministration decided to revoke 
DACA protections last year. But 
he was cautiously optimistic 
when he heard the recent news of 
the program being brought back.
“This is more than just a court 
decision,” Ortiz said. “This is 
something that impacts whether 
or not some of my students will 
see their parents in the next five, 10, 15, 20 years.”
UF Assistant Director of Mul -
ticultural Affairs Diana Moreno, 
an immigrant and first-generation 
college student who graduated 
from UF in 2011, said she isn’t 
celebrating the ruling. She said 
it isn’t the end of the battle for 
DACA students.
“As an educator and as some -
one who’s part of the UF commu -
nity, I have seen firsthand the way 
that this program has improved the 
lives of students,” Moreno said. “It 
has allowed our institution to have 
access to these students’ talent, to 
these students’ amazing capacities 
for the academic and professional 
potential.”
In the future, Ortiz hopes peo -
ple will take the time to under -
stand different cultures and talk to immigrants, perhaps realizing 
shared commonalities of human 
interest with them.
“What I’m working for in my 
life as a teacher and citizen is 
where we relate to each other as 
human beings, where we don’t 
ask first ‘what’s your immigration 
status?’” Ortiz said.
Moreno said the students need 
the backing of the community 
now more than ever.
“To any student, faculty or 
staff at the University of Florida, 
this is our time as fellow mem -
bers of the UF community to sup -
port these students as much as 
we can,” Moreno said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF reacts to judge restoring Obama-era immigration policy
OFFICIAL HOMETOWN AUTOMOTIVE PARTNER
O F  T H E  F L O R I D A  G AT O R S !   G O  G AT O R S !®
REAL  GATORS
      DRIVE  DAVIS
Buy One Burger
Get One Burger FREE*!
with coupon
*Of equal or lesser value
Not valid with any other coupons or special discounts.
Limited Time Offer
Sunda y-Thursda y: 
Open until  MidnightFrida y & Saturda y: 
Open until 3:00 am
1402 W.UNIVERSITY AVE
WWW.GATORBTW.COMTHE OFFICIAL PEOPLE’S CHOICE AWARDS
VOTE FOR US
TRY OUR 
AWARD-WINNING 
SCOOTER SAUCEBUY 6  
WINGS 
GET 6 
WINGS
Not valid with any other specials or offers. 
One coupon per customer. 
THE OFFICIAL PEOPLE’S CHOICE AWARDS
VOTE FOR US
ALL YOU
CAN EAT CHICKEN
WINGS FOR$13.99
Grilled or Breaded. Choose any of our
22 delicious wing sauces.MONDAY
(5pm-11pm)
Not valid with any other offer. Limited time offer.OPEN UNTIL 1:00am
Friday & Saturday
Renaissance JewelersRenaissance Jewelers
@rrenaissanceFollow us on:
(352) 335 – 7188
3455 W University Ave
“We aren’t just another jewelry store, 
we’re a store where heirlooms are  
created and legends live on. ”
GOLD • SILVER • PLATINUM
DESIGNER • ANTIQUE • ESTATE
CUSTOM ORDER • REPAIR
ROCKS & MINERALS • COLLECTIBLES
University Evangelical Lutheran Church
1826 West University Ave  •  www.ulcgainesville.com
Sunday Worship
10:25 a.m. 
Student Bible Study & 
Connection
6:00 p.m. Meal 
6:45 p.m.  Bible Study 
and DiscussionStudent Welcome Sunday, August 26th
All students are welcome to mark a new academic year!
Worship 10:25 a.m. with Lunch FollowingWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Courtney Cramer 
Alligator Staff Writter
With nearly 15,000 people joining the Uni -
versity of Florida’s community this upcoming 
fall, current students want to remind baby ga -
tors of essential items for the “swamp.” 
Mattie Nevis, a UF freshman, lives at the 
Springs Residential Complex at UF. 
“It was an easy way to meet people, get 
social before classes even started and make 
friends with the people you’re living with for 
the rest of the year,” she said. 
The dorm is a smaller space than a usual 
bedroom in a house or apartment. Nevis rec -
ommends extra storage space like pull-out 
bins and cleaning supplies. 
Cleaning supplies can come in handy for 
the strangest things, including wasps. We had 
wasps in our bedroom and our resident as -
sistant suggested using Windex to get rid of 
them, Nevis said. 
Although she eventually moved off cam -
pus, Senior Courtney Cramer lived on cam -pus for her first two years. For a dorm, she 
suggests an ethernet cable, chargers, reusable 
water bottles and a small-portable fan. 
“This is not necessary, but for me, I always 
like having my fairy lights around, because 
the dorm lighting can be super harsh,” the 
21-year-old psychology major said. “Having 
different lamps and fairly lights can make it 
more cozy and fun.” 
For some freshman the thought of having a 
random roommate is terrifying. However, for 
both Nevis and Cramer this is the best part of 
living on campus. 
“My roommate is a random one that I’ve 
never met before,” Nevis said. “I was nervous 
about it, but I’m really glad I did it because 
we got along really well.” 
Cramer still keeps in contact with her ran -
dom roommates even though she has moved 
off campus, she said. Having random room -
mates encouraged her to go out and meet 
other people on her floor. 
ccramer@alligator.orgSpace saver: What you 
absolutely need for dorm life
THE BOUTIQUE WILL BE 
AVAILABLE FOR ARTISTS AND 
CRAFTERS TO CREATE PIECES 
TO SELL TO THE PUBLIC. 
By Ashley Mirtyl
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Collaborative Shoppe, slated 
to open in September, will offer cre -
atives and small business owners a 
collective space to sell and display 
their products. The new outlet bills 
itself as a retail boutique, specializing 
in wellness and community activities, 
according to its website. 
Owner Melissa Winko, a 47-year-
old veteran, hopes the space will go 
beyond sales, giving artisans and en -
trepreneurs opportunities for collab -
orative work.
It will feature a retail boutique and 
art studios, where craftsmen can work in-house, Winko said.
With $4,000 invested and 25 ven -
dors interested in joining the collec -
tive, Winko is determined to raise 
$25,000 through crowdfunding for 
renovations.
Winko said she’s had her eye on 
the abandoned downtown shop at 
1305 S. Main St. since June. 
“I wanted to bring the shop to the 
people so that people don’t have to 
travel to collaborate with like-minded 
individuals,” Winko said.
Veronica Mentor, an 18-year-old 
who frequents open-mike nights 
throughout Gainesville, said she looks 
forward to having a collective space 
where she can share and work on her 
spoken word. 
“I didn’t choose to do consignment 
because this is my shop just as it is 
theirs,” Winko said. “People deserve 
to get paid for what they create.”Collaborative Shoppe set 
to open in September
(352)727-4730 • 7400 W. NEWBERRY RD.• Trampolines • Laser Tag  • Rope Course
• Arcade Games • Birthday Parties • CafeBOGO LASER TAG!
Must present coupon. One coupon per visit. Cannot be combined with any other offers
www.arrowsaimrecords.com 10 N. Main St. Gainesville, FL
352-371-212110   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
Gainesville 
Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for a  
Spiritual Community?
We are a community dedicated to 
peace, integrity, equality, social 
justice, and care of the earth.
Join with friends in the mystic 
tradition of waiting upon the 
Divine.
11 a.m. Sundays
Followed by food and fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.orgQuaker
St. Augustine Church 
& Catholic  
Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 p.m., 
Sun. 9 a.m., 11:30, 
1:30 (español), 5:30, 7:30
M-F 12 & 5:30 p.m.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.orgCatholic
Trinity United 
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service 
@6:35p
in Trinity Chapel, followed by
Coffee Talk for young adults  
@ Hunters Crossing  
Starbucks 8-9p
Sunday services: 8:15,  
9:40, 11a
352-376-6615 | TrinityGNV .orgMethodist
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner.
7:30 p.m. Spring/Fall,
8:30 p.m. Summer
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the 
stadium)
www.JewishGator.comJewish
Chapel of the 
Incarnation
The EpiscoGators  
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship:  
5:30 p.m.
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library WestEpiscopal
Gainesville Vineyard
WE HAVE MOVED! 
Jesus-centered faith. 
Authentic community.  
Good coffee. 
Our service meets  
@ 10:30am
1100 SE 17th Drive
Just 10 minutes  
from campus
371-0838
www.gainesvillevineyard.orgNon-Denominational
Worship Services,
The PRAIZE Center
Home of PRAIZE 107.5 FM
309 NE 39th Avenue
Sun 11am, Wed 6:30PM; 
Online or APP at 12 noon 
Mon -Fri; Fri 6pm Pop ‘N 
Praize
www.praize1075.com
Dr. Shirley Watts,  
Founder & Pastor
352-372-8200Non-Denominational
Contact Alligator Advertising    352.376.4482
University City  
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m.
Practical application from 
God’s word, plus service 
projects, large group events, 
free meals and much more...
(directions and events 
calendar at www.
gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Non-DenominationalBy Gillian Sweeney  
Alligator Staff Writer
Picking a grocery store can be a challenge. 
Gainesville is home to more than ten Publix  
stores alone. Here’s some insight to help nar -
row down the search for the perfect store. 
Publix  
(Located across from the Krispy Kreme on 
13th Street) 
Accessibility 5/5
Price point 4/5
Shopping experience 4/5
One experience point off because the deli 
line is too long at all hours of the day, don’t 
even think about waiting there during the 
lunch rush. Other than that, it’s a manageable 
size, making it easy to run through and pick up 
everything for a week of meals. Look for sale 
items to bring down your total cost. The best 
way to get there from campus is to walk, but 
you can also take buses 8, 10, 29 or 5.
Lucky’s
(Located just north of Gainesville High 
School in the shopping center with Taco Bell)
Accessibility 3/5
Price point 3/5
Shopping experience 6/5
There are lots of free samples so you can 
snack your way through the store. Besides, 
where else can you drink beer while you shop? It may just be the best way to increase produc -
tivity on your Sunday funday. Fruits and veg -
etables are always on sale here, but meats and 
cheese can get a bit pricey. Downloading their 
app will get you $5 off your first purchase. Bus -
ses 8, 29, 6 and 15 all stop close by. 
Aldi
(Located at the corner of the Butler Plaza 
shopping center between Lowe’s and Total 
Wine?
Accessibility 4/5
Price point 5/5
Shopping experience 2/5
The prices are reasonable and the variety 
here is decent. They carry a lot of generic 
brands, which can help cut costs. However, 
the frustration of shopping here starts before 
you walk in the door. The carts won’t move 
unless you place a quarter into the slot. You 
need to bring your own bags and pack your 
items into the bags. The location seems to 
have few employees working the registers 
during the week, so lines get long. 
Honorable Mention
Union Street Farmers Market
Centrally located in Butler Plaza, it’s a great 
reason to visit downtown Gainesville. The 
market is held every Wednesday from 4 p.m. 
to 7 p.m. Local businesses can be found selling 
everything from sunflowers to spanakopita. 
Pro tip: remember to bring cash; the sellers will 
thank you. Which Gainesville grocery 
store is right for you? By Layla Soboh
Alligator Staff Writer
On Aug. 7, I moved out of the dorm I’ve 
been living in for two years. I secretly liked 
living in a dorm, and I feel a little senti -
mental leaving it for a house. Once you get 
past the embarrassment of telling people 
you’re a sophomore living in a dorm, it’s 
not too bad.
I met the best friends of my life living in 
Beaty Towers East. You run into people ev -
erywhere, and there were plenty of events 
to go to. Every day of my first semester 
felt like an episode of friends. We formed 
one big group bonded by our love for the 
Gators and hatred for the prison cells we 
were confined to. We sat in a circle playing 
cards, talking about spirituality and play -
ing “Never Have I Ever” until 5 a.m. some -
times. There was always someone in our 
room whether we wanted company or not. 
You could always find a buddy to go to the 
dining hall, the Broward pool or Marston 
Science Library. For me, this was the first 
time I made friends with the same dedica -
tion to school as me. High school had not 
fulfilled me in this way. Thankfully, my 
newfound friendships survived the break 
and carried over into the next year. I know 
the bonds I’ve made will last a lifetime.
The second thing I loved about living 
in a dorm was how convenient it was. It 
was great to be centrally located on cam -pus. I could roll out of bed every day 10 
minutes before class. No public transpor -
tation was needed to get around campus; 
I could walk everywhere. Once I brought 
my car up, parking was pretty convenient. 
As a freshman, I could park a block away. 
As a sophomore, I could park right behind 
my dorm. Even the closest apartment com -
plexes don’t compare to being in a dorm. 
Living in a dorm is like being put into 
a pressure cooker for maturity. It expe -
dites the process. When I lived at home, 
I could yell at family members when they 
upset me. When you live with strangers, 
you don’t have that freedom because they 
don’t love you unconditionally. I devel -
oped a level of patience with people that I 
never had as a teenager. Living in a dorm 
is a little bit like camping. You have to be 
resourceful, and you have to sacrifice cer -
tain luxuries. Wasting your precious food 
isn’t an option, and you can’t fill up your 
storage space with anything but necessi -
ties. You have to be adaptive. Frankly, this 
is a lesson that my friends who live in The 
Standard haven’t learned.
Don’t get me wrong, I am overjoyed to 
be living in a new house with roommates 
of my choice and my own bathroom. But 
my time spent in Beaty Towers will always 
hold a place in my heart. I would recom -
mend dorm life to anyone starting college 
who wants to experience a once-in-a-life -
time opportunity. Cherish your UF dorm lifeWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
Laundry?
Solved.
From Tide to Febreze,  
save and shop close to campus.
UF Campus T arget
Just north of campus on 
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
Use the T arget App
to get this deal & 
other exclusives./two.lf/zero.lf% off
Entire storewide 
purchase * 
Step 1: Download
the Target app.
Step 2: Scan
the barcode.
Step 3: Find your
coupon in wallet. *Exclusions apply . Limit 1 per guest. Coupon availability limited.
save and shop close to campus.
EXPIRES 9/16/1812   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
Gator Night!
Wednesday Nights
15% off or  
BOGO buy one get one 50% off
with a student ID
nitrogen ice cream
4110 SW 34th St. Suite 17   (786) 556-7044 @fogboxx
fogboxxgnv
7750 W Newberry Rd
352.727.4619House Margaritas  
and Draft Beers 
2 for 1
Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer  
There are thousands of places to recycle 
across the UF campus. But you can’t just 
throw your Starbucks cup from Marston Sci -
ence Library in the bin and hope for the best. 
Allison Vitt, Office of Sustainability out -
reach and communications coordinator, 
deemed these kinds of students ‘wishcyclers.’ 
The recycling on campus ends up at the same 
facility the entirety of Alachua County uses. 
And if the containers on campus are contami -
nated with non-recyclables, the entire batch 
could end up in the landfill. 
“It’s important to note, though, that con -
tamination in the recycling system is a very 
big problem and is often caused by people 
who are trying to do the right thing,” Vitt said. 
“We call this “wishcycling” when a person 
puts an item in the recycling bin in the hopes 
that it will be recycled, even if they’re not sure 
it can be.” 
If you’re unsure whether something can 
be recycled, Vitt said it is better to throw it 
away rather than accidentally contaminating 
the recycling stream. Campus recycling is no 
different from home recycling, so if you can recycle it at your apartment, you can recycle 
it on campus.
“The most common items we see in recy -
cling bins on campus that cannot be recycled 
are Starbucks cups: both the clear plastic cups 
and lids, and the paper coffee cups,” Vitt said. 
Things like soup cans, plastic gallon jugs, 
soda bottles and cans, juice and milk cartons, 
glass bottles and jars can all be recycled in 
containers marked for cans and bottles. Copy 
paper, newspapers, clean and flattened card -
board boxes with no food residue or grease, 
magazines, junk mail, clean brown paper bags, 
paperback books, and cereal boxes can be re -
cycled in the paper bins, Vitt said. 
There are also some recycling secrets that 
will help you refrain from being a wishcycler. If 
a recyclable product is needed in Gainesville or 
Alachua County, a number from one to seven 
may be marked at the bottom inside of a triangle 
of three arrows. 
“In order for a local system to accept cer -
tain plastics, there has to be a market demand 
for that material,” Vitt said. “For instance, if a 
manufacturer makes park benches out of re -
cycled plastic #5, they’ll need to buy the ‘raw’ 
plastic bottles and other items with that type 
of plastic so they can turn them into benches.” Daniel Ysaguirre, 20-year-old sus -
tainability and the built environment 
junior, said he likes that the different 
recycling bins on campus are conve -
niently located next to one another in 
a row so that students don’t have to 
spend time looking for places to re -
cycle.
“I think, whether people choose to 
recycle or not, it’s more so on the stu -
dents themselves to try and put effort 
into recycling,” Ysaguirre said. “I think 
it’s also a convenience thing. If people 
are just in a hurry or not really paying 
attention, they’re just going to throw 
everything in the trash anyway.” 
A better solution to both throwing 
things in the trash and recycling them, 
Vitt said, is to switch to reusable prod -
ucts and limit single-use materials. She 
suggested reducing waste by carrying 
a reusable water bottle, buying bulk 
items rather than individually packaged goods 
and bringing a reusable grocery bag while 
shopping. 
“Making some simple swaps to reusable 
items like this can drastically cut down the 
amount of waste you create while also saving you money and frustration,” Vitt said. “Recy -
cling is a good last resort, but reducing when -
ever possible is always going to be the best 
option.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgYes, there are actual rules for how to properly recycle at UF
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
WE TAKE YOUR WORKOUT TO  
THE NEXT LEVELMEMBERSHIPS 
AS LOW AS 
$19.99
A MONTH & $0 DOWN 
 
ATHLETIC TRAINING   
 TRX STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING   
COME SEE ALL THAT WE
OFFER!
. Juice Bar 
. 24 H our Access 
.Boxing 
.Cardiovascular Training 
. Personal & Group Training 
.Sauna 
.Turf Training .Athletic Perform ance
Training 
. Group Fitness Classes 
. Pro Shop  
.Group exercise classes 
 24/7 in our N EW  
On D emand studio!JOIN  NOW  AT BAILEYSGYM .COM 
3441 W . University A ve.  
GAINESV ILLE, FL 
Corner of U niversity &  34th  
352-373-4439  
 VISIT US  TODAY! 
*See Club for details14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
By Chris O’Brien
Alligator Sports Writer
A pair of dark brown eyes zips past your 
line of sight. Shoulder-length straight brown 
hair bounces like a child on a trampoline above 
her almond-colored complexion. The whistle 
blows and her face breaks into a warm, invit -
ing smile that reminds you of home. 
Lauren Evans, an outside back, just finished 
her final practice before the Florida Gators 
left Gainesville to take on the South Carolina 
Gamecocks at the Elite Eight in Columbus, 
South Carolina.
On the way home, she might stop at Chi -
potle. Her go-to meal there is a chicken bowl 
with extra cheese, occasionally tossing in gua -
camole.
After she goes home and cleans herself up, 
maybe she’ll take a trip to the mall or Forever 
21, two of her favorite places to shop.
But after UF left for the Elite Eight in No -
vember 2017, her life of regular practices and 
shopping trips wouldn’t ever be the same.
Florida got to the venue a few days early to 
get acclimated to the climate and field.
But on the plane ride there, Lauren expe -rienced some nausea and head sickness. I’ve 
just got airplane sickness, she thought. I’ll be 
fine.
At team dinner that night, everyone was al -
lowed to order whatever they wanted. So, of 
course, Lauren ordered a magnificent steak 
dinner with mashed potatoes. But when they 
set the mouthwatering plate in front of her, she 
looked at it and thought, I don’t even want this 
right now. That was the first warning sign for 
her parents, Jerome and Allison.
“She’s always had a really healthy appe -
tite,” Jerome said. “She eats…a lot. So, I kind 
of knew something was wrong.”
Lauren realized she hadn’t used the bath -
room in a while. “Maybe (I was) just consti -
pated,” she said, embarrassed. Lauren decided 
to bring the issue up to athletic trainer Connie 
Andrews and coach Becky Burleigh. 
Andrews and Burleigh told her she should 
drink more water and eat a banana to attempt 
to get things flowing again.
By the time practice came around the next 
morning, Lauren still hadn’t used the bath -
room, and at this point, she was just trying to 
keep her cool.
She told Andrews she couldn’t practice. “My teammates were like ‘Really? You’re not 
practicing because you’re constipated? C’mon, 
this is D-I,’” Lauren said.
The team was in Columbia for Thanksgiv -
ing because the game was a day after, so it cel -
ebrated the holiday in the city with a family 
dinner that Thursday.
Lauren didn’t eat.
She sat out of the Elite Eight matchup the 
next day, a contest in which Florida lost 2-0, 
ending its season.
The team hustled home to make it for the 
UF-FSU football game on Nov. 26. Lauren met 
up with her parents to attend but left at half -
time, much to the puzzlement of her father.
Since Jerome and Allison couldn’t be 
with Lauren on Thanksgiving, they decided 
to bring the young soccer player all the left -
overs, so they could celebrate together at their 
Gainesville condo. The parents fixed their 
daughter a big plate of food, of which she ate 
about two bites, complaining her throat was 
too swollen to swallow. 
Both her team doctor and her parents ad -
vised her to go to the infirmary.
Lauren got into the infirmary on Tuesday, 
Nov. 28, and was given an IV for fluids and her blood was tested for mono.
The doctors at the infirmary didn’t find 
mono.
“Something doesn’t look right in your 
blood,” doctors explained to her. They tested 
another sample before about five doctors 
rushed in and advised she go to the hospital 
immediately.
When she got to the waiting room, she 
turned to teammate Briana Solis and said, 
“What if I have cancer?”
Lauren called her mother and told her she 
was going to the emergency room, but wasn’t 
exactly sure why.
While waiting for her mother to arrive for 
about an hour, the doctors arrived with a ques -
tion for Lauren.
“Do you want us to tell you now, or do you 
want to wait for a family member to be here?”
Lauren elected to wait for her mother to ar -
rive before she got the diagnosis.
While Allison was still about 45 minutes 
away, Solis called and told her the doctors 
asked Lauren if she wanted to wait for her fam -
ily to receive the diagnosis, and Allison’s level TOUGHEST WARRIOR : The Lauren Evans Comeback 
SEE WARRIOR,  PAGE 15
better
INSTANT Book,
INSTANT SAVINGSRent USED
Temporary Book,
Permanent Savingssame Book,
Better Price
DIGITAL
Blu Crystal
“Your CBD Headquarters”
Among Health Benefits of CBD Oil
- Reduces blood sugar levels
- Anti-inflammatory
- Reduces risk of artery blockage
- Relieves pain, anxiety , and depression
- 100% legal in all 50 states
- Alzheimer’s
Tuesday-Saturday 11 am-7 pm | 1801 NE 23rd Ave., Gainesville, FL 32609 | (352)-373-6729We sell Scared-Threads Clothes, 
 Gem Stones, Jewelry , Crystals and  
Essential Oils. 
Visit our art gallery. Ask about our 
classes offered.
Mention this ad and get 10% off 
your first purchase.
CHUCK BUSH AUTO REPAIR
“We don’t just fix cars, we keep them on the road!”
www.chuckbushautorepair.com · 352-372-0138
1011 Southeast 2nd Avenue · 352-372-0372Serving 
Gators for 
three generations!MON - FRI
8:00 - 5:00
4 mins from campus
BUSH
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15 
of worry ballooned.
It takes about two-and-a-half hours to reach 
Gainesville from their home near Tampa, but 
Allison did it in a little over an hour.
Once at the E.R., she and her daughter anx -
iously awaited the doctors and a diagnosis.
In the room sat Lauren, Allison, Solis and 
Andrews. Jerome initially decided not to make 
the trip because he assumed the diagnosis 
would just be mono or strep or something. 
“I was kinda like, ‘You’re babying her, just 
leave her alone,” Jerome said. “It was totally 
unexpected.”
A half hour later, surrounded by pale yel -
low drywall, two curtains, a small yellow-green 
armchair, a teammate, her athletic trainer and 
her mother in a cramped cubicle, Lauren heard 
the unfathomable uttered by her doctor in the 
Shands Regional Hospital Emergency Room.
“You have leukemia.”
There was no warm greeting. No moving to 
his office. No delay of any kind.
The athletic trainer couldn’t handle the 
news and walked out emotional.Lauren was in denial. 
“It can’t be cancer,” she said. “It’s just a 
disease… It didn’t really feel real until the next 
morning.”
She didn’t know what to think. What does 
it mean? Would she ever play soccer again?
Was she even going to live?
•   •   •
Nobody said a word. Nobody knew what to 
say. Is there even a right thing to say?
Allison said she believed the silence alarmed 
Lauren a bit. “Nobody reacted so she thought 
maybe she heard it wrong,” Allison said.
Lauren was diagnosed with acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML). “Acute” refers to the fact that 
it can progress rapidly if not treated and “my -
eloid” is indicative of where the cancer begins 
– which is in bone marrow.
If not treated quickly, AML will kill you.
AML has a five-year survival rate of 26 per -
cent. Just 26 percent of patients with it survive 
beyond five years, according to Healthline.
Lauren was incredulous, still in denial be -
cause no one in her family had ever been diag -
nosed with cancer.
“It’s just one of those things where, you 
know, you hear cancer all the time. Until it happens to somebody that you’re close to…” 
Allison choked up.
Lauren was sent to the ICU because her 
breathing levels were plummeting. The rapid -
ly-increasing white blood cells began to spread 
to her chest and lungs. Doctors connected her 
to an oxygen tank and cranked it up to the 
highest setting. She still struggled to breathe.
The only option left was to start chemother -
apy as soon as possible. 
For Lauren, an 18-year-old who knew little 
about her disease, chemotherapy is the most 
fear-inducing, treacherous word out there. 
Her view of the word soon evolved.
“It almost became like my friend,” she said, 
“like I wanted it.”
Lauren discovered chemo relieved the ago -
ny she was experiencing. It helped her breathe 
again and took away some of cancer’s costly 
effects.
The treatment had one lasting problem 
though: her hair.
When Lauren woke up with hair on her pil -
low, her level of stress swelled until, on Christ -
mas Eve, it popped.
She went to the bathroom and just yanked 
it all out. And when it was out, she immedi -ately felt better. But she couldn’t wait for it to 
grow back.
Her hair wasn’t the only thing distorting her 
appearance.
She lost her eyebrows and eyelashes, and 
her face puffed too.
There was more damage coming.
Read the rest of this story online at alligator.
org or in next week’s “Welcome Back” edition.WARRIOR,  from pg. 14‘It almost became like my friend, like I wanted it.’
Courtesy of the Evans Family
Evans poses on a hospital gurney. 
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
 Pick-up your
Monday
Wednesday
Friday16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
START YOUR GLOBAL CAREER
JOIN THE INTERNATIONAL 
SCHOLARS PROGRAM
internationalcenter.ufl.edu/global-learning/
CONNECT · SERVE · WORK · LEARN
WITHOUT BORDERS
Caroline Cooper PhotographyBy Blake Trauschke
Staff Writer
It’s 10:25 in the morning, and 
your good life lecture just ended. 
Having to get up early for that 9:35 
messes with your morning routine. 
And by morning routine I mean 
your morning bathroom time. The 
Starbucks you were six minutes late 
to class for starts knocking around 
your intestines as soon as you are 
seven paces out of the lecture hall. 
Your dorm room is too far away to 
go to before your next class. Where 
do you make your offering to the 
porcelain throne?
Well, we figured that out for you. 
My lovely assistant, Ryan Klitz, and 
I went around and checked out — 
and tried a good portion of — the 
bathrooms in undergraduate class -
room buildings and libraries on 
UF’s main campus. We did not in -
clude dorms, graduate buildings or 
buildings that were just offices. We 
saw the bathrooms of 50 buildings, 
and we have presented the top 10 
and bottom 10 buildings here.  
We used five criteria to rate each 
bathroom — atmosphere, fixtures, 
consistency (to other bathrooms in 
the building or to the other gender 
bathroom if there was only one), 
accessibility (how easily you can 
find the bathroom as well as how 
many stalls per size of the building) 
and comfort. We each ranked these 
categories out of 10 and added our 
scores together from Ryan covering 
the men’s and myself covering the women’s. The overall scores are out 
of 100.
We chose not to do the unisex 
bathrooms solely based on time. 
The unisex bathrooms are way 
better than the other restrooms 
anyway. This article is in no way 
bashing the UF cleaning staff. The 
fact that the grout in the tile is older 
than their parents is not their fault. 
Bottom T en
50. McCarty B Hall (1956)/ 23 
points
There was no women’s bath -
room on the first floor. When there 
was a women’s, it was in the stair -
well and not inside the main part of 
the building like the men’s. It was a 
small, mint green nightmare. Don’t 
stop here.
49. McCarty A Hall (1956)/26 
points
Hot and had a lot of the same 
problems as McCarty B. We 
got stuck here during a classic 
Gainesville rain storm, and we 
wanted to be anywhere else.
48. Williamson Hall (1958)/32 
points
First floor was great. We were 
hopeful. As we went up, things 
went down. There is a cool shower 
in the unisex bathrooms on the third 
floor, but said unisex bathroom has 
a stall, urinal, sink and shower and 
gave off some weird vibes.
47. Weil Hall (1950)/32 points
If the building looked so beau -
tiful on the outside, there is much 
to be desired inside, especially the bathrooms. The women’s room hid -
ing in some hallways helped this 
earn the fourth worst bathroom. 
46. Matherly Hall (1954)/ 36 
points
Entering Matherly is like walk -
ing down the halls of high school. 
But the confusing part is the gross 
bathrooms alternate which side of 
the building it’s on. The women’s 
is on the right for one floor and all 
the way on the opposite side of the 
building on the next. Why? I just 
have to go. 
45. Leigh Hall (1927)/36 points
Hear me out. The bathrooms are 
on the second floor, and to get to the 
women’s, you have to go through 
an outside hallway through several 
doors, and then it’s there? But hey, 
there is a couch. The men’s has all 
different faucets, though.
44. Turlington Hall (1977)/42 
points
We all knew Turlington would 
end up here. The outside lecture 
hall bathrooms smell of weed. The 
inside bathrooms never have all the 
parts working, but they do have a 
urine scent. Why are you like this?
43. Little Hall (1965)/42 points
“I walked in on a man with his 
pants down. The door was open…,” 
Klitz said.
42. Library West (1967)/42 points
While Ryan and I are both 
Marston-ers, West’s bathrooms re -
ally helped solidify us in our claims. 
Having only three places to empty 
your tank is a little ridiculous, and 
they’re always out of something, whether it’s toilet paper, paper tow -
els or empty stalls.
41. Sisler Hall (1967)/43 points
Terrifying. Absolutely terrifying. 
If you want to film a horror film at 
UF, this is the place. 
T op T en
10. New Physics Building 
(1998)/71 points
There are so many stalls in this 
bathroom that we thought we were 
in a swanky airport. I always find 
that there are no paper towels, 
though.
9. Pugh Hall (2008)/73 points
I don’t know how, but I have had 
someone throw up in the stall next to 
me on three separate occasions be -
fore my 11:45. There is a shower in 
the unisex bathroom. The large door 
at the end of the stalls is its own pri -
vate bathroom. Prime bathroom. 
8. New Engineering Building 
(1997)/73 points
These were all just solid bath -
rooms in the same place with more 
than plenty of stalls.
Fun fact, never forget the bomb 
threat called into this building in 
2016 because a girl didn’t want to go 
to work at the coffee shop inside. 
7. Psychology Building (1972)/74 
points
While the bottom floor is under 
construction, we both agreed that 
the faux marble stalls and mono-
color scheme throughout each floor 
with the foyer area made these bath -
rooms deserve a place in the top 10.
6. Dauer Hall (1932)/79 pointsThis building is solely in the top 
10 for the first floor bathroom near 
the faculty center inside. The floral 
wallpaper, plantation shutters, soft 
decor and pleasant scents make this 
my favorite bathroom on the entire 
campus.
5. Fine Arts B (1964)/86 points
The Fine Arts area has a mid-
century modern look to it that un -
expectedly doesn’t match any of 
UF. Fine Arts B is a lecture hall that 
seems to be recently renovated. The 
bathrooms were large with beautiful 
countertops. 
4. Heavener Hall (2014)/88 points
Shiny and new. What more could 
you ask for?
3. Hernandez Hall (2017)/90 points
If you haven’t seen the new 
chemistry building, you have to go 
see it. Tens of millions of dollars 
went into this building, and the bath -
rooms reflect it. 
2. Bryan Hall (1914)/91 points
Fixtures is what brought Bryan so 
high up. The lights in the mirrors are 
so good you will see that you really 
need to do your brows. It is a quality 
number two spot.
1 Gerson Hall (2003)/93 points
“This bathroom defines luxury,” 
Klitz said. Succinct explanation for 
this executive latrine. 
If you would like to see our 
full spreadsheet of points or have 
any questions for me or Ryan, 
please message me on Twitter @
BlakeTrauschke. We ranked bathrooms at UF. Here’s our top and bottom ten WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
Janssen Research & Development, LLC [V01 USA][Insert site location and contact information]STILL HAVING SYMPTOMS OF DEPRESSION EVEN 
WITH YOUR CURRENT ANTIDEPRESSANT?
Help us research an investigational medication for major 
depressive disorder (MDD).
The OARS 1 research study is evaluating the safety and effectiveness of an investigational 
medication for major depressive disorder, also known as, MDD. If you are someone 
who has been taking medication to manage their depression but are still experiencing 
depressive episodes, you may be eligible to participate in this study. 
To qualify, participants must:
•  be between the ages of 18 to 64,
•  have been diagnosed with MDD
•  have had an inadequate response to at least 1 but no more than 2 antidepressants.
Qualified participants will receive study-related medical care and medication at no cost.
To learn more about this study, please 
contact the study team using information 
provided below.
(352) 333-0094
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Imagine coming home from a long day 
of classes. You’ve walked about a total 
of 12,000 steps, it’s boiling hot outside, 
you’re dripping in sweat and most impor -
tantly, you smell. Let’s face it: You need to 
take a shower.
Now, situations like these can be relax -
ing if not enjoyable for those living in an 
apartment, but not necessarily for someone 
living in a dorm. Dorms such as Buckman, 
Jennings and Murphee, have communal 
style bathrooms- meaning there’s one per 
floor. Communal bathrooms can be a scary 
thought, as nobody really prefers to show -
er two feet away from another person. 
To help you get the hang of bathing in 
a public restroom, I’ve come up with key 
tips for conquering the fear of communal 
showers:
Tip #1: Wear shoes.
Yes, I know. This seems like common 
sense, but you’d be surprised by how 
many people are unaware of the need for 
shower shoes in a public restroom. Show -
ering barefoot can lead to warts, fungus, 
athlete’s foot and essentially any gross skin 
disease one can think of. A simple solution 
to prevent any of these is to buy yourself a 
nice pair of water-resilient sandals. Prefer -
ably ones in a bright color and cute design, 
so you can at least make the best of the 
situation
Tip #2: Purchase a shower caddy.
The holy grail of all shower equipment 
is a shower caddy. This beautiful mecha -
nism is engineered to hold all of your toi -
letries — no matter how big or small. This 
caddy will be handy whenever you want to grab your necessary items and hop in 
the shower. It comes in mesh, plastic, and 
even rubber material. This item is a life -
saver, trust me.
Tip #3: Try to shower when it’s not 
busy.
The key to retaining the majority of the 
hot water is to shower when nobody else 
is. The prime times to do this are early in 
the morning (around 8 a.m.), noon and af -
ter 10 p.m. If these times aren’t personally 
easy for you, try to figure out your hall’s 
busy times for bathing.
Tip #4: Play music using your phone 
or a speaker.
This tip isn’t a necessity, but it defi -
nitely makes a difference. Having music 
playing in the showers will improve your 
experience and possibly allow you to meet 
a new friend. As long as your music isn’t 
trash, everyone else will enjoy having 
background noise in the typically bleak 
communal area.
Tip #5: Pick up after yourself.
This should be an unspoken concept, 
but sadly the majority of people have not 
learned this lesson. Please pick up your 
hair, toiletry lids, cotton swabs, etc. and 
place them in the TRASH where they be -
long. No, the floor is not your trash bin.
Tip #6: Don’t overstress it and just 
accept your situation.
There’s no avoiding taking a shower 
in college, so the best tip I can give you 
is to muster up and get used to sharing a 
bathroom with 30 other students. After a 
week, it’ll feel like a typical routine. It’ll 
also make you appreciate your shower 
back home.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgDealing with shared showers
Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
1. You are going to pull same late 
nights. Accept that fact now.
I write this as I pull my first all-nighter and it 
is excruciating. Just know that sometimes, life 
gets in the way, and you cannot study for your 
exams far enough in advance, or complete that 
essay. Luckily, UF offers a few study halls and 
libraries, such as Newell Hall, that are open 24 
hours. I find that pulling late nights to study 
with friends is the best way to go because you 
will have a support system of people who are 
struggling just as much as you. 
2. Don’t take your time for granted.
Four years seems like a long time but I guar -
antee you it goes by in the blink of an eye. I am 
only going to be a Sophomore and have already 
been confronted with that scary reality that I 
only have three more years here. Cherish the 
good, the bad, and the ugly because you’ll look 
back and laugh at it all one day. Who you are 
now is not who you will be next year, so live 
in the moment and take life by the reigns! You 
never know what can happen. 
3. Enjoy your life
College is full of pressure, I’m not gonna lie. 
You have classes, organizations, friends, a so -
cial life and, of course, a need to take care of 
yourself. Needless to say, it can be a lot to jug -
gle. School is important, yes, but as a freshman 
you take some of your easiest courses.. One 
thing I regret from my freshman year is that 
I was not spontaneous at all. While planning 
is important, you must allow room for life’s 
pleasantries an surprises to find you. There is a 
reason people look back on their college years 
as some of the best times of their life, so make 
some memories! 
4. Balance work and play
Enjoy your life, but not at the expense of your education. While college is this fantastic 
time of exploration, it is also a time to learn and 
grow from doing what you love. My best advice 
would be to get as ahead as possible on assign -
ments so you can go out on the weekends or 
take spontaneous trips to the springs. You will 
come to realize that a balance is going to do 
wonders for your physical and mental health. 
5. It is okay to fail...in fact, it’s recom -
mended
A huge part of “adulting” is failure. Accept 
that you will fail at something, at some pot in 
your college career. It may be a class, it may be 
a relationship or friendship, it may be losing a 
job or internship. Whatever the case may be, 
you have to think of these “failures” as lessons 
rather than insurmountable obstacles that will 
wreck your life. 
6. Don’t worry so much. Everything 
will work out in the end.
There will be times when you feel like the 
work won’t end and you can’t do it all. Even 
if you can’t get it all done, you will be just 
fine. There will come a time again and again 
when you just have to say “screw it, let’s 
wing it,” which is okay! Really, it is okay to 
not have your life together. So many kids, 
myself included, come into college under the 
impression that adulthood equals having it 
all figured out. You wish! In fact, college is 
messy and chaotic, and half the time you 
don’t know what you’re doing.
7. Don’t search for opportunities, cre -
ate them.
I cannot stress enough the importance of 
getting involved on campus. College is the 
time to find your passion and do what you 
love, so get out there and do it! Join clubs, 
apply for research and/or intern positions, 
stack up that resume, but most importantly, 
do what is going to help you succeed and add 
fulfillment in your life.Things to know as a freshman18   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
By Danielle Ivanov
Staff Writer
 
You should take ORH1030 be -
cause:
1. Professor Clark tells hilari -
ous personal stories.
Every class you’ll hear at least 
one anecdote. Clark might talk about 
outsmarting and out-sassing his dad 
in a bean-planting war, or taking 
selfies with his plants on the Mag -
nificent Mile in Chicago.
2. He might name a plant after you.
One student, Penny, asked Clark 
to create a bright orange plant for 
her that her parents could see from 
the top of the O’Dome at graduation. 
He named it Copper Penny.
3. Class always starts by hav -
ing you rate which plant, out of 
five displayed, is your favorite.
You never know what plants 
you’ll find until you walk into the 
room, and at the end of class, all five 
are raffled off to lucky students. Ev -
eryone holds their breath, hoping to 
hear their number called, especially 
when more popular plants like suc -
culents and orchids are on display.
4. You get free plants every 
class, and you can snag the one 
you chose as your favorite.
Even if you don’t win a raffle, 
there are always trays of different, smaller plants for students to take 
home. Usually these plants are some 
of Clark’s coleus sprouts or smaller 
versions of the raffled plants.
5. You can keep your plants in 
your dorm.
By the end of the semester, you’ll 
have so many plants that your room -
mates will beg you to throw some 
away. Clark said in a past semester, 
one student’s roommate got so sick 
of her plant aesthetic that she killed 
all the plants in their suite and got 
kicked out of the dorm.
6. Having plants in your home 
improves air quality and provides 
a source of stress-relief.
Many studies have found that a 
single houseplant can clean 80% of 
toxins out of the air in your home. 
Plants also help to improve your 
mood and reduce cortisol levels, 
lowering stress.
7. There are four extra credit 
opportunities, one of which is 
bringing a friend to class.
Clark said that his students can 
afford to get low Cs on his tests be -
cause of the extra credit he allows. 
Twenty-five points are given for 
bringing a friend to lecture.
8. Your friend will also get free 
plants.
Your selling point for convincing 
a friend to go with you to class is that they can grab a free plant and 
potentially win the raffle as well.
9. It’s only one credit hour.
This class can help bump you up 
to the Bright Futures requirement 
without adding busy work or stress. 
During Fall and Spring, it meets once 
a week for 50 minutes.
10. It’s offered every semester.
You can take gardening as an 
elective whenever you want. If your 
schedule is too full this Fall, no wor -
ries - you can just sign up for the 
next semester.
11. Most assignments are atten -
dance.
There is only one homework as -
signment in the class, and it’s a 
project where you take pictures of 
ten plants, identify them and state 
their native habitat. The bulk of your 
grade will come from simply show -
ing up to class.
12. You can get involved with the 
Collegiate Plant Initiative (the group 
that does plant drops at the potato).
Clark can hook you up with re -
sources in the field of horticulture 
and help you land internships and 
jobs, no matter your major. Through 
the CPI, you can form important 
connections in the industry and trav -
el around the US.
@danielleivanov
divanov@alligator.orgTwelve reasons to take gardening
Danielle Ivanov / Alligator Staff
ORH1030 gives students the opportunity to take home their 
very own plants and even the chance to name one themselves.
New patient appointments are available now.
www.sarkisfamilypsychiatry.com  |  (352) 331-5100  Call today!
Sarkis Family Psychiatry has provided effective, 
customized, and holistic mental health services for 
UF students and others since 1991. We treat ADHD, 
depression, anxiety, and more.
Our psychiatrists, therapists, and nurse 
practitioners are experts in diagnosis and offer 
treatments including:
•    Psychotherapy for individuals, couples, and 
families
•    Medications and supplements
•    Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for depression
•    Mindfulness meditation training
•    EMDR
•    Bioenergetics
•    The Daring WayTM  and others
We have helped thousands of people in a 
confidential and respectful environment.
Let us help you be WELL, not just “better”!
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
3205    Clark    Butler Bl vd. - (352) 2 42-0020     |      2005 NW 43rd St. - (352) 559-3937ONE FREE 
SESSION!
With   coupon. V alid onl y a t Gainesville, FL loca tions. 
Coupon   is   onl y good   for  first timers and  locals.
 Cert ain    restrictions  appl y. See studio   for   det ails. 
Not v alid with any  other   coupons or special discounts. 
Butler     plaza
 MIllhopper
OVER  100   CLASSES  EVER Y WEEK!
 2   Amazing    Studios!LET'S   ST ART
burning!
Cuban Food with a Smile.
THE OFFICIAL PEOPLE’S CHOICE AWARDS
VOTE FOR US
BOGO
Buy ANY meal, Get the 
2nd of equal or lesser value HALF OFF!AGBOGO
114 SW 34th St.  (352) 376-7020 | miapalatincafe.com
MUST PRESENT COUPON. One coupon per customer. Cannot be combined with any other offer.www.miap ala tincafe.com114 SW 34 th  S t.
(352)376-7020
CALL-A-MATTRESS 
SUPERSTORE
TWINS $89
FULLS $129
QUEENS $149
KING $199
Includes Mattress & BoxspringsMATTRESS 
CLOSE -OUT SET 
TWINS $49
FULLS $69
QUEENS $89
KING $99
Includes Mattress & BoxspringsPRE-OWNED 
MATTRESS SETS
callamattressinc.com
4390 SW 20TH AVE.
352-376-0953#1 IN VALUE, QUALITY AND  PRICE    
•  STUDENT DISCOUNTSWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19
By Stephan Chamberlin
Alligator Staff Writer
We all know the walk through Turlington Plaza. It’s a veri -
table minefield of distractions. People handing out pamphlets, 
students trying to get you to join their clubs, doughnut sales 
for the nexus of evil: the Alachua County Humane Society. But 
there are also those who have a less-than-appealing message. 
Some of the Turlington heralds preach a very religious message 
of fire and brimstone, and some go way overboard on the rheto -
ric. The next time you walk through Turlington try to keep an 
open mind and listen to what they’ve got to say.
This thinking comes from a recent experience I had walking 
through the Plaza of the Americas, another one of our beloved 
free speech zones on campus. A man in a Yankees baseball cap 
approached me. He wanted to talk to me about if I had given 
Jesus Christ a chance to enter my life. Normally, that would be 
my cue to say something like, “Sorry, I’m late for class, I gotta 
go,” or some other half-hearted utterance to excuse myself. But 
I wanted to hear what the man had to say. So, I introduced 
myself, got his name (Freddy, by the way) and we struck up a 
conversation about science, evil, omnipotence, forgiveness and Christianity’s place in a world that was growing increasingly 
atheistic.
I learned quite a lot from Freddy. I learned about his per -
sonal struggles. I shared some of my own experiences with him. 
We bonded over passages of the Bible, which I had learned 
from going to church with my mom. We learned that we shared 
many of the same values on patience, love, kindness and being 
neighborly.
That was all well and good for a while, until things took 
a turn for the hellish. Remember, like I said, you should only 
make a best effort at listening. I had a few more conversations 
with Freddy, up until near the end of one of our mobile, tran -
sient chats, I asked him if I was going to heaven. After all, I was 
an Eagle Scout, had gone to church, gone through my com -
munion, confirmation and even though I wasn’t religious in the 
slightest, tried to do right by everyone in my life. He replied that 
if I hadn’t accepted Jesus into my life, I wouldn’t be going to 
heaven. I probed him further about the issue. Apparently, nei -
ther would my mother, as a Catholic. Neither would the tribes 
in the Amazon. Neither would babies who passed from the 
world without a chance to know Jesus.
It was at that point I stopped listening to Freddy. But I heard 
him out, and I did learn from him. The Dalai Lama once said, “When you talk, you are only repeating what you already know. 
But if you listen, you may learn something new.” So go ahead 
and listen, but if you stop learning, or start getting lambasted 
and told you’re going to hell, you can keep on walking.Listen to the Turlington crazies, but don’t think like them
Alligator File Photo
Junior Lofton, a Christian preacher, talks to students at Turlington.
Call 352-335-9090 and press 5 Visit campuscu.com for a complete list of our convenient locations.CAMPUS M OBILE
On-the-go m obile  
banking app.
MOBILE DEPOSITS3
Take a  picture.
Deposit  your check. Easy .CAMPUS ONLINE
Pay all your bills online or
on your smartphone.
!
MOBILE  ALERTS
Keep on track w ith 
spending and budget alerts.FREEChecking1Become a member of CAMPUS 
USA Credit Union and get a 
Free Checking Account/one.ordn with a 
debit card and /f_ree online & 
mobile banking! Visit any 
CAMPUS Service Center today!  
$50GET
with eDocuments!OPEN AFree Checking
Account1
2
OFFER IS FOR NEW CHECKING ACCOUNTS ONLY. OFFER MUST BE PRESENTED AT TIME OF NEW ACCOUNT OPENING AND MAY NOT BE COMBINED WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. OFFER SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 1. Credit 
approval and initial $50 opening deposit is required. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the /f_irst 90 days. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member must elect to receive 
eDocuments and there must be a minimum of 3 debit card transactions in the /f_irst 30 days.  If the requirements are met and the account remains open for 90 days, the $50 reward will be made available to the member. 
$50 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. Oﬀer expires 9/30/18. 3. Credit approval and certain eligibility criteria required. 4. Credit approval and initial $5 deposit required. Additional insurance 
of up to $250,000 on your shares is provided by Excess Share Insurance Corporation, a licensed insurance company. Federally insured by the NCUA. Membership is open to students, faculty and staﬀ of the University of Florida, UF Health and all residents of Alachua County!4
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.
Art
Wood
Jewelry
Ceramics
Picture Framing
2441 NW 43rd St. Gainesville, FL 
www.thornebrookgallery.com
(352) 378-4947
(352) 336-3925
www.beadallaboutit.net2441 NW 43rd St Suite 1A 
Thornebrook Village Gainesville
“Beads, findings, gemstones, classes,  
affordable, creative, FUN!
20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
In a small college town like Gainesville, 
it’s hard to imagine eating anywhere other 
than chain restaurants. To the surprise of 
many new students, as soon as you get into 
the city, residents will recommend great lo -
cal restaurants. However, you’ll notice over 
time that the same few restaurants get rec -
ommended and hyped up by people just be -
cause multiple people go there. There are a 
few restaurants that don’t need the giant fan 
club they have and there are a few that need 
more support. 
OVERHYPED
Reggae Shack  
This restaurant is known as the “best 
Jamaican food restaurants in Gainesville”. 
There are constant commercials for it run -ning on TV, and that promotion coupled 
with word-of-mouth lead you to believe it 
will be the best place you’ll ever eat. How -
ever, anyone from the Caribbean or of Carib -
bean descent will tell you a different story. 
This restaurant definitely isn’t one to call 
home about. 
Blaze Pizza
If you’ve gone down Archer Road then 
you probably saw a large line coming from 
this tiny pizza place. Blaze Pizza allows you 
to order one of their specialty pizzas or cre -
ate a personal pie of your own. While this 
place gets a lot of bonus points for the cre -
ative and personal aspect, it’s rare that any -
one really raves about the taste. This place is 
good, but not really worth more than the 15 
to 20 minute wait that has become the norm.
Mi Apa
Similar to Reggae Shack, this restaurant 
prides itself on presenting meals that are au -thentic to a specific culture. Again, the food 
here isn’t bad, but many people of Latin de -
scent have said how far from authentic their 
food is compared to homestyle cooking.
HYPE-WORTHY
Gumbys’ Pizza
This Gainesville staple serves up delicious 
pizza in huge slices at great prices. Gumby’s 
has a wide selection of their own specialty 
pizzas while also allowing you to custom -
ize your own pie. What makes it even better 
is that you don’t always have to come in to 
taste the deliciousness because Gumby’s de -
livers.The home of the original pokey stick 
should be at the top of your list to try.
Grill Fresh
For those who like a healthier alterna -
tive when eating out, Grill Fresh provides 
a great-tasting clean and organic option. 
What really takes this place over the top are the homemade sauces that they provide 
to top your bowls of protein, veggies and 
starch. 
Flaco’s
This is best place for late-night eats after 
a night out on the town. The food is deli -
cious and served quickly. Flaco’s serves up 
delicious Cuban food that will curb all your 
nighttime cravings with both midtown and 
downtown locations. 
The Hyppo
Hyppo has a few locations across Florida 
but is home to St. Augustine. The gourmet 
popsicle shop is known for using all-natural 
ingredients and flavors to deliver a sweet 
treat. Their flavors range from classic sweet 
combinations like Raspberry Lemonade to 
the most unorthodox spices like Red Chili 
Cantaloupe. If you’re looking for dessert 
that is different from anywhere else, this is 
the place to be.Hype-worthy and overhyped restaurants in Gainesville
Connect with the
Krishna Lunch
Community
at
6 pm - 8 pm
Krishna House
(214 NW 14th St)
/krishnalunch
www.krishnalunch.comFresh • Hearty • Karma-free • All-you-can-eat
Monday - Friday  |  11 am - 1:30 pm
4036 SW 30 PL. Butler North
Thick Fresh  
Frozen Custard 
mixed anyway 
you crave.
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/18.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/18.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   21
FIND YOUR 
GATOR NET  COMMU NIT Y
Enjoy the only all-ﬁber-op tic Int ernet servic e  in 
town at these e xclusiv e properties.
Gigabit Communities
Archstone Apts
Ashton Lane
Ashton Lane II
Camde n Court
Deco ‘39
Greystone Ap tsHeritage Oaks Ap ts
Ivy Hou se Apts
Royale Palms Apts
Sabal Palms
Savion AptsSolaria
Stratford Court
The Estates at S orority R ow
The Ridge at Gaines ville
Tusca na Apts
Union Str eet Ap ts
Windsor Hal l
100 Mbps C ommunities
Brandywin e Condos 
Carver’s Corner
Casablanc a East CondosDestiny Condos
Freddie’s GardenThe Courtyards
Third Place at Midt own Apts
University Terrace West
50 Mbps C ommunities
Avenyl
Cabana Be ach
Campus View Place Apts
Campus V iew S outh Condos
Country side at the University
 The Cr aftsm an Lu xury T ownhome s 
Cypress Gle n
Gainesville Palm s
JTW P roperties
Kensington North  Condos
Kensington South  Condos
Laurel VueLynCourt Squa re
Lyons Corner 1 & 11
Regents Pa rk Condos
Union Str eet S tation Condos
Victoria Station
Woodbury Row
www .gator.netOak Ha mmock Kappa Sigma Fraternity
Cascades Luxury AptsNow featuring wall-to-wall Wi-Fi
Rosemary Square22   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Tinder and online dating is about 
as difficult as navigating a 3,000-lev -
el college course with no notes. 
Now, imagine trying to use dat -
ing apps for the first time as a single 
30-something-year-old woman who 
has her mom living with her, and her 
only close friend is her sister who’s 
married with a baby. 
That insanity is the life of Olivia 
(Carly Craig), the star of YouTube 
Red’s new premium series “Side -
swiped.” The romantic comedy se -
ries follows Olivia, as she tries to 
turn her life around and start dating 
again after learning that her eggs are 
drying up while getting a pap smear.
Part of what makes Olivia’s life so 
unorthodox is the fact that her mom, 
Mary (Rosanna Arquette), lives with 
her. Based on what we gather from 
the storyline, Mary’s husband of 34 
years died of a heart attack while 
playing golf and didn’t leave much 
in his will for her. 
Until she gets back on her feet 
and to keep from being alone, Mary 
decides to live with Olivia. Olivia 
gives her mom a set allowance ev -
ery week to be more “independent.” 
However, Mary mostly uses the 
money for clothes rather than saving 
up for her own place.
Olivia’s confidant and only friend 
throughout the series is Jayne (Chel -
sea Frei). Jayne Tyler is Olivia’s mar -
ried sister who has a one-year-old 
daughter at home.
Although Jayne frequently says 
she loves being a stay-at-home mom, 
throughout the series we watch as 
she struggles with figuring out her 
identity. From the start of the show, 
we find that Jayne feels like her hus -
band doesn’t look at her the same 
since giving birth, and like she has 
nothing interesting to add to con -
versations except for facts about her 
daughter.
The premise of the show begins 
in the very first episode when Oliv -
ia’s mom feels that romance is miss -
ing in their lives and creates a Tinder 
profile for Olivia. Jayne then invites 
one of the new matches to the bar on 
Olivia’s birthday. The date goes from 
bad to worse when her date catches 
her peeing in the men’s restroom.
At the end of the date, in a drunk -en stupor, Olivia goes on a swiping 
frenzy and swipes right on every 
profile totaling 252 matches.
After the haze leaves her the next 
morning, Olivia decides she isn’t 
going to ignore these new potential 
matches, but she instead decides to 
go on at least one date with all of 
them.
What makes the show so charm -
ing and could be the sole plot of the 
show alone are the trials and tribu -
lations of an older woman trying to 
date online. She finds herself having 
dating issues that people of all ages 
can relate to such as getting bored 
of constantly introducing yourself, 
finding out about a match’s sketchy 
past and the general worry of some -
one just being a complete weirdo.
Watching Olivia navigate dating, 
as well as unintentionally figuring 
out more about herself, is already 
a great program. What makes this 
series so entertaining, though, are 
the side plots of her mother and her 
sister.
Olivia’s mother, Mary, is trying to 
get herself back in the dating game 
as well, but she’s dealing with slight -
ly different issues. For Mary, her 
struggle is attracting men she feels 
aren’t too old and staying attractive 
to the masses despite her age. 
Sadly, her most successful and 
age-appropriate date is with rockstar 
Rick Springfield who happens to still 
be attracted to his ex-girlfriend.
Jayne, on the other hand, is the 
only one in a successful relationship 
with a child, which should mean she 
is the happiest. However, the new 
baby has not only changed Jayne’s 
body, but also the intimacy level be -
tween her and husband Jim (Craig 
Frank).
As Olivia takes notice of the fun 
and exciting things she missed about 
dating and relationships, Jayne is re -
alizing along the way how much of 
the spark is missing from her mar -
riage.
This charming program is cur -
rently rated TV-MA, and all eight 
episodes are available on YouTube 
Red. The series will appeal to any -
one who loves to hear about dating 
struggles and has had a few mishaps 
of their own.
The first full episode is available 
for free on YouTube, and the rest of 
the series can be watched once you 
subscribe to the premium service.Series review of the 
week: YouTube Red’s 
‘Sideswiped’
Courtesy of YouTube
YouTube’s ‘Sideswiped’ takes a comedic look at 21st-century dating. 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   23
By Charlie Daffron
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville isn’t just a college 
town, it also happens to have 
one of the best music scenes in 
the state of Florida. Music lovers 
starting at UF in the fall won’t be 
disappointed. In addition to being 
home to a large array of great local 
acts, Gainesville also hosts all sorts 
national and international touring 
bands. It doesn’t matter what your 
taste in music is, there’s always a 
little something for everyone.
The Atlantic
Are you a fan of sweaty, chaotic 
hardcore shows? Or is a night of 
catchy indie rock more your speed? 
Maybe some upbeat, energetic folk 
music? You want it, The Atlantic’s 
got it! Conveniently located at 15 N. 
Main St. in the center of downtown 
Gainesville, The Atlantic hosts all 
sorts of bands and has shows every 
week. They also host theme nights 
like pop punk/emo night, goth night 
and 90s night every month. Each 
night has DJs or live cover bands 
playing all your favorite songs from 
that genre or era.
High Dive
Located at 210 SW 2nd Ave., 
High Dive is a popular spot for 
both local and touring bands alike. Over the years, they’ve hosted leg -
ends like Dan Andriano of Alkaline 
Trio, Raekwon of Wu-Tang Clan, 
Doyle from The Misfits and even 
legendary director/comedian Kev -
in Smith. With shows almost every 
night of the week, there’s always 
something to check out at High 
Dive. High Dive also hosts monthly 
food truck rallies for Gainesville 
residents of all ages with free mu -
sic from local bands inside.
The Hardback Café
Located at 211 W. University 
Ave., The Hardback is a classic 
Gainesville staple. The Hardback 
hosts shows every week including 
everything from DIY punk, to hip 
hop to art shows with live acous -
tic music. With a capacity of only 
160 people, shows at The Hardback 
have a unique, intimate feeling, al -
lowing you to get up close and per -
sonal with your favorite musicians. 
Tired of listening to the music? Just 
head upstairs to the bar and play 
a few games of Super Smash Bros. 
Shows at The Hardback are also 
cheap! Cover for a show is generally 
$5-$7, meaning most broke college 
students can afford to come out to a 
show and have a great night. 
Loosey’s
Located across the street from 
High Dive at 120 SW 1st Ave., Loosey’s is another great spot to 
catch a show. Loosey’s is also a 
restaurant and bar, so you can grab 
some food and drinks before the 
bands start. Loosey’s tends to host 
mostly punk bands, even legends 
like Face to Face and Strung Out, 
but you never know who might 
take the stage. They also host all sorts of fun events like karaoke and 
trivia night. Either way, if you go to 
Loosey’s, you’re in for a great time.
The Wooly
Located right across the street 
from The Atlantic at 20 N. Main St, 
The Wooly is another great place to catch a show. They don’t have 
shows as frequently as some of the 
other venues in Gainesville, but 
what they lack in quantity they 
make up for in quality. This year 
alone, The Wooly has hosted all 
sorts of great acts, including KRS-
One, Guided by Voices, AJJ and 
Screaming Females. The Wooly 
also hosts a variety of great non-
music related events, including 
documentary screenings and story -
telling events.
The Civic Media Center
Possibly one of the most unique 
spots to catch a show, The Civic 
Media Center is combination li -
brary, local non-profit and con -
cert space. Located at 433 S. Main 
St., The CMC hosts events several 
times during the week. They have 
an indoor stage and an outdoor 
stage, which allows them to in -
corporate other mediums of per -
formance along with live music. 
Sometimes in between sets on the 
outdoor stage there will be live 
painting, slam poetry and stand-up 
comedy on the inside stage. Bands 
of all genres have frequented the 
stage of The CMC. In addition to 
shows, The CMC also hosts events 
for local political activist groups, 
movie screenings and zine making 
workshops. The six best venues in Gainesville to catch a show
Charlie Daffron / Alligator Staff
Loosey’s has an intimate listening environment for punk rock bands.
24   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
GUIDE TO 
  DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comPROTECT YOUR MENTAL 
HEALTH AS YOU ENTER 
COLLEGE.
Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Staff Writer
I woke up to an insatiable itch 
on the inside of my elbow. Slow -
ly, my ears tuned in to the steady 
metronomic beeps coming from 
behind me. The fabric against my 
skin was scratchy and foreign and 
covering some sticky substance on 
my chest. I began to open my 10 
pound eyelids.
Bright light reflected against my 
white sterile surroundings. A sharp 
pain seemed to strike my head and 
dissipate into a pounding from 
the inside. My brain seemed to be 
functioning in slow motion. 
When my eyes adjusted to the 
excruciating light around me I real -
ized I was in a hospital bed.
The itch was from the tape used 
to hold in my IV which was pump -
ing a steady stream of cool liquid into my arm. The beeping was 
the heart rate monitor. I had little 
sticky squares stuck to my chest. I 
was in only a hospital gown, cov -
ered by a thin sheet.
The pace of the beeps started to 
increase tenfold. Beneath the for -
eign squares a fire started to burn 
inside my chest. I felt hot bile rising 
in my throat.
“Not again.” The only coherent 
thought cycling through my mind.
The only other time I had been 
mandated to a hospital overnight 
was my senior year of high school 
for being suicidal. It was one of the 
most terrifying moments of my life.
Binge drinking is a rite of pas -
sage in college culture. Alcohol 
poisoning is often treated noncha -
lantly. 
But with a 0.326 blood alcohol 
level, it was impossible to dissoci -
ate my consumption from my men -
tal health. I was forced to reckon 
with the fact I could either seek 
help or end up dead.
When you leave high school, it’s tempting to believe a new en -
vironment will make you a new 
person. That any old baggage can 
be left in your hometown.
It’s not true.
When you enter this new un -
known you carry your experiences 
from your past with you. There’s 
no such thing as a clean slate.
No one here is going to tell 
you what to eat or when. No one 
will police your sleep. No one will 
make you take any medication.
If you want to drink your weight 
everyday, you can. If you want 
to experiment with every drug, 
they’re available. If you want to 
wake up in someone else’s bed ev -
ery morning, you can probably pull 
it off.
Going wild is fun until it’s not: 
until you wake up in a hospital 
bed.
If you are entering UF with any 
diagnosed mental health concern, 
register with the Disability Re -
source Center. If you never have a 
problem in your entire college ca -reer, you never need to use it. Most 
students will run into difficulties 
at some point or another though. 
Having accommodations from the 
DRC in your back pocket can come 
in handy in during moments when 
you have no idea what else to do.
The DRC also provides plenty of 
workshops to help registered stu -
dents with specific needs.
Find groups. Get involved. No 
matter who you are, I am confident 
guaranteeing there is a group on 
campus doing something you’re 
interested in. 
Try new things. Meet people. 
Then, go a step further and actually 
connect with those people. 
Surround yourself with people 
who will lift you up. You will meet 
plenty of people who do not fit that 
description. It’s okay to let them 
go. If a relationship does not serve 
you, get out of it.
Consider setting up profes -
sional help. Even if you’re feeling 
great right now, having a file at the 
Counseling and Wellness Center, or a therapist or psychiatrist in the 
community, makes rough times 
much less stressful.
The CWC has individual and 
group counseling. It also facilitates 
workshops.
GatorWell provides wellness 
coaching. It could be an easy way 
to set yourself up for success from 
the jump.
Don’t underrate the importance 
of the basics. Eat healthy. Sleep. 
Exercise. They’re simplistic and ob -
vious, but ignoring them can be a 
first step towards self-destruction. 
College is exciting. It’s a chance 
to find yourself. To really explore 
how you want to spend your life.
If you can, let go of the expecta -
tions that don’t serve you. You are 
an adult. You get to decide where 
you go from here.
Inevitably, you’ll fall apart at 
some point. Life is stressful. Start 
building a net now, that way you 
don’t have to fall so far when you 
do.STILL ALIVE, BARELY BREATHING : A mental health storyBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
HOUSE 5 MIN WALK TO UF LAW SCHOOL,
106 NW 25th St, 3Bd/1Ba, Wood Floors, 
Garage, Carport,, Screened Porch, Large 
Fenced Yard, HVAC, $1250/Mo,
AVAIL NOW. Call 352-246-5566            8-27-
18-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WANTED 10 HOMES for our New Brochure 
needing Metal Roofs, Siding/Windows.
SAVE HUNDREDS. No Money Down. 
payments $89/month*. Senior/Military 
Discounts. 1-866-668-8681*wac    8-15-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-6
MATTRESS SALE TWIN SET $69
FULL SET $89
QUEEN SET $149 KING SET $199
SAME DAY DELIVERY COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH 
GAINESVILLE 352-376-0953    8-24-18-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-18-25-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
10
REPLACEMENT WINDOWS!
HUGE DISCOUNTS!
Anderson, Pella, Symington & More.
15% Off Senior Citizens & Veterans.
Limited Offer!
Call Robert 407.223.6726.
Affordable Windows & Doors. Lowest Prices    
8-15-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-25-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-15-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-18-24-12
DONATE YOUR CAR - 877-654-3662
FAST FREE TOWING -24hr Response -
Maximum Tax Deduction - 
UNITED BREAST CANCER FDN:
Providing Breast Cancer Information & 
Support Programs      8-15-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
131For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
1/1 in 2/2 duplex. Pool, gym, 
on 3 bus routes.
2 miles to Shands or Butler Pl.
Grad stud. pref. M/F. All inclusive.
$600 per month & $300 security. 
Avail 08/20.
eaglimo@gmail.
8-22-4-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-15-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1800/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000                    8-22-18-7-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds26   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-15-18-25-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs PT 
and FT Sales Associates. We are 1 mile 
north of UF on 13th St, next to Starbucks! 
Must maintain consistent weekly schedule 
with 1 day on weekend a must!    8-24-18-
6-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Hiring Servers!!!
Exp. A Plus
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
8-22-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
1. LITERATURE: What are the four 
houses at Hogwarts School of Witch-
craft and Wizardry?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which of the six 
states in Australia is the largest in land 
area?
3. CHEMISTRY: What is the first 
element on the periodic table?
4. TELEVISION: Which long-run-
ning TV show features a business 
called Duff Brewery?
5. HISTORY: When did the Space 
Age begin?
6. CURRENCY: Whose likeness 
appears on the $2 bill in the United 
States?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: On 
which continent did the potato origi-
nate?
8. FOOD & DRINK: What is sushi 
usually wrapped in?
9. MOVIES: Who won Best Director 
in 1980 for the movie “Ordinary Peo-
ple”?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
baby whale called?
Answers
1. Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff 
and Slytherin
2. Western Australia
3. Hydrogen
4. “The Simpsons”
5. Oct. 4, 1957, with the launch of 
Sputnik 1
6. Thomas Jefferson
7. South America
8. Edible seaweed
9. Robert Redford
10. A calf
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 13, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   27 
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
18
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
20
Make Money Online
While In College. 
https://tinyurl.com/y86d9y4a     
8-15-18-5-20
Learn how to make up to $400
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: http://www.makemoneynow.shop/
8-15-18-5-20EMAIL PROCESSOR Needed Immediately.  
No Previous Experience Required.  Training 
Provided.  Great Part-Time Income. Visit 
http://bit.ly/EPS4students      8-22-18-3-20
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: August 27, 2018 at 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
Metropolitan Transportation
Planning Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website a 
www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida. 
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
8-15-1-20
$4000/ mo playing video games.
Learn how to become a tester for the latest 
video games. Go To: www.paidtoplay.club    
8-22-18-4-20"Learn A Cappella Singing"
start Sept. 6th Contact Beth:
bethsing@bellsouth.net or 352-870-5555
six lessons GainesvilleChorus.com Free!    
9-10-18-6-20
LEARN HOW to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student Go to www.
collegeopportunity.service    8-15-18-2-20
Learn how to make an extra $375/wk as a 
student. No Surveys! No cold calling! Go to: 
www.studentopportunities.club     8-24-18-4-
20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-15-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LARGE HABITAT FOR SNAKE
2 pieces. $130 or best offer. Pick-up only. 
text 727-504-8382                8-15-18-3-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Beats Electronics 
co-founder,
familiarly
4 Birdbrain, or an
extinct bird
8 Scrap
14 The guy for ewe
15 “Right you are!”
16 Vanderbilt of
fashion
17 PD alert
18 In fun
20 Way to move
funds
22 Slangy
turnarounds
23 “Silly me!”
24 Mardi Gras wear
28 Good manners
33 “Dear Yoko”
dedicatee
34 Volcanic event
35 Org. with lanes
38 Sch. with a
Shreveport
campus
40 Activate, as a
mobile app
41 Wee hour
42 Medium for van
Gogh
45 Understand
47 Artist Erté’s real
name
52 Winter Palace
resident
53 Mexican gold
54 Limo bar
55 Regular vehicle
maintenance
suggested by this
puzzle’s circles
60 Spring cleaning
may lead to them
63 Firecracker that
doesn’t crack
64 Brought to mind
65 Small change
66 Afore
67 They’re fed at
curbside
68 Icelandic literary
work
69 “Danny and the
Dinosaur” author
Hoff
DOWN
1 Prepare, as plans
2 Thin sword3 Early stage of
life
4 Birdbrained
5 Actor Sharif
6 The aughts, for
one
7 Musically
monotonous
8 “Bring on the
weekend!”
9 Natural emollient
10 Foodie
11 Hosp. areas
12 Zero
13 __ trader
19 Summer top
21 Bruins star Phil,
to fans
25 Working hard
26 Put in the
overhead bin
27 Vegas game
29 Baritone Chou in
the opera “Nixon
in China”
30 Violinist’s supply
31 Kinda-sorta
32 Bunk with a
ladder
35 Left on board?
36 “About the
author” pieces37 Michigan city or
college
39 Annuls
43 Share (in)
44 Upscale
apartment
feature
46 Coup d’__
48 Rode (around)
49 Rust and lime
50 Like a baker’s
hands51 Shifted (for
oneself)
56 Disney head
Robert
57 Wine list
heading
58 Take care of
59 Hammett dog
60 Real peach
61 Monopoly deed
abbr.
62 Go bad
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/15/1808/15/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 15, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Angler’s gear
1.  Wood5.  French artist
2.  Hide6.  Identical 
3.  ____ wraps7.  Customer
4.  ____ boxCEKLAT
ITBRMEONMTE
EAQLU
EACLONC
CETLETUNIECTL
LTOLABANSWERS: 1A-Tackle  5A-Monet  6A-Equal  7A-Client
1D-Timber  2D-Conceal  3D-Lettuce  4D-Ballot  B-Barcelona8-15-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the sixth-most populous 
urban area in the European Union.
BONUSACROSS
1 Staples buys
4 Pooh-pooh, with
“at”
9 Author Stieg
Larsson, for one
14 Deduction cry
15 “While I’ve got
your attention ... ”
16 Big name in
seating
17 Zip on a field
18 Passion for quilt
filling?
20 Fall cause
22 Not heard before
23 1945 summit site
24 Contest among
bank customers?
27 __ Road
Ensemble, 
group initiated 
by Yo-Yo Ma
29 Portaged craft
30 Needing no Rx
32 Stick in a hall
33 “The buck stops
here” president
36 Baloney
38 Segment of 
a clogging
contest?
41 Jokhang Temple
city
42 Words spoken
with one’s hand
raised
43 Corp. bailed out
in 2008
44 Auction set
46 Made hands of
49 Swatting target
51 Airline
passenger’s
arrival malady?
55 Grass unit
57 Yield from una
mina
58 Laser-cut,
perhaps
59 Female
observer?
62 __ jump
63 Unexpressed
64 Pulitzer poet
Conrad __
65 Work hard (for)
66 Aboveboard
67 Handle
68 Ajar, in verseDOWN
1 Suit part
2 Former French
president
3 DNA sample
source
4 Sound with tears
5 Pitcher’s surprise
6 Kitchen brand
7 Mufti issuance
8 “Here’s the
scoop” letters
9 Tokyo-based
game company
10 They’re thin at
budget motels
11 Email adornment
12 Weakened, as
currency
13 Legal add-on
19 Siberian 
freeze-out?
21 Mottled equines
25 Routine
26 Crichton novel
set in Africa
28 Longboat in
Florida, e.g.
31 Singled out
34 Mazda two-seater
35 Hexapod worker
37 Cause of a
blinking “12:00”38 Tibia
39 Emulate a little
brother, maybe
40 Ham’s creation
41 Tarry
45 Author Robert __
Butler
47 Unhands
48 Affix to a
corkboard
50 Castmate of
Doohan and
Nimoy52 “Cross my
heart!”
53 Male on a 
pond
54 View from
Schönburg
Castle
56 Gossip
59 Diminutive,
diminutively
60 Main delivery
61 Cold-sounding
product prefix
By Chuck Deodene
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/10/1808/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 10, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/NoticesAfter transferring from 
Mississippi to Florida, junior 
wide receiver Van Jefferson 
was ruled eligible by the SEC 
on Monday to play in 2018.Axelsen to represent Denmark at World Amateurs
UF sophomore John Axelsen  will be one of three golfers representing 
Denmark at the World Amateur T eam Championships beginning Sept. 5 in 
Dublin, Ireland.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
About eight months ago, the 
Florida volleyball team fell to the 
Nebraska Huskers in the NCAA 
Championship match.
But despite the heartbreak the 
team experienced on Dec. 16, 
there were a lot of positives that 
came out of the 2017-18 season. 
A 30-2 (17-1 SEC) record and the 
graduation of four All-Americans is 
nothing to dismiss.
But that was all last season.
The only time the Gators might 
be brought back to that heart-
wrenching moment from last 
season is when the team watches 
the Huskers hang their fifth title 
banner in Bob Devaney Sports 
Center in Lincoln, Nebraska, on 
Aug. 24, where both teams will 
take the court for the first time in 
2018.
But after the banner is hung in 
the rafters, a new season officially 
begins. There can be no more 
living in the past, and coach Mary 
Wise said they’ll just have to trust 
the process.
“We’re in new territory,” she 
said. “We’ve never graduated four 
All-Americans.”
It’s won’t be hard to notice the 
absence of mainstays like Rhamat 
Alhassan, Carli Snyder, Caroline 
Knop and Shainah Joseph. But 
the graduation of the four seniors 
brings in new opportunities for the 
program to grow further.Seven new players will join 
Florida’s roster this season – four 
incoming freshmen, two walk-ons 
and one North Carolina sophomore 
transfer.
Thayer Hall, a freshman outside 
hitter, said her experience so far at 
Florida has been nothing but sur -real.
The 18-year-old from Spartan -
burg, South Carolina, was joined 
by fellow freshman and middle 
blocker Lauren Dooley in January, 
just in time for spring training.
The duo agreed that by start -
ing before summer, it was the best choice they could have made be -
cause it gave them time to adjust 
before the fall season was com -
pletely underway. 
Wise agreed.
“We’re so fortunate they both 
came in January,” she said.
The coach said that training in the spring takes on a different look 
than it does in the fall. The pace is 
slower and skills are broken down 
into their most basic parts instead 
of focusing on upcoming matches, 
Wise said. 
Dooley, a 6-foot-6 middle 
blocker from Plano, Texas, will 
present unique challenges to teams 
throughout the season because of 
her size, Wise said.
“She’s so high above the net,” 
Wise said. “It’s something you just 
don’t see in the women’s game and 
that physical.”
On the other hand, Dooley’s 
spring counterpart, Hall, will 
present other hurdles for opponents 
this season.
“We’re going to ask a huge load 
of her,” Wise said. “It would have 
been a shock to her system had she 
come in the summer.”
Hall’s summer was busy in 
more ways than one. In addition 
to team camps and training, she 
traveled to Los Angeles, California, 
in July as a finalist for the Gatorade 
Female High School Athlete of the 
Year award.
With the Dorman High School 
Cavaliers, Hall led her team to a 
43-6-1 record and the Class 5A 
state championship for the 2017-
18 season. She logged 638 kills, 
361 digs and 36 blocks during her 
senior year and  won the Gatorade 
Volleyball Player of the Year award.
Moving on from her high school 
career and into a new season of Florida volleyball enters ‘new territory’ for 2018 season
Yes, the time has come to make a pre -
diction.
The Florida Gators are blessed 
seven home games and only four 
true road trips in 2018. With one 
of the SEC’s most favorable schedules, UF 
could maybe make a run at 10 wins despite 
not having a clear-cut favorite to play quar -
terback. 
I have Florida finishing at 8-4. If the 
Gators can reach this mark, that’ll be rather 
positive. However, it’s not going to be pretty 
getting there. 
Despite being just a couple weeks into 
fall camp, it already appears it’ll be a tough 
season for the Gators offensively during their 
first season under coach Dan Mullen.
Co-offensive coordinator and wide 
receivers coach Bill Gonzales said after five days of camp that the retention 
level for the team needs to get 
better. 
Quarterbacks coach Brian 
Johnson and Mullen have both 
voiced high hopes for what red -
shirt sophomore quarterbacks 
Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask 
and freshman Emory Jones could 
do next season, but they also ex -
pressed 2018 will be a work in 
progress for the signal callers. 
UF needs to rely on its rushing attack. 
There’s a talented backfield led by senior 
Jordan Scarlett, who’s returning from a 
suspension spanning the 2017 campaign. 
But success in the running game will be 
determined by the play of the offensive 
line, a unit that struggled the previous three seasons under Jim McElwain. 
Luckily for Florida, a cushy 
schedule should allow the starting 
quarterback, whoever that may 
be, to ease into Mullen’s system. 
UF will play only one Power 
Five team in its non-conference 
slate: Florida State in Tallahassee 
for the final game of the season. 
Home games against 
Charleston Southern on Sept. 
1, Colorado State on Sept. 15 and Idaho on 
Nov. 17 should be easy wins, as the Gators 
have much superior athletes. 
The matchup against the Seminoles on 
Nov. 24 should be close since FSU will also 
be under a new coach in Willie Taggart. 
However, junior quarterback Deondre 
Francois and sophomore running back Cam Akers are two of the best in the country at 
their positions, and they’ll make this the 
Gators’ toughest road game of the season. 
They’re talents superior to anyone on Florida, 
so Florida State should win this matchup. 
It’s always nice for Florida when it doesn’t 
have to play Auburn or Alabama in the 
regular, but its sun shines even brighter in 
Gainesville when they avoid both in addition 
to Jimbo Fisher’s Texas A&M. 
The three most difficult SEC matchups for 
UF: at Mississippi State on Sept. 29, at home 
against LSU on Oct. 6, in Jacksonville against 
Georgia on Oct. 27. 
I think the Gators drop all three.
Yes, Mullen coached Mississippi State for 
nine years and knows them inside and out. 
However, the Bulldogs, unlike Florida, have PREDICTION: Gators football team will ride easy schedule to eight winsMark My Words / Opinion
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejrAlligator File Photo
The Gators welcome six freshmen and a transfer from North Carolina for the 2018 season. 
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 31
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 31WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   29
SOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Coming off its first Elite Eight 
appearance in three years, the UF 
soccer team is showing no signs 
of slowing down heading into the 
2018 season.
Coupled with the return of 10 
starters from last year, 24th-year 
head coach Becky Burleigh recruit -
ed five decorated freshmen to bol -
ster her team’s roster. The strong 
combination of youth and experi -
ence will look to bring Florida its 
first national championship since 
1998.
Headlining the No. 7 Gators ros -
ter is sophomore forward Deanne Rose. The Canadian international 
had a sparkling campaign as a 
freshman last year, leading the 
team with nine goals and 21 points, 
earning All-SEC First Team and 
SEC Freshman of the Year acco -
lades along the way. 
Rose enters the season on the 
MAC Hermann Trophy Watch List, 
which is awarded to the nation’s 
top soccer player. In addition to her 
skill on the pitch, Rose has been 
heralded by Burleigh for a maturity 
beyond her years.
“She’s a great teammate,” Bur -
leigh said in a release last season. 
“Very easy to play with and com -
municate with.
There is a wealth of talent link -ing up with Rose on the attacking 
side of the ball. Senior midfielders 
Mayra Pelayo and Sarah Troccoli 
each netted four goals last season 
– the third-highest total on the 
team. Another midfielder, redshirt 
junior Parker Roberts, returns after 
an All-SEC campaign playing both 
midfielder and defender.
Senior Rachelle Smith, Second 
Team All-SEC last year, anchors 
Florida’s defense. Smith, who was 
joined on the All-SEC roster by fel -
low defender Kristen Cardano, led 
the Gators with an average of 89.2 
minutes played per match last year. 
With Cardanograduated, Smith fig -
ures to be a mainstay in Florida’s 
backfield once again.The departure that will be felt 
the most by Florida is that of mid -
fielder Gabby Seiler. Seiler, who 
now plays for the Portland Thorns 
of the National Women’s Soccer 
League, was second on the team 
last year with six goals. She racked 
up 17 goals over her collegiate ca -
reer and garnered numerous acco -
lades, including three First Team 
All-SEC nods and All-American 
honors last year.
Her role could be replaced by 
a number of incoming freshmen. 
Burleigh has five of them com -
ing in this season, including three 
forwards – Cassidy Lindley, Mary 
Peace and Samantha Tobar. The 
fresh faces on defense include Tay -
lor Baksay and Georgia Eaton-Col -
lins, who has experience with the 
English national team at the youth 
level.
Burleigh also added redshirt 
sophomore midfielder Carina Bal -
trip-Reyes as a transfer from Flor -
ida International.
Florida’s regular-season sched -
ule consists of 18 matches, 10 of which against SEC opponents. The 
non-conference schedule is not de -
void of intriguing matchups, and 
includes dates with in-state rivals 
FSU, FAU and UCF.
In addition, two Pac-12 pow -
erhouses will visit Gainesville – 
Southern California, the 2016 na -
tional champion, and UCLA, the 
2017 national runner-up.
One date of particular inter -
est is the Oct. 7 clash with South 
Carolina. The Gamecocks defeated 
UF twice last year, including end -
ed their season in the Elite Eight. 
The Gators failed to score in both 
games last year, and should have 
extra motivation to steal a win in 
Columbia.
Florida begins its season at 
home on Aug. 17 against Washing -
ton. Of note, Florida will play all 10 
home games this year at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium. Previously, games 
were split between Dizney Stadium 
and James G. Pressly Stadium.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgPREVIEW: Exciting freshmen look to power Gators in 2018
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt junior Parker Roberts posted an All-SEC season in 2017 despite making a midseason move 
from midfielder to central defender. 
2018 UF SOCCER REGULAR 
SEASON SCHEDULE
Aug. 17  7:00 p.m.  vs.  Washington
Aug. 19  6:00 p.m.  vs.  Florida Atlantic
Aug. 24 7:00  p.m.  vs.  No. 23 Ohio State
Aug. 26 2:00  p.m.  @  Oklahoma State
Aug. 31 7:00  p.m.  vs.  No. 2 UCLA
Sept. 2  6:00  p.m.  vs.  No. 12 Southern California
Sept. 7 7:00  p.m.  @  No. 10 Florida State
Sept. 9 6:00  p.m.  @  No. 16 Central Florida
Sept. 16 3:00  p.m.  vs.  Vanderbilt
Sept. 20  6:00  p.m.  @  Kentucky
Sept. 23  1:00  p.m.  vs.  LSU
Sept. 28  8:00  p.m.  @  Mississippi State
Oct. 4 6:30 p.m.  vs.  No. 25 T ennessee
Oct. 7  3:00  p.m.  @  No. 5 South Carolina
Oct. 14  5:00  p.m.  @  Alabama
Oct. 17  6:30 p.m.  vs.  Georgia
Oct. 21  1:00  p.m.  @  Missouri 
Oct. 25  6:30 p.m.  vs.  Arkansas
30   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   31 
At the blinking light in  
Historic Micanopy, Just  
South of Lake Wauburg
6:00 am to 9:00 pm daily106A NE Highway 441
Micanopy, FL 32667
(352) 466-4025
Eat In · Take Out · Catering · Groceries
Fine Beer and Wine · Ice · Propane
Jams & Jellies · Grits · Cornmeal
Florida Heritage BooksWelcome
New & Returning UF Students!
Don’t miss the area’s best barbecue,
robust country breakfasts and great desserts.
Let us help your dog  
stay healthy and happy!
3717 NW13th St.
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 372-8387
www.shoresanhosp.comWellness Day &  
Vaccine Clinic  
for dogs
Friday, August 17
8 am - 6 pm
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox 
every day for the 
newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERlife, Hall couldn’t be more thrilled.
“I felt like my heart was always here,” she said.
Among Hall and Dooley are freshmen setter Marlie Mon -
serez, the younger sister of redshirt senior setter Allie Mon -
serez, and right side hitter Haley Warner; walk-on defensive 
specialists/liberos Riley Fischer and Paula Cerame and ride 
side hitter/setter Holly Carlton, a redshirt sophomore transfer 
from UNC .
Wise, entering her 28th season with the Gators, said this 
year’s team has a new look and will be a shift from last season, 
a squad which was heavily led by its senior leadership.
“It’s not just the talent that graduates, it’s the experience,” 
Wise said. “There’s no substitute for experience.”
Wise is particularly excited about the addition of Carlton, who enters the season as a left-handed attacker and setter at 6-foot-7.
The veteran coach says the program plans on using Carl -
ton’s talent from a more offensive approach and likes having 
the flexibility of using her setting skills in a “hybrid offense.”
Wise, who has led the Gators to 23 regular-season SEC 
Championships, is also looking forward to the team’s tougher 
schedule. This fall, the team will face No. 2 Nebraska, No. 3 
Texas and No. 10 Southern California in its first eight days of 
season play.
“We’re just throwing them into the deep end,” Wise said. 
“We are not tip-toeing into this season.”
Florida volleyball kicks off their 2018-19 season with the 
Orange vs. Blue match Saturday, Aug. 18 at the O’Connell Cen -
ter at 2 p.m.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.organ established quarterback in Nick Fitzgerald, who 
gets to welcome his former coach back to Starkville. 
Advantage MSU. 
The October matchup with the Tigers is more of a 
toss up. LSU comes off a two-game homestand while 
UF returns home after two-straight road trips. Both 
teams will run the ball and play physical defense, I 
just think LSU will be the more fresh side, physically. 
The World’s Largest Cocktail Party will be all 
Georgia once again. Led by returning starting quar -
terback Jake Fromm, the reigning SEC champs also 
boast one of the SEC’s easiest schedules and should 
come into Jacksonville heavily favored. The Bulldogs 
win big despite the Gators coming off their bye week. 
If Mullen’s squad can pull of victory in one of the 
above games, it would show quite the progression for 
the young team.
But matchups at Tennessee on Sept. 22, at Vander -
bilt on Oct. 13 and at home against Missouri on Nov. 
3 should be ones where UF is favored. 
Watch out for Kentucky and South Carolina. 
A Week 2 collision with the Wildcats will not be 
easy. UF barely escaped with a win in Lexington a 
season ago to maintain its 31-game win streak over 
Kentucky, the longest active win streak over one op -
ponent in college football. UK enters its sixth season 
under Mark Stoops. A victory over the Gators could 
launch Kentucky into a new era, and a loss could put 
Stoops in danger of being fired. 
South Carolina and former UF coach Will Mus -
champ won’t travel to Gainesville until Nov. 10. The 
Gamecocks put up 245 rushing yards on a banged-
up Florida side last season. Quarterback Jake Bentley 
threw three picks in the 28-20 win. However, look 
for a better performance from the junior quarterback 
this year.  
UF should be preseason favorites in both of these 
games, and I think they’ll take both. The streak over 
UK will move to 32, and Gators narrowly defeat South 
Carolina by three points or less. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgCarlton is a 6-foot-7 transfer from UNC
Bubly Invitational  
Gainesville, Florida
Aug. 31 , 7 p.m. vs. No. 10 Southern California
Sept. 1 , 5 p.m. vs. Louisville
Sept. 2 , 3:30 p.m. vs. UCF
Lumberjack Invitational  
Flagstaff, Arizona
Sept. 7,  12:30 p.m. vs. California State University,  
          Northridge
Sept. 7 , 10 p.m. vs. Northern Arizona
Sept. 8 , Noon vs. Southern Illinois
Florida State  
T allahassee, Florida
Sept. 12 , 6 p.m.VOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 28COLUMN,  from pg. 28
Vert Challenge  
Lincoln, Nebraska
Aug. 24 , 7 p.m. vs. No. 2 Nebraska
Aug. 25 , 4:30 p.m. vs. No. 3 T exasUF volleyball schedule through Sept. 1232   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
2 - 4 - 1 
Poke Bowls 
(Ahi Tuna, Asian Chicken & Filet)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail  
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1  
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1  
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia 7:30pm 
Free pool @ 10pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or  
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Select Craft 
Pints
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail  
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
Drafts
NFL Season 
TicketsSUNDAY
FUNDAY SUNDAY
FUNDAYBLOWOUT
MONDAYS2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
$5
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm