We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF Admissions support high school protestors
Students who protest gun violence won’t be denied, pg 5
Students celebrate Chinese New Year
See the photo story, pg 9PITCH PERFECT: BARNHILL SPOTLESS 
AGAINST EAGLES
Florida pitcher Kelly Barnhill threw a perfect game against Georgia Southern on Sunday, pg. 14By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A$AP Ferg told women in the audience at 
The Wetlands Music Festival, who he called 
“Florida’s ﬁ  nest,” to get up on the shoulders 
of men near them. Event staff told them to get 
down.
“You all know how to mosh pit?” Ferg 
asked the crowd. “You’re alligators. You’ve 
got to know how to surf.”
The rapper was the main headliner at the 
ﬁ  rst annual music festival by Student Govern-
ment Productions. Saint Motel and Snakehips also performed Sunday on Flavet Field.
Ferg was paid $65,000 to perform, while 
Snakehips was paid $35,000 and Saint Motel was paid $40,000, according to archives.
Keri Shapiro, the SGP chief of staff, said as 
of Friday, SGP sold more than 1,800 tickets, which cost $15 for students and $30 for non-students. As of press time, organizers had not counted how many tickets were sold at the gate.
Saint Motel performed ﬁ  rst at about 5:30 
p.m. The crowd grew until Ferg performed three hours later.
The event included a seven-band lineup of VOLUME 112 ISSUE 63
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
RESIDENTS IN THE BUILDING 
WERE TOLD TO EVACUATE 
FOR TWO WEEKS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Residents in one building at The Ridge 
at Gainesville are without power after a 
Gainesville man crashed a stolen car into 
the apartment complex near Butler Plaza, 
Gainesville Police said. 
Ahmadric Ty’ree Stone, 19, was driving a 
stolen black BMW SUV south on Southwest 
38th Terrace when he sped up and hit the side of Robert Bryce Haines’ 2016 Nissan Sentra, 
Haines said. The 23-year-old was turning left 
into the apartment complex, located at 3718 
SW 24th Ave., at about 5 p.m.
After being hit, Haines said he saw Stone 
crash into the building before blacking out. 
The crash left Haines with head and shoul-
der injuries. Haines was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital for his injuries but was later 
released.
“I came back to my senses, and I realized 
we were hit,” the Gainesville resident said. “I don’t know why he was in such a rush.”
After crashing into the side of an apart-
ment building, Stone got out of the car and ran 
through the apartment complex, GPD Lt. Au-
drey Mazzuca said. 
Mazzuca said multiple The Ridge residents 
called police to give updates on Stone’s where-
abouts. 
“This was awesome cooperation between 
citizens and law enforcement,” she said. “We had multiple citizens calling in. ‘He’s here, 
he’s there, he’s rolling over vehicles.’ We had 
ofﬁ  cers who knew the area, who were in the 
right places at the right time.”
Jeffrey Haydu, a UF biology junior, was 
leaving his apartment to go to Publix when 
Stone ran into his garage and asked for help.
“He was saying ‘You got to help me, you 
got to help me. Someone’s trying to hurt me,’” Haydu said. “I told him I’d call the cops, and 
he said not to. I knew something was wrong.”
Haydu, 20, said Stone then got into the 
backseat of his car and crawled over the center 
console into the driver’s seat. He tried back-
ing out of the garage but the driver’s door hit 
the garage door railing and broke halfway off By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students pinched, stuffed and 
baked more than 200 triangular-shaped 
cookies to support Parkland shooting vic-
tims Sunday night.
About 70 people participated in the 
baking event hosted by the Lubavitch 
Chabad Jewish Center, baking more than 
350 cookies and raising more than $500 
for the families and victims of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting. The money will be donated to Broward Education Foundation, said Chabad’s di-rector Rabbi Berl Goldman. This fund is 
dedicated to providing relief and ﬁ  nan-
cial support to the tragedy’s victims and their families.
Gabby Schwartz, a UF accounting 
freshman, grew up baking cookies for the Jewish holiday Purim in her hometown of Parkland. The Stoneman Douglas alumna lived next door to Meadow Pollack, one 
of the 17 people killed in the shooting. 
Although the news was devastating 
for Schwartz, she said she wass glad to see students support the victims.
“I think it’s amazing that even though 
it’s in south Florida, people in Gainesville 
and around the country are thinking of ways to give back to the victims’ fami-lies,” the 19-year-old said. 
Chabad provided ingredients and 
instructions on how to make haman-taschen, which are triangular, jam-ﬁ  lled cookies, for Purim, a Jewish holiday that celebrates the freeing of the Jewish peo-
ple from a high-ranking ofﬁ  cial in ancient 
Persia named Haman, who planned to kill them. Guests donated a minimum of $5 and ﬁ  lled cookies with their choice of raspberry or apricot jam, dates, Nutella, 
chocolate chips or marshmallow ﬂ  uff.
Rebecca Papilsky, 22, a UF public re-
lations senior, organized the event with 
her friend Carly Weiss, a 21-year-old UF 
political science senior. Students from 
Vanderbilt University, Yale University and the University of Texas at Austin planned similar fundraisers for Parkland victims, and reached out to Papilsky and Gainesville man crashes stolen 
car into apartment complexUF students host cookie baking 
fundraiser for Parkland victims
SEE RIDGE,  PAGE 4 SEE CHABAD,  PAGE 4SEE WETLANDS,  PAGE 4Music festival debuts at UF with local, national artists
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
The crowd claps along to Saint Motel’s “My Type” on Sunday afternoon at The Wetlands Music Festival, which was sponsored 
by Student Government Productions. More than 1,800 tickets were sold by Friday, according to an event organizer.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
HIGH  82° LOW  63°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
My Fulbright in 7 Minutes
UF Fulbright Programs is holding 
its “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” 
event from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Thursday at the UF International 
Center in the Hub. Event at-tendees will network with U.S. 
and international Fulbright par-ticipants. To RSVP, please email 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com. For more information, email 
mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
'Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops'The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the 
Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in 
the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 4:30 to 
6 p.m. March 22 at Cone Park Library Branch, located at 2801 
E. University Ave. Attorneys from Josiah T. Walls Bar Association 
and law students from the Levin 
College of Law will help people who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in ap-
plying to have their civil rights 
restored. For more information, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 63
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
RUNNING FOR THE ORANGE AND BLUE
Matthew Wyers, a 19-year-old UF biomedical engineering freshman, ﬁ  nishes 
in second place at The Gator Run on Hume Field on Saturday morning.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government Senate Judiciary 
Standing Committee unanimously passed seven 
resolutions and failed one amendment Sunday.
The resolutions will be taken for a vote by the 
Senate on Tuesday.
Two resolutions in support of UF’s Other Per-
sonnel Service, or OPS, workers were passed after 
an earlier Senate meeting in February, when mem-
bers and supporters of the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition spoke on behalf of the workers.
Currently, OPS workers are paid by the hour 
and are not given beneﬁ  ts. During UF’s emergency closures, like Hurricane Irma, the workers were not compensated for the forced time off.
One resolution called for UF’s human resources 
department to create a system of paid adminis-trative leave, or a similar policy, so OPS workers 
could make up hours in case of future emergency 
closures.
The second resolution would ask UF’s human 
resources department to reclassify OPS workers who have been in their position for more than a year as Technical, Executive, Administrative and 
Managerial Support employees, which would allow 
them to receive beneﬁ  ts.
Timothy Tia, a UF economics senior, said OPS 
workers are critical to helping UF function efﬁ  cient-ly.
“These resolutions are important because UF 
workers are just as much a part of the university as the students,” the 21-year-old said. “Hopefully 
it will let administration and HR know people care 
about OPS workers and put a higher priority on their issues.”
The meeting’s only failed legislation was a sec-
ond attempt to increase the representation of minor-ity parties in Senate committees. In early February, 
Senator Olin Calvin tried to pass an amendment 
that would limit the amount of committees sena-tors can serve on from two to one, according to Al-
ligator archives. The newly presented amendment 
would have required a quota for minority parties and independent candidates on committees.
Minority Party Leader Nathan Morse said he 
and other Inspire Party members are planning on submitting another amendment to the committee.
“Committee seats ought to reﬂ  ect what the stu-
dents want,” he said. “The Judiciary Committee’s decision is essentially shutting out representatives 
that the Student Body thinks should be there.”
Senator Jonathan Nickas (Accounting, Impact) 
said the amendment failed to pass because it would interfere with the Replacement and Agenda Com-
mittee’s ability to choose the most qualiﬁ  ed can-didates.
“I’d love to see some people from the other par-
ties get more involved in the committees, so not just applying for the committees but getting a good 
background in them,” said Nickas, who also serves 
as vice chairman of the committee.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgUF committee approves seven 
resolutions for Senate vote4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018Courtesy to The Alligator
Police said Ahmadric Ty’ree Stone, 19, crashed a stolen car into The Ridge at Gainesville, an apartment 
complex at 3718 SW 24th Ave., at about 5 p.m. Saturday. The building lost power, and residents will be evacuated for two weeks.
Amanda Rosa / Alligator
UF students make hamantaschen, Jewish triangular jam-filled cookies, at a baking event hosted by the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center to raise money for Parkland shooting victims Sunday night.the car.
Stone jumped out of the pas-
senger door window and ran off, 
with police following. Haydu called police but officers only 
responded to 
his apartment, 
which is about 500 feet from 
the building 
Stone crashed into, after 
they detained Stone. This 
was about 15 
to 20 minutes after the attempted 
carjacking. Haydu said the scene in his garage was fast.
“It was like out of a movie,” 
he said.
Officers eventually stopped 
Stone about a mile from the 
apartment complex at the Out-
back Steakhouse on Butler Plaza, located at 3760 SW Archer Road.
Stone was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital for medical is-
sues he complained of after run-
ning. GPD later charged him with unarmed carjacking, hindering 
communication with police and 
resisting arrest without violence, 
Mazzuca said. The car Stone 
crashed into was reported stolen 
to Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-fice. Mazzuca said she did not know when the car was stolen or 
where it was stolen from. 
Stone was taken to the Alach-
ua County Jail on Sunday morn-ing and is being held without bond, pending a first appearance 
today.
Stone also hit the building’s 
electrical box, knocking it over 
and onto the ground, shutting off 
power to all of the apartments in 
that building. Katherine Gonza-lez, a UF biochemistry and politi-
cal science sophomore, woke up her roommate, Maria Moriyon, 
a UF veterinary graduate stu-dent, at about 7 p.m. when she came home and the power was 
off. Gonzalez and Moriyon were told by The Ridge management 
they needed to evacuate for two weeks for repairs and inspec-
tions.
Clutching flashlights in their 
hands Saturday night, Gonzalez and Moriyon hurried to gather their belongings to move to an-
other building. Moriyon, who 
has an exam today, is worried 
about moving to a new place.
The apartment management 
is providing empty apartments in the community to residents who 
were evacuated, Gonzalez said.
“They are really being nice 
about it considering that this was 
so random,” Gonzalez said.
@merylkornfieldRIDGE,  from pg. 1Residents were sent to live in vacant apartments in the complex
They raised more than $500 for 
families and victims of the shooting
Weiss to spread the idea to 
UF.  
An online preorder form 
let people order cookies, 
which Papilsky and Weiss 
will deliver Monday. 
Papilsky said the shooting 
was tragic, but she’s excited to see UF students take ac-
tion for gun control. 
“It’s sad that it had to 
take something like this to 
get young people to take ac-
tion, but it is a really exciting 
time,” she said. “I think that anyone participating really has a chance to make a dif-ference.”
Goldman said the night 
was a great chance for UF students affected by the trag-edy to express love and sup-
port for each other and the 
victims.
“We’re very proud to be 
able to do this, but we’re more proud to see the stu-
dents themselves coming out 
on a Sunday night for a good cause,” he said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orglocal and national talent, which performed on two stages, “We 
wanted to diversify the genres 
of the different talents and give an opportunity for local talents to perform as well,” Shapiro, a 21-year-old UF advertising se-
nior, said.
The event also featured 
eight food options, including 
PDQ and Cilantro Taco, and 
17 activity and club booths. 
Among the booths was a “silent disco,” where attendees could listen through headphones to music DJs playing in front of 
them, and a table for the Wet-
lands Club, a UF club dedicated to cleaning and preserving wet-lands and coastlines.
A/J Jackson, Saint Motel’s 
lead singer, walked onto the stage with a Gator flag draped over his neck before his set be-gan. During his performance, 
Jackson told concertgoers to 
Gator Chomp to the beat of “Puzzle Pieces.”
He ended the band’s set by 
thanking the student organiz-ers and telling the crowd “it’s great to be a Gator.”
While Snakehips deejayed 
on Flavet Field’s stage, roughly 
1,000 people passed a six-foot 
alligator pool float and an in-flated three-foot-tall condom.
Cullen Bryant and two 
friends drove nearly 70 miles 
from Jacksonville to hear their 
favorite indie-pop band, Saint Motel.
The 21-year-old looked out 
into the crowd and said more people should have attended to hear national performers on campus.
“We saw (Saint Motel) a 
little while ago and loved it. We knew we had to make the trip to see them again,” Bryant said.
Shapiro said organizers ex-
pected 3,000 attendees.
“This was the first Wetlands 
concert,” Shapiro said. “We’re hoping it will continue in the 
future.”
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
Stone
CHABAD,  from pg. 1
WETLANDS,  from pg. 1The music festival 
included seven bands, 
local and nationalMONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kaylee Weber
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Physicians traded their white lab coats Sat-
urday for workout gear to talk to patients while 
taking laps around a track. 
About 20 community members, including 
doctors and nurses, attended the UF Integra-
tive Health and Medicine Interest Group’s kick-
off Walk with a Doc event. Walk with a Doc is a national organization that has hundreds of chapters nationwide. 
The new Gainesville chapter will meet every 
other Saturday morning at the Santa Fe College 
Track, located at 3000 NW 83rd St., to promote 
active living and build relationships with local physicians, said Albert Barrera, the Gainesville walk leader and organizer.
“This organization will help bind both peo-
ple that are concerned for their health and doc-tors that are on a mission to improve the health of their patients,” Barrera, 23, said.
Barrera, with the help of Dr. Amy Sheer, 
a third-year UF Health resident physician, ap-plied for a $1,500 grant through the American College of Lifestyle Medicine, Sheer said. After receiving the money, about $500 of the grant was used to start the chapter. 
The event Saturday began with Sheer giv-
ing tips on how to stay healthy, such as doing squats while cooking.
They then set out on a 45-minute walk 
around the track at their own pace. 
“Exercise adds years to your life and more 
importantly adds life to your years,” Sheer said.
The national Walk with a Doc organization 
was started in 2005 by Dr. David Sabgir, a car-diologist based in Columbus, Ohio. He said he founded it when he realized only three percent of his new patients were achieving their recom-mended physical activity guidelines. 
What started as a simple walking event in 
Columbus has grown to about 370 chapters na-
tionwide, including the new Gainesville chap-
ter, Sabgir said.
“You’re gonna have more fun than you 
would expect,” Sabgir said. 
Reagan McKendree, a 22-year-old UF sec-
ond-year medical student, said she hopes to be a doctor who connects with her patients like the ones at the event.
“It helps patients engage with their doctors 
and see them outside of just in the clinic with their white coats,” McKendree said.UF group kicks oﬀ   walks 
with doctors, patients
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man who worked as a security 
guard at Hawthorne High School was arrested 
Friday for molesting a 14-year-old student, Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Hiram Demenico Jackson, 24, picked up the 
teenage girl after she snuck out of her Haw-thorne house and gave her a Four Loko, an alcoholic malt beverage, according to an arrest 
report. After she was drunk, he had sex with 
her and then returned her home, police said.
She told police the rape happened in a park 
in Hawthorne, but she didn’t know the exact 
location because she was drunk, police said. 
She said she met Jackson again the next day 
and he raped her a second time, according to 
the report.She told police Jackson works at her school 
as a security guard and mentor, according to the report. She said she knows him and speaks 
with him often on social media and in school, 
police said.
Jackson was not employed by the school 
district but by a private security ﬁ  rm, Jackie Johnson, the Alachua County Public Schools spokesperson, wrote in an email. He only 
worked at one basketball game, Johnson said.
Jackson was charged with giving liquor to 
someone under 21, lewd and lascivious moles-
tation and two counts of sexual battery on a minor. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$502,000 bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgDeputies: Man arrested for 
sexual battery on 14-year-oldBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was stunned by University Police 
for resisting arrest Friday, authorities said.
Joseph Michael Allen, 18, of Pembroke 
Pines, was drinking 
with his girlfriend in the 
Springs Residential Com-
plex when he became ag-
gressive and left the UF 
dorm at about 10 p.m., 
according to an arrest re-
port. His girlfriend tried 
to hold the door closed, and Allen jerked the door 
open, ripping off his girlfriend’s toenail.
Allen punched walls and shattered a car’s 
rear window outside, according to the report. 
The damage to the window was estimated 
at $200. A police ofﬁ  cer found Allen in the Levin College of Law parking lot and ordered him to stop. Allen ignored the ofﬁ  cer and 
continued walking away, police said. When 
the ofﬁ  cer tried to detain him, Allen pulled away, according to the report.
The ofﬁ  cer said Allen violently attempted 
to get his hands free when he was detained on the ground. At one point, he turned around and spat in the ofﬁ  cer’s face, accord-
ing to the report. The ofﬁ  cer used a stun gun 
to stun Allen until he complied, according to 
the report. 
Allen was arrested on charges of disorder-
ly intoxication, battery on an ofﬁ  cer, resisting 
arrest and property damage. He was taken 
to the Alachua County Jail where he was re-
leased Sunday on his own recognizance. He could not be reached for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgTeenager stunned by UPD 
outside law school
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
High school students who protest against 
gun violence will not be denied admission 
into UF, university ofﬁ  cials said Saturday.
UF Admissions announced its support 
of high school students’ First Amendment 
rights to expression and peaceful protest 
through social media. The admissions ofﬁ  ce said it will review student conduct leading to expulsions or suspensions on a case-by-case basis, according to a tweet. 
“UF supports the First Amendment right 
to freedom of expression, including by peace-ful and lawful protest,” the tweet reads. “We would not consider participating in such a 
protest a negative in our admission process.”
High schools around the country have 
threatened suspension or expulsion if stu-
dents walk out of class to protest in the wake of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting nearly two weeks ago. 
About 100 colleges and universities have 
put out statements ensuring high school stu-dents will not be penalized for protesting when evaluated by admission ofﬁ  cials.
UF Admissions deleted its ﬁ  rst tweet on 
the subject and then reposted ﬁ  ve minutes 
later in order to ﬁ  t its entire statement within 
Twitter’s character limit, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said.
Marley Penson, a 17-year-old Miami 
Beach Senior High School senior, said UF’s statement relieved her. She and hundreds of her fellow school students walked out of the school Wednesday afternoon despite disap-proval from the school’s administration. 
“As a future student of UF, it’s very com-
forting and nice to hear that it wouldn’t affect my admission,” she said. “I’ve worked so hard all throughout high school, and UF has always been my No. 1 choice since I could remember.” 
She said she thinks high schools are ri-
diculous to discourage students from voicing their concerns.
“We’re going to stand up for what we be-
lieve in,” she said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgUF says protesting is not a 
‘negative’ for its admissionsAllen
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Let’s show compassion to those who survive tragedies
Last semester, I wrote a column urging 
stricter gun control measures after the 
horriﬁ  c shooting in Las Vegas. Since the 
shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School two weeks ago, I have strug-
gled to ﬁ  nd words.
At ﬁ  rst, I wanted to share my old column 
again as a sort of “screw you” to the elected of-ﬁ  cials who let this happen again, not dissimilar to the way The Onion shares the same satiri-cal “No way to prevent this” article after each 
mass shooting. I wanted to simultaneously scream, lis-
ten, cover my ears, throw away my cell phone and scroll through Twitter because I couldn’t look away.
But now, two weeks later, young people all over the 
country are taking action, and I want to follow their lead 
with my vote, my social media accounts, my column — 
anything I can use to spread the word. In addition to that, I want to add my voice to the chorus demanding change and solutions. This column will explore that last part: the potential solutions we have, particularly within education, 
when we confront the issue of gun control, the Second 
Amendment and where and how that intersects with men-tal health and age.
I want to make this clear before we begin: I acknowl-
edge mental health issues play a role, but this will not be a column about mental health. When we tag mass shoot-ings as primarily the result of mental health problems, we (1) diminish, polarize and demean those with nonviolent mental health issues and (2) neglect the other factors that 
allow these tragedies to occur. OK, disclaimer over.
What sparked the angle for this column was another 
column I read in The New York Times this week called 
“The Boys Are Not All Right,” written by Michael Ian Black. In his column, Black explores how we educate boys 
and men, beginning with the way we treat them as chil-
dren and come to deﬁ  ne masculinity. In particular, he dis-cusses society’s simultaneous emphasis on “male” traits like aggression, assertiveness and dismissal of emotional 
expression.This caused me to think about how we 
should treat students grieving or working through trauma following mass violence, es-
pecially violence caused by a male teenager. It’s important we as friends, family members, parents, teachers, mentors and even classmates recognize the differential treatment we provide 
girls and boys growing up, especially in our 
educational system, and ensure that everyone feels supported regardless of their identities.
We praise boys for their physical strength 
and talents, for taking challenges “like men,” for “taking care” of their sisters, mothers and female friends. Girls, on the other hand, are meant to look pretty, cute and dainty, to perform service tasks like cleaning and pass-ing out papers in the classroom. Think of the phrases we 
use: cry like a girl, throw like a girl, run like a girl. These 
antiquated, sexist expressions and modes of thinking hurt both boys and girls.
When the places we think are safe, the places that 
ought to be safe — school classrooms — become violent, 
we need to address the way we educate the children, ado-
lescents and teens within their walls. We need to prioritize emotional expression. We need to tell girls and boys alike it’s OK to grieve or feel angry. We need to show them 
safe, nonviolent outlets for their thoughts and emotions: 
journals, letters, voting, activism, sports, art and music, to name a few.
Next time, think before you say the words “man up” in 
front of a child. Encourage children to pursue their talents 
and passions regardless of the gender norms that surround 
those activities. In the wake of violent tragedies, we need to support kids and families. We need to make sure they never happen again. This is not the only way to do it, and it won’t solve everything. But could it really hurt us to 
show a little more compassion?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column focuses on education.ColumnEditorial
UF must treat OPS 
workers better
Beneath the surface of UF’s seemingly well-run campus 
are the people who make it happen. We are talking about the secretaries, the adjuncts and even the custodians who work every day to make sure UF students have the best experiences possible. 
Unfortunately, these indispensable members of our campus 
community are often not treated with respect. These employees, lumped under the blanket term, “Other Personnel Services,” or “OPS” workers, are deﬁ  ned by UF as at-will, temporary labor. However, the U.S. Department of Labor deﬁ  nes a temporary em-ployee as “an appointment lasting one year or less.”
OPS workers at UF do not receive paid vacation or sick leave. 
They are all mandated to pay into the alternative Federal Insur-ance Contribution Act system, with UF contributing no money to 
their Social Security. They are generally prohibited from making 
up hours lost during times UF is closed, since the workers have strict weekly hour limits. This reduction in pay can leave many scrambling to make ends meet and has the ability to leave others without health insurance if their hours fall below 30 per week because the Affordable Care Act requires workers to maintain a 40-hour workload per week.
A common misconception about OPS positions is they are 
mainly ﬁ  lled by students for a short period of time. However, 
about 68 percent of them are older than 25. Furthermore, the 
average non-student OPS worker has been employed at UF for nearly four years. As follows, many OPS employees are actually older adults, many of whom may support families and depen-dents, who have held their positions long term.
Of the 3,320 non-student hourly OPS workers who were em-
ployed in 2017, 612 had started before 2012. This means nearly one in ﬁ  ve workers had been employed for close to ﬁ  ve years and were still not receiving common beneﬁ  ts. Of the 25 workers 
in this category who started at UF before 1980, only two have 
state health insurance. None of these employees will be eligible for retirement beneﬁ  ts.
Compensation is another concern. Although UF’s human re-
sources department has made a commitment to a “fair and com-petitive compensation strategy,” OPS workers are excluded from UF’s salary increase plans. This might be particularly challenging for student workers, many of whom, according to the UF Student Financial Affairs ofﬁ  ce, rely on their wages to pay their tuition 
and fund their general livelihood.
UF divides hourly workers into two categories: OPS and 
TEAMS, or Technical, Executive, Administrative and Managerial 
Support. Those employed through TEAMS are subject to perks such as higher wages and overall better treatment. This division has led to OPS workers being frequently forgotten about and left 
behind.
In 2016, when UF passed a policy change moving the starting 
wage for TEAMS workers to $12 an hour, OPS workers saw no 
improvement for themselves.
The Alachua County Labor Coalition is calling for an end to 
the mistreatment of OPS employees. The group has submitted resolutions to Faculty Senate and Student Senate requesting UF to move OPS employees to TEAMS or another classiﬁ  cation with beneﬁ  ts when employed in a position for longer than one year.
This, to us, does not seem like too much to ask for and we 
hope that you, dear reader, are able to support this resolution and help to get OPS workers the treatment they deserve. As a university that boasts its “top-10” status, UF should be held to a high standard not only in terms of academics, but also in terms 
of its overall operation. It should be respecting its workers and 
ensuring everyone in the UF community is treated fairly.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Whenever there’s a big 
enough crisis, there is 
a good amount of col-
lateral to follow. The media explodes, and 
conspiracy theorists ﬂ  y into the picture from every direction. Was 
Lee Harvey Oswald the only gun-
man involved in former President 
John F. Kennedy's assassination? 
Was 9/11 an inside job? 
However, these theorists don’t 
stop at just the crisis itself. Another common 
aspect following tragedies is the concept of 
“crisis actors.” Some people believe those who show up in the news after a crisis are paid actors who were not actually involved in the tragedy. Examples of these theories have 
surfaced after dozens of horrible events, from 
the Pulse nightclub shooting to the Boston 
Marathon bombing. Most recently, of course, 
theorists are talking about the Marjory Stone-man Douglas High School shooting.
These allegations are disgusting and disre-
spectful. 
When a tragedy occurs, there are always 
people who survive it and continue to be af-fected by it. Many battle the demons of grief, 
survivor’s guilt or post-traumatic stress dis-
order. They struggle every day but are often forgotten about in the aftermath. 
As a society, we often neglect to remember 
direct victims are not the only ones who are 
hurting. There are plenty of people struggling 
with their mental stability, and they need 
to be focused on. Pain and suffering are not 
always visible, and just because you can’t see the wound or have undeniable evidence  
someone was at a horriﬁ  c event doesn’t mean 
they weren’t. 
The idea of crisis actors disrespects survi-
vors who are living with heartache.
Theorists have speculated that after trag-
edy, people who appear on TV after the in-
cidents look very similar to those who have 
appeared after other tragedies. Some people think those who rise up out of the wreckage were never actually in the wreck-age at all. 
In their minds, these survivors 
are lying. They’re just showing up for fame and drama, speaking out 
about events to push an agenda 
or to get air time on national tele-
vision. There is a rumor ﬂ  oating 
around that some of the students 
who say they survived the Stone-
man Douglas shooting aren’t actu-
ally students, but actors being paid 
to  appear on TV and pretend they were.
 While I appreciate that people question 
the information they are given and don’t just 
believe anything they see on TV, I think it is senseless that rather than being sympathetic to the survivors of the shooting, people are 
sitting comfortably behind computer screens, 
starting rumors about children who lived 
through hell and are trying to tell their stories.
Mental health following a tragedy is impor-
tant. Not only do we need to ensure those we lost are properly remembered, but we must 
also take care of and protect the survivors. They will never be the same again, no matter 
how put together they seem to be on the out-
side. Their mental health is in a delicate state, 
and for many of these kids, throwing their 
hearts and souls into the #NeverAgain and #MarchForOurLives movements is how they are choosing to cope. It may seem unorthodox to you, but this is their choice. 
Quite frankly, it’s not about the third-party 
observers right now. So, for the sake of the 
mental well-being of these kids and their fam-
ilies, stop the conspiracy theories. They are survivors and they are trying to make their 
way through the rest of their lives just like the 
rest of us.
Rather than questioning the reality of their 
pain, show them the support they deserve. Let’s be proud of them for sharing their pain.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focuses on 
mental health.Stop the conspiracy theories and start 
showing support for crisis survivorsColumn
This year’s Winter Olympics exhibits more black ath-letes than we’ve seen in previous years. Not only that, but these games have 
smashed the stereotype that black athletes solely dominate in basket-ball or track and ﬁ  eld. Black ath-letes represent less than 3 percent of all Winter Olympians this year; however, their increasing attendance chal-lenges the classic image of a winter athlete.
Shani Davis, with four medals already 
under his belt, is competing this year as a speed skater for Team USA. A man of ﬁ  rsts, Davis was the ﬁ  rst black athlete to win a medal at the Winter Olympics. Many have 
anticipated his performance, but the public 
initially criticized him for skipping the open-
ing ceremonies after he lost the opportunity to be America’s ﬂ  ag bearer on a coin toss and declined his invitation to the event due 
to the lack of respect. Nevertheless, Davis 
has already set nine world records and will 
perform to the best of his abilities in his last Winter Olympic games. Davis’ speed skating career set the stage for later speed skating 
athletes of color and pioneered DC-ICE (DC 
Inner City Excellence), a speed skating pro-
gram for the inner city kids of Washington, D.C.
Maame Afua Biney, the ﬁ  rst African 
American woman to qualify for the U.S. 
Olympic speed skating team, also races down 
the path for gold in Pyeongchang, South Ko-rea. Originally born in Ghana, Biney started skating when she moved to Virginia near the age of six. About 10 years later, she has made tremendous improvement and quali-ﬁ  ed for the Olympics at the early age of 17.
Biney’s teammate, Erin Jackson, will de-
but as the ﬁ  rst African American woman to compete in Olympic long-track skating and deﬁ  nitely will not be the last. Jackson quali-ﬁ  ed for the team with only four months of experience, a feat most athletes dream of. She grew up in Ocala and found the sport af-ter years of inline skating. Jackson also graduated from UF.
Jordan Greenway also makes 
history as the ﬁ  rst African Ameri-can on the U.S. hockey team. He grew up in New York City, New York, where there were ice rinks all over town. As such, he spent a lot of time skating as a child. Be-ing one of the few black kids on 
the ice didn’t bother him. He says “There wasn’t a lot of African Americans playing and I think, honestly, outside of my brother 
and I, I can’t think of a ton ... so I just kind 
of grew up around it and it was kinda the norm.” Black athletes have to learn to de-sensitize themselves when their sports lack 
diversity.
There are also athletes outside the U.S. 
making strides for their own countries. Van-
essa James comes back to the Winter Olym-pics with her partner, Morgan Cipres, after 
making their debut as the ﬁ  rst black ﬁ  gure 
skating pair at the last Winter Olympics. Ni-
geria’s bobsled team features past athletes who converted from track and ﬁ  eld Olympi-ans. There are also teams from African coun-
tries like Ghana, Kenya and Eritrea making 
their ﬁ  rst appearance in Pyeongchang.
Greenway, Biney and Davis found their 
sports naturally. The lack of diversity within 
winter sports was not a deterrent from their 
progress because the sport itself was the 
prime concern. When a child of color sees a 
black ﬁ  gure skater win gold at the Olympics, it creates aspiration and encourages them to try for the same success. Seeing athletes of color inspires the youth to go out and try something new, which emphasizes how in-ﬂ  uential a person’s presence can be. 
The quest for self improvement and ath-
letic success outweighs the racial homogene-ity, which serves as a common theme in all their stories.
Madisyn Jones is a UF accounting sopho-
more. Her column focuses on black culture.Diversity rises in the Winter OlympicsColumn
Madisyn Jones
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
The Wetlands: Spring semester concert premieres at UF
Festival attendees watch performances from the lawn of Flavet Field as the sun sets Sunday afternoon. About 250 people arrived during the first half of the event. A group of students dance at a “Silent Disco” held during The Wetlands Music Festival on Sunday. 
The event featured headlining artist A$AP Ferg, food trucks, an art walk and many other activities.
Jacksonville-based band Flipturn performs for a crowd Sunday at The Wetlands Music Festival held on Flavet Field. The event was the first music festival sponsored by Student Government Productions.Anna James of the electronic music duo, Retrolux, performs for a crowd during Sunday’s Wetlands Festival at Flavet Field.  The Gainesville-based group is a product of Swamp Records and has been performing since 2012.By T aylour Marks
Alligator StaffMONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
The event, called the Year of the Dog: Spring Festival Gala, took place at the Phillips Center for Performing Arts on Sunday.  It featured performances 
including dances, crosstalk, solos, chorus, witty skits and a cappella. About 800  tickets to the show were distributed on Turlington Plaza last week.
A dancer from the UF Chinese Student Association Dance Club performs in a piece titled “Zhi Zi Yugui + Cry Cry” while wearing traditional Chinese garments in honor of the new year inside the Phillips Center for Performing Arts on Sunday night. Performing in the traditional garments associated with China and the Spring Festival, this dancer twirls across the stage in the final part of a play titled “T o the Edge. ”
UF students hold gala to celebrate the Chinese New Year
Photos By Steph Strickland
Alligator Staff
By Jessica Curbelo 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hundreds of people gath-
ered to watch the celebration 
of the Chinese New Year on 
Sunday. 
The Chinese Student As-
sociation, a UF student orga-
nization, hosted the Chinese 
Spring Festival Gala in the 
Phillips Center for Perform-ing Arts. Between 700 and 800 tickets were handed out prior to the event, said Yifei 
Liu, the club’s president.
Hosts spoke in both Eng-
lish and Chinese languages, 
although the performances 
were primarily in Chinese. 
The budget for the show 
was $18,000, with the main 
cost being for the venue, said the association’s spokesper-
son, Zhonglin Lai. Student 
Government and the consul-ate general of the People’s Republic of China funded the 
event. The spokesperson de-
clined to say how much mon-ey came from each source.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
A night of a cappella: UF hosts international competition
Caleigh Molner, an alto member of No Southern Accent, UF’s 
“premier co-ed a cappella” group founded in 2001, performs Saturday at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella South Quarterfinals. The Sedoctaves, a UF female a cappella group founded in 2005, perform at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella South Quarterfinals inside the Phillips Center for Performing Arts on Saturday night. More than 450 people attended the event.
Standing Room Only, UF’s jazz and contemporary a cappella group established in 2013, performed at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella South Quarterfinals inside the Phillips Center for Performing Arts on Saturday night.T one Def, UF’s co-ed a cappella group founded in 2012, perform at the quarterfinals. T en a cappella groups from University of Central Florida, Florida Internation University and UF competed Saturday night. The top two teams, Mixed Mode and Gemini Blvd., from UCF, will advance to the semifinal.By Alan Alvarez
Alligator PhotographerBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
2003 Honda Element
silver, 157,000 miles, excellent condition, 
runs great, one owner, $4,500.
amorvillar77@gmail.com    2-26-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  352-256-8370,352-246-86452-28-18-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14Independent Distributor Wanted!10-15 hrs/week at $10/hr
Job: distribute flyers on UF & SFC campuses;
must be able to complete tasks unsuper -
vised. If interested, apply via Contact form on wehbemarketing.com      2-26-18-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-12-21-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
Designated drivers are the greatestCOPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
Now Hiring PT & FTLloyd Clarke Sports, 1 m N of UF on 13 St. Gainesville's local leader in running and hiking gear for over 42 years. Applications available in store. Serious applicants with consistent availability only. Must work 1 day on weekends.     2-26-5-14
We need After School Program Staff for ages 3-6 & 1st- 8th grade. M-F 2:00-6:00 PM. Starting Immediately. Submit resume to mmschool@millhopper.com     2-28-18-3-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Part time bilingual assistant (English/Spanish) for law office. Please send your resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com    3-2-18-4-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     3-14-18-6-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE Interactive Town Hall
Youth Tobacco Prevention Policy Panel
UF HealthStreet, 2401 SW Archer Road 
Feb 28, 5:30-7p. Live and Live Stream
More details at www.myhealthstreet.org
2-28-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Perp chaser
4 “E pluribus
unum” language
9 Agreement to
stop fighting
14 Tycoon Onassis,
familiarly
15 Enticing smell
16 Steam, e.g.
17 School group
excursion
19 Santa __
racetrack
20 Absolute
21 Ad infinitum
23 Oakland’s county
26 WWII craft27 Prime rib au __30 Costner’s “The
Untouchables”role
31 First single by a
rapper to reach#1 on theBillboard Hot 100
34 Feudal drudge35 In the altogether36 Somewhat
conservative,
politically ... and
where the firstword of 17-, 31-,43- and 60-Across canliterally be found
41 Pink cocktail, for
short
42 Greek “i”43 Economize46 __ Linda, Calif.50 Vintage auto51 Earl Grey, for one52 Optometrist’s test54 Infant in a crèche56 Railroad in
Monopoly
57 Continuous
humming sound
60 Actor’s
pseudonym
63 Reeves of “Bill &
Ted” films
64 More than ready65 Civil War soldier66 Winning
67 Operative
68 Evidence on
“CSI”
DOWN
1 Lounging robe2 Baltimore bird3 Michelangelo
sculptures4 Soup scoop
5 Singer Garfunkel
6 Canadian A.L.
East team
7 “You can count
on me!”
8 Seaport in Italia
9 “Rabbit ears” on
an RCA cabinet,
back in the day
10 Mapmaker __
McNally
11 News org. since
1958
12 Camper’s
snoozing spot
13 Pitcher’s stat18 Hightails it
22 Upper-left PC
key
24 Lose weight
25 Prefix for phobia
meaning “height”
27 One of the Blues
Brothers
28 Ride for hire
29 Pink Floyd
guitarist Barrett
32 Jennifer
Hudson’s“Dreamgirls” role
33 Slugger’s club34 Typical Western
36 Don Juan
37 Analogy words38 Yukon
automaker
39 Apple throwaway40 Craftsy website41 “Lookin’ Out My
Back Door” band,initially
44 High-__ graphics
45 Queasy feeling
46 Like unfatty meat47 Ventura
County’s largestcity48 Lunatics49 Single-celled
organism
53 Film critic Roger
54 Jupiter’s wife
55 Guys-only
57 Boxing outcome,
for short
58 Farm clucker
59 Stool pigeon
61 Cake candle
count
62 Mil. bigwig
By Robert E. Lee Morris©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/26/1802/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 26, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Arcing “American
Ninja Warrior”
obstacle
11 Cut on a Jackson
5 album?
15 “This is news to
me”
16 Used miles,
perhaps
17 Noting18 Romney’s 2012
running mate
19 Letters of address
for Washingtonand Lee?
20 Great in scope21 Extended
narratives
22 “Guilty as
charged”
25 “Whispers of
Immortality” poet
27 Norman or
Eugene
28 Kentucky
Bourbon Barrel __
30 Includes in the
mix
31 Former
Radiohead label
32 Lemons may be
among them
35 Letter’s needs37 Continuous
41 Links with
43 __ Today:
magazine forteachers
44 Start to bat?46 Once called47 Court suspension48 Pacific states?51 Onion offering
53 Meany in an
Irving title
54 Actress Miranda
of “24: Legacy”
56 Monk’s title
57 __ swing58 Producer
Rhimes’ TV
production
company
62 Brief plea63 Sci-fi franchise
since 1984
64 Footnote notation65 Weekend night
events, usuallyDOWN
1 Marx asset
2 __ moment
3 Win big
4 Combs
differently?
5 Lassitude
6 Pursue
persistently
7 Spacious
8 Took in
9 Corps of
DiscoveryExpedition
explorer
10 Cavalry weapon
11 “Yes, sad to 
say”
12 Casting choice
13 Jerks, say14 Dominates22 Rapper-turned-
actor
23 It has a torch and
two branches on
its back
24 Hint
26 Key __29 Minus32 Pairing
33 Parlor purchase
34 Payments for
hands36 Unsystematically
38 Hint
39 __ miss
40 “Got to Give It
Up” singer
42 Coming up44 “Alias Grace”
author
45 Big Easy 
cuisine
47 Canonized Norw.
king
49 Will run you50 Waters with
pipes?
52 Town in a 1945
Pulitzer-winningnovel
53 Prefix for all55 Big sport’s words
59 Fall off
60 Conjunction that
reverses to a
man’s name
61 Pepper and
others
By Neville Fogarty and Doug Peterson©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/24/1802/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, February 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Fancy
1.  Compel5.  Ski ____
2.  Lumpy6.  Victor’s opponent
3.  Disloyalty7.  Blood ____
4.  Raspy-soundingNAEROT
GLIBEOGELDO
LREOS
RAOLUND
ORTEANSRNAOGE
AOSERHANSWERS: 1A-Ornate  5A-Lodge  6A-Loser  7A-Orange
1D-Oblige  2D-Nodular  3D-Treason  4D-Hoarse  B-Daniel Boone2-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ lived from 1734 to 1820.
BONUS1. The Baltimore Orioles had only 
19 stolen bases during the 2016 sea-
son. Name the last time a major-league team had fewer stolen bases 
for a season.
2. Kendrys Morales set a Royals 
team mark in 2015 for most total bas-es in one game (15). Who had held the 
record?
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that the NFL had two games end in a tie in the same season?
4. How many consecutive years has 
the Kansas men’s basketball team won its opening game in the NCAA 
Tournament?
5. When was the last time before the 
2016-17 NHL season (Toronto Maple 
Leafs) that three rookies each reached 60 points for the same team?
6. When Josef Newgarden (26 years 
old) won the 2017 IndyCar series championship, he was the youngest to do so since who? 
7. When was the last time before 
2017 that tennis star Venus Williams 
reached the semifinals of three majors 
in the same year?
Answers
1. The Detroit Tigers stole only 17 
bases in 1972.
2. George Brett had 14 total bases in 
a game in 1979.
3. It was 1997.4. Eleven consecutive years entering 
2018.
5. It was the 1980-81 Quebec Nor -
diques (Peter Stastny, Anton Stastny and Dale Hunter).
6. Sam Hornish Jr. was 23 when he 
won the title in 2002.
7. It was 2002.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 26, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesShayna Pirreca scored 
a game-winning goal in overtime on Sunday in the Florida lacrosse team's 17-16 victory over Loyola.Gators swimmers compete for final time before NCAAs
Florida's men's and women's swimming and diving teams completed the final 
day of the Last Chance Meet in Gainesville on Sunday. It was the swimmers' fi-nal opportunity to post qualifying times for the NCAA Championships. Twen-ty-six male swimmers and 10 female swimmers recorded B-cut times.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Palm trees bristled and clay clouded the air 
on Sunday in Coral Gables. 
No, there were no windy thunderstorms or 
breezy afternoon flurries. There were, how-
ever, whooshing gusts caused by repeated 
swings and misses from both the Gators and 
the Hurricanes. 
The teams combined for 24 strikeouts in 
Sunday’s series finale at Alex Rodriguez Park, but Miami notched some timely hits while No. 1 Florida left nine runners on base in its 2-0 loss. It was Florida’s first blemish of the season, although the Gators (7-1) still claimed the series with wins on Friday and Saturday. 
It was also UF’s first loss to Miami (3-4) since 
Feb. 22, 2016. 
“We didn’t quite make an adjustment,” 
Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a re-lease. “We had a tough time getting the leadoff man on and getting him to the stretch, but we just weren’t quite able to do that.”
The afternoon was rife with disappoint-
ment for the Gators, who couldn’t get clutch 
hits and, until the fifth inning, didn’t get any 
hits at all off UM starter Evan McKendry. The sophomore righty with a “U”-emblazoned, green-and-orange glove struck out eight, walked two and allowed two hits.
The first hit was one you may never see 
again if you watch 1,000 college baseball games. 
It came in the fifth inning from shortstop 
Jonathan India. He sliced a ball straight up, and as it started to plummet back to Earth, Miami second baseman Willy Escala and first baseman Alex Toral converged at the pitcher’s mound. 
McKendry darted out of the way, but Es-
cala and Toral couldn’t decide who was go-ing to secure the catch. Toral lunged for it and missed under the bright Miami sun and cratered into the clay before the ball plopped onto the grass. When Escala picked it up, India was already on second base with a double that barely passed the pitcher’s mound. 
While that was an iconic moment in the 
game, what happened next was emblematic of Florida’s struggles.
The Gators had India on second base with 
no outs. They had momentum following their first hit of the game. Their response?
Line out. Fly out. Swinging strikeout. “Credit McKendry,” O’Sullivan said. “He was really good today. He threw a lot of re-ally good, quality off-speed pitches and located them down.”
That trend continued in the game’s later 
innings against Hurricanes reliever Andrew Cabezas. 
In the seventh, three Florida hitters walked 
with two outs. Left fielder Austin Langworthy flew out to end the threat. In the eighth, right fielder Wil Dalton reached base on an error and got on second base with two outs. India grounded out. And in the ninth, first baseman Keenan Bell opened the game’s final frame with a leadoff single. The next two hitters struck out swinging, while shortstop Brady McConnell got caught looking to end the game. 
“These are things you learn from,” said 
O’Sullivan, who wished his team was more ag-gressive. “You can talk about them and have intersquads, but until you’re actually in those situations… they’re learning points.”
Florida starter Tyler Dyson was perhaps the 
unluckiest person on the trip for the Gators. Despite allowing the fewest earned runs of any Florida starter this weekend (one) and tying for the most innings pitched (six), he was the only member of the trio to take a loss. 
Florida's offense goes cold in loss to HurricanesBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
The sounds of about 1,600 clapping Gators 
fans resounded throughout Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium as Kelly Barnhill readied her-self for her final throw of the day.
She took a deep breath and exhaled with a 
grunt as she fired the pitch from the circle.
Georgia Southern’s Hannah Farrell swung 
and missed, the ball finding its way into catcher Janell Wheaton’s glove.
Barnhill had just completed her first career 
perfect game and the eighth in program history.
“I wasn’t really thinking about that,” Barn-
hill said. “The rule is you never think about it 
while you’re doing it, you just really try to live 
in the moment and go pitch by pitch, and that’s what we did today.”
With the help of Barnhill’s perfect pitching 
against the Eagles, Florida’s softball team (16-1) swept its doubleheader on Sunday, defeat-ing Iowa State 3-0 and Georgia Southern 8-0 on Day 3 of the Aquafina Invitational.
Barnhill shared the circle with utility player 
Aleshia Ocasio.
Ocasio threw 100 pitches against the Cy-
clones, allowing six hits and no runs, while Barnhill capped off her spotless outing with 11 strikeouts.
“(Barnhill has) been thinking a lot with her 
pitches and stuff,” catcher Janell Wheaton said. “But once she has her rise ball, she’s good and going. She had that today at all different levels.”
In the Gators’ matchup against Iowa State, PITCH PERFECT: Barnhill spotless against Eagles
BASEBALLSOFTBALL
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16Imagine this scenario: It’s Saturday, Nov. 
24, 2018. The U.S. midterm elections have 
rocked the political world one way or the 
other. You’re probably still stuffed from that huge Thanksgiving feast, yet thankful 
that you’ve left your weird uncle’s house and returned to Gainesville. And the Gators foot-
ball team, led by coach Dan Mullen, is floun-
dering down the stretch of a once-promising 
season. Mullen decides to start Feleipe Franks 
at quarterback against Florida State after some 
rough outings from freshman Emory Jones. 
Mullen still has a shot at a bowl bid in his first 
season as head coach, but he needs to win 
against the Seminoles.
He loses. Badly.UF misses out on a bowl game for two con-
secutive seasons for the first time since 1986.
How does the university respond? How 
does the fanbase respond? How do you re-
spond?
Probably very poorly on all fronts.The university, for all the PR work it has 
to accomplish, will laude the positives and di-minish the negatives. Press releases will push 
glowing reviews on how Jones took his first 
steps to growing into a fine starter, or how 
running back Jordan Scarlett reformed his character in light of his previous legal issues. 
Nary a negative word will make its way out of 
the University Athletics Association.
Granted, that is exactly what is expected of 
the UAA. It isn’t there to push dirt out into 
the open, and I don’t begrudge it for doing 
its job. But at the same time, tough questions 
would need to be asked after a potentially ter-
rible season such as the one Gators fans ex-perienced in 2017. The university cannot ask 
those questions.
The fanbase can.
Folks have already called for basketball 
coach Mike White’s resignation/firing, and 
that’s coming off of an Elite Eight appearance 
last year and wins against No. 18 Kentucky 
and No. 12 Auburn. The expectations Flori-
da fans have are notoriously unreasonable. Coach Urban Meyer, winner of two of UF’s 
three national championships, was admitted 
to a Gainesville hospital with chest pains be-
cause of the amount of stress he endured, pre-
sumably from overbearing fans. What if the 2018 
Gators football 
team sucks?Morgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan McMullen
Twitter: @MorganMcMuffin
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
Kelly Barnhill didn't realize she'd thrown a perfect game until her teammates 
started congratulating her. "You never think about it while you're doing it, " she said.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
With two and a half minutes 
left in the fourth quarter, Florida’s 
women’s basketball team emptied 
its bench.
Four freshmen saw playing 
time in the game’s final moments, 
finishing up UF’s regular season 
finale with a whimper.
Georgia sealed a 63-43 victory 
over the Gators in Athens, Geor-
gia, on Sunday afternoon.
UF (11-18, 3-13 SEC) failed to 
score more than 50 points for the 
second consecutive game, had 
two quarters in which it scored fewer than 10 points and had only one player score in double-digits.
“They just outplayed us in ev-
ery aspect of the game,” coach Cameron Newbauer said. “We’re going to turn the page, move on. They are a good team that had a good year.”
Florida shot under 28 percent 
from the field (15-of-54) and turned the ball over 15 times. 
It also gave up 14 offensive 
rebounds on Sunday, which 
contributed to 12 second-chance 
points for the Bulldogs.
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu 
scored 10 points and shot 3-of-9 from the field. Delicia Washing-ton, who missed Thursday’s game with a left ankle injury, came back to the starting lineup as well. 
Her impact was crucial in the 
first half, as she kept Florida in the game going into the break. Washington made her first three shots and scored eight points through two quarters.
But the sophomore seemed 
to struggle with her ankle in the latter part of the game. Midway through the third quarter, Wash-ington limped off the floor and to the Gators’ bench.She did return to the game but 
finished 3-of-7 and failed to score 
a point in the final 20 minutes.
As for Georgia (24-5, 12-4 
SEC), the Bulldogs took advan-
tage of a depleted UF team. Four 
players scored in double figures, 
and eight Bulldogs knocked down a field goal on Sunday.
Mackenzie Engram had 12 
points on 6-of-9 shooting and was one rebound shy of a double-double.
“We tried to make adjustments 
(throughout the game),” New-bauer said, “but weren’t success-ful at it. So we’ve just got to turn the page on this and move on.”
Florida will now turn its atten-
tion to the SEC Tournament. It is the No. 11 seed in the bracket and will face No. 14 Ole Miss on Wednesday afternoon.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgGators’ offense lethargic in regular season finale against Georgia
Alan Alvarez / Alligator File Photo
Cameron Newbauer is looking to move on from Florida’s 3-13 regular season SEC record. “We’ve just got to turn the page on this, ” he said.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The current state of the SEC’s race for 
the top-four seeds in the conference tour-
nament, which runs from March 7 to 11, is wide open.
The top-four teams receive a double bye 
for the opening two rounds of the bracket, creating an easier path to the champion-ship game, as well as extra time to rest.
The league, as a whole, has improved 
from a year ago, when it featured five teams in the NCAA Tournament. While it’s not particularly top-heavy — there are just two ranked SEC teams — it’s highly com-
petitive across the board.
The fact that there are only two games 
left for each team before the SEC Tourna-
ment begins, and 11 out of 14 teams can still clinch a top-four seed, illustrates this season’s parity.
Only the ACC (10) has more than the 
SEC’s eight projected tournament teams, according to ESPN bracketologist Joe Lu-
nardi.
Florida, part of a four-way tie for third 
place in the SEC standings, plays host to 
one of those teams — Kentucky, which the Gators defeated 66-64 on Jan. 20 — to close out the regular season on March 3. On Tuesday, UF will take on Alabama in Tuscaloosa, another team in contention. The Crimson Tide beat the Gators 68-50 on 
Feb. 3.
Going by today’s SEC standings, Flor-
ida’s remaining schedule is the toughest 
of any team in position to earn a top four seed, but the Gators own six head-to-head tiebreakers, more than any of the top 11 SEC teams.
Florida has wrapped up the season se-
ries against Auburn, Mississippi State, Ar-
kansas, Missouri, Texas A&M and LSU.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgFlorida caught in middle of 
wide open SEC seedings raceTRACK
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Grant Holloway clapped his hands together 
and broke into a running-man celebratory dance 
following his race.
The sophomore then quickly patted his chest 
twice and struck a pose with his arms folded and head tilted to the side to commemorate his sec-
ond consecutive SEC title in the men’s 60-meter 
hurdles.
Florida’s men’s and women’s track and field 
teams wrapped up their final day of competition 
on Sunday at the 2018 SEC Indoor Champion-
ships in College Station, Texas. The men’s team matched its third-place finish from a year ago on 
Sunday with 83.5 points, while the women fin-
ished in sixth with 61 points.
Holloway won the men’s 60-meter hurdles 
easily with a time of 7.53 seconds. He joined EJ 
Lovett and Ron Bramlett as the only men in his-
tory to repeat as SEC champions.
Sophomore Clayton Brown also collected a 
title on Sunday with his mark of 16.08 meters in the men’s triple jump. Three-time SEC champion 
and teammate KeAndre Bates took third in the 
same event. 
The Gators have now won seven of the last 
10 SEC Indoor Championship triple jump titles.
Junior Yanis David took the lead on her last 
jump (14.11 meters) in a tight women’s triple 
jump event, but she finished runner up to Geor-
gia’s Keturah Orji, who ended with a mark of 14.18 meters.
David, however, broke the UF school record 
and became the No. 8 triple jumper on the colle-
giate All-Time Top-10 List. Her performance also 
accounted for eight of the women’s points.
In the men’s 60-meter dash, freshman Hakim 
Sani Brown, who won his qualifying heat on 
Day 1, finished sixth overall on Sunday. Michael 
Timpson Jr. finished in eighth place in the same 
race. The two sprinters gathered four points for 
Florida’s men.
Redshirt sophomore Jack Guyton took fifth 
place in the men’s mile to add four more points to the Gators’ total.
Junior Kunle Fasasi finished sixth overall in a 
two-section men’s 400-meter event. His perfor-
mance (46.34) was good enough for three points.
Junior and six-time All-American Sharrika 
Barnett established the time to beat (51.81) in 
the first heat of a two-section women’s 400-me-
ter. However, in the second heat, Kentucky’s 
Sydney McLaughlin set an SEC meet record at 
50.52 seconds. McLaughlin’s record, along with 
Georgia’s Lynna Irby’s time of 50.62 seconds, pushed Barnett to third overall. 
Freshman Taylor Manson finished sixth in 
that same race.
Barnett’s bronze finish was good for six 
points, and Manson’s added three more.
Redshirt sophomore Elisabeth Bergh finished 
fourth in the women’s mile and piled on five 
more points for UF’s women.
Senior Lloydricia Cameron, who grabbed her 
first title in the shot put on Saturday, finished 
sixth in the women’s weight throw on Day 2.
UF’s men’s distance medley relay team took 
fourth place in its event and finished at 9:41.01, just under one second behind Georgia’s team. 
The team’s time was good enough for five points 
and ranks No. 10 on the Gators’ All-Time Top 10.
The women’s distance medley relay team fin-
ished eighth but clocked a season-best time of 
11:36.30. 
In the final event of the 2018 SEC Indoor 
Championships, the 4x400 meter relay, the men 
took second place. Their time of 3:02.65 is the 
fifth fastest time in collegiate history and the 
eighth fastest ever recorded indoors. 
They finished less than a second behind Tex-
as A&M’s 4x400 relay team and secured a third-place conference finish for the Gators’ men.
The women’s 4x400 relay team clocked a 
time of 3:33.57 for fifth place, putting its team 
at sixth overall to conclude the championship 
meet.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgUF men take third, women finish 
sixth in SEC Indoor Championships
Teams In Contention 
For Top-Four Seed
1 – * Auburn (24-5, 12-4 SEC) |  Re-
maining schedule: At Arkansas, South 
Carolina
2 – T ennessee (21-7, 11-5 SEC) | Re-
maining schedule: At Mississippi State, Georgia
T3 – Mississippi State (21-8, 9-7 
SEC) | Remaining schedule: T ennessee, 
at LSU
T3 – Kentucky (20-9, 9-7 SEC) | Re-
maining schedule: Ole Miss, at Florida
T3 – Arkansas (20-9, 9-7 SEC) | Re-
maining schedule: Auburn, at Missouri
T3 – Florida (18-11, 9-7 SEC) | Re-
maining schedule: At Alabama, Ken-tucky
T7 – Missouri (17-12, 8-8 SEC) | 
Remaining schedule: At Vanderbilt, Ar-kansas
T7 – Alabama (17-12, 8-8 SEC) | 
Remaining schedule: Florida, at T exas A&M
T9 – T exas A&M (18-11, 7-9 SEC)  
| Remaining schedule: At Georgia, Ala-
bama
T9 – Georgia (16-12, 7-9 SEC) | Re-
maining schedule: T exas A&M, at T en-nessee
T9 – LSU (16-12, 7-9 SEC) | Remain-
ing schedule: At South Carolina, Missis-sippi State
*Clinched top-four seed16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2018
Contact us with Promo Code GATOR by March 15 for
FREE ENTRY
Coupon valid for ONE student per 2 person team
Free entry into BIG FISH INSHORE competition category
Open to ALL Students and anglers
Paddle & Power boats classes of competition
25% off T eam Membership
Details 404.617.1786 • awfa1.org •awfadirector@gmail.comMARCH FISHING 
MADNESS
GO FOR $1,000
MARCH 17 & 18
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, BaseballDyson struck out eight and walked none in 
those six innings, with his only mishap coming 
in the bottom of the ﬁ  fth. 
After retiring the inning’s ﬁ  rst two hitters on 
a pair of popups, Escala roped a double down 
the left-ﬁ  eld line. Senior Michael Burns poked a 
ball down the line again on the next at-bat to plate Escala, who stomped on home plate with both feet while Burns whipped his arm at the UM dugout. 
Florida was obviously unable to respond, 
which O’Sullivan is hoping won’t happen again this week with a home-and-home matchup against North Florida starting Tuesday in Jack-
sonville. 
“These are lessons that we’re going to learn 
from and move forward,” O’Sullivan said. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
 BASEBALL,  from pg. 14O'Sullivan: UF is 'going to learn from' loss
Florida jumped out to an early 1-0 lead in the 
bottom of the ﬁ  rst when left ﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz hit a double off the left ﬁ  eld fence, al-lowing second baseman Hannah Adams to run home.
Sophia Reynoso then changed things up in 
the top of the fourth when she ﬁ  elded a ball from shortstop.
Reynoso quickly scooped up the grounder, 
but instead of making a throw to ﬁ  rst, she spun around and hurled it to second, retiring Iowa State baserunner Taylor Nearad.
As the game approached the end of the ﬁ  fth, the home crowd got anxious as Iowa State’s Skyler Ramos rounded third base following a single to center ﬁ  eld from Jackie Chairez.
Ramos sprinted toward home as the ball 
soared through the air. But as Ramos slid into the plate, Wheaton caught a laser from Alex 
Voss and tagged Ramos out.
“We practice this all the time, practicing all 
different types of angles and speeds of the run-
ner,” Wheaton said. “It was pitched perfect.”
In the Gators' second game of the day 
against the Eagles, much of the action was saved for the bottom of the ﬁ  rst and third innings, with UF scoring at least three runs apiece in both frames.
One of the game’s more memorable mo-ments came in the third as UF’s Nicole DeWitt stepped up to the plate. With Adams on ﬁ  rst base, DeWitt waited on a 1-2 pitch from Geor-gia Southern’s Kaylee Ramos.
Adams snuck away from the bag, stealing 
second before a throw from catcher Logan 
Harrell caught up with her.
Rattled by the previous play, Ramos 
couldn't regain control on the mound and 
walked DeWitt.
Outﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz was up next 
when a disheveled Ramos sent a 3-2 pitch to the batter’s box, Lorenz sent the ball ﬂ  ying to-ward right ﬁ  eld.
The yellow sphere disappeared behind the 
blue tarp-covered fence, giving Lorenz her ﬁ  rst home run of the season and putting the Gators up 8-0.
Overall, the Gators had a successful week-
end at home, ﬁ  nishing the Aquaﬁ  na Invitation-al with a 6-0 record, ending four of their games in mercy-rule wins and recording one no-hitter 
and one perfect game.
Florida will travel to Fullerton, California, 
early Tuesday morning in preparation for the 
Judi Garman Classic. UF begins the event on Thursday at 5:30 p.m. with a matchup against Loyola Marymount.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Personally, I know how I would react to a less-
than-average season from this team. Though the core 
of the staff has coached with each other for a long 
time, it has also had just one season — 12 games and a spring scrimmage — to move deck chairs around 
on this hypothetical Titanic. The ﬁ  ngerprints of this 
staff are hardly on the roster. But Mullen and Co. 
will have the entire offseason to recruit. This — as 
opposed to earlier this year when top prospect Trey 
Dean didn't know who UF’s new secondary coach 
was during his ofﬁ  cial visit — is the ideal scenario.
Self-reﬂ  ection in individual fans is a rarity, but it’s 
even more scarce in collective fanbases. My advice would be to brace for failures and be pleasantly sur-prised at progress.
This is the University of Florida, however, where 
successful coaches are called out for not being suc-
cessful enough. Yes, there are obvious faults to 
White’s late-game coaching. Sure, Meyer’s detractors griped about lagging efforts once coach Ron Zook’s 
recruits either graduated or were drafted. Fans and 
reporters alike share a common interest in the sense 
that we would all like questions answered in those 
cases.
So if Mullen’s offense looks like Sisyphus with a 
football, or if defensive coordinator Todd Grantham 
allows 300 yards to open the season against Charles-
ton Southern, how will you react? 
The real question is: If the 2018 Gators football 
team sucks, how explosive are the trash-can ﬁ  res 
around midtown?  
Morgan McMullen is the Alligator’s online sports 
editor. Contact him at mmcmullen@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Florida’s Oﬀ  ensive Struggles On Sunday
C JJ Schwarz: 0-for-3, 3 Ks
2B Blake Reese: 0-for-3, 1 K
CF Nick Horvath: 0-for-3, 3 Ks
RF Wil Dalton: 0-for-3, 1 K
DH Nelson Maldonado: 0-for-4, 1 KThe Associated Press
Tyler Dyson's eight strikeouts and one earned run in six innings pitched 
weren't enough to propel Florida past Miami on Sunday.
