We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Defense dominates in big win
Florida’s defense contributed a handful of sacks 
and two timely interceptions in an upset win 
over LSU, pg. 14Yeehaw! Direct ﬂ  ights to Dallas
Gainesville Regional Airport to offer the ﬂ  ight in March, pg. 5
A year after #MeToo
Near the anniversary of the movement’s beginning, students 
reﬂ  ect, pg. 4MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 20
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
LSU quarterback Joe Burrow didn’t stand a chance 
against Jachai Polite.
Florida’s defensive lineman blew by right tackle Adri-
an Magee without any fancy moves. No spins, no rips, 
just pure speed before Polite stalked Burrow from behind 
like a lion creeping up on a gazelle.
All it took was three seconds for Polite to catch his 
prey.
Polite dove for Burrow, slapping the unprotected ball 
from Burrow’s throwing arm and forcing the LSU quar-
terback to drop it. 
The strip-sack, which was immediately picked up by 
defensive tackle Kyree Campbell, was a game changer 
for the Gators. It stopped an LSU drive dead in its tracks 
and prevented the Tigers from going up by two scores in 
the ﬁ  rst quarter.
Polite was just one major defensive factor that helped 
Florida take a 27-19 win over LSU on Saturday night. 
The other factor: linebacker Vosean Joseph.
The duo combined for four of the Gators’ ﬁ  ve sacks 
on the night, constantly providing pressure to Burrow in 
the pocket.
“Defensively, I thought we played great all night,” 
coach Dan Mullen said. “We’re in there, we’re battling.”
Polite ﬁ  nished the game with two sacks, a forced Polite, Joseph fuel Gators defense in win against LSU
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive back Brad Stewart (right) dives into the end zone following an interception return for a touchdown. 
LSU quarterback Joe Burrow (9) hadn’t thrown an interception all season prior to Stewart’s pick-six.
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Gov. Rick Scott issued 
a state of emergency for 26 coun-
ties Sunday night ahead of Tropical 
Storm Michael, which is expected to 
become a hurricane.
The storm developed east of 
Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula Sunday 
afternoon, according to a weather 
update from the National Hurricane 
Center. The storm is expected to pro-
duce heavy rainfall and ﬂ  ash ﬂ  ood-
ing over parts of Cuba and Mexico 
during the next couple of days.
As of 10 p.m. Sunday, the storm 
was forecast to become a hurricane 
either tonight or Tuesday night, ac-
cording to the National Hurricane 
Center. 
The maximum sustained winds are about 60 miles per hour and 
are expected to strengthen over the 
week, according to the report.
The National Hurricane Center 
called Florida’s Gulf Coast vulner-
able to a storm surge. 
Tony Hurt, a meteorologist from 
the National Weather Service branch 
in Tampa Bay, said Gainesville may 
see some minor effects. 
“Keep in mind that the rainfall 
threats can affect areas that aren’t 
directly in the storm.” Hurt said. “It 
can affect areas outside of it as well.”
UF is monitoring the storm but 
will not be canceling any classes 
or events, for the time being, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSHE APPEALED HER ENTRY TO THE 
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT TWICE.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
After being detained in Israel since Tuesday, UF 
alumna Lara Alqasem will be deported.
Alqasem’s initial appeal to a judge to be allowed 
entry into Israel was denied, the Consul General of 
Israel to Florida Lior Haiat said. Alqasem appealed 
again and the judge will make a decision today. 
Alqasem was held at the airport on her way into the 
country to study for allegedly participating in non-
violent protests of Israeli companies. 
The results of Alqasem’s second appeal were 
published at 9 a.m. Israeli time, which was 2 a.m. in 
Gainesville, Haiat said.
She was already heard at the local court and 
is now appealing to a regional one. The next step 
would be the national court, however, Haiat said 
it’s unlikely for someone to be heard by the national 
court unless the matter is urgent or would result in an irreversible decision.
After the hearing with the judge, it’s only a mat-
ter of time before Alqasem boards a ﬂ  ight out of Is-
rael, he said. 
Two months before Alqasem went to Israel, she 
applied for a student visa at the Consulate General 
of Israel in Miami. Although Alqasem got a visa from 
the Consulate General ofﬁ  ce, once the Israeli gov-
ernment realized Alqasem was previously involved 
in an activity that is banned in Israel, the boycott, 
divest and sanctions movement, they denied her en-
try, Haiat said. The visa was initially issued because 
of a letter from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 
which Haiat said is standard.
Alqasem, 22, was offered a ﬂ  ight back to Miami 
paid for by the Israeli government after her ﬁ  rst ap-
peal was denied, but she refused, Haiat said.
Alqasem graduated from UF in May with bache-
lor’s degrees in international studies and Arabic and 
was accepted into a master’s program at the univer-
sity with a scholarship, said Grace Chun, a 22-year-Tropical storm Michael 
threatens Florida  UF student detained in Israel 
set to be deportedFLORIDA 27 LSU 19
SEE DEPORTED,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief
Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGDesk Editors
Copy EditorsAmanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Meryl KornfieldMarlowe Starling, Madison ForbisWHAT’S HAPPENING?
New ‘Permian Monsters’ exhib-
it at Florida Museum
Florida Museum of Natural 
History visitors can learn 
about the world’s greatest ex-
tinction event with life-size 
models, real fossils, interactive 
dig pits and computer games in 
the museum’s current featured 
exhibit, “Permian Monsters: 
Life Before the Dinosaurs.” 
Admission is $8 for adults, $7 
for Florida residents and $5.50 
for kids and adolescents ages 
3 to 17. Florida Museum mem-
bers and UF students with a 
valid Gator 1 Card receive free 
admission. For more informa-
tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/exhibits/permian or call 
352-846-2000.
Florida Museum to host 
13th annual ButterflyFest 
Saturday
Guests can explore the lives of 
bats, bees, birds and butter-
flies at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History’s 13th annual 
ButterflyFest from 10 a.m. to 
4 p.m. Saturday. Learn about 
butterfly gardening, native pol-
linators, conservation, back-
yard wildlife and more. Enjoy 
the ButterflyFest Plant Sale, 
which is one of the museum’s 
largest sales of the year with 
more than 150 species avail-
able, from Friday to Sunday. 
There will also be butterfly re-
leases. Food and merchandise 
vendors will be available. Visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/butter-
flyfest for more information.
Florida Museum accepting reg-
istrations for photography 
workshop Saturday and 
Sunday
Guests can participate in a 
photography workshop from 8 
a.m. to 9:30 a.m. on Saturday 
and Sunday at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History’s 
Butterfly Rainforest exhibit, 
featuring more than 50 spe-
cies at any given time. During 
this special event, guests can 
use their own tripods and oth-
er photographic equipment, 
which is not usually permit-
ted. Each session is $35 or $30 
for museum members and in-
cludes exhibit admission. Pre-
registration is required, and 
participants must be 18 years or older. For more information 
or to register, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/calendar/tag/
photography or call 352-273-
2057.
Orchid Show Saturday and 
Sunday 
The Gainesville Orchid Society 
is hosting an annual orchid 
show from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Saturday and Sunday at the 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens. 
It will feature displays from 
area societies and state orchid 
vendors. During the event, 
vendors will sell plants for the 
home and landscape as well as 
supplies for orchids and other 
plants. It is free and open to 
the public.
Apply Now for 2019-20 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, 
complete the Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid at faf-
sa.ed.gov. Students can now 
file their 2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of the 2019-20 
FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. It is recom-
mended to apply well before 
Dec. 15 to ensure that the 
federal processor has time to 
analyze and send the results 
of your FAFSA to UF Student 
Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, 
first-served basis, so apply as 
early as possible to be con-
sidered for the most aid. The 
2019-20 FAFSA will be avail-
able on a new phone app 
called myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
20 dead in crash of limo bound 
for birthday celebration
SCHOHARIE, N.Y. (AP) — A 
limousine loaded with revelers bound for a 30th birthday cel-
ebration blew through a stop 
sign at the end of a highway 
and slammed into a parked 
SUV outside a store, killing all 
18 people in the limo and two 
pedestrians in the deadliest 
U.S. transportation accident in 
nearly a decade, officials and 
victims’ relatives said Sunday. 
The collision turned a re-
laxed Saturday afternoon into 
chaos at an upstate New York 
spot popular with tourists tak-
ing in the fall foliage. Relatives 
said the limousine was car-
rying four sisters and their 
friends to a birthday celebra-
tion for the youngest. 
Supreme Court moves right, 
but how far, how fast?
WASHINGTON (AP) — The 
moment conservatives have 
dreamed about for decades has 
arrived with Brett Kavanaugh 
joining the Supreme Court. But 
with it comes the shadow of a 
bitter confirmation fight that is 
likely to hang over the court 
as it takes on divisive issues, 
especially those dealing with 
politics and women’s rights.
With Kavanaugh taking the 
place of the more moderate 
Anthony Kennedy, conserva-
tives should have a working 
majority of five justices to re-
strict abortion rights, limit the 
use of race in college admis-
sions and rein in federal regu-
lators.
The newly constituted court 
also might broaden gun rights, 
further relax campaign finance 
laws and halt the expansion 
of the rights of LGBT people, 
who three years ago won the 
right to marry nationwide with 
Kennedy in the majority.HIGH  87° LOW  75°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 20
Correction
In the Oct. 5 issue, a story 
titled “‘I’m hanging on by 
a thread’: A glimpse inside 
student mom life at UF,’” one 
of the student moms’ name is 
Kirsten Hecht. The Alligator 
reported differently.MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsWelcome to the ChalkZone
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Athena Organ, an 18-month-old Gainesville resident, has fun doodling with her 
parents at the Sidewalk Chalk Art Festival. The festival was held Sunday afternoon at 
Depot Park and was hosted by the Children’s Trust of Alachua County. 
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Kids play with a giant beach beach ball Sunday afternoon at Depot Park. The 
Children’s Trust of Alachua County put together the Sidewalk Chalk Art Festival, 
which featured princesses, beach balls and chalk art.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
old 2018 UF psychology alumna and 
former co-worker of Alqasem’s. 
The situation is horrible and unfair, 
Alqasem’s friend and 22-year-old UF 
international studies senior William 
Christou said.
“It’s always been her dream to be 
in a program like this,” Christou said. 
“She’s always been passionate about 
Israel, Palestine and helping solve the 
issue.”
Alqasem is not actively engaged in 
any BDS movement and only wants to 
go to Israel to study, Christou said.
“She was going to Israel to fur-
ther her education and help make the 
world a better place, and she was put 
through a pretty harrowing situation,” 
Christou said. 
A person can disagree with the val-
ues of the Israeli government, Haiat 
said, but the decision was made be-
cause Alqasem was allegedly involved 
with BDS, a movement that is consid-
ered anti-semitic in Israel.“It makes it ironic that she supports 
BDS, but wants to study in the univer-
sity and country she boycotts,” Haiat 
said.
Since 2017, involvement in the BDS 
movement will cause someone to be 
kept from the country, Haiat said. He 
said it seemed like Alqasem wanted to 
promote BDS during her time in Israel. 
“It wasn’t just an innocent student 
going to study in Israel,” Haiat said.
Prior to entering the country, Alqa-
sem deleted all her social media, Haiat 
said. When questioned by the judge 
about it, Alqasem allegedly did not ex-
plain why.
Haiat said Alqasem was not de-
prived of food or water throughout her 
detainment and has had access to her 
lawyer.
Despite the outcome of her second 
appeal, Alqasem will leave the coun-
try, Haiat said.
“She will be deported,” Haiat said. 
“The question is when.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgDEPORTED,  from pg. 1She had a student visa. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students have mixed feel-
ings or haven’t seen the change 
promised by the outing of com-
mon-place sexual harassment 
made just a year ago. 
On Oct. 5, 2017, The New 
York Times published an article 
revealing that producer Harvey 
Weinstein had been paying for 
the silence of those who accused 
him of sexual assault.
Since the publication of the 
piece, countless people have 
come forward with their accounts 
of sexual abuse. Prominent ﬁ  g-
ures who were accused alongside 
Weinstein include former NBC 
“Today Show” morning host Matt 
Lauer, U.S. Sen. Al Franken, co-
median Louis C.K. and President 
Donald Trump.
“In Hollywood, in academia, 
basically in every ﬁ  eld of living, 
it’s just a huge problem every-
where,” Seth Piatek, a 21-year-
old UF political science and family, youth and community 
sciences junior, said.
The movement has left Piatek 
with mixed emotions. He said it 
is disheartening to see how per-
vasive the matter is, regardless of 
gender. 
“It’s very empowering to 
watch women and men like Terry 
Crews come out and speak about 
their experiences,” Piatek said.
The anniversary of the ar-
ticle’s publication occurring 
around the same time as the Ka-
vanaugh hearings is ironic, said 
Irfan Kovankaya, a 21-year-old 
UF political science junior. The 
movement’s prominence a year 
later indicates the persistence of 
the issue.
Kovankaya said he can talk 
about this movement differently 
than women because he person-
ally does not face what some 
women face in today’s society.
“I do speak with a certain 
sense of privilege where no mat-
ter what where I’ll understand on 
a logical perspective how it feels,” 
Kovankaya said. “But on an emo-tional one, I’ll never understand.”
The allegations and controver-
sies that have occurred in the past 
year created mixed feelings, said 
Savannah Hall, an 18-year-old 
animal sciences junior. 
“On one hand, if these things 
happen you deﬁ  nitely need to 
come forward, but if it was 30-
plus years ago, I don’t necessarily 
think that’s fair because a lot of 
people’s lives are ruined about it 
and it’s subjective,” she said.
The movement’s momentum 
starting now rather than later is 
important, 19-year-old UF biol-
ogy sophomore Jenna Jaeger  
said.  
Down the road, Jaeger hopes 
that what has happened this past 
year will inspire others to contin-
ue sharing their stories.
“Fifty years into the future, 
they can say that it started and 
people became more truthful 
about what happened to them,” 
Jaeger said. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org#MeToo: One year laterBy Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers are using over $5 mil-
lion to map out the human body to ﬁ  nd 
better solutions and treatments for dis-
eases like cancer.
The nearly four-year grant will 
be used to create a 3D diagram of the 
spleen, thymus and lymph nodes, as 
part of the National Institutes of Health’s 
Human BioMolecular Atlas Program, 
said Harry Nick, a UF neuroscience pro-
fessor and project researcher. 
The goal is to create a 3D map of 
healthy cells for scientists to compare to 
diseased tissue, Nick said. Scientists will 
be able to use the comparison to ﬁ  nd the 
problems and solutions. 
UF received $5.1 million of the proj-
ect’s $54 million budget. The money 
came from a research fund backed by Dr. Francis Collins, a geneticist and the 
National Institute of Health director, 
Nick said. 
Mark Atkinson, the project’s leader, 
spent the last 10 years using the same 
imaging technique on the pancreas to 
study diabetes at UF. 
UF is collaborating with Bernd 
Bodenmiller, a quantitative biology as-
sistant professor at the University of 
Zurich. The team will use high-powered 
microscopes to photograph tissues and 
stitch them together to form part of the 
map, Nick said.  
The University of California San Di-
ego, Stanford University, California In-
stitute of Technology and Vanderbilt 
University were also awarded grants to 
map parts of the body, Nick said. 
“We are working amongst a group of 
prestigious institutions, and I am very 
excited about this grant,” he said.RESEARCHERS WORKED WITH 
138 AFRICAN AMERICANS IN 
TALLAHASSEE.
By Julia Mitchem
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Larger families may be harming the health 
of African Americans, UF researchers said. 
African Americans with larger families 
who have to provide emotional and ﬁ  nancial 
support have higher blood pressure than any 
other racial group, said Kia Fuller, a 27-year-
old UF doctoral genetics and genomics stu-
dent.
“The relationship between family mem-
bers and health is more complex than we 
originally thought,” Fuller said. 
Fuller, who led the study, worked with 
138 African Americans in Tallahassee be-
cause she was inspired by another UF profes-
sor’s work in the area, she said. She worked with African Americans because they have 
high rates of hypertension. 
“Having more family members results in 
more stress on the individual because they’re 
expected to provide emotional support and 
ﬁ  nancial resources, which causes negative 
health impacts that aren’t balanced out by 
having family members to support you,” she 
said. 
The study consisted of two interviews and 
a collection of information including blood 
pressure, income, stress level and memories 
of discrimination, she said.
This study may help explain more about 
racial disparities, said Connie Mulligan, a UF 
anthropology and UF Genetics Institute pro-
fessor. Nobody else is looking at how family 
affects health, she said. 
“I don’t think people are looking in the 
right places to understand racial disparities 
in health,” she said. “We are looking for a 
reason to explain issues in the non-majority 
population.” UF College of Medicine gets $5.1 
million to map the human bodyLarge families could be taking a toll 
on the health of African Americans
AN EXPERIMENT WAS 
CONDUCTED WITH A 
MAJOR DEPARTMENT 
STORE.
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Past studies may have over-
stated how often people use on-
line shopping recommendations, a UF researcher has found. 
Anuj Kumar, a UF business 
professor, said the beneﬁ  ts of 
product recommendations on 
websites are not as effective in 
getting people to click on them as 
previously thought. 
To demonstrate that the eco-
nomic value of product recom-
mendations is not as high as ex-
pected, Kumar partnered with a 
major department store that sells apparel and home goods to study 
the impact the recommendations 
have on shoppers. Kumar said he 
can’t reveal the name of the store 
because he signed a conﬁ  dential-
ity agreement.
“It’s not that the placement of 
these recommendations are bad,” 
Kumar said. “The success of them 
is simply exaggerated.”
Kumar collected data for more 
than two months on what cus-tomers looked at, which recom-
mendations they clicked on and 
if they purchased the product. He 
then compared this data to an-
other group of shoppers who did 
not receive any recommendations 
to see how it affected purchases. 
The research is important to 
companies because they want to 
know if they’re getting a return 
on their investment in online rec-
ommendations, Kumar said. It was previously thought that there 
was a 30 to 40 percent increase in 
sales from the recommendations, 
but it’s actually 11 percent. 
Victor Santos, a 21-year-old 
UF marketing junior, said he ap-
preciates product recommenda-
tions. 
“I think these recommenda-
tions are great because they help 
me ﬁ  nd products that I am usu-
ally interested in,” Santos said.People aren’t clicking on online recommendations as much as previously thoughtMONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, 
October 19. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at 
that time to read information regarding the application process. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held 
at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on 
Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must be present at 
that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking 
college or university students. Preference will be given to those 
who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
By Lily Strickland
Alligator Contributing Writer
Travelers will soon be able to 
board ﬂ  ights in Gainesville, close 
their eyes and wake up on the 
runway in Dallas, Texas.
Gainesville Regional Airport 
announced the addition of a non-
stop ﬂ  ight from Gainesville to the 
Dallas/Fort Worth International 
Airport Tuesday. The new ﬂ  ight 
will be offered through Ameri-
can Airlines, said Erin Porter, the manager of marketing and public 
relations at the Airport.
“We are honored, and our 
community is very happy with 
this news,” Porter said. 
Airlines will release more in-
formation on the cost of the ﬂ  ight 
today, Porter said. Flights to Dal-
las from Gainesville will begin  
March 3. 
The estimated cost for a one-
way ﬂ  ight to Dallas is $171.29 and 
$263.60 for a round trip, depend-
ing on the duration of the trip, ac-cording to American Airlines. 
Gainesville currently offers 
ﬂ  ights with Delta and American 
Airlines, Porter said. The addi-
tional ﬂ  ight will help further es-
tablish Gainesville and Alachua 
County as a tourism destination, 
Porter said.
Gainesville Regional Airport 
hopes to add another nonstop 
ﬂ  ight to New York as it is a popu-
lar destination, Porter said. Al-
though ﬂ  ights to New York are 
popular, airlines have a tough time ﬁ  lling seats on returning 
ﬂ  ights, she said. 
The nonstop ﬂ  ight will al-
low travelers to shave hours off 
their routes, said Travis Eden, a 
19-year-old UF applied physiol-
ogy and kinesiology sophomore.
“I’m really excited about be-
ing able to ﬂ  y from Gainesville 
straight to Dallas without hav-
ing to take two different ﬂ  ights,” 
Eden said.
The ﬂ  ight will help him save 
six hours in travel time each time he ﬂ  ies to Dallas, where he goes 
about three to four times every 
year. 
The trip typically takes him 
seven to nine hours either way, 
he said.  
Eden hopes to make more fu-
ture trips home to Dallas, he said. 
“I would be able to visit my 
family, friends and my pride and 
joy, my dog, more often,” Eden 
said.Gainesville Regional Airport to oﬀ  er nonstop ﬂ  ight to Dallas 
THE PROJECTS ARE CALLED 
“MOONSHOTS. ”
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Diane McFarlin said the world is suffer-
ing from a crisis of trust. 
McFarlin, the dean of UF’s College of 
Journalism and Communications, is one 
of the leaders on a $17 million initiative 
to fund individual research projects. The 
eight projects, called “moonshots,” bring 
different departments together to ﬁ  nd solu-tions to broad challenges like media dis-
trust.
The journalism college’s project will es-
tablish UF as a leading resource in media 
and technology, McFarlin said. UF is bring-
ing together scholars from engineering and 
liberal arts departments to monitor trust in 
the age of fake news and help readers ﬁ  lter 
out fact from ﬁ  ction, she said. 
“People are bombarded with messages 
of uneven veracity, and third parties — 
search engines, social media outlets — 
have become information brokers that are 
vulnerable to manipulation,” she said.The broader initiative, which is funded 
by UF, will last for three to four years, 
said UF Provost and initiative coordinator 
Joseph Glover. Each moonshot is led by a 
college dean and other faculty members. 
UF whittled down 18 ideas three 
months ago to settle on the eight projects, 
which include cancerous tumor research 
and placing scientists in every Florida K-12 
school, Glover said.
“They are called moonshots because we 
may not actually solve the problem in my 
lifetime,” Glover said. “But it is more about 
the journey than it is the destination.”McFarlin believes the moonshots will 
raise UF’s position as a public research 
university. The initial cost for the ﬁ  rst two 
years of the journalism school’s project is 
about $1 million, she said. 
Universities like UF should use their re-
sources to tackle complicated scientiﬁ  c and 
social problems, Glover said.
“Most importantly, we are preparing the 
next generation to live and prosper in that 
new platform for their lives,” he said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgUF wants to improve society with $17 million worth of initiativesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOREditorial
Murder and sex crimes.
These are the two exceptions under which felons in 
Florida will be denied the right to vote. If Amendment 
4 passes in the November elections, it will otherwise 
grant voting rights to all felons, who under current 
Florida laws are stripped of their voting rights after conviction. 
Murder and sex crimes at ﬁ  rst glance seem like two reasonable 
exceptions. After all, we think of these two types of offenses as 
more heinous and reprehensible than other crimes. 
Although the thought of sharing a cab ride with a violent felon 
or sex offender may make you uncomfortable, we ask you to con-
sider how vital voting rights are — whether we should deny that 
critical right no matter how long an offender has been reformed 
and no matter how productive they are.
We support Amendment 4. But we must also think critically 
about those who Amendment 4 leaves behind.
The amendment is a promise to those who made serious er-
rors in judgment. It is about second chances. Redemption. Re-
integration into the community. The amendment is about get-
ting these ex-criminals to be civically engaged, participating in 
government and making up for lost time. For those convicted of 
robbery, burglary, assault, corruption, drug possession or distri-
bution, the amendment serves as a life preserver thrown from 
shore — a statement that we believe in their ability to make good 
choices both in candidates and in life.
But for those convicted of murder or sex crimes, the amend-
ment is a shut door.
Amendment 4 is a statement to those felons that their crimes 
were so egregious that they cannot return to full citizenship. They 
will not be rehabilitated. It tells them that their lapse in judgment 
was so disgraceful, repugnant and unforgivable that even voting 
for elected ofﬁ  ce is a privilege too high for them.
Why is this is an ill-advised message to send to some felons 
and not others? Because the recidivism rate, the rate at which 
offenders commit other crimes after being released, is drastically 
lower for those who have their voting rights restored. The reof-
fense rate drops by about 30 percent for those who have been 
given their voting rights back after being released, according to 
studies from the Governor’s Board of Executive Clemency, which 
is currently the body that restores voting rights. After November, 
when Amendment 4 hopefully passes, the recidivism rate will 
likely drop for those convicted of non-violent offenses. For those 
convicted of murder and sex offenses, it will not. Keeping these 
felons from voting does not make Florida a safer state.
There are plenty of other reasons why the distinction between 
murder and sex offenses and other felonies isn’t helpful. For one, 
no other state constitution categorizes citizens by their conviction 
offense when considering restoring their voting rights. Florida’s 
would be the ﬁ  rst.
Second, there are economic beneﬁ  ts to restoring voting rights 
to felons. Restoring voting rights under Amendment 4 would 
bring a $365 million positive annual impact and bring an increase 
of $151 million to Florida’s household income, according to a 
study conducted by The Washington Economics Group. Those 
numbers would only increase with more felons being re-enfran-
chised. Giving more felons the right to vote, absent any other 
downside, makes good economic sense.
We should not keep needlessly punishing criminals after they 
serve jail time. If we expect all felons to shoulder the burdens 
of full citizenship, we should grant all felons their rights accord-
ingly.Column
Midterm season is once again upon us, 
with students crowding the libraries 
and other public spaces preparing for 
those all-important examinations. For 
those of you who still have some ex-
ams to take, you may be wondering how you can 
best get ready for midterms. Where should you 
study? What are good methods to help remember 
the material? What can I do to ensure my success? 
Well, have no fear, because this column is here 
to help.
First, before you start studying, you need to decide where 
to study. Although some choose to study in their dorm or 
apartment, many others study in the UF libraries. Studying 
in the libraries is always a good choice, but those who do 
study in the libraries often notice how full they get during 
midterm season. That’s why you need to get a little creative. 
Although the main ﬂ  oors of Library West and Marston Sci-
ence Library are both popular, they can be noisy and crowd-
ed. For a quieter atmosphere, consider going to the quiet 
ﬂ  oor of the library (fourth ﬂ  oor for both Library West and 
Marston). How crowded they are can vary, but they’re al-
ways calmer and less crowded than the bustle of the main 
ﬂ  oor. You can also avoid the main libraries altogether and 
go to the lesser-known libraries. The Grand Reading Room 
in Smathers East is a magniﬁ  cent, quiet spot for studying, 
and elsewhere in Smathers East, you can also ﬁ  nd a quiet 
space in the Latin American Collection. In the Architecture 
and Fine Arts Library, you can not only ﬁ  nd a quieter and 
less-crowded study space, but also a unique system of dou-
ble-decker, bunk bed-like stacks of study spaces, with lad-
ders allowing you to reach the upper study cubicles. If you 
want to feel like a kid again, the Architecture and Fine Arts 
Library is for you.
However, ﬁ  nding a place to study is only half the battle. 
You still need something to do once you get there. So, here 
are a few tips on how to study. First, make some ﬂ  ashcards 
for yourself. Although making ﬂ  ashcards may seem like cli-ché advice, it really works, and it can help you re-
view the material and alert you to things you need 
to go over more. Another solid method is to try 
teaching the material to someone else. Whether 
you do it in a study group, enlist your roommates 
or just talk to your pillow, saying the material 
aloud and going through what you think is the 
best way to teach it makes it more likely you’ll 
remember the material. And speaking of studying 
in groups, that can be effective too, but be sure to 
choose the right study group. A good study group 
will stay focused on the material and work together to ﬁ  gure 
things out, while still allowing a bit of levity. A bad study 
group, however, will be all levity, with a group that’s con-
stantly joking around and going off-topic. What good is a 
study group that never does any actual studying? Make sure 
you ﬁ  nd a study group that is responsible and focused.
After you’ve done your studying, it’s time to take the 
exam. If you’re taking your exam in-person, be sure to arrive 
on time or even early; just like with class, it’s always better 
to arrive early instead of late. Give yourself some extra time 
to get there in case of trafﬁ  c or delays. If you’re taking an 
online exam through ProctorU, a private desk in a private 
room would be ideal. However, if you don’t have your own 
room, don’t fret! Library West has booths that can be rented 
speciﬁ  cally for ProctorU exams. To rent a ProctorU booth, 
go to uﬂ  .libcal.com/reserve/ProctorU, and next to any of the 
six booths, click the light blue boxes (which represent the 
available times) that correspond to the time of your exam. 
Each box represents 30 minutes, and you can rent a booth 
for a maximum of three and a half hours at a time. However, 
the best times can ﬁ  ll up quickly during exam season, so 
reserve early.
With these tips in hand, you are now ready to face down 
your midterms. So grab your textbooks, ﬂ  ip over those ﬂ  ash-
cards and pass that exam.
Jason Zappulla is a UF journalism and history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.How to prepare for midterms: a complete guide 
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgHow Amendment 4 
fails violent felonsMONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
I don’t agree with the points 
you laid out in your column this 
Wednesday. The United States 
does not have an ofﬁ  cial language, 
and it should not. We are a nation 
of immigrants, and we should em-
brace that rather than enforcing 
people of other cultures to con-
form.
Additionally, the issue of voter 
suppression is far more important 
than the issue of language barriers. 
Don’t you think it’s more impor-
tant that American citizens are in-
formed and accurately represented 
by their government than that they 
all speak the same language? Just 
because you speak three languages 
doesn’t make your point valid.
Also, if you honestly think our 
nation’s current leaders believe 
that “diversity is strength,” then 
you haven’t been paying attention.
Zack Delaney is a UF sustainabil-
ity and the built environment sopho-
more. Delaney is writing in response 
to a column by Eduardo Neret titled, 
“A nation needs a common lan-
guage” which appeared on page 7 of 
the Oct. 3 issue of The Alligator.We hear a lot about hunger. 
You’ve no doubt seen 
public service announce-
ments on television, ask-
ing you to give to charita-
ble organizations to help feed people. 
You’ve probably even seen crowd-
funding efforts online.
It’s a fact of life: Some people 
around the world are starving and 
not just in third-world nations. Some 
hungry people live next door, down 
the street or somewhere in your town. 
How can we even begin to feed all these hun-
gry people? 
Maybe by taking the issue one jar at a time. 
A jar of peanut butter, that is. Drop off a jar of 
peanut butter at any of a number of locations 
across the Florida Panhandle through Nov. 21, 
and you’ll help feed a family.
This effort doesn’t happen by magic. UF’s In-
stitute of Food and Agricultural Sciences agents 
in counties across the Florida Panhandle work 
with the public and Florida Peanut Producers 
Association to coordinate this annual event, 
known as the Peanut Butter Challenge. 
Of course, you can donate peanut butter to 
a charity or a needy family anytime you want, 
but IFAS has set aside October and much of No-
vember to emphasize peanut butter collections. One jar from each person adds up 
to thousands of peanut butter con-
tainers that wind up at food pantries 
across the Panhandle each year at 
this time. The less fortunate then pick 
up the peanut butter at the pantries.
During the past six years, Pan-
handle residents have generously do-
nated thousands of pounds of peanut 
butter to help feed hungry families in 
northwest Florida.
Data support the need for these 
donations. One in seven Floridians — including 
one in ﬁ  ve children — struggles with hunger, 
according to Feeding America, the nation’s larg-
est domestic hunger-relief organization. 
Speciﬁ  c to the Panhandle, many residents 
are hungry or at risk of not getting sufﬁ  cient 
food. For example, in Bay County, 26.2 percent 
of children rated as food-insecure in 2015, ac-
cording to Feeding America. Food-insecure 
means the children lack access to, or resources 
to buy or eat, nutritious food.
IFAS faculty are working to provide food ac-
cess to more people and stem this tide of hun-
ger.
Since 2012, volunteers and IFAS faculty have 
collected thousands of jars of peanut butter 
from residents, volunteer groups and businesses 
in 16 northwest Florida counties. In 2017, IFAS county ofﬁ  ces received 10,800 jars of peanut 
butter, more than triple the previous year’s total 
of 3,875 jars.
Those donations don’t normally come from 
groups or companies giving 1,000 jars apiece, 
although that giving is welcome. 
Jars generally come in little by little, one 
person or family at a time. It just takes a jar — 
about $1 or $2, or you can go to a grocery store 
and purchase peanut butter through a “buy 
one get one free” deal. Drop off that jar at your 
county IFAS ofﬁ  ce or at any of a number of loca-
tions that your county will tell you about.
IFAS agents in your county are out in the 
community this time of year, spreading the 
word about the Peanut Butter Challenge. Look 
for them at schools, churches, community 
events and more.
It’s my honor and privilege to serve as the 
leader of the IFAS faculty who give their all to 
help feed the hungry people of the Panhandle. 
The challenge is a community-based event, and 
residents from all walks of life donate.
This effort comes down to the generosity of 
Panhandle residents. They just keep giving and 
giving. Many are stepping up, and so can you.
Nick T. Place is the dean of extension for UF’s 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences and di-
rector of the Florida Cooperative Extension Service.Donate peanut butter, fight food insecurityGuest Column
Nick T. Place
opinions@alligator.org
There are certain moments 
in college when you feel an 
inexplicable gladness, when 
you realize you are living 
the “college experience.” 
Friends feel it when they pay the 
bill at a restaurant but stay seated 
for another hour, lost in conver-
sation. Fans feel it on Saturdays 
in The Swamp, when they look 
around at 90,000 people united around the 
same cause, and their adrenaline spikes.
It’s the joy that comes from belonging, 
and I tend to feel it during lunchtime — not 
just because I get to eat but because it’s my 
favorite time to be on campus. It is undoubt-
edly the busiest time of the day. If you walk 
through campus around noon, you will prob-
ably see Hare Krishnas serving food on the 
Plaza of the Americas, crowded Chick-ﬁ  l-As 
and clusters of friends sharing a meal togeth-
er. Every Starbucks line will take half an hour 
to get through, and Turlington Plaza will be 
a beehive.
You will see thousands of people united by 
the fact that they are all students at the same 
school at the same time. This is what excites 
me. Lunchtime on campus is a reminder to me 
that I am not a student in isolation, struggling 
to learn alone, but that thousands of others 
are here as well. It is a reminder that we are 
students together and thus are a community.
But if you look closer, you’ll also see 
benches that were designed to support four 
holding only one. You’ll see people, rather 
than conversing with another person, con-
versing with their phones instead. You’ll see 
as many eating alone as you do in clusters.
TED Talks have been given on how difﬁ  -
cult it is to be an introvert in today’s world. As 
an introvert, I think that is wrong. It is much 
harder today to walk up to a stranger and say 
hello, or to knock on your neighbor’s door. It 
is incredibly difﬁ  cult to form new friendships, 
and much, much easier to stay in one’s room. 
In a word, it is easier today to be isolated, 
even in a large, multifarious community such 
as ours. It is easy to be lonely.
Ironically, if anything was to be improved by our modernity, it was supposed 
to be our connections. Our devices, 
for instance, disembody us, freeing 
us to converse with our siblings in 
California or Detroit from our bed-
rooms. Social media allows us to 
check on friends back home while 
we wait in line at Starbucks. You no 
longer need to be physically pres-
ent with a person to have shared 
an experience with them. Sufﬁ  ce to say that 
loneliness was not supposed to linger.
And yet, one of the chief mysteries of mod-
ern life is how our growing connection is also 
growing our isolation. So widespread is this 
experience that the U.K. appointed a minis-
ter of loneliness earlier this year to control the 
phenomenon.
In light of these things, would it be reason-
able to suggest that the connections mediated 
through our devices are weak, or at least not 
strong enough for us human beings? I think 
so. Our loneliness suggests a telos, or inherent 
purpose. In other words, our social lives were 
not meant to consist in swipes right, views, 
likes, texts or tweets.
This implies that our relationships are 
meant to be a certain way. And I think this 
is what causes many, including myself, to see 
our relationships as being planted ﬁ  rmly in 
thin air. To be disappointed is to have a sense 
of how things ought to be. How then, in the 
heart of a radically connected world, can we 
still feel uninvited to the party?
Because we know there is more to friend-
ship than what our modernity can offer. We 
know that our devices have stretched our 
lives too thin and connecting with other hu-
man beings is a weighty endeavor. Ask us to 
demonstrate this on the board or put it in a 
test tube, and we will seem foolish. But we 
cannot help but know our lives could be more 
meaningful.
Loneliness, then, is our curse. But if we 
consider its origins, its meaning, why we feel 
it so greatly today, it may be our salvation.  
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His col-
umn appears on Mondays.What loneliness can teach us Column
My political philosophy 
class was just discuss-
ing the concept of 
communal reciproc-
ity, which is the theory 
that a society ﬂ  ourishes when its 
citizens care about one another, 
regardless of whether they get 
something in return. This theory 
could easily be implemented in 
our everyday lives, as students 
attempting to navigate college ca-
reers and newfound adulthood, or as active, 
functioning members of society. 
I ﬁ  nd myself thinking now and again that 
I don’t do enough for the community. Sure, 
I did community service in high school, but 
it was a graduation requirement. Like com-
munal reciprocity, I want to help for altru-
istic reasons, and what better way to start 
practicing this than in your hometown?
People always talk about going far and 
wide to solve world problems, and although 
that is great and so, so needed, I think we 
often forget that people need help in our 
own backyards. How can we expect to pro-
mote peace, ﬁ  x hunger and foster education 
on a global scale if we neglect our own local 
communities? 
The Gainesville community is often 
overlooked, yet it deserves love and atten-
tion. Being that UF fosters a population of 
approximately 50,000 undergraduate and 
graduate students, and Santa Fe College is 
home to nearly 20,000 students, it seems 
only logical that students devote some at-
tention to the city that now houses them. As 
students, getting involved outside the col-
lege campus can seem daunting. However, 
there are plenty of ways to put our skills to 
use around a town of this size. 
As college students, we know about 
being hungry. Usually, though, it’s just a 
joke about only eating ramen noodles. The 
unfortunate truth is there are some local 
school children who actually do go hun-
gry on weekends or holiday breaks when 
school lunches are not provided. Some 
schools have taken to providing breakfast to 
students who qualify, but there is only so much teachers and school boards 
can do to help children when 
they are not at school. If college 
students helped with food drives 
or provided food to ﬁ  ll backpacks 
for the Food4Kids Backpack Pro-
gram, school children would not 
worry about going hungry. 
There are also plenty of mid-
dle and high school-aged chil-
dren who may need a tutor but 
are unable to afford one. Being a 
college town with not one but two major 
colleges, tutors could readily be provided. 
My parents participate in a mentorship pro-
gram in which they are each paired with a 
middle school student and follow that stu-
dent through their entire high school career, 
ensuring they are able to graduate and go 
to college. A similar program could easily 
be implemented on campus, but instead of 
mentoring, students could be paired with 
other students and help tutor them, whether 
on a speciﬁ  c subject or standardized testing 
prep. College students with speciﬁ  c back-
grounds in certain majors could easily tu-
tor high schoolers. A biology major could 
help one kid study for the AP Biology exam, 
while an English major could help another 
get ready for the AP Language and Compo-
sition essays. 
Of course, volunteering should go be-
yond just college students helping local 
schoolchildren. There are plenty of other 
types of service to be done around town, 
and this doesn’t apply to just Gainesville. 
Wherever you live, ﬁ  nd out how to get in-
volved. 
Leave everything better than you found 
it. That’s the Girl Scouts motto, and al-
though my Girl Scouts glory days may be 
long over, that phrase reverberates with my 
every heartbeat to this day. I’d like to think 
that when my time in Gainesville comes to 
a close, I may have left this place just a little 
bit better than I found it.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.Give back to Gainesville: volunteer Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgHannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A magnitude 5.2 aftershock struck Haiti 
on Sunday, even as survivors of the previous 
day’s temblor were sifting through the rubble 
of their cinderblock homes. The death toll 
stood at 12, with fears it could rise.
The U.S. Geological Survey said the epi-
center of the aftershock was located 9.8 miles 
(15.8 kilometers) north-northwest of Port-de-
Paix, the city hard hit by Saturday night’s 5.9 
magnitude earthquake. Sunday’s aftershock 
had a depth of 10 kilometers.
“It was an aftershock. It was at the same location,” said Paul Caruso, a geophysicist 
with the USGS. “This is the ﬁ  rst signiﬁ  cant af-
tershock.”
The tremors caused panic on streets where 
emergency teams were providing relief to vic-
tims of Saturday’s quake, which toppled cin-
derblock homes and rickety buildings.
Haiti’s civil protection agency said at least 
seven people died in the coastal city of Port-de-
Paix and three people died in the nearby com-
munity of Gros-Morne in Artibonite province. 
Among the dead from Saturday night’s quake 
were a 5-year-old boy crushed by his collaps-
ing house and a man killed in a falling audi-torium.
A total of at least 12 people were killed in 
the quake, Interior Minister Fednel Monchery 
told radio station MAGK9. Authorities said 188 
people were injured.
“I feel like my life is not safe here,” said nun 
Maryse Alsaint, the director of the San Gabriel 
National School in Gros-Morne, where several 
classrooms were severely damaged.
Impoverished Haiti, where many live in 
tenuous circumstances, is vulnerable to earth-
quakes and hurricanes. A vastly larger magni-
tude 7.1 quake damaged much of the capital in 
2010 and killed an estimated 300,000 people.In Haiti, ofﬁ  cials have struggled to shore 
up buildings despite the two major fault lines 
along Hispaniola, which is the island shared 
with the Dominican Republic. Deep poverty 
and government instability have also rendered 
weaker homes and structures particularly vul-
nerable in earthquakes.
Rescue workers in Haiti said they were not 
looking for any more victims.
Pierre Jacques Baudre, a farmer and father 
of seven, said he was afraid to return to his 
home after one wall built with rocks and ce-
ment crumbled.
“The house can fall at any time,” he said.Strong aftershock rattles north Haiti day after deadly quake  
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
A family feud ended with a Gainesville 
couple arrested after shattering a car win-
dow with a baseball bat Saturday morning, 
deputies said.
Kevin Peres, 20, and his girlfriend, April 
Gannon, 21, were accused of threaten-
ing Peres’ family, according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report.
Peres texted a relative about money 
she owed him at about 10 a.m. The rela-
tive tried to drive away from her home, on 
the 7000 block of Southwest 122nd Street, 
but Peres and Gannon blocked her car with 
theirs, deputies said.
Peres argued with the relative before 
breaking both side mirrors and shattering a 
backseat window with a bat. Broken glass 
fell into the car with a relative in the driv-er’s seat and her 2-year-old child next to 
her, deputies said. 
Gannon tried to hit the relative through 
the broken window, the report said.
When Peres’ father tried to stop the ar-
gument, Peres put his hands up as if to hit 
him. His father punched him in the face, 
the report said.
Gannon hit Peres’ father, cutting him 
above his left eye, deputies said. 
Peres is charged with aggravated as-
sault with a deadly weapon, criminal mis-
chief and cruelty toward a child. Gannon is 
charged with aggravated battery and bur-
glary for reaching into the car. 
Peres and Gannon are being held in the 
Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $25,000 
bond and a $15,000 bond, respectively.A man threatened to cut a homeless 
man with a knife over a McDonald’s 
hamburger Friday night, Gainesville Po-
lice said.
Henry Chambers Jr., 58, of Gainesville, 
got into an argument with the man at Mc-
Donald’s after someone handed both of 
them a burger, at 3826 SW 40th Blvd., 
according to an arrest report. 
The two men don’t know each other, 
the report said.
The man told police Chambers raised 
a razor blade with a black handle above 
his head and swung at him while yelling, 
“You stole from me,” the report said. 
The man feared Chambers would 
cut him, the report said. He dropped his 
drink, hamburger and backpack as he 
jumped away from Chambers. A witness told police he saw and 
heard the argument but didn’t see Cham-
bers threaten the man with a razor blade, 
police said.
Chambers told police the man had 
called him a racial slur but nothing else 
happened, the report said. 
He later admitted to having an ar-
gument over the burger but insisted it 
wasn’t violent.
Chambers had a razor blade matching 
the man’s description, police said.
He was charged with aggravated as-
sault with a deadly weapon. 
He is being held in the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail in lieu of a $50,000 bond, accord-
ing to jail records.ACSO: Couple smashed car window 
with woman and baby insideMan accused of knife ﬁ  ght 
over McDonald’s hamburger 
Two Gainesville men were ac-
cused of burglarizing and stealing 
multiple cars last week.
Kenyatta Patterson, 20, was ar-
rested Tuesday morning after being 
suspected of stealing two cars, dep-
uties said. Two days later, Zach-
ary Stevenson, 18, was accused 
of breaking into cars and working 
with Patterson, police said.A man told Gainesville Police 
his unlocked 2012 Honda was sto-
len on Sept. 29, according to arrest 
reports.
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputies used GPS to ﬁ  nd the Hon-
da and another stolen car next to a 
house on Southwest 98th Avenue, 
the report said.
Deputies found the keys to both cars underneath Patterson’s pants, 
the report said. He told ofﬁ  cers he 
didn’t know why he had the keys.
Fingerprints inside the Honda 
matched Stevenson’s prints, police 
said.
Stevenson was accused of walk-
ing around the Stone Hill Apart-
ments parking lot, at 13820 NW 
State Road 235, and checking for unlocked cars Thursday, according 
to the report.   
Stevenson and other men ran 
away as soon as they saw police. 
Two cars in the parking lot were 
burglarized and a cell phone was 
stolen, deputies said. 
Stevenson was charged with 
two counts of burglary and one 
count each of grand theft auto, small theft, loitering and resisting 
an ofﬁ  cer. 
Patterson is charged with two 
counts each of burglary and grand 
theft of a motor vehicle. 
Stevenson and Patterson are 
being held in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $45,000 bond and a 
$60,000 bond, respectively.Two men accused of breaking into cars, stealing one By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
After the national anthem at 
Saturday’s football game against 
Louisiana State University, a ﬂ  ight 
of three military planes soared over 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. On Friday 
afternoon, the pilots practiced for 
the ﬂ  ight, said Will Pantages, the 
assistant director of athletics com-
munications. 
What were the planes?
The three planes are Air Na-tional Guard F-16s from the 100th 
Fighter Squadron based in Mont-
gomery, Alabama, UF spokesper-
son Steve Orlando said.
Who were the pilots?
The ﬂ  ight was led by a 2002 UF 
alumnus, Lt. Col. Jesse Proctor, 
Orlando said. His wingmen were 
Capt. Christopher Coenen and 
Capt. Cy Eckhardt.
Did UF tell anyone about the 
test ﬂ  ight on Friday?
UF Public Safety on Thursday sent out a tweet to inform people 
of the afternoon practice run, said 
University Police spokesperson 
Maj. Brad Barber.
What did students think of it?
Friday’s test ﬂ  ight woke Jack 
Kirsch, an 18-year-old UF biology 
freshman, from his nap on the sec-
ond ﬂ  oor of Jennings Hall, he said. 
However, it prepared him for what 
was coming Saturday. 
Kirsch and his friends sat at the 
top of the student section near the 
50-yard line, he said. They eagerly watched the planes zip through 
the sky. 
“My friend next to me went, 
‘Oh my god, what are those?’” 
Kirsch said. “I was like, ‘Oh, it’s 
a ﬂ  yover.’”
Shaquiann Fregiste, an 18-year-
old UF health science freshman, 
said she was excited to see the 
planes soar over the ﬁ  eld.
“I never expected them to be at 
the game,” Fregiste said. 
Fregiste’s father is an engineer 
for the military and she’s spent 
her life on military bases around planes similar to those ﬂ  own, she 
said.
She remembered the song 
“Taps” playing nearly every day 
when she lived on military bases, 
Fregiste said. The song was fol-
lowed by the sounds of planes 
rushing through the air, like on 
Saturday.
“It reminded me of home,” 
Fregiste said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgWhat were those planes flying over the LSU game?
All Stories By Jessica Curbelo | Alligator Staff Writer 
@jesscurbelo | jcurbelo@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Gainesville’s Peanut Patch and Corn Maze will be open through Oct. 28. During the 
day, family-friendly attractions like the kiddie corner, hay ride and kiddie maze are 
open. After 8 p.m., three mazes are open: the kiddie maze, regular corn maze and  
haunted corn maze. The hayride also becomes a haunted attraction after dark.Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Leah Sandaval, 8, laughs as she makes “corn angels” in the corn pit at the Peanut 
Patch and Corn Maze Saturday afternoon. The maze will be open until Oct. 28 
and features family-fun activities during the day and a haunted hayride and scary 
corn maze after 8 p.m.
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
More than 500 runners were expected at the first Pumpkin Run 5K at Depot Park Saturday morning. 
Runners received a shirt, pumpkin bread and a coupon for a free pumpkin from the Buy A Pumpkin 
Feed A Child pumpkin patch. Proceeds from the race went to feeding hungry children in Alachua 
County and Chiquimula, Guatemala.
Pumpkin patches and runs: City Fall festivities begin  
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Brendan Williams, 31, finishes the first lap through Depot 
Park at the Pumpkin Run 5K Saturday morning. The event was 
put on by Buy A Pumpkin Feed A Child, a program created by 
Gainesville Church Of God.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $990/mo.   352-359-1508    
10-8-18-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
Play with kids and get Paid $$$$
The Blue Wave After School Program is 
looking for two energetic creative Individuals 
to work with the after school kids at P.K. 
Yonge.  If you are interested please send an 
email to bluewaveafterschool@gmail.com
10-15-18-5-14.
Young professional female in Alachua recov -
ering from a health issue needs assistance 
with driving to appointments, household 
tasks, running errands. $15/hr. 15 - 20 hr/wk. 
Contact biopressadmin@gmail.com.     10-
19-18-7-14
ON THE SPOT DRY CLEANERS
is hiring front counter staff w/ good customer 
service skills for all 4 locations (m-f 2:30-7:00 
sat 9-4) weekly pay $11.00/Hr. If interested 
call 352-514-7573      10-19-18-6-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 8/8- 8/11 
from 5-7 p.m. Quantitative sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.     10-8-18-4-20
NEED QUICK CASH?
Easily earn up to $49,063 per year working 
from your dorm room playing video games! 
Go to: www.getpaidtoplaygames.biz      10-
15-5-18-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Found.  Money in copy machine
@ HQ branch of Alachua Co. library on 9/28.  
Call 215-0484 to identify time of day and 
amount.     10-8-3-25
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/08/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/08/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 8, 2018
ACROSS
1 Stand watch for, 
say
5 Oompah 
instrument
9 Think-on-your-
feet tests
14 Greiner of “Shark 
Tank”
15 Sister of Osiris
16 Fabled wish 
granter
17 Time-consuming
18 With “of” and 
71-Across, 
Steinbeck  
classic
19 Swim cap 
material
20 Soon
23 Hulu service
24 __ about:  
roughly
25 Eyelid bump
29 Onetime Leno 
announcer Hall
31 Prefix with mount 
or charge
33 Head-butting 
beast
34 Scoop in a cone
39 Katmandu native
41 Soon
43 Make an error
44 Pedals on 
antique sewing 
machines
45 Right-angled 
piece
46 Gp. with Vikings
48 Bearded beast
49 Fraction of a min.
51 Hindu princess
53 Andean pack 
animal
58 Soon
61 Pentagon, for  
one
64 Med. readouts
65 Molecule part
66 Usual bus. 
address for 
sending in 
payments
67 Cheer (for)
68 Vaccine fluids
69 Hollywood 
go-between
70 Actress Gunn of 
“Breaking Bad”
71 See 18-AcrossDOWN
1 Dead tired
2 Trailblazer Daniel
3 Surrealist Max
4 Tied snugly
5 Wedding cake 
layer
6 Gannett’s 
flagship 
newspaper
7 Badlands bovine
8 Texas team that 
won the 2017 
World Series
9 Look like a wolf?
10 Brings up, as kids
11 Industrious insect
12 Tell it like it isn’t
13 “__ sells”: ad biz 
mantra
21 Exceed, as a 
budget
22 Like an 
intoxicated spree
26 Fish with a net
27 New Haven Ivy 
Leaguer
28 Radiates
30 Cook, as onion 
rings
32 Le Car maker
34 “Peer Gynt” 
playwright35 Honeycomb  
units
36 Paperless tax 
return option
37 “Blue Bloods” 
extra
38 Bon __: witticism
40 Pea container
42 Encouraging
47 Picture taker
50 Roasting bird
52 47-Down brand
54 Tenant’s contract55 Tossed in a chip
56 Bond portrayer 
Roger
57 “Seriously, bro!”
59 “I’m __!”: “My 
turn!”
60 Davis Cup org.
61 Place for a mud 
bath
62 Biker’s wheels
63 Springfield 
presidential 
library nickname
By Gareth Bain
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/06/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, October 6, 2018
ACROSS
1 Soap-drop 
indicator
5 Prepared for pie, 
in a way
10 Trunk extension
14 Buddhist priest
15 The “A” in the 
Tokyo studio AIC
16 Stargazing 
subject?
17 Rural stopovers
18 Retro filter choice
19 Importunate 
solicitor
20 Spin-off with a 
bluesy theme 
song by John 
Lee Hooker
23 2000s political 
slogan
24 Initial payments
26 European hub
27 Industrious type
29 Nut
32 Ritual heap
33 Rapper will.__
34 Half a piano 
duo?
35 Chaparral plant
37 Longfellow’s 
“The Bell of __”
38 Iwo Jima flag-
raiser Hayes
39 Half a classic 
cowboy 
nickname
40 Top of the order?
42 DNA units
44 1990s game 
console release, 
initially
45 Strong feeling
46 ’60s-’70s singer 
born Ellen Cohen
50 Catcall?
53 Circumstances, 
idiomatically
54 Hilarious
55 Look for
56 Certain 
something
57 “Obviously!”
58 Put away
59 Highland 
language
60 Irritations found 
in clouds
61 Iowa Department 
of Transportation 
city
DOWN
1 “Naturalis 
Historia” author
2 Poker for 
knights?3 Old Dodges
4 It often looks like 
gibberish
5 “No more 
discussion”
6 Like turnpike 
ramps
7 Wisconsin 
college
8 Abu Dhabi 
bigwig
9 Shaking event
10 Prolonged list, 
as of complaints
11 “It’s safe to sit 
next to me”
12 Onetime 
accessory for 
Britney Spears 
and Keri Russell
13 Nonkosher 
sandwich, 
usually
21 Techie 
stereotype
22 “Hakuna Matata” 
lifestyle
25 Ones in it for the 
long haul
27 Mitt Romney’s 
alma mater: 
Abbr.
28 Modern folklore
29 Card game 
played by 
Phileas Fogg30 Annual 
observance 
celebrating 
commitment to 
the planet
31 Behind
32 __ tem
36 Darwin’s __ 
Beagle
37 Graph point’s 
x-coordinate
39 Low joint
41 Turtle’s mouth
43 Vital vessels44 Didn’t play
46 Crete’s highest 
elev.
47 Top squad
48 Martin or Miller
49 “I’ma Be Me” 
stand-up comic 
Wanda
51 Kodos’ alien 
cohort on “The 
Simpsons”
52 It can be 
pumped
53 Honey, in slang
1.  Reddish brown
1.  Offer information 5.  Russian river
2.  Cherished6.  ____ box
3.  Comprehend 7.  Type of word
4.  FantasticUAUNBR
SEIDAVGOVAL
OCVEI
EOLBEDV
ZARELEIRADEBV
UPBRSEANSWERS: 1A-Auburn  5A-Volga  6A-Voice  7A-Adverb
1D-Advise  2D-Beloved  3D-Realize  4D-Superb  B-Bavaria10-8-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This German state is home to 
about 13 million people.
BONUS1. In 2017, the Angels’ Mike Trout 
became the fourth player in American 
League history to hit 20-plus home 
runs six times before turning 26 years 
old. Name two of the three others.
2. The New York Yankees’ C.C. 
Sabathia, in 2017, became the fourth 
left-hander to strike out at least 2,800 
batters. Who are the other three?
3. In 2017, Atlanta QB Matt Ryan 
became the first NFL quarterback to 
toss three touchdown passes in four 
consecutive playoff games. Name 
three of the five others tied at three 
games.
4. When was the last time before 
2018 that the University of Virginia’s 
men’s basketball team beat the Blue 
Devils at Duke’s Cameron Indoor Sta-
dium?
5. Chris Kunitz won three Stanley 
Cups with the Pittsburgh Penguins 
(2009, ‘16, ‘17). With which team did 
he win his first Stanley Cup?
6. Who was the first American male 
to win gold medals at three separate 
Winter Olympics?
7. Name the only female golfer to 
make the cut at a PGA Tour event.
Answers
1. Mickey Mantle, Alex Rodriguez 
and Tony Conigliaro.
2. Randy Johnson (4,875 strikeouts), 
Steve Carlton (4,136) and Mickey 
Lolich (2,832).
3. Tom Brady, Joe Flacco, Bernie 
Kosar, Aaron Rodgers and Kurt Warner.
4. It was 1995.
5. Anaheim, in 2007.
6. Shaun White.
7. Babe Didrikson Zaharias, in 1945.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
October 8, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets 24 PetsLinebacker Vosean Joseph 
was named the Walter Camp 
National Defensive Player of 
the Week for his performance 
against LSU. Joseph recorded 
14 tackles and two sacks.Gators rise in new AP poll
Florida rose from No. 22 to No. 14 in the latest AP top-25 poll Sunday. LSU 
remained ahead of UF at No. 13. The SEC now has eight teams ranked in the 
top 25. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
The Lost City of Alanis / Column
People make sports special.
The upsets, the touchdowns and 
the fancy plays are all very exciting, 
but it’s the human interest element 
that continually draws us in. 
That’s what made Florida’s 27-19 
victory over LSU different on Satur-
day. The people. 
The upset in the Swamp was ob-
viously the Gators’ most important 
victory of the Dan Mullen era and as 
close to a dogfight that we’ve seen from Florida 
this year.
But there was something different in the at-
mosphere that night.
You could see it in the coaches. 
Mullen couldn’t contain his pre-game excite-
ment as he bounced up and down with his play-
ers before the team took the field. He was caught 
on camera with that same passionate fervor af-
ter a fourth-quarter, game-clinching pick-six by 
safety Brad Stewart. Mullen was seen flailing his 
arms up and down so vigorously that he knocked 
his white visor cap from his sweat-soaked head 
onto the ground. 
But he didn’t care. Neither did defensive co-ordinator Todd Grantham in the mo-
ments after the game when his orange 
visor juggled on his head as he excit-
edly pumped his fists at the stands.
You could see it in the players. 
No one cowered during the game 
when things went awry. Their post-
game celebration of singing songs and 
hyping each other up and their coach 
was an ode to that.
“It’s a testament to our whole team. 
I mean, you could see how tired we were, those 
long drives that we had, the whole team’s tired, 
but that’s part of the mental endurance and phys-
ical endurance you have to have throughout a 
football game,” quarterback Feleipe Franks said. 
“When it boils down to it and the game’s on the 
line, what team is going to flinch. The team that 
doesn’t flinch is the team that is going to pull it 
out. Our guys didn’t flinch and we went out there 
and we executed what we’ve been practicing to 
do.”
You could see it in the crowd.
Gators fans had filled the Swamp with a noise 
so vicious it affected their own players. This was a different kind of win for Florida
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
fumble and six tackles — four of 
which were solo. He also had a pass 
breakup and a quarterback hurry.
His first sack was early. His next 
one came in the final two minutes 
of the game.
LSU started its drive with 1:37 
left on the clock. Polite broke 
through his blocker and blitzed 
Burrow, forcing the Tigers to burn 
a timeout. 
If Polite was a lion on defense, 
Joseph was the ringleader.
Joseph was all over the field. 
He led the team with 14 tackles, 
four solo. Three-and-a-half of those 
tackles were for loss, and two of 
them came on sacks. 
His performance earned Joseph 
the Walter Camp National Defen-
sive Player of the Week honors, the 
first Gator since linebacker Antonio 
Morrison earned it on Oct. 4, 2015.
Joseph’s two sacks came at cru-
cial moments in the game.
His first one ended an LSU drive 
late in the first quarter. Tommy 
Townsend’s punt pinned the Tigers 
at the five-yard line, and Burrow needed to find four more yards to 
pick up a first down.
The Gators blitzed with four to 
the right side, and no one blocked 
Joseph. He came to Burrow’s blind 
spot and tackled him for an eight-
yard loss.
“I want to say my defense helped 
me out with that,” Joseph said. 
“They opened up probably some of 
the pass rush so I can get in there 
and get a couple sacks, bouncing it 
out to me so I can get on the edge.”
His second sack came in the sec-
ond quarter. 
The Gators rushed five, and as 
Joseph broke through the line, he 
hurled his body right at Burrow as 
the LSU quarterback tried to es-
cape.
The sack forced the Tigers to 
face third and long, continuing 
Florida’s momentum at that point.
“Today was probably my game, 
but everybody on the team did ab-
solutely well,” Joseph said. “I don’t 
want to miss nobody that played on 
the team today. Everybody did an 
absolutely great job.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1‘DBU’ debate shifted to defensive line, linebackers
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Freshman Thayer Hall stared in-
tensely through the net at Georgia’s 
side of the court with her hands be-
hind her back.
She quickly moved into position 
as soon as the ball passed over her 
head from a Florida serve, arms bent 
at the ready and standing on her 
toes just toward the left side.
A long rally ensued full of one-
armed saves and back-and-forth vol-
leys until Hall finally stole the spot-
light with a kill on an improvised 
play, sending the ball just behind 
the 10-foot line.
The O’Connell Center floor shook 
as fans quickly jumped to their feet. 
Screams echoed throughout the dome as the 37-second rally ended 
and the Gators went up 13-7 in the 
fifth set.
Florida used that scrappy de-
meanor to ultimately defeat Georgia 
in a thrilling five-set contest Sunday 
afternoon after trailing the match 
two sets to one. The Gators narrow-
ly escaped what would have been 
their first loss of conference play at 
home.  
No. 11 Florida (15-3, 6-0 SEC) 
jumped out to an early lead over 
the Bulldogs in the first set, taking a 
25-13 victory. Georgia racked up 13 
attack errors in the frame while the 
Gators only logged three.
It looked like smooth sailing from 
that point on, but Georgia answered 
back in the second and third sets, Gators remain undefeated 
in SEC play after second 
five-set weekend thrillerChris Houston / Alligator Staff
Defensive end Jachai Polite (99) and linebacker Vosean Joseph (11) led Florida’s defense to a resounding 
win over the then-No. 5 team in the nation. Polite finished with a pair of sacks and a forced fumble.
VOLLEYBALL
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE  14MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
FOOTBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer 
“Feleipe Franks isn’t as good of 
a quarterback as Joe Burrow.”
That’s not exactly a hot take. 
After all, LSU’s quarterback fin-
ished with more yards and more 
completions in Florida’s 27-19 win 
over LSU. Burrow hadn’t thrown 
an interception all season until 
the 1:45 mark in the fourth quar-
ter in the Swamp. He took advan-
tage of mismatches on receivers 
and looked like an above-average 
quarterback when he wasn’t get-
ting hounded by the Gators’ defen-
sive line. 
“Franks isn’t as good of a quar-
terback as Burrow.” 
It’s not a hot take. It’s just 
wrong. 
Franks showed better instincts, 
better poise under pressure and 
better decision-making abilities 
than Burrow throughout the game. 
Franks’ second-half stats aren’t 
much to look at. He completed 
6-of-15 passes for 91 yards and 
threw a crucial pick in the red 
zone. But the nature of those nine 
incompletions is something to ex-
amine. 
Franks threw the ball while un-
der pressure in the second half. A 
whole lot of pressure. 
Florida right guard Fred John-
son flat-out whiffed on his block 
of LSU nose tackle Breiden Fehoko 
on UF’s second play of its opening 
drive in the second half. Fehoko 
pushed Johnson to the ground, ran 
right by him and attacked Franks’ 
midsection. 
Was Moral Stephens open down 
the seam for what could’ve been 
his second touchdown of the day? 
Absolutely. Could Franks have hit 
him before LSU safety Grant Delpit 
crossed his path for the intercep-
tion? We’ll never know thanks to 
Fehoko’s pressure. 
What about all the other incom-
pletions? Of the eight he threw in 
the second half, seven came while Franks was either running to es-
cape pressure or while he was be-
ing dragged to the ground. 
Second-and-10 at the UF 20. 
The Gators had just given up a field 
goal and led 14-13. Left tackle Mar-
tez Ivey takes a step toward the left 
guard to help Tyler Jordan kick out 
to the right. That leaves LSU line-
backer Michael Divinity Jr. to rush 
unimpeded toward Franks. He 
steps up into the pocket and looks 
to receiver Trevon Grimes on a 
crossing route. Offensive lineman 
Brett Heggie, who has replaced our 
friend Fred Johnson at right guard, 
takes his man and drives him to 
the left of Franks. What Heggie probably wishes 
he should’ve done next would’ve 
spared Franks a lot of pain. LSU 
defensive end Rashard Lawrence 
stunts inside to where Heggie used 
to be and gets a free shot on the 
quarterback, doubling him over 
Divinity Jr., who has hit him at the 
waist. 
Incomplete over the middle. Di-
vinity Jr. gets pressure on the next 
play and forces Franks to throw it 
away. Three-and-out. 
That was the story throughout 
the game. Franks has trouble un-
der pressure. Any quarterback not 
named Tom Brady or Aaron Rod-
gers does. But he made plenty of good decisions to throw the ball 
away while getting harassed by 
defenders. 
“You’ve got three guys that 
won Heisman Trophies that have 
statues in front of the stadium 
that played your position,” coach 
Dan Mullen said after the game. 
“There’s always pressure at (the) 
quarterback position.”
Franks has shown he can han-
dle the mental pressure. If he can 
get protection from the physical 
pressure, he can be a good quar-
terback. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgUnder pressure: Franks needs more time
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks (13) was pressured by LSU defensive players on seven of his nine 
incompletions in the second half of the Gators’ 27-19 win Saturday. 
MEN’S TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Oliver Crawford and Andy Andrade were 
in position to move on to the finals of the 
men’s main doubles draw Sunday after-
noon. The duo swept through their first 
three rounds at the ITA All-American Cham-
pionships in Tulsa, Oklahoma, setting up a 
matchup with Alex Kobelt and Kyle Seelig of 
Ohio State.
But the magic from the duo ran out on 
Crawford and Andrade as they fell in the 
semifinals to the Buckeyes (5-7, 4-6), ending 
their week of competition.
Johannes Ingildsen, the only remaining 
Florida player competing on Sunday, lost his 
semifinals match in the consolation singles draw. Ingildsen finished the tournament with 
five wins across doubles and singles before 
falling to John McNally, another Buckeye. 
Several other Gators were sent home on 
Saturday as well. Crawford also competed in 
the main singles draw and lost in the Round 
of 16 to Stanford’s Axel Geller (7-6, 4-6, 5-7). 
Sam Riffice joined Ingildsen in the consola-
tion singles draw and was swept in the round 
of 16 by UC Santa Barbara’s Nicolas Moreno 
De Alboran (4-6, 3-6). 
Ingildsen teamed up with Brian Berdusco 
in doubles, in addition to competing in sin-
gles, and ultimately lost in the quarterfinals 
of the main draw. Ingildsen and Berdusco 
lost in three sets to Sven Lah and Jimmy Ben-
deck of Baylor (4-6, 6-3, 10-12).
The Florida men’s tennis team will be in action again a week from today on Oct. 15 
in Harlingen, Texas, at the USA F28 Futures.
Crawford and Andrade earned a spot at 
the Oracle ITA National Fall Championships 
in Surprise, Arizona, in early November after 
finishing the weekend as doubles semifinal-
ists.
UF left Oklahoma without any hardware, 
but head coach Bryan Shelton said he was 
pleased with the performance he saw from 
his young team.
“We have identified what we need to 
work on the rest of this fall,” Shelton said in 
a release, “but I’m really excited about the 
direction we are heading.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFlorida’s ITA All-American run comes to an endSOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer 
Florida’s 2018 soccer season 
would look a lot like Sunday’s 1-0 
loss to No. 12 South Carolina if it 
could be boiled down to one game.
The Gators (4-8-2, 2-3-2 SEC) 
were held scoreless for the third 
straight game and for the ninth time 
in their last 12. An 11th-minute goal 
from freshman midfielder Selma Sol 
Magnusdottir was all the Gamecocks 
(11-2, 5-1 SEC) needed to escape 
with a win in their home ground.
Florida was not without its 
chances, though. The Gators had 
12 shots on the day, two fewer than 
South Carolina, but had six more 
corners. They also had three golden 
opportunities to equalize in the dy-
ing minutes of the game.
In the 78th minute, Cassidy Lind-
ley crossed the ball into the box. 
Sammie Betters had her defender 
beat, but her sliding attempt to tap 
it past the goalkeeper came up just 
short and the ball landed harmlessly 
in the hands of Mikayla Krzeczows-
ki.
Forward Madison Alexander had 
UF’s best chance of the game a few 
minutes later. With the goal vacant, 
her close-range shot was deflected 
by South Carolina defender Lauren 
Pinkham. 
The Gators had a last-gasp chance 
in the dying seconds, but midfielder 
Tess Sapone’s volley from outside 
the box went just wide of the net as 
time expired.
“There were definitely some 
chances,” UF coach Becky Burleigh 
said in a release. “There were long 
stretches – especially in the second 
half – that I felt we outplayed them. 
In the end, we all know that we get 
judged by the scoreboard.”
South Carolina came away with 
its 10th shutout of the season. The 
Gamecocks have allowed just five 
goals this season, the lowest total in 
the SEC. In addition, Krzeczowski 
earned the 32nd clean sheet of her 
career, setting a South Carolina pro-
gram record.
The only goal of the match was 
a pretty one. Sol Magnusdottir drib-
bled around UF midfielder Briana 
Solis and smashed a shot past Flor-
ida keeper Kaylan Marckese while 
falling away from goal. It was the 
freshman’s fourth goal of the season.
With just four regular season 
games remaining, Florida is in dan-
ger of missing the NCAA tournament 
for just the third time in its history. 
The last time the Gators missed out 
was 2002.
The good news for Florida is that 
it has an entire week before its next 
game against Alabama in Tuscaloosa 
to work out the kinks.
“It will be nice to have a full week 
of practice,” Burleigh said. “I think 
that will be really beneficial to us.” 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
 Gators shut 
out for ninth 
time in last 
12 matches 16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
BURGER 
NIGHT
$3.99 BURGER
(1/2 LB. ANGUS BEEF) 5PM- CLOSEMONDAY NIGHTS
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595In the Creekside Mall Plaza
BURGER 
$3.99 BURGER
Edition 2018
DEADLINE
OCT. 26RUN DATE
NOV. 2More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long 
festival. Tell them where to eat and 
how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming souvenir Edition which is 
passed out along the parade route.
Call 352-376-4482  
advertising@alligator.orgHOMECOMING
Contact the Alligator 
Advertising Department today.Kick Off a Season of Great Businesstaking a pair of 25-22 victories.
“In the second set, especially offensively, 
we were so disconnected,” coach Mary Wise 
said. “Then ﬁ  nally, when the offense got bet-
ter, the defense was disconnected, which is 
being a part of a young team.”
The fourth set took on a different tone for 
Florida. Defensive efforts and better choices 
offensively made the difference as the team 
stole a 25-21 victory to tie up the match at 
two apiece.
The Gators dominated the ﬁ  fth set coming 
out to a 13-7 lead off Hall’s kill. The momen-
tum from the play led to a victorious ending 
for the Gators as they stole a second ﬁ  ve-set 
contest win in four matches.
“Welcome to volleyball in the SEC in 
2018,” Wise said. “It was a great match, but unlike (Texas) A&M, we play Georgia twice.”
Redshirt sophomore right-side attacker 
Holly Carlton tied for the most kills on the 
match (17) with Georgia’s T’ara Ceasar and 
sophomore outside hitter Paige Hammons 
ﬁ  nishing right behind with 13. Hall ended the 
contest with 11 kills, hitting just under .180.
Redshirt senior setter Allie Monserez led 
the Gators’ offense with 29 assists. She also 
dominated the back of the court defensively 
with junior libero Allie Gregory, with both 
players logging 14 digs apiece.
“We’re just trying to ﬁ  nd our way,” Wise 
said. “And now, I think we have a better idea 
of what’s our persona, and I think the under-
standing that in the ﬁ  fth set you can’t play 
tentative.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg 14Gators remain undefeated in SEC 
“At one point I had the headset on 
and couldn’t hear Coach Johnson talk-
ing,” Franks said. “Usually I can hear 
him really well. I said at the top, our fan 
base was crazy tonight. That’s always a 
good thing. It always helps, when they 
do things like that.”
And when he took a knee to make the 
victory ofﬁ  cial, Franks headed straight 
to the Gators’ student section where the 
Florida fans remained. He had the ball 
still clutched in his arms as he embraced 
the ones he said made the win possible.
“It feels so good just getting the Gator standard right,” he said. “Our fans, just 
running to the fans because those are 
our guys, people that are helping us out 
in the Swamp.”
Maybe it was the efﬁ  ciency of the 
running game, Mullen’s timely trick play 
call or the execution of Grantham’s de-
fense that won that game on Saturday. 
But it was ultimately the people, their 
effort, their passion that affected the out-
come. And that could be the difference 
for this program moving forward.
Alanis Thames is a sports writer for 
The Alligator. Follow her on Twitter @al-
anisthames and contact her at athames@
alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 14Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Freshman Thayer Hall ended the win over Georgia with 11 kills and hit a shade under 
.180 for the match. 
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Coach Dan Mullen could be seen trying to ﬁ  re up the crowd at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n 
Stadium several times throughout Saturday’s game against LSU. 
