We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
By Michael Knauff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF scientists are testing algae growth in 
space with the potential for useful applications in 
long-term voyages.
A space shuttle launched from the Kennedy 
Space Center on Friday. It carried a payload with 
the project of Junya Zhang, a post-doctorate stu-
dent, and Mark Settles, a professor in the horti-
cultural sciences department.
The 24 bags containing algae, water and fertil-
izer will stay on the International Space Station 
for a monthlong experiment testing changes in 
genetic structure in response to the conditions of 
space. 
“It’s like something out of a science ﬁ  ction 
ﬁ  lm,” Settles said. 
Algae is being used because it is easy to grow, 
requiring less space and light than traditional 
crops. The strain of algae being used is Chlam-
ydomonas Reinhardtii, the most studied algae 
type and the easiest to genetically manipulate.  VOLUME 112 ISSUE 98
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Beat the h eat, Sign and Save !
Come CheCk out our preview speC ials while they last!
Over sized kitchens  
with granite counter 
tops and stainless 
steel appliances!3,100 square foot  
tOwn hO mes complete 
with a garage and half 
bathroom!come float with us  
at the O nLY Laz Y river  
in gainesville! 
3718 sw 24th a ve., Gainesville, Fl  32607  / theridG eFl.Com / (352) 792-0102By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Four journalists and a sales assistant were mur-
dered in a shooting Thursday afternoon at the Cap-
ital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis, Maryland.
One of the victims was Rob 
Hiaasen, a UF alumnus and 
younger brother of Miami Her-
ald columnist, former Alligator 
writer and author Carl Hiaasen.
Hiaasen celebrated his 33rd 
wedding anniversary with his 
wife, Maria Hiaasen, two weeks 
ago. The day of the shooting was 
also her birthday.
“(Hiaasen) was someone who really had a zeal 
for ﬁ  nding the humanity in all the chaos and the 
fast pace of this world,” said David Ovalle, a Mi-
ami Herald staff writer and friend of the Hiaasen 
family. “It’s a pretty stunning loss.”
Hiaasen, 59, grew up in Fort Lauderdale. He 
originally worked in radio before moving to print UF alumnus one 
of ﬁ  ve murdered 
at Capital Gazette
SEE HIAASEN,  PAGE 4 SEE ALGAE,  PAGE 4Hiaasen
UF scientists to 
test algae in 
space missionZachariah Chou / Courtesy to The Alligator
Protesters in the Keep Families T ogether march walk down Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C., on June 30. They marched from Lafayette Square to the National Mall.DEMONSTRATORS TAKE TO STREETS ACROSS THE NATION
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Hannah Gutman, 25, led Gainesville marchers in a chant by shouting 
“T ell me what democracy looks like, ” to which the crowd replied, “This is 
what democracy looks like!”T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 98
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
HIGH  90° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
FEA files suit to stop law target-
ing rights of teachers
The Florida Education 
Association, in conjunction with 
other plaintiffs, filed a suit to 
stop enforcement of a new pro-
vision in Florida law that targets 
teacher unions for decertifica-
tion as local bargaining agents. 
The FEA suit is directed at the 
decertification law now codi-
fied in Section 1012.2315(4)(c) 
of the 2018 Florida Statutes and 
at the constitutionality of House Bill 7055, the “log-rolled,” omni-
bus bill on education passed by 
the Legislature this year. Along 
with legislation on many other 
subjects, that bill included the 
decertification law.
Development review committee 
meeting 
The Alachua County 
Development Review Committee 
will meet Thursday at 1:30 p.m. 
The meeting will be held in 
the Jack Durrance Auditorium 
of the County Administration 
Building located at 12 SE First 
Street in downtown Gainesville. The committee will review the 
replat of Hidden Hills Planned 
Development, Lot 12. For more 
information, contact the Alachua 
County Growth Management 
Department at 352-374-5249. 
The public is invited to attend 
this meeting.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 98
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
T uesday, July 3, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSInform family and friends of a plan especially  
if sheltering in a location other than one’s home. 
Shelters will normally be available on campus for 
UF students, staff, faculty and their families. If 
staying in a shelter, bring all necessary supplies 
such as a Gator 1 Card, pillows, blankets and 
toiletries. University Housing residents should 
observe guidance and instructions from housing 
staff. 
During the storm stay indoors and do not 
attempt to drive or travel. If strong winds are 
present, stay away from windows or glass doors. 
Do not light candles as it can increase the risk 
of fire. Take note that emergency services might 
not be able to respond during the storm. After 
the storm, document damages with pictures and 
take action to protect your property from further 
damage. Avoid downed power lines and flooded 
areas. Expect delays and inconveniences and use 
care when traveling to avoid hazards. For more 
information on how to prepare for a storm visit 
emergency.ufl.edu.
providing support to exceptional researchers 
during the crucial early career years, when many 
scientists do their most formative work.
Aitkaliyeva joined the UF faculty in 2017. Her 
research group focuses on radiation tolerance of 
materials, characterization of nuclear fuels, and 
understanding structure-property relationship  
in materials subjected to harsh environments.Tonight is the annual  
Independence Day eve  
Fanfares & Fireworks event.  
Beginning at 7 p.m. at the University of 
Florida Bandshell at Flavet Field, families 
can picnic in the grass and enjoy musical 
performances. The evening will conclude 
with a spectacular fireworks show begin-
ning at 9:40 p.m. Admission is free.
Micayla Kinder
Summer in Gainesville marks  
the beginning of hurricane season.  
The Hurricane season lasts from June 1 through 
Nov. 30.  It is important for the faculty, stu-
dents and staff at the University of Florida to 
know what to do to stay safe in severe weather 
such as hurricanes and tropical storms. In 
order to be prepared there are several steps that 
should be followed before, during and after the 
storm. If a storm is approaching, monitor local 
media such as WRUF-TV and 89.1 FM for 
storm updates. University officials will provide 
information on the status of UF’s schedule and 
other updates to local media. 
Before the storm arrives, ensure that you have 
a disaster supply kit that is fully stocked and 
a vehicle with a full tank of gas. Remove or 
secure any items outside that may fly away in 
strong winds such as lawn furniture. 
Assel Aitkaliyeva, an assistant professor of 
nuclear engineering at the University of Florida, 
is among 84 university scientists selected by the 
U.S. Department of Energy to receive significant 
funding for research as part of the DOE Office 
of Science’s Early Career Research Program.
The effort, now in its ninth year, is designed 
to bolster the nation’s scientific workforce by Event  
Reminder: 
Fanfares & 
Fireworks
Preparing for a Storm
UF Engineer Selected for 
Funding by Dept. of EnergyDana McPherson
University of Florida students return-
ing to campus for Summer B found 
that they now have a state-of-the-art 
facility to explore career options in.
On July 2, the Career Connections Center, 
formerly known as the Career Resource Cen-
ter, reopened its doors in the Reitz Union after 
a 14-month renovation and expansion project. 
Located on the first level of the Reitz Union, 
the career center nearly dou-
bled its size from the previous 
footprint to 28,940 square 
feet. The expansion includes 
extending downstairs to the 
ground level of the student 
union. The additional space 
and re-constructed layout will 
provide more space for stu-
dents and employers to engage and network in. 
“This new space is truly for our students,” said 
Ja’Net Glover, senior director for career ser-
vices. “We envisioned a facility where students 
will bridge their aspirations to outcomes. The 
center does just that, it provides opportuni-
ties for students to engage with our staff and 
employers in several different ways.”
Some features of the new space include four 
engagement centers, which can flex up to six 
depending on the room usage, the previous 
space only had two rooms. The engagement 
centers are completely wired for virtual The Career Connections  
Center is Back Home
capabilities so that UF Online students can 
access events remotely or workshop panelists 
can participate virtually. The center also has 
technology embedded in four of the interview 
rooms for students to interview remotely. Addi-
tionally, study nooks were intentionally created 
for students who need space to study or meet 
with small class groups. There are five nooks, 
of which four are outfitted with monitors for 
computer connection.
Off the heels of launching their new name earli-
er this spring, the Career Connections Center’s 
focus is to educate students from 
every classification on how easy it 
is to connect with career services. 
“If a student is visiting the Reitz, I 
want them to feel comfortable with 
just walking in. One of my favorite 
features is that our main entrance 
bleeds right into the Reitz which 
will give students a seamless ex-
perience,” said Glover. Students and guests will 
also be able to access the center from the North 
Lawn, Circle Drive, and the walkway from the 
Welcome Center’s parking garage.
The July opening will serve as a soft-opening 
for the staff. “There are transitions that will 
take place throughout the summer, one being 
the acquisition of the Gator Career Closet 
which will open in the fall. We’re working now 
on planning incredible events in August and 
September to celebrate the facility’s opening, the 
new name, and our 65 years of career services 
with the campus community.” said Glover.
“If a student is visiting the Reitz, I 
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comas a staff reporter at The Palm Beach 
Post in the 1990s, Ovalle said.
Hiaasen worked at The Baltimore 
Sun for the next 15 years after leav-
ing The Palm Beach Post, eventually 
ending up at the Capital Gazette in 
2010.
Jon Morgan, former editor at The 
Baltimore Sun, described Hiaasen as 
enthusiastic, having a terriﬁ  c sense 
of humor and always looking out for 
others.
“His attitude was always very 
positive even in the dark days of 
buyouts and downsizing. He just 
loved what he was doing,” Morgan 
said. “You don’t meet many people 
like that in the course of your life.” 
Hiaasen loved the craft of writing 
and was passionate about ﬁ  nding 
overlooked stories of human inter-
est, Morgan and Ovalle said.
They both agreed one of their fa-
vorite pieces Hiaasen wrote involved 
his curiosity about a Korean couple 
he saw on his way to lunch. They 
were collecting nuts from a fallen 
tree. While it’s an observation most 
people would ignore, Hiaasen de-
cided to research the nut and track 
the couple down.
He ended up spinning it into a 
fun, quirky story about the delicacy 
known as the ginkgo nut within 
Asian culture.
“We all go to lunch and we don’t 
even notice what’s going on around 
us,” Ovalle said. “(Rob) just had a 
real eye for everything going on 
around him.”
Morgan said his fondest memory 
of working with Hiaasen involved 
his brother, Carl Hiaasen. 
He noted how Carl Hiaasen was 
a highly proliﬁ  c author and how he 
always used to tease Robert about 
how his brother was more famous 
than he was.
Morgan said he went up to Carl 
Hiaasen upon ﬁ  rst meeting him and 
immediately asked him, “What’s 
it like having Robert Hiaasen as a 
brother?”
“Carl just looked at me blankly, 
but Rob immediately got the joke 
and doubled over in laughter,” Mor-
gan said. “That’s the kind of self-de-
facing joke you could pull on Rob.”Outside of journalism, Ovalle 
said Hiaasen loved being outdoors 
and spending time with his wife and 
two children.
He also studied the art of writing 
outside of the newsroom, working 
as a journalism lecturer at the Uni-
versity of Maryland.
Ovalle said Hiaasen understood 
the lethal consequences journalism 
has had over time, writing a lengthy 
feature story in 2006 about a memo-
rial that honored journalists killed 
on the job. 
Ovalle said Hiaasen’s family is in 
disbelief over the events, ﬁ  nding the 
situation surreal and incomprehen-
sible. 
Ovalle and Morgan said Hiaasen 
will leave behind a fond memory 
of positivity and inspiration within 
journalism.
“I suspect there will be journal-
ists whose lives he touched and ca-
reers he touched going forward, and 
that’s a proud legacy we can all be 
so lucky (to know),” Morgan said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgHIAASEN,  from pg. 1‘His attitude was always very positive’
One batch of algae will stay on 
Earth at NASA’s testing facilities 
as a control group while the other 
grows in space.
Both batches will be placed 
under high-intensity LED lights 
and given fertilizer to grow. Set-
tles said the goal is to see which 
genes are most important for ef-
ﬁ  cient growth in space. 
Settles said algae may eventu-
ally be an important part of long 
space voyages, such as a trip to 
Mars. The algae is nutritious, pro-
vides building materials and con-
sumes carbon dioxide.
It contains key nutrients such 
as omega-3 fatty acids, amino 
acids, protein and antioxidants, 
Settles said. However, it pro-
duces a ﬁ  shy smell in its edible 
form, which Settles said is being 
worked on. 
Chlamydomonas Reinhardtii 
also can be used to make plas-tics. Algae responds to stress by 
producing and storing oil for food 
in case of future stressors. Settles 
said the oil can be extracted and 
used to build materials aboard a 
spacecraft. 
Another issue of space travel is 
the amount of carbon dioxide on 
the ISS, which is 10 times higher 
than on Earth. This limits the as-
tronauts’ physical activity. Algae 
combats this problem by consum-
ing carbon dioxide.
The project is being funded 
by the Florida Space Research 
Institute and the Center for the 
Advancement of Science in Space. 
Settles said the FSRI awarded 
them $135,000 and CASIS is pay-
ing for the payload integration, 
loading the bags into the space 
shuttle for safe travel. Settles did 
not know how much the integra-
tion will cost at the time of the 
interview.
Zhang will pick up the algae 
from California when the return 
shuttle lands in late July.ALGAE,  from pg. 1Settles said the two 
were awarded $135,000TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Fear Facers is a different kind of summer 
camp where, instead of playing kickball with 
normal bases, kids get a home run by squish-
ing into pools of spaghetti, chocolate syrup and 
fake vomit. 
Fear Facers Summer Camp, organized by 
UF’s Center for OCD, Anxiety & Related Dis-
orders (COARD), is for children ranging from 
ages 7 to 15 with phobias, obsessive-compul-
sive disorder and anxiety. The camp is an al-
ternative way for children to receive therapy 
and challenge themselves to overcome daily 
struggles.
Last year, the program had 11 campers. 
This year, 17 campers participated in the first 
session at Kanapaha Veterans Memorial Park 
on May 18. The second session will run from 
July 30 to August 3 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The increase in participants allowed UF 
Health to use Fear Facers for follow-up re-
search in an ongoing study in OCD and anxi-
ety, according to Dr. Joseph McNamara. 
McNamara, clinical director of Fear Fac-
ers, said the new research component of the 
camp tracks how effectively the treatments are 
for kids and how effectively the counselors are 
trained in treating them. He said activities at 
the camp imitate what the kids’ fears look like 
and how to overcome them. 
“We’ve had an extensive program for treat-
ing OCD for over 20 years at the University of 
Florida,” McNamara said. “But now, rather 
than just a therapy session with somebody ev-ery day, we’re getting the therapy session ev-
ery day here, but then the children are here for 
another six hours after that where we can do 
fun things that are also really good challenges 
for them.”
Each person’s anxieties manifest in unique 
ways, and counselors use group activities as 
well as individual therapy sessions to help 
each child specifically. Some children have social anxiety, some fear spiders or separation 
from loved ones, some struggle with counting 
while others have concerns with symmetry, 
McNamara said.
Robyn Nelson, assistant administrative di-
rector of COARD, said campers attend individ-
ual therapy sessions each morning where they 
discuss fears and anxieties with their therapist. 
Therapists then help kids face these fears in ac-tivities throughout the week.
“We do some group sessions, so that the 
kids get to hear what each other are struggling 
with, so they can provide that encouragement 
they need to just keep going,” Nelson said. “It 
also helps them to see their counselor and ther-
apist in a different way and to see them outside 
of their office.” 
Lacie Lazaroe, Fear Facers outreach direc-
tor and therapist, said the second annual Fear 
Facers is creating possible alternatives to tradi-
tional methods of anxiety and OCD treatment 
for health care providers, researchers and clini-
cians.
“The school year is really hectic for kids,” 
Lazaroe said. “So at camp, during the summer, 
maybe they’re more free, and they have time 
to be able to engage in this kind of stuff. I think 
it’s good to come up with alternative modes of 
treatment delivery.”
Not only do the kids play hot potato with 
slime and have fake vomit water-balloon 
fights, but they share their stories and com-
plete assignments at home to practice what 
they have learned about unhealthy anxieties 
and are prepared for future situations.
“I can not be sure of something, but I’m go-
ing to put in the effort. And it may or may not 
work out right, but I’m putting in the effort and 
accepting some of that unknown,” McNamara 
said on behalf of the kids. “Because so many 
different things are unknown in life.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgSummer camp helps kids face fears, aids UF researchers
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Navigating the county court system 
may be difficult without an attorney, but a 
new program from Alachua County aims to 
change that. 
The online program TurboCourt, which 
has been in the works for months, is now 
available on the county clerk’s website. 
This system will provide guidance to pro 
se litigants, or people who represent them-
selves in court, said Alachua County Clerk 
of Court J. K. “Jess” Irby. 
“Any individual who has a need for 
the court and finds themselves in a situa-
tion where they cannot afford, or choose to not have an attorney, this could help them 
in their effort to get access to justice,” Irby 
said.
TurboCourt, which works a lot like Tur-
boTax, can be used by pro se litigants in 
civil cases including divorce, domestic vio-
lence, small claims and eviction cases, Irby 
said. 
It’s as simple as selecting a case type 
then being guided through a series of ques-
tions, Irby said. From there, it will create a 
court filing, which can be turned in at the 
clerk office or filed electronically. 
For Jennifer M. Titus, an attorney with 
Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, 
TurboCourt is one way citizens can access 
the court system, but not the only way.“We have a Peaceful Paths advocate in 
the courthouse at the clerk’s office (to) help 
with completion also,” Titus said. “It’s just 
another means to access the court system, 
there’s no right or wrong way to do it.”
The program, which was made in con-
tract with a third-party vendor, will cost the 
county $7,500 a year to use, Irby said. User 
fees range from $25 to $50, except when fil-
ing for domestic violence cases, which are 
free.  
“Having an attorney is hard to beat but 
for many folks it’s just unattainable, so 
we’re doing our best trying to help people 
out here,” Irby said. “I hope it just opens up 
those doors to justice that previously people 
found unattainable.”Online program prepares pro se litigantsT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Alicia Boren, a senior on the UF gymnastics team, speaks to the children of the Fear 
Facers Summer Camp about how she overcomes feelings of anxiety.  
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Researchers at UF have de-
veloped a wireless mouthguard 
that measures a person’s health 
components as they exercise.
The mouthguard, called the 
H3, is the first oral “internet of 
things” device. The “internet 
of things” is how a device can 
remotely gather data and send 
them to phones or computers 
by Bluetooth, said UF associate 
professor in the Department of 
Electrical and Computer Engi-
neering and H3 developer Yong 
Ku “Y.K.” Yoon.
Yoon said he decided to 
name it H3 after the three as-pects of the body it measures: 
head, heart and heat. Specifi-
cally, the H3 detects things like 
bodily impacts, movement, 
pulse and body temperature.
“This sports mouthguard 
will give you the automatic de-
tection and feedback that will 
tell you if you need to take a rest 
or drink Gatorade,” Yoon said.
The H3 was made by insert-
ing a chip in an athletic mouth-
guard. Yoon said it has 11 sen-
sors, an accelerometer, a heart 
rate monitor and gyroscope.
“It’s really all-encompass-
ing,” said UF doctoral student 
in the Department of Electrical 
and Computer Engineering and 
H3 developer Todd Schumann. But, he said, “there’s room for 
(the H3) to evolve.”
Yoon and Schumann said 
the H3 is a prototype that took 
more than six months to devel-
op. Schumann said they’ve only 
completed personal testing like 
wearing it while running on a 
treadmill. They are looking for 
an opportunity to do testing on 
a larger scale, like in UF sports.
They plan on releasing the 
H3 to the public around one 
year from now, selling a generic 
model for $500-$700 and selling 
custom-fit models for a higher 
price.
Yoon plans on evolving the 
H3 to be more user-friendly 
with more features. He hopes to make it small enough to fit on 
a single tooth and add a body 
fluid sensor with the potential 
to detect diseases like HIV and 
monitor blood sugar.
Schumann said his main 
goal is to have people who 
don’t have access to profession-
als use the H3.
“(Non-professional athletes) 
traditionally don’t have all the 
trainers sitting around watching 
their every move,” Schumann 
said. “This would be a device 
that helps them keep a look on 
their health while exercising.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF researchers develop mouthguard 
prototype to monitor athletes’ vital signs
By Ashley Mirtyl
Alligator Contributing Writer
With June 21 marking the beginning of summer, 
residents are running into a lot more than traffic as 
Gainesville’s streets crumble in the heat.
The crater-like cavities of automotive annihila-
tion we call potholes have made their way onto the 
streets of Gainesville, leaving motorists like Justin 
Green $259.56 poorer.
Green, a Gainesville resident, fell victim to the 
roadway ruts when jagged asphalt teeth sunk into 
one of his 2017 Toyota Camry’s tires.
“It’s honestly like playing ‘Mario Kart’ out here,” 
Green said. “It’s either you hit a pothole or swerve 
out of control to avoid it.”
The Gainesville Public Works Department has 
been working to patch up the reported potholes as 
they continue to spread like the cracks on an alliga-
tor’s back, said Chip Skinner, a Public Works infor-
mation officer.
“They’re pretty much the s--- holes left by the 
rain for us,” Green said.
Potholes are created when rain seeps into asphalt 
cracks, Skinner said. Over time, heavily trafficked 
roads develop weak spots and collapse.
In colder climates, frozen water that has thawed 
can cause the asphalt to rise. Skinner said Gainesville 
is lucky not to have freezing temperatures, or the 
potholes would be worse. 
However, the rainy weather presents a different 
problem: When potholes fill with water, they are dif-
ficult to see. 
Limestone is used to temporarily fix potholes but 
can be eroded throughout the day by vehicle traffic, 
Skinner said. If reported promptly, road agencies can 
take as few as four hours to patch holes with asphalt.
Skinner said people should report potholes using 
the Gainesville Public Works Department website or 
by calling 352-334-5070.
Communication is important when dealing with 
potholes, said Skinner. If the right agency isn’t noti-
fied, the holes will continue surfacing.Potholes plague    
GainesvilleEditorial
ColumnPlease choose your 
words carefully
Remember those with chronic illness this summer
What comes to mind when you think 
of summer?
Is it sunrises and sunsets?
Is it chilling in a hammock be-
tween Summer classes? Is it beach 
days and vacations?
Is it life-changing journeys for internships 
and invaluable learning experiences?
Is it time to relax or learn a new skill?
It’s been none of these things for me. For 
me, summer is a battle between mind and body.
It’s dozens upon dozens of appointments, tests, med-
ication changes or even operations.
It’s everything I want and don’t want at the same 
time.
I want to feel better, and this has to be done. But it’s 
not what I want to actually be doing with my time.
I want to be normal, not chronically sick, tired, in 
pain, a burden and doing the opposite of what I want. 
I want to be at an internship and get through my 
summer class without feeling like every task is a mara-
thon ﬁ  lled with brain fog and concentration issues.
Even writing has become hard. I will forget words 
midsentence and become stuck.
I want my summer to be ﬁ  lled with checking off 
items on a bucket list, not building a list of medications 
and diagnoses.
I want to be making progress toward my dream job, 
but I feel like I’m not.
I want to not feel guilty for being sick or not sick 
enough for society’s standards. No one can see what’s 
happening on the inside.
I want to not have doctors listen to my story and tell 
me I can’t or show that they’re not listening.
I’ve just ﬁ  nished a monthslong path to a diagnosis, 
and it’s still being questioned by other doctors, lead-ing to more tests and more cycles of guilt 
and doubt. More hours of feeling crazy or not 
good enough. Like I’m making things up even 
though I live with the pain and symptoms ev-
ery day. 
It’s hearing professors or doctors tell me I 
can’t do what I’ve always wanted.
I never realized my one chronic autoim-
mune condition would complicate things for 
the rest of my life. That I would wake up one 
day and never feel better. That having one condition 
spawns other issues.
I feel alone and different. Unheard. Abandoned by 
certain friends who didn’t understand why I couldn’t 
make plans or by doctors who refused to believe me 
until a parent was in the room. Or by professors in the 
past who questioned my medical documentation or told 
me to take a class when I’m not sick and would have 
the potential of not missing a lot of class days.
I won’t ever not be sick. I never know what symp-
toms are going to meet me in the morning. There’s noth-
ing I want more than to be in class every single day.
Society and health care need to change, as do the 
thoughts that echo in my head reiterating my worst 
fears and chanting the words doctors have told me: 
“You can’t do this,” “Just put on some clothes and go to 
class” or “Your issue is likely psychological in nature.”
I couldn’t go to school if it weren’t for the Disability 
Resource Center at UF. Inclusion is more than a check 
mark or hitting certain benchmarks. You can’t change 
your whole class or plans for one person, but there is 
one thing you can do: have empathy and consideration. 
And that’s what the DRC has given me.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
“Murder” is a strong word. It can convey power-
ful emotions and actions.
We at The Alligator used the word in a 
headline in an online article Friday.
We’re running it again today as this is the 
ﬁ  rst print edition we’ve put out since June 27.  If you’re read-
ing this editorial, you’ve probably already seen what we’re 
talking about. If you haven’t, it’s on page one.
Four journalists and a sales assistant were indiscriminately 
gunned down at the Capital Gazette ofﬁ  ce in Annapolis, Mary-
land, on Thursday afternoon. They did not “die,” nor were 
they “shot and killed.”
They were murdered.
Words matter. The words we and all journalists use in 
headlines and articles are scrutinized and agonized over every 
minute of every day until they’re published. If you believe 
otherwise, we would welcome the opportunity to change your 
perspective. Hit us up on Twitter @TheAlligator, and we’ll 
talk.
How much do words matter exactly? Well, the president 
of the U.S. has called the media “the enemy of the people” 
numerous times since being elected to ofﬁ  ce. While distrust of 
the media isn’t as bad as it used to be (according to a compari-
son between 2016 and 2018 Gallup polls), the fact that actual 
sitting U.S. politicians spew such rhetoric is hardly helpful.
And then something like Thursday happens. Five murders 
at a newspaper ofﬁ  ce, followed by nearly a day of relative 
silence from the man lobbing insults at — among other institu-
tions — newspapers.
President Donald Trump followed up his usual carefree ig-
norance with a halfhearted recitation of a short teleprompter 
speech.
“This attack shocked the conscience of our nation and ﬁ  lled 
our hearts with grief,” he read aloud to a White House audi-
ence.
Did it really though? Yes, the murder of ﬁ  ve, including a 
UF alum, is horrifying. Yes, we are ﬁ  lled with grief over the 
brutal loss of life. But it’s not exactly shocking. Not when a 
mainstay of the president’s rallies is pointing to the press pool 
and encouraging his supporters to (at the very least) harass 
its members.
The accused murderer of ﬁ  ve at the Capital Gazette has 
his own motives. He lost a lawsuit and an appeal accusing 
the newspaper of defamation. The Capital Gazette had written 
about the suspect’s guilty plea to criminal harassment in 2011. 
Some journalists we know wear it as a badge of honor 
whenever they receive negative pushback on a story they’ve 
written. Good journalism rarely leaves all parties involved 
happy.
We hope that journalists won’t back down over the mur-
der of our own. We hope that readers won’t allow the talking 
points of some of the more hateful voices to stick.
The term “fake news” is not a new concept, but it has seen 
an incredible spike in usage in the last two years. The phrase 
“enemy of the people” is not a new concept, but it has been 
the rallying cry of the misinformed.
As incredulous as the claims are, they use powerful words. 
“Fake.” “Enemy.” There’s no way around how to interpret 
them. There’s nothing vague about any of it.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORSophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!
A reader’s comment got 
me thinking about 
what it means to 
have individual free-
dom. It made me con-
sider why I feel comfortable 
harshly criticizing the country 
I love so much. Here’s my re-
ply, point-by-point. The main 
thrust of it is we can’t afford 
to think we’re on top of the 
world. We are a great country, but we 
got here through constant improve-
ment, not arrogant complacency.
I love our Constitution. I encourage 
everyone reading this column (if you 
haven’t already done so) to also read 
the Federalist Papers; they will give 
you an appreciation of the thinking that 
went into our country’s initial frame-
work. You’ll ﬁ  nd it full of language that 
strives for freedoms. Those papers tell 
us why we need a Constitution as well 
as a federal government.
The Bill of Rights is part of that. It 
tells every American their freedoms of 
speech, religion and assembly are in-
alienable. The Constitution, however, 
is not perfect — it’s a document that 
has required constant amendments 
throughout history precisely because it 
did not previously afford the individual 
freedoms we all love (see, in pertinent 
part, the three-ﬁ  fths compromise and 
Amendments 13, 14, 15, 21, 23 and 24). 
Moreover, the Bill of Rights, as for-
mer President James Madison put it in 
Federalist 48, is merely a “parchment 
barrier” to having those rights taken 
away. Rather, it is the difﬁ  culty with 
which government can take away the 
freedoms — the catches and stops in 
the political mechanism by dint of sepa-
ration of powers and popular elections 
— that is the better protector. We must 
be careful not to love the Constitution’s 
promises so fondly as to blind ourselves 
to real-world threats to our freedom.
In short, the ﬁ  rst 10 Amendments 
will not stop a tyrant. There are better 
ways to prevent us from ending up like 
Russia, like education.
Public education is not provided for in the Constitution, nor is it 
uniquely American. In fact, 
America is behind many other 
countries in public education. 
It is much more ingrained in 
the cultures of other coun-
tries, like Cuba, to educate 
their children. Cuba’s literacy 
rate is higher than ours, and 
contrary to popular belief, 
Cuba is not a hellhole. There 
are teachers and students on the cur-
rency of Italy and not on ours.
This is why it is so hard to say 
America affords the best civic culture. 
But even saying we have the best in-
dividual “freedoms” is a bit misguided. 
Monopolizing the deﬁ  nition of the word 
“freedom” to mean “a constitutional 
guarantee I can do or say X” deﬁ  nes 
freedom too narrowly. This is why, way 
back in 1941, former President Franklin 
Roosevelt declared that every American 
should not only be free to speak and 
worship as they wish but also be free 
from want and free from fear.
The U.S. Constitution, while indeed 
the longest operating, is neither excep-
tional nor uniquely provides a basis for 
better culture. I’ll say it loud and proud. 
That doesn’t mean it isn’t great. That 
doesn’t mean I don’t love this country 
as much as any other American. It cer-
tainly doesn’t mean Russia or China or 
Cuba have a better culture than we do. 
It just means we should be careful be-
fore saying “We’re the best.”
Countries don’t exist on a spectrum 
from freer to less free. The choice isn’t 
between American culture or Shariah. 
Loving our country is about under-
standing that there is much work to be 
done, and, often, the smart thing to do 
is look to emulate the good examples in 
other cultures. The choice is between 
adapting or fading into the graveyard of 
once-great countries.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political 
science junior. His column comes out 
Tuesday and Thursday.A follow-up about ‘freedom’Column
The second decade of this 
millennium has brought the 
hyper-digitization of almost 
every aspect of our lives: 
transportation, food, driv-
ing and photo sharing. Dating is no 
different. More people are meeting 
via the internet than ever before. 
Generation Z will be the generation 
of online relationships.
Romantic movies and our own idealis-
tic conceptions of love convince us that we 
don’t want this, we want to meet by coinci-
dence. We want to meet in elevators, at wed-
dings or reconnect with a childhood friend. 
A spark of destiny that we never see coming, 
but our 21st century way of life shows that 
isn’t realistic. The truth is we like meeting 
people online, and we’re getting really good 
at it. 
According to Pew Research, 57 percent of 
teens have made a friend online. Seventy-
four percent of all internet users have used 
the internet for romantic reasons. Sixty-three 
million Americans say they know someone 
who has met their partner online. Three mil-
lion married Americans met their spouse on-
line. Our hearts say destiny but the research 
says match.com
The formulaic union of two candidates 
for marriage is an ancient concept. Online 
dating has returned us to a more calculated 
and intentional form of union, perhaps end-
ing the nearly hundred-year detour. In some 
cultures, women were currency; in others, 
they were an active and willing participant. 
Eastern cultures still participate in orga-
nized, family-involved mediation. Screening 
candidates can help to ﬁ  lter out people who 
we don’t ﬁ  t with for fundamental reasons 
(politics, education and beliefs).  
Many relationships now start with a di-
rect message. The internet allows users to 
quickly summarize a person and consider whether we like them. Having 
extra information about a person 
immediately upon meeting could 
end a doomed relationship before 
it even starts. When you meet on-
line, more baggage is immediately 
on the table. People can navigate 
through proﬁ  les to learn about po-
tential deal-breakers more quickly. 
In the same way the internet can 
end potentially bad relationships, it can be 
a catalyst for good ones. By reading some-
one’s thoughts, you can gain an attraction to 
someone we otherwise wouldn’t have con-
sidered based on appearance alone.
To consider how we meet partners, we 
must consider our intentions. Do Americans 
care about marriage anymore? Regardless of 
your stance, the answer to this question af-
fects what we look for in a companion. The 
decline in marriages in the U.S. (51 percent 
of adults, down from 72 percent in 1960) has 
changed what dating even means. For some, 
internet dating habits have ushered in a new 
age of “hookup” culture. Going on formal 
dates is less common, and young people are 
opting for a casual hang-out instead. 
Like all technology, online dating and so-
cial media are a tool. The tool is neutral but 
the way it’s used isn’t. The way we behave 
online is an ampliﬁ  cation of real life. It can 
become difﬁ  cult to separate a real person 
from their online persona and can create an 
unsafe situation. The difference between the 
internet and real life is access. Social me-
dia give us more access to potential partners 
than before. When you can look through 
people like a catalog, you can start to view 
them as menu items rather than real people. 
In the hands of someone who is morally 
empty, this can be dangerous. Apps like Tin-
der can accelerate the process for predators 
to take advantage of others. 
Online matchmaking might not make for 
a dreamy story to tell your children, but it is 
quickly becoming our reality.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her 
column comes out Tuesday.How to tell your kids you met your 
signiﬁ  cant other onlineColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
“The way we behave online is an 
ampliication of real life.”
Layla Soboh
Alligator Columnist8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
TOP RIGHT:  Protesters chant 
together on the steps of Gainesville 
City Hall, before the “Families 
Belong T ogether” Alachua County 
March begins on Saturday 
afternoon.
BOTTOM RIGHT:  A crowd 
marches across West University 
Avenue toward South Main Street 
during the “Families Belong T ogether” 
Alachua County March on Saturday 
afternoon. The protest was a 
response to the Trump administration 
policies that have separated families 
at the U.S.-Mexico border and placed 
children in vulnerable positions.
LEFT:   A protester holds up a sign 
in reference to ﬁ  rst lady Melania 
Trump’s jacket as a police ofﬁ  cer 
arrives to block trafﬁ  c for the 
marchers.TOP: Alachua County residents chant and hold signs protesting the separation of children and families at the 
U.S.-Mexico border during a march on Saturday afternoon.
Gainesville marchers join ﬁ  ght against family separations
Photos by Chris Day
Alligator StaffTUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Newly discovered evidence involving 
asteroids and meteorites may provide a 
better understanding of where they come 
from and how they helped shape Earth.
About 85 percent of 200,000 aster-
oids in the inner asteroid belt — Earth’s 
main source of meteorites — originate 
from about six small planets broken up 
by collisions, said UF emeritus professor 
of astronomy Stanley Dermott. The find-
ings were published Monday in Nature 
Astronomy.
“This approach revealed a new aspect 
of the asteroid belt that people have not 
realized before,” Dermott said. “It’s al-
ways wonderful to find something that 
nobody else has seen.”
Dermott said the study was conducted 
by collecting 20 years worth of data from 
a NASA-based file. The data catalogued 
characteristics of the asteroids used in the 
study. 
Dermott and the researchers in his 
team used statistical analysis to deter-
mine whether big and little asteroids have 
different orbits.
The results of the study showed the 
size of the asteroid determines the type of 
orbit it has, Dermott said. The research-
ers sought to find out why meteorites are 
different and where they came from and how asteroids are formed.
Professor and chairman of the UF De-
partment of Astronomy Charles Telasco 
said he thought this was an outstanding 
study.
Telasco said asteroids have always 
been thought to be bits and pieces of 
the solar system that never went on to 
form planets. He explained how the study 
showed that this isn’t the case at all and 
reveals that there simply weren’t many 
remnants.
“We’re trying to understand how plan-
ets form in our and other solar systems,” 
Telasco said. “(This study) tells us it’s 
a much more efficient process than we 
thought before.”
Dermott believes the findings of the 
study will help us better comprehend the 
evolutionary history of asteroids and their 
formations. He also hopes the evidence 
will help us to understand how planets 
were formed.
Dermott plans to continue studying as-
teroids and meteorites to further under-
stand planetary orbits and how they can 
change.
“I think it’s a very big step that we’ve 
narrowed down the source of meteorites 
to a few known objects now,” Dermott 
said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgBy Charles Fenwick
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Museum of Natural History 
will be showing a free bat-themed movie 
every Friday in July. 
The weekly event starts with a film dis-
cussion at 7 p.m., and a different movie 
will play each week, said Tiffany Ireland, 
educator at the Florida Museum.
On Friday, “The Dark Knight” will play. 
The subsequent films are, in order, the 
1931 version of “Dracula,” “Nightwing” 
and “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Jus-
tice.” 
The museum is extending its Friday 
hours until 10 p.m. for the Creative B film 
series and the “Masters of the Night” bat 
exhibit, Ireland said.
This year’s series is meant to spread 
awareness about bats, which play an im-
portant role in the ecology and culture of 
northern Florida and many other habitats 
across the world.
On Friday and July 27, the museum will 
host a 6 p.m. reception. A cash bar and a 
panel of speakers will be present.
Scientists from the Lubee Bat Conser-
vancy, engineers for a “Batman” film and 
special effects sculptors are expected to be 
on the panel. Ireland said the speakers are 
knowledgeable about bats and the featured 
films.
The museum will be showing the films on a new high-definition screen, and the 
live talks will be aired on Facebook in 
hopes of increasing the audience size, she 
said. 
Nikhil Srinivasan, marketing assistant 
at the Florida Museum, said guests at the 
“Masters of the Night” exhibit can experi-
ence how bats listen with prototype ears. 
Students can also use a tunnel display that 
shows how bats use echolocation to judge 
the surrounding space.
Maps of bat and bug location distribu-
tions are also present in the exhibit, he 
said. These figures convey the dependent 
relationship between regional bat and in-
sect species.
Museum researchers have also collect-
ed skulls, fur and skin of bats, Srinivasan 
said. These are on display, and they give 
visitors a detailed look into the anatomy 
of bats.
The “Masters of the Night” exhibit will 
run until Sept. 16.
The museum has done the Creative B 
film series for the past six years, he said. 
The series aims to create a wide range of 
cultural events that provide students with 
art and science during the Summer B se-
mester at UF.
“Our museum has participated in this 
initiative since it began,” Srinivasan said. 
“Combining art and science helps the mu-
seum spread information in a more pleas-
ing and fun way for students.”UF researchers release new 
study on meteorites, asteroidsMuseum to show bat-
themed movies through July10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Man threatens “basket-
ball cop” online
Gainesville Police arrested a man Saturday ac-
cused of threatening to harm GPD ofﬁ  cer Robert 
White, who is also known locally as Basketball 
Cop.
William Caudle, 29, was 
charged with written electronic 
threats to kill or cause bodily 
harm.
White posted a video on his 
Basketball Cop Foundation Face-
book page Friday around 6:30 
p.m., according to the arrest re-
port.
The video showed White talking to a child, 
who he has known for a few years, White said. 
The child was selling lemonade in her neighbor-
hood to raise money to help her parents pay for 
her cheerleading. She was also giving free drinks 
to ﬁ  rst responders.
After White posted the video, Caudle posted, 
“This is a beautiful thing. Just think it’s sad that 
1 of the dirtiest cops In Gainesville is in the video. 
Robert is a peace of trash,” according to the report.
White responded with, “To the guy I let go with 
a warning for a bag of weed. That won’t happen 
again.” White was referring to an earlier trafﬁ  c 
stop, according to the report.
Caudle then respond with, “To the crooked 
police ofﬁ  cer I will dome check you. Watch your 
mouth. I know how to catch up with you outta 
uniform. Don’t think you can’t be touched. You 
don’t want smoke with me.”
A “dome check” means to be hit or shot in the 
head, according to the report.
Caudle then posted twice, “And crooked cops 
die Robert white,” according to the arrest report.
White said he did not feel safe and feared for 
his family’s safety, according to the report.
Caudle remains in Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $50,000 bail.Man charged with attempted robbery
Gainesville Police arrested a man accused of attempt-
ing to rob a man Sunday night.
Keith Perry, 35, was charged with attempted robbery 
with an armed ﬁ  rearm.
The victim and witness were walking from Texaco gas 
station, located at 2109 SW 13th St., to Value Lodge Mo-
tel, located at 2000 SW 13th St., on Sunday around 9:50 
p.m., according to the report.
While they were walking, Perry went up to them and 
told them to follow him back to his motel room because 
he had something to show them.
The victim used to be friends with Perry, according 
to the report. When the victim asked Perry what he was 
going to show to him, Perry said, “I’m carrying a lot of 
weight in my backpack.”
They all walked to the parking lot in the back of the 
motel, according to the report. Perry allegedly pulled a 
handgun from his pants, pointed it at the victim and said, 
“Give it all up n----.”
The victim put his hands up and said he didn’t have 
anything, according to the report.
Suddenly, an unknown black male ran up behind Per-
ry and punched him in the back of the head, causing him 
to drop the gun. The unknown male grabbed the gun and 
ran.
Perry ran from the parking lot and the victim imme-
diately called 911, according to the report. When a law 
enforcement ofﬁ  cer was talking to the victim in an un-
marked car, they saw Perry peeking around the corner 
at Americas Best Value Inn, located at 1900 SW 13th St.
Perry did not see the ofﬁ  cer watching him and contin-
ued to watch the ofﬁ  cer and the victim talk. A few sec-
onds later, he ran into the motel, according to the report. 
Another ofﬁ  cer then saw Perry and arrested him.
After being read the Miranda Rights, Perry said the 
victim punched him in the face because there was a dis-
agreement about the victim’s wife, according to the re-
port. Perry denied having any gun and being involved in 
the robbery.
Perry remained in Alachua County Jail on Monday 
evening in lieu of a $175,000 bail. Man arrested in connection to 
Alachua shooting
Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and the U.S. Marshals 
Service arrested a man Saturday in connection to the Janu-
ary shooting in Alachua that injured ﬁ  ve people.
McKenzly Edwards Jr., 24, was found 
during the investigation of a homicide he 
allegedly committed in Lake Worth, Flor-
ida. 
PBCSO’s Road Patrol deputies respond-
ed to a shooting Thursday at 3:51 p.m., ac-
cording to the report. At the scene, depu-
ties found the body of Warren Hallaback, 
known as “Chuck” by the witnesses.
He was pronounced dead by Palm Beach County Fire 
Rescue. During the autopsy, it was found that the victim 
sustained six gunshot wounds.
A witness told detectives that sometime between mid-
night and 5 a.m. Thursday, Hallaback stole four boxes of 
shoes from Edwards, according to the report. After Edwards 
learned that Hallaback stole his shoes, he allegedly said, 
“When I ﬁ  nd Chuck I’m gonna f------ kill him.” 
Another witness said before the shooting, Edwards went 
into the residence waving a semi-automatic pistol and de-
manding everyone to leave, according to the report. 
About 15 minutes later, the witness heard several gun-
shots from outside.
After speaking with investigators from the Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, a PBCSO ofﬁ  cer learned Friday that Ed-
wards was wanted for an unrelated shooting, according to 
the report. 
Edwards had an active warrant out of Alachua County for 
ﬁ  ve counts of attempted ﬁ  rst degree murder with a ﬁ  rearm, 
according to the report. Two of the victims were children, 
according to a press conference by Alachua Police.
Edwards was taken into custody at a residence in West 
Palm Beach on Saturday for the warrant, according to the 
report. Evidence was later discovered connecting him to the 
homicide in Lake Worth. He was charged with ﬁ  rst degree 
murder with a ﬁ  rearm and felon in possession of a ﬁ  rearm.
He remained in Palm Beach County Jail as of Monday. Caudle
All Stories by Devoun Cetoute | Alligator Staﬀ   Writer
@devoun_cetoute | dcetoute@alligator.org
Edwards
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers 
only. Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ 
walk to UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. 
CAC/heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 
352-215-4990,  tomdepot@gmail.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873          7-10-18-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
Used 2005 Honda Accord
LX Silver Auto 102K Mil Cruise control 
Cold A/C CD-player Wellmaintaned 31 mpg 
$4400 352-231-3321     7-5-18-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$1900/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-3-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"College Students.  Learn how to make ex -
tra money daily by completing surveys go to 
www.legitimatextraincome.club      7-3-18-5-
14
Students can earn extra income
in spare time to
copy and paste on social media.
Go to >>>http://www.v102fm.com/     7-10-
18-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
7-5-18-4-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
Learn how to make a 6 figure income easy! 
Gain the knowledge to financial freedom and 
a life of opportunity! Come join the club right 
here: http://sidemoneyonline.club     7-3-18-
5-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Do You need Real Residual income....
Month after Month? 
Earn $20 to $1,000 commissions. 
http://internetlifestyle4u.com/     7-5-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Harry Potter’s
forte
6 USAF officer
9 Some spouses
14 Susan’s “All My
Children” role
15 Memorable time
16 Has __ up one’s
sleeve
17 Antisocial type
18 Term start?
19 Swamp snapper
20 Mantra syllables
21 In good spirits
24 Cause one’s
stomach to turn
26 Monthly util. bill
27 Goof up
28 Off the straight
and narrow
31 Natural source of
paper or rope
36 Actress Vardalos
37 Not hurting for
space
38 Heavenly body
39 Less extroverted
41 QB’s stat
42 Center of
attention
44 Japanese straw
mats
47 One-eighty on
the road
48 Patron saint of
Norway
49 Read a clock
54 Gridiron goof
57 Bedevil
58 Treat like a
pariah
59 Maris, to “the
Mick”
60 Afghan’s
neighbor
62 Attend the
homecoming
game, say
63 Inseparable
64 Things to shun
65 Use at the table
66 Pricing word
67 N.Y. or S.F.
athlete known for
the beginnings of
21-, 31-, 42-, and
54-Across?
DOWN
1 Honeydew or
cantaloupe
2 Pleasant smell
3 Infomercial knife4 Sign in a hotel
hallway
5 Regular Martha’s
Vineyard arrival
6 “Glengarry Glen
Ross” playwright
David
7 Nimble
8 Obi-Wan, for one
9 Like a happy
dog’s tail
10 Shortly,
informally
11 1960s ecumenical
council of the
Catholic Church
12 MBA subject
13 Dry as a desert
22 Wyatt of the Old
West
23 Tidy
25 “I __ to recall ... ”
28 Connecticut
Sun’s org.
29 Nothing, in Nice
30 Tavern missile
31 Greek campus
group
32 Itty bit
33 Reach the lowest
level
34 “Gentlemen
Prefer Blondes”
novelist Anita35 Eyebrow shape
39 Grade school
subject
40 Axton of country
42 Marching band
wind
43 Slow period
45 White mouse,
e.g.
46 “On the
Waterfront” 
co-star Karl
49 Steakhouse order50 Itching to go
51 The first 
Mrs. Trump
52 Runners
occupying 
bases
53 Have life
54 Cab cost
55 Optic layer
including the iris
56 Go down
61 Louis XIV, par
exemple
By Jeff Stillman
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/03/1807/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 3, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 *Sparkling wine
5 *Classic Chinese
dish
11 *Defeated
incumbent
15 Trendy berry
16 Critter
17 Natural
resources
18 Fillmore’s party
19 Hyundai sedan
20 Tide table term
21 Browning works
23 Pizzeria jarful
25 Martinique, e.g.
26 Always, in 
21-Across
27 *Toon with a
speech problem
30 *Goner
34 *Charmed one
38 Former Half.com
owner
39 “Not guilty,” e.g.
41 Second start?
42 Home security
giant
43 Take into
account
45 Just issued, in
Innsbruck
46 *Bath toy
48 *Fictional uncle of
triplets
50 Swung about
51 Places for notes
55 Iberian Peninsula
city
56 Blue
57 Fit to __
58 Mock
conclusion?
59 With 69-Across,
organizational
process implied
by eight answers
in this puzzle
65 Either of two
Monopoly sqs.
66 Like boxers
67 Parrilla of “Once
Upon a Time”
68 Debussy subject
69 See 59-Across
70 Self-images
71 Overdoes it, with
“out”
72 Lawgivers
73 Son of EveDOWN
1 Cornfield calls
2 Tres y cinco
3 Placed
4 Give due respect
5 Scrapbooker’s
supply
6 Son of 73-Across
7 Holiday guests,
often
8 Bread’s “Baby __
Want You”
9 Org. led by Jens
Stoltenberg
10 Driving hazard
11 Broadway
producer’s desire
12 Region
13 Nasty
14 Hockey’s Phil, to
fans
22 Historic Nevada
city
24 Sushi roll fish
27 Darlings
28 Former “Idol”
judge
29 Adjective in some
diet ads
30 JFK or LBJ
31 Chemical suffix
32 Intention
33 Apply carefully35 Pet bird’s home
36 Lowered oneself?
37 “Really?”
39 German article
40 Was first
43 __-wip
44 Cordoned (off)
47 ’60s pop group
49 Free-for-all
situation
51 2010s Colts head
coach Chuck52 Without a key
53 Hathaway’s 
“The Intern” 
co-star
54 “As __ TV”
59 [Yikes!]
60 Notions case
61 CBS maritime
drama
62 Finishes (up)
63 Celtic __
64 Merit badge site
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/22/1806/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, June 22, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Kiss
1.  Wall coating 5.  Not right for
2.  Violation 6.  Alcove, slot
3.  Nail base7.  Cure
4.  With delicacyMOCOSH
CSTCOUITNUF
CIHEN
SENFOFE
ICCELTUEDYERM
IFELYNANSWERS: 1A-Smooch  5A-Unfit  6A-Niche  7A-Remedy
1D-Stucco  2D-Offense  3D-Cuticle  4D-Finely  B-Full moon7-3-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is something you can see on 
a regular basis, but not all the time.
BONUS
1. Who was the last World Series 
winner before the Chicago Cubs in 
2016 to reach the playoffs in the next 
season?
2. When was the last time before 
2017 that the University of Miami, 
Fla., failed to make the NCAA post-
season in baseball?
3. Name the only NFL defensive 
player to win the Pro Football Writ-
ers of America’s regular-season MVP 
Award.
4. St. Mary’s men’s basketball team 
has retired the numbers of three play-
ers who went on to NBA careers. 
Name two of them.
5. Through the 2017-18 season, how 
many consecutive seasons had the 
Pittsburgh Penguins reached the NHL 
playoffs?
6. Entering 2018, who was the last 
NASCAR Cup driver to win four rac-
es in a row?
7. When was the last time before 
2017 that the U.S. won the Fed Cup in 
women’s tennis?
Answers
1. The 2011 St. Louis Cardinals won 
the World Series and made the play-
offs in 2012.
2. It was 1972.
3. Lawrence Taylor of the New York 
Giants, in 1986.
4. Tom Meschery, Matthew Dellave-
dova and Patty Mills.
5. Twelve straight seasons (2007-
2018).
6. Jimmie Johnson, in 2007.
7. It was 2000.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
July 2, 2018King Features Weekly Service15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 22 TicketsUF swimming and diving 
announced former Wisconsin 
head coach Jeff Poppell as the 
new associate head coach for 
the women's team on Monday.WORLD CUP ROUND OF 16 CONCLUDES TODAY
The first round of the knockout stage will conclude after Sweden and Swit-
zerland square off at 10 a.m. and England and Columbia duel at 2 p.m. The 
winners of each match will face off in the quarterfinals on Saturda y. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Professional basketball just got a 
whole lot better.
Coveted free agents LeBron 
James and Paul George both 
made quick decisions regarding 
their future this weekend, choosing to 
join the Los Angeles Lakers and re-sign 
with the Oklahoma City Thunder, re-
spectively.
And I’m actually happy with each of 
their landing spots, especially George, 
which (probably) has nothing to do 
with the fact that I'm a Thunder fan. 
The news is also really good for fans 
who are tired of the Warriors and Cav-
aliers playing each other in the Finals 
every year.
Cleveland probably won’t make the 
playoffs anytime soon, which sets up 
the stage for a fresh matchup of the 
Eastern Conference’s top teams, the 
Celtics and 76ers.
It was nice to see the 2018 free agen-
cy season kick off with a surprise: first 
in   George’s return to Oklahoma City, 
then All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins 
joined the Golden State Warriors on a 
one year, $5.3 million deal. 
Cousins earned $18 million with 
New Orleans last season. He's still re-
covering from a torn achilles he suf-
fered on the closing seconds of a Jan. 
26 win over Houston. 
His impact will be felt more so the 
season after next, when the Warriors 
will surely be unable to afford a healthy 
Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, 
Klay Thompson and Draymond Green 
at the same time. It appears Cousins is 
insurance in case one of the Warriors 
core, presumably Thompson or Green, 
bolts for a larger role on another team. 
Many thought that George, who has 
been open about his long time dreams 
of playing for his hometown Lakers, 
would follow that storybook path to 
southern California with James to cre-
ate the newest “super team”.
What actually happened is some-
thing even better.
Instead of adding just Los Angeles 
to the list of legitimate threats to com-
pete for the 2019 NBA Finals, we can I'm starting to 
like the new-
look NBAHuang Story Short
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien 
Sports Writer
Despite ending with a 5-2 loss 
to Arkansas at the College World 
Series on June 22, the Florida 
Gators’ 2018 season shouldn’t be 
overshadowed by the team’s fail-
ure to repeat as national champi-
ons. 
UF finished with a 49-21 re-
cord, winning all but one of its in-
conference series en route to an 
SEC regular-season title. Florida 
also produced four All-American 
selections in junior third base-
man Jonathan India, junior start-
ing pitcher Brady Singer, junior 
relief pitcher Michael Byrne and 
senior catcher/first baseman JJ 
Schwarz. 
The Gators opened the sea-
son against Siena with a 7-1 win. 
Singer’s season debut was nota-
ble as he torched the Saints to the tune of seven innings, two hits, 
no earned runs and eight strike-
outs.
India also introduced himself 
to the national spotlight, jacking 
a home run deep to left field in 
the win.
With shortstop Deacon Liput 
sidelined due to an undisclosed 
suspension, freshman Brady Mc-
Connell got the nod at short and 
uncorked a home run to left field 
to ice the game at 7-1.
UF went on to win six more 
games before finally dropping its 
first loss to in-state rival Miami 
on Feb. 25.
Florida went on another win-
ning streak after the defeat, this 
time of five games before running 
into UCF.
In a two-game series against 
the Knights beginning on March 
6, Florida lost back-to-back games 
for the first of only four instances all season.
After the second game against 
UCF, UF strung together five 
more wins.
During this stretch, India start-
ed one of the most memorable 
hitting streaks in program history.
The third baseman recorded a 
hit in 24 straight games, just five 
shy of the school record. Dur-
ing the streak, he hit eight home 
runs, recorded 21 RBIs, had 16 
multi-hit games and carded an 
absurd batting average of .513.
The Gators lost a game to 
South Carolina to end its afore-
mentioned five-game win streak. 
Three games later, it lost again to 
Arkansas before rattling off nine-
straight wins, the largest stretch 
of the campaign.
The streak featured victories 
over Arkansas, Florida State, Ten-
nessee, FGCU and Vanderbilt.
Only once during the nine con-tests did Florida score fewer than 
five runs. 
UF hit a low point on April 24 
in a 6-4 loss to Mercer. Bears re-
liever Robert Broom shut out the 
Gators in the final six innings, 
striking out 12 and only allowing 
four hits.
The team bounced back the 
following contest with a win 
against the first-overall pick of the 
2018 MLB Draft, pitcher Casey 
Mize, and the Auburn Tigers.
Singer commanded seven in-
nings with only four hits and one 
run to go along with eight strike-
outs. India recorded his only 
hit in the first inning, a two-run 
bomb to left field. Florida went 
on to win 3-1, a foreshadowing 
of the Gainesville Super Regional 
later in the season.
After losing its first weekend Gators experienced individual success in 2018
Alligator File Photo
Third baseman Jonathan India was taken fifth overall by the Cincinatti Reds in the 2018 MLB Draft. He led the SEC in on-base 
percentage (.497), slugging percentage (.717) and home runs. India was selected as the conference's Player of the Year. 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.
Rocks, 
Crystals & 
Gifts
19765 NW US HWY 441
High Springs, FL 32643
highspringsemporium.net
386-454-8657
WORLD CUP
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS  
MOSCOW (AP) — Russia’s surprise vic-
tory over Spain in the World Cup turned Mos-
cow into one giant street party and the Krem-
lin was eager to join in on the celebration.
The national team is doing unexpectedly 
well and has reached the quarterfinals after 
Sunday’s win in a penalty shootout. On top of 
that, Russia is proving to be a successful and 
welcoming host.
And with the anticipation of a Russia-
U.S. summit the day after the tournament 
final, President Vladimir Putin is basking in 
good news. Even protests against a govern-
ment plan to raise the retirement age were 
drowned out by the cheers.
Tens of thousands of Russians spilled 
onto the streets of Moscow on Sunday eve-
ning after Russia beat Spain 4-3 on penalties 
following a 1-1 draw. The fans, many wav-
ing or wrapped in Russia’s flag, hugged each 
other, dove into fountains, climbed on top of 
streetlamps and shouted at the top of their 
lungs.
So great was the excitement of Russia 
beating the 2010 World Cup champions that 
Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov compared 
the street celebrations to Moscow marking 
the defeat over Nazi Germany in World War 
II.
For a team that had the lowest ranking in 
the tournament, it was Russia’s highest-pro-
file win in any sports event since the Sochi 
Olympics were tarnished by medals being 
stripped from the country for doping.
“As the whole country, Putin watched the 
match from beginning to end and cheered for 
our team,” Peskov told reporters Monday. 
“He cheered, as all Russians did, with his 
whole heart.”
With the economy hit by sanctions and 
Russia-West relations at post-Cold War lows, 
Sunday’s game was a rare break from bad 
news out of Russia.
“Russia’s negative rating is high... but 
here you have an obviously positive event 
that is quite hard to contest,” said Alexander 
Baunov, an analyst with the Carnegie Mos-
cow Center. “The victory of the national team 
is a victory for any government of any coun-
try whether it’s the Kremlin or not.”
Independent political analyst Masha Lip-
man said that Russia’s defeat of Spain was 
much more a victory for ordinary Russians 
than for the Kremlin.
“Putin didn’t win. It was the national team that won,” Lipman said, adding that specta-
tors and fans shouted the names of key play-
ers and the head coach and not Putin.
On social media, some liberally-minded 
Russians launched into a heated debate on 
whether one can remain critical of the gov-
ernment yet celebrate the victory of the na-
tional team.
Russian opposition leader Alexey Naval-
ny, who just completed yet another stint in 
jail for holding anti-government protests, was 
in the camp of those who celebrated.
“Yeeeees,” he tweeted after the match. 
“We should call a series of rallies to demand 
that (Russian goalkeeper Igor) Akinfeev be 
made Hero of Russia.”
Meanwhile, a U.S. congressional delega-
tion was in St. Petersburg meeting the local 
governor before high-level discussions in 
Moscow. Richard Shelby, a Republican sena-
tor from Alabama who heads the delegation, said he and his colleagues were hoping to see 
Putin during the visit, the Russian state news 
agency Tass reported. Neither the Kremlin 
nor the U.S. Embassy would comment.
The congressional visit and Putin’s sum-
mit with President Donald Trump set for July 
16 in Helsinki weren’t related to the World 
Cup, but they helped boost the overall sense 
of optimism.
“Let’s not get ahead of ourselves and talk 
about a thaw, but it is gratifying to see that 
contacts are in fact intensifying,” Peskov said.
Lipman suggested that officials from some 
European nations, which had boycotted the 
opening ceremony, may end up coming to 
support their teams toward the end of the 
championship if their teams do well. But that 
will not magically solve all Russia’s problems 
on the world stage.
“Naturally, Putin will score some points 
here, but if we talk about some serious deci-sions such as on sanctions .... this will not 
change as a result of the championship,” Lip-
man said.
When the World Cup is over, Russians, 
and Putin, may wake up with a headache. 
Putin’s approval rating has slipped in recent 
weeks after the Cabinet moved to signifi-
cantly raise the retirement age — a decision 
announced on the day when the Russia’s na-
tional team trounced Saudi Arabia 5-0 on the 
World Cup’s opening day.
Even with the tournament in full swing, 
the pension reform is at the top of every-
body’s mind and dominating public discus-
sion, according to Lipman.
“The first reaction (to the pension reform) 
was softened, but the issue is here to stay,” 
Lipman said.
Associated Press reporter James Ellingworth 
contributed to this story.Russia win in the world cup offers distraction as Putin benefits
The Associated Press
Fans celebrated in Red Square after Russia defeated Spain in penalty kicks on Sunday. Russia moves on to the World Cup 
quarterfinals, where it will face Croatia on Saturday.  
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 3, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenuenow include Oklahoma City as 
well.
This means the early short 
list of title contenders now 
reads Golden State, Houston, 
Boston, Philadelphia and now 
the Lakers and the Thunder – 
six different cities with a real-
istic shot at bringing home a 
championship next season.
As for the more crowded 
top of the Western Conference, 
annual favorite Golden State’s 
path to a ﬁ  fth-straight Finals 
became less certain. 
It’s unclear at this point 
who will join LeBron in Los 
Angeles since George, the pre-
vious frontrunner for that No. 
2 spot next to James, has now 
committed to a four-year, $137 
million deal with the Thunder. 
It is clear that the Lakers are 
more than capable of signing 
another top-ﬂ  ight free agent, 
thanks to ﬁ  nancial ﬂ  exibility 
and an A-list of free agents in 
2019, including the Spurs’ 
Kawhi Leonard as well as Gold-
en State guard Klay Thompson 
and Minnesota big man Karl-
Anthony Towns.
Like George, James’ new 
deal is for four years, meaning 
the Lakers can afford to build 
their roster over the next cou-
ple of years.
The Thunder looked like 
the best team in basketball 
for stretches last season, and 
with George back, they have a 
chance to perfect that formula. 
The NBA’s parity problem 
is a step closer to being ﬁ  xed. 
The future is as bright as it is 
competitive. Most importantly, 
my favorite team has a chance 
to be absolutely great.
Andrew Huang is a sports 
writer. Follow him on Twitter 
@AndrewJHuang and contact 
him at ahuang@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
series of the season at Mississippi 
State, the Gators limped into the 
Gainesville Regional, where they 
got a much-needed boost from 
Singer, who returned from injury.
They opened the postseason 
with a 13-5 win over Columbia be-
fore eking out a win over Jackson-
ville. The Dolphins gave UF all it 
could handle, but the combination 
of India and right ﬁ  elder Wil Dal-
ton proved too much for the losing 
team. In the fourth inning, the duo 
launched back-to-back home runs 
to get the offense going.
Catcher Jonah Girand also reg-
istered a solid Regional campaign 
and launched a solo shot in the top 
of the seventh. The run was much 
needed, as UF won 3-2.
Florida then faced off against 
Florida Atlantic and needed just a 
win to advance to the Super Re-
gional.
After dropping one against the 
Owls, UF faced them in a do-or-
die, winner-take-all contest. The 
freshman pitching duo of Jack Left-
wich and Tommy Mace carried the 
Gators to a 5-2 win and a Super Re-
gional berth.
Florida drew Auburn in the 
Gainesville Super Regional, setting 
up an epic rematch between Singer 
and Mize. Again, Singer came out 
on top, only giving up two runs in 
6.2 innings of work. Mize couldn’t 
ﬁ  gure out his opponent, lasting ﬁ  ve 
frames and allowing six runs.
The Gators wasted a great out-
ing from starter Jackson Kowar 
in Game 2 to force an elimination 
Game 3. 
Again, the freshman combo of 
Leftwich and Mace carried the team 
to victory. It went all the way down 
to the ninth frame though, as left ﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy launched 
a home run that barely made its 
way over the right-center fence for 
a walk-off home run, sending them 
to the College World Series in Oma-
ha, Nebraska, with a 3-2 victory.
“Right when I hit it, I knew it 
had a chance,” Langworthy said.
Florida drew Texas Tech and its 
potent offense in the ﬁ  rst game of 
the CWS. The Red Raiders got hot 
against Singer, and a slew of mis-
takes and errors by Florida helped 
TTU to a 6-3 win.
Every game from then on was an 
elimination game for the Gators.
The ﬁ  rst was against Texas. UF 
snuck out a 6-1 win on the back 
of Kowar. He gave up no runs in 
6.2 innings of work along with a 
career-high 13 strikeouts.
Florida faced Texas Tech again, and this time it didn't waste its op-
portunity. 
In a 9-6 win that wasn’t as close 
as the score indicated, Leftwich 
went 6.1 frames and allowed two 
runs on seven hits.
In the last game before the Col-
lege World Series ﬁ  nal, UF faced 
SEC opponent Arkansas.
Singer, pitching on short rest, 
couldn’t put the team on his back 
one last time, giving up four runs 
on seven hits in ﬁ  ve innings during 
a 5-2 loss, ending its season.
Arkansas starter Isaiah Camp-
bell quieted the Gator bats, going 
5.1 innings and allowing two runs 
on two hits with eight strikeouts.
It was a tough end for a Florida 
team with the potential to win the 
title, but that shouldn’t be what it's 
remembered for.Instead, this team should be 
remembered for India’s hitting 
streak. Or Singer’s 12-3 season. 
Or the nine-game winning streak. 
Or never going below No. 2 in the 
national rankings. Or, most impor-
tantly, several of its members get-
ting drafted to different MLB teams. 
India, Singer and Kowar went in 
the ﬁ  rst round, and several other 
Gators in later rounds. 
O’Sullivan is building a dynasty 
in Gainesville, as his team has now 
made the College World Series in 
three-straight seasons. Although 
UF is losing many upperclassmen, 
it has a great incoming recruiting 
class and lots of young talent to 
bolster next year’s squad.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Florida played in its third-straight CWS 
STATISTICAL LEADERS FOR UF IN 2018
PLAYER
JONATHAN INDIA
JONATHAN INDIA
JONATHAN INDIA
JONATHAN INDIA
WIL DALTON
BRADY SINGER
BRADY SINGER
BRADY SINGER
JACKSON KOWAR
MICHAEL BYRNECATEGORY
BATTING AVERAGE
SLUGGING PERCENTAGE
ON-BASE PERCENTAGE
HOME RUNS
RUNS BATTED IN
WINS
EARNED RUN AVERAGE 
(AMONG STARTERS)
WALKS AND HITS PER 
INNING PITCHED
STRIKEOUTS
SAVESPOSITION/CLASS
THIRD BASE / JUNIOR
THIRD BASE / JUNIOR
THIRD BASE / JUNIOR
THIRD BASE / JUNIOR
RIGHT FIELDER / 
SOPHOMORE
STARTING PITCHER / JUNIOR
STARTING PITCHER / JUNIOR
STARTING PITCHER / JUNIOR
STARTING PITCHER / JUNIOR
RELIEF PITCHER / JUNIORSTATISTIC
.350
.717
.497
21
60
12
2.55
.94
115
16SEC RANKING
T-4
1
1
1
2
2
1
2
3
1