We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF researchers think inside the box
UF scientists have created a low-cost trap to help reduce the 
mosquito population, pg. 8
UF receives record amount for research funding
Researchers will ﬁ  gure out how to use the $837.6 million, pg. 9alligatorSports awards honorable mentions
All the athletes, teams and moments that were left off our votes 
this summer get examined, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 103
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Staff Writer 
The ﬁ  rst discoveries were mold and termites. 
Then came wood rot, decay, air and water leaks 
and structural ﬂ  aws. After ﬁ  re and space code vio-
lations, the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, 
also known as La Casita, and the Institute for 
Black Culture ﬁ  nally closed in spring of 2015.
As the 2018-19 school year approaches, designs 
for the new buildings have been ﬁ  nalized and con-
struction has begun, according to the UF Multicul-
tural and Diversity Affairs website.
The project costs around $6 million, said Gabe 
Lara, UF director of Hispanic-Latino Affairs, and 
it is being paid for by the UF Capital Investment 
Trust Fund and potentially the Association of Black 
Alumni and the Association of Hispanic Alumni.
“UF is the only university with two spaces for Latin American and black students,” said P.J. 
Jones, UF MCDA assistant director, in a class pre-
sentation about the MCDA on Wednesday.
Danny Hernandez, a UF political science senior 
and former HLA ambassador, said students in the 
MCDA were able to vote on the following three 
proposed design options before building plans 
were ﬁ  nalized.
“The current designs were created through 
many meetings from the architects with the plan-
ning committee, students and other stakeholders,” 
Lara said.
He grinned while detailing the ﬁ  nalized inte-
rior of La Casita, saying the building will feature 
a dedicated cafe space and three study areas that 
will ﬁ  t between two and 10 people.
Students previously complained La Casita was UF MCDA houses under constructionBy Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
A group of UF football players 
were accused of harassing a Santa Fe 
College student and other Gainesville 
residents in a recent Gainesville Po-
lice report.
On July 25, a GPD ofﬁ  cer con-
ducted a follow-up investigation on 
an ongoing incident involving the UF 
players’ harassment, according to the 
investigation report. 
The ofﬁ  cer spoke with Devante 
Zachery, a 22-year-old Santa Fe stu-
dent, who told her the conﬂ  ict started 
Feb. 10.
He said while he and his friends 
were inside of Rain Nightclub & 
Lounge at 17 SW First St., he got into 
a playful argument with three UF 
football players, who he was friends 
with at the time. 
He said Chauncey Gardner-John-
son started the argument and in-
cluded Tyrie Cleveland and C’yontai 
Lewis.
The Alligator spoke with Jarvis 
Middleton, a 25-year-old soon-to-be 
Santa Fe student, who is friends with 
Zachery. He was there and said the 
incident started with a comment on 
Zachery’s Reebok outﬁ  t.
“(Zachery) screamed out ‘Bruh, 
you keep trying to clap, but you 
broke.’ The football players started 
talking about guns, and he was like, 
‘If y’all want to take it there, we can 
take it there,’ but they (started) ar-
guing. They went their way, and we 
went our way,” Middleton said.
On Feb. 17, the GPD ofﬁ  cer saw a 
large crowd come out of Rain Night-
club & Lounge shoving each other, 
according to the investigation report. 
The ofﬁ  cer believed a ﬁ  ght happened 
because of the crowd’s hostile behav-
ior.
Middleton was part of the ﬁ  ght 
and said the football players jumped 
his little brother, a couple of his cous-
ins and Zachery. Middleton said he 
thought it was Lewis or a defensive 
lineman who threw the ﬁ  rst punch.
The ofﬁ  cer conﬁ  rmed with the se-
curity manager that there was a ﬁ  ght 
in the nightclub between UF football 
players and locals, according to the 
report.
On Memorial Day, Zachery said a 
group of football players saw him on campus and started throwing rocks 
at his car and chasing him with pots 
and pans, according to the investiga-
tion report.
Middleton was also there when 
the incident happened. He was visit-
ing one of his friends in the Keys Res-
idential Complex parking lot because 
she was making ﬂ  iers for a party he 
was throwing.
“We (were) out hanging … in 
the parking lot, and Tyrie Cleveland 
passed by on his moped,” Middleton 
said. “Maybe an hour later ... about 
seven football players came around 
the corner. When we (saw) them 
walk past, we didn’t move.”
Middleton saw the seven players 
leave when more football players ar-
rived. He thought they were up to 
something when he saw them snak-
ing between the cars in the parking 
lot.
Middleton said they left and came 
back about 30 minutes later. They 
again saw the football players going 
through Keys and around the back-
side.
When Middleton was trying to 
leave, the players started throwing 
bricks at his car, he said. The players 
continued to follow them until they 
got away from campus.
Zachery told the GPD ofﬁ  cer that 
University Police gave him a trespass-
ing warning, according to the report.
At Keys, Middleton said he heard 
someone say someone had a gun. 
According to a police report, the 
weapon was an airsoft gun. When 
he spoke to the ofﬁ  cer, Zachery was 
sure Kadarius Toney, 19, had an AR-
15 and not an airsoft gun.
On July 22, a GPD ofﬁ  cer conduct-
ed a trafﬁ  c stop on a white Chevrolet 
Monte Carlo for a seat belt violation, 
according to a report. Toney was the 
driver. 
During the stop, the ofﬁ  cer saw a 
riﬂ  e in the back seat. Toney said he 
bought the AR-15 from Big Daddy 
Guns and had it in his car for protec-
tion from the locals.
The Alligator spoke with Tony 
McKnight, owner of Big Daddy Guns 
at 602 NW 75th St., who said Toney 
bought the weapon Feb. 8.
He said Toney originally went to 
the store to buy a pistol but bought 
an AR-15 instead when they told him UF football players 
accused of harrassment  
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A Norton Elementary ﬁ  fth-
grader was thrilled to get school 
supplies so he could color pic-
tures and pursue his career as an 
artist and musician.
Logan Robbins, 10, eagerly 
ﬁ  lled his cart with items like 
brightly colored folders, No. 2 
pencils, a black and white mar-bleized notebook and a “The 
Avengers’” Hulk glove. He said 
he has a superhero name, like 
the Marvel character.
Logan, alongside nine other 
Alachua County Public School 
students ranging from elemen-
tary to high school, were given 
the opportunity to each spend 
$100 on necessary clothes and 
supplies for the new school year 
Saturday morning. Gainesville Police teamed 
up with representatives from 
Walmart to provide the program 
for children in need. This is the 
second year the program has 
taken place.
All the money used during 
the shopping spree was donated 
from Walmart to ServiceFirst, 
a nonproﬁ  t that aims to supply GPD takes kids back-to-school shopping
Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police and students pose with their items after a shopping spree. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 4 SEE MCDA,  PAGE 4SEE GPD,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 108
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  74°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 108
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Karla Paredes, Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Emily Perpich, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Ruben Riera
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hands-on STEAM volunteering 
at the Cade Museum
Looking for an exciting volunteer 
opportunity? Do you love sci-
ence, art, technology and being 
creative? Join the Cade Museum 
for Creativity and Invention as 
a volunteer! We are always in 
need of passionate volunteers to 
help in our labs and throughout 
the museum. Apply online at ca-
demuseum.org/volunteer, and 
contact Michele Kuhn, volunteer 
coordinator, at volunteercrd@
cademuseum.org with any ques-
tions. Our next volunteer orien-
tation will be held Aug. 23 at 
6:00 p.m.
Gainesville presents at Mayor’s 
Institute about reducing use 
of jails
Representatives from the City 
of Gainesville presented at the 
National League of Cities’ (NLC) 
Institute for Youth, Education, 
and Families earlier this week. 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, 
City Manager Anthony Lyons 
and Gainesville Police’s (GPD) 
Disproportionate Minority 
Contact (DMC) coordinator 
Will Halvosa attended the “City 
Leadership to Reduce the Use of 
Jails Technical Assistance” ini-
tiative, which is one of the NLC’s 
Mayors’ Institute initiatives. The 
presentation, led by Poe, dis-
cussed the wide gaps among 
races regarding poverty, educa-
tion, health care and interaction 
with the justice system and how 
the justice system addresses first 
time offenders and high utilizers. 
The discussion covered diver-
sion programs that Gainesville 
has successfully used to de-
crease arrests and recidivism for 
all residents, but specifically for 
residents of color, the explora-
tion of whether youth diversion 
may result in decreased adult ar-
rests in the future and the best 
use of limited mayoral authority 
to support diversion. One of this 
year’s objectives for the Mayor’s 
Institute is to continue to engage 
mayors as champions to reduce 
jail use and provide a platform 
for problem-solving and strategy 
development discussions among 
city leaders and with national 
experts.
Aug. 7 special meeting
The Alachua County 
Commission will conduct a 
special meeting Tuesday. The meeting begins at 10 a.m. in the 
Grace Knight Conference Room, 
located on the second floor of the 
Alachua County Administration 
Building at 12 SE First St. The 
meeting agenda includes: the 
county manager search update 
and direction and the board pol-
icy discussion requiring Alachua 
County residency for executive 
service staff. The public is in-
vited to attend this meeting. It 
will be available to view live on 
Cox Channel 12, the county’s 
video on demand website and 
Facebook Live. Free parking is 
available for citizens attending 
this meeting in the Southwest 
Downtown Parking Garage (105 
SW Third St.). For more infor-
mation, contact the Alachua 
County Communications Office 
at 352-374-5204.
UFIC photography contest 
The University of Florida 
International Center (UFIC) has 
invited students, faculty, staff 
and alumni to enter its annual 
international photography con-
test. Judges will look at techni-
cal merit, composition and that 
the photo conveys a “global 
culture” message. Submission 
period opens Aug. 13. Judges 
will award a first, second and 
third place in each of three cat-
egories. First prize winners will 
each receive $100, second prize 
winners will receive $50 and 
third prize winners will receive 
$25. Each entrant may submit 
up to two digital photos in only 
one chosen category. All pho-
tographs must have been taken 
during Fall 2017, Spring 2018 
or Summer 2018. Digital images 
must be uploaded using the on-
line submission form provided. 
Email submissions or prints will 
not be accepted. Photos must 
not display your use of alcohol, 
cigarettes, drugs or any inap-
propriate content or behavior. 
Unedited photos are preferred, 
but minimally edited photos 
will be accepted. For instruc-
tions, guidelines, categories, 
deadlines, submission format 
requirements and more visit in-
ternationalcenter.ufl.edu.
'Free Fridays' Concert Series: 
Buffalo Springfield and 
Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young 
Two bands pay tribute to the 
music of two supergroups at the 
“Free Fridays” Concert Series on 
Aug. 24. This concert pays trib-
ute to Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young; 
both groups featured musi-
cians Stephen Stills and Neil 
Young. “Free Fridays” is pre-
sented by the City of Gainesville 
Department of Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs. It is 
funded in part by a Tourist 
Development Tax Grant from 
the “Free Fridays” runs 8 p.m. to 
10 p.m. each Friday night, from 
May 4 to Oct. 19 at Bo Diddley 
Community Plaza, located at 
111 E. University Ave. in down-
town Gainesville. The entire 
2018 schedule can be viewed at 
freefridaysgnv.com. For more 
information about this event, 
please contact David Ballard at 
ballarddg@cityofgainesville.org 
or 352-393-8746.
AP NEWS AROUND FLORIDA
Parkland suspect: Voice told him 
to burn, kill, destroy
Florida school shooting sus-
pect Nikolas Cruz told a detec-
tive that a demon in his head 
— "the evil side" — told him 
to burn, kill and destroy, and 
that he thought about going to a 
park to kill people about a week 
before 17 people were gunned 
down at the school, according to 
a transcript of his interrogation 
released Monday.
   During the more than 11 
hours of questioning by Broward 
Sheriff's Detective John Curcio, 
Cruz usually answered in short 
sentences or nodded yes or no, 
speaking so softly that the detec-
tive repeatedly told him to speak 
up. Twice when Curcio left the 
room, Cruz, 19, cursed at him-
self and said that he wanted to 
die, he deserved to die.
"You're nothin'," Cruz told 
himself, followed by cursing.
   The interrogation will be 
pored over by prosecutors and 
defense attorneys if Cruz at-
tempts an insanity defense or 
for mitigating factors if he is 
convicted and faces the death 
penalty. Cruz's attorneys have 
said he would plead guilty in 
exchange for a sentence of life 
without parole.TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Families gather at Celebration Pointe to ring in new school year
ABOVE: T en-year-old Blake and 7-year-old Grant practice fencing at the Florida Fencing 
Academy booth during Celebration Pointe’s “Back-to-School Bash” on Saturday afternoon. 
The event featured dance performances, food and other fun activities for children.
TOP RIGHT: Eve Thompson, 9, performs a dance in front of the IndepenDance Studio 
booth during the “Back-to-School Bash” on Saturday afternoon. IndepenDance aims to 
“foster learning by providing performing arts education in a fun and friendly atmosphere. ”
BOTTOM RIGHT: Four-year-old Kendall tries walking on a slackline with help from her 
father, Andrew Cox, during the “Back-to-School Bash” at Celebration Pointe on Saturday 
afternoon.
Photo Story by T aylour Marks | Alligator Staff 4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018too loud to study, Lara said, so the 
new spaces will have doors for pri-
vacy and audiovisual technology 
to hook up computers.
Lara said there will be a down-
stairs living room with a TV, con-
ference room and balcony along 
with an upstairs event space capa-
ble of hosting “up to 120 people” 
for movie nights, lectures, socials, 
potlucks, meetings and cultural 
holidays.
His favorite new design ele-
ment is a clear plastic awning that 
reflects a shadow of all the Latin 
American flags onto the La Casita 
balcony.
As before, the spaces will be 
open to everyone, not just stu-
dents who identify as black or His-
panic.
“We always had a misconcep-
tion that you had to be Hispanic to walk in, but you don’t,” Lara 
said. “(La Casita) is welcome to 
everyone.”
Hernandez described La Casita 
as a space where students “can 
come together and unite.”
“It’s a really important space 
for us to all gather and hang out 
with each other and catch up on 
daily activities and each other’s 
lives,” he said.
Hernandez visited the facility a 
few times before it was torn down 
and plans to return after gradu-
ating this Spring to see the new 
building.
Lara said the goal is for La Ca-
sita and the IBC to be completed 
by spring 2019.
Photos of the exterior and inte-
rior designs for La Casita and the 
IBC are courtesy of UF MCDA.
@DanielleIvanov
divanov@alligator.orgMCDA,  from pg. 1 Houses to offer more privacy than be fore he had to be 21. At the time, Toney did not have a 
concealed carry permit, McKnight said.
On July 4, Cleveland, 20, was knocked out 
by one of Zachery’s friends near Rain Nightclub 
& Lounge, according to the report. Zachery said 
Cleveland was knocked out badly and refused to 
name the assailant.
Zachery said Lewis told him there was money 
behind the harrassment and their beef would nev-
er end after what happened to Cleveland, accord-
ing to the report. Zachery took this to mean there 
was a price on his head.
Zachery told the officer he wanted this to end 
because he was afraid for his life, according to 
the report. He allegedly received multiple phone 
calls, texts and voice recordings from the football 
players and their friends, which he began to save.
He showed the officer the voice messages and 
screenshots of the texts. One of the voice messag-
es was from Lewis, who repeatedly told Zachery 
to come to The Ridge by telling him his exact loca-
tion, type of car and where it was parked.
The officer said the messages were all about 
meeting to fight, according to the report. Zachery 
said in specific messages he wanted to end the 
situation because it was childish.
Zachery was willing to meet with the players 
and police to resolve the issue, according to the 
report. He gave his friends’ names who were in-
volved in the original incident and fight and said 
his friends are not involved and he takes full re-
sponsibility.
He also gave the names of the football play-
ers involved, according to the report. They are 
Luke Ancrum, Tyrie Cleveland, Kadarius Toney, 
C’yontai Lewis, Vosean Joseph, Emory Jones, 
Rick Wells, C.J. McWilliams, Malik Davis and 
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson.
The GPD officer told Zachery to not continue 
any further contact with the football players and 
to tell his friends to do the same, according to the 
report.
The screenshots and voice recordings were put 
into evidence. The report and information will be 
shared with UPD and neither Zachery’s friends or 
the football players have been spoken to, accord-
ing to the report.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Ten players 
listed in report
Courtesy of UF MCDA
Projected exterior designs for La Casita (left) and the IBC (right).
families with basic needs.
“Some of these kids don’t have things that 
they need to go to school,” said Sgt. Ariel 
Lugo, GPD school resource officer and found-
er of ServiceFirst.
Lugo explained the importance of provid-
ing for the children of the community and 
identifying their needs.
“Since we see them everyday, we can 
identify the kids,” Lugo said, “we can come 
here, you know, every once in a while (and) 
get them what they need.”
Alan Davis, Metcalfe Elementary school 
resource officer and one of the helpers in at-
tendance at the event, said his favorite aspect 
of the program is seeing the big smiles on the 
faces of the kids when they shop for their 
items.
“This gives us the opportunity to be with 
the kids, shop with the kids and provide them 
with some things they really need,” said Da-
vis.
Lugo said he definitely hopes to continue 
this program in the future and add more char-
itable events throughout the year.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGPD,  from pg. 1GPD officers said they hope the program continuesBy Ashley Mirtyl
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Student Health Care 
Center has a pill that effective-
ly prevents getting HIV, but 
students at UF haven’t taken 
advantage of it in at least three 
years.
Known as PrEP, or pre-
exposure prophylaxis, the pill 
can cut the risk of getting HIV 
by about 92 percent when tak-
en daily, according to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and 
Prevention. 
It’s been available at the 
SHCC since 2011, said Laura 
Tipton, a UF pharmacy em-
ployee. It can cost an uninsured 
person about $1,600 a month, 
but most insurance companies 
cover about 75 percent of the 
costs, said Stacey Hall, a UF 
health care provider.
In Hall’s three years of 
working for the UF Health 
Care Center, she has yet to pre-
scribe the PrEP pill to anyone.
PrEP is only offered in the 
brand name Truvada, which is 
made by the biopharmaceuti-
cal company Gilead Sciences.
Sandy Saunders, a UF phar-
macology doctoral student, 
said she’d rather stay abstinent 
than pay for a pill that costs 
three times her rent.
“American pharmaceutical companies have the power to 
drop the price of medications, 
but they choose not to,” she 
said. “If a generic brand of 
the drug was made available, 
it would probably be used 
more.”
Before taking the pill, stu-
dents must be diagnosed as 
HIV-negative and attend a 
series of follow-up appoint-
ments, which Hall said is usu-
ally a deterrent. Students often 
lose interest when they discov-
er they’ll have to change their 
daily routine to take it.
Ideally, the pill must be tak-
en at the same time every day, 
Tipton said .
“People forget to do a lot of things throughout their day, 
so a lot of people might for-
get to take the pill daily,” Hall 
said. “If you miss a day, then 
it’s pretty much rendered use-
less.”
HIV has a three-month in-
cubation period, called the 
“window period,” Hall said. 
This means a four-month pro-
cess before the patient can ac-
tually take the pill.
While some health care 
providers are aware the pill 
may come with the social side 
effect of increasing risky be-
havior, others believe it is a 
big step toward controlling the 
spread of HIV and AIDS, Hall 
said. Three years later, HIV pill still not widely used
Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police officers shopped with 10 Gainesville students for school 
supplies and toys ahead of the upcoming semester. 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Out of the 800 Walgreens locations in Florida, the 17 
Gainesville stores no longer have cigarettes on their shelves.
Gainesville is the ﬁ  rst city in Florida where Walgreens is 
testing a change in cigarette sales for the next 12 to 18 months 
before possibly going statewide, said Walgreens spokesper-
son Scott Goldberg in an email. 
Goldberg wrote that Walgreens continuously tests various 
programs, services and product offerings to meet the needs of 
their customers, communities and strategic partners. Remov-
ing tobacco products from Gainesville stores is an example 
of that. 
CVS Pharmacy became the ﬁ  rst national retail pharmacy 
chain to remove tobacco products from shelves back in Sep-
tember 2014. The CVS Health Research Institute conducted 
a study that showed cigarette pack sales decreased by one 
percent over eight months in 13 states.
Cigarettes are still available for purchase at local gas sta-
tions and smoke shops. Smoke City Gainesville owner An-
drew said he carries a large variety in his store.
“I know they’re saying it’s because they’re really trying to 
be more health conscious, and yes, of course cigarettes aren’t 
good for you. But, I also think a huge reason for that is there’s 
really no money to be made in cigarettes with all the govern-
ment restrictions and taxes,” Andrew said.
He estimated that Walgreens and CVS may make as little 
as 25 cents or a dollar per cigarette, and that is why they are 
removing them rather than for health reasons.
Even with increases in e-cigarette and vape products, An-
drew said he believes cigarettes remain popular and wanted 
by customers. He said if they are not available at Walgreens 
and CVS, customers will continue to buy them at gas stations 
rather than quitting.
“I kind of like to give my customers the choice to make 
decisions for themselves,” he said. “If somebody wants to 
smoke a cigarette, who am I to be Big Brother and say they 
can’t?”
Andrew speculated that Walgreens’ cigarette ban may 
cause sales of grocery items and household products to rise at 
local gas stations and convenience stores. He said Walgreens 
could be at risk of losing their smoking customers who shop 
there for inexpensive convenience items, like milk or toilet 
paper.
“I mean it is just kind of a convenience item, and if some-
body is going in there for milk and they’re a cigarette smoker, 
the customer dictates what they should carry,” he said. “I’m 
here for the customer and what the customer wants. I have 
faith in the customer to be able to dictate what they put in 
their body and what they don’t put in their body.” Local Walgreens 
will no longer 
stock cigarettes
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
A man accused of shooting at a 
group of ﬂ  eeing men was arrested 
Sunday by the Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
Willard Sanders 
Jr., 25, was charged 
with ﬁ  ring a weap-
on in public or on 
residential prop-
erty, committing an 
act that could cause 
death and shooting 
into a public or pri-
vate building or a 
vehicle.
On Monday around 6:45 p.m., 
ACSO responded to Majestic Oaks 
Apartments at 5800 SW 20th Ave. to 
a shots ﬁ  red call, according to the ar-
rest report.
When deputies arrived, they saw 
Sanders standing on the sidewalk in-
side the complex with his hands in the 
air, spontaneously saying, “(You’re) 
looking for me, the gun is inside my 
car.”
While Sanders was detained, the driver’s door of his car was wide open. 
A ﬁ  rearm was on the seat, along with 
a 12-round magazine and two loose 
rounds, according to the report. The 
magazine had seven rounds left in it 
and three shell casings were found at 
the scene. 
The investigation found that Sand-
ers was at the apartment complex for 
more than an hour talking to residents 
near his car, according to the report. 
The surveillance video showed he be-
came more animated while talking to 
the two unarmed residents. He seemed 
to be yelling at someone in the com-
plex who later came into view.
Sanders was about to get into a 
ﬁ  ght with one of the two men he was 
arguing with when a white Hyundai 
drove into the parking lot, according to 
the report. Two people came out of the 
car and walked toward Sanders and 
the residents.
Sanders ran to his car and pulled 
out his gun. Several bystanders tried 
to take it, but it was knocked to the 
ground, according to the report.Sanders picked up the gun and ran 
toward the victims, who were running 
toward the back of the complex. Sand-
ers pointed the gun in their direction 
when a man grabbed him from behind.
The man wrapped his arms around 
Sanders, but Sanders was still able to 
ﬁ  re three rounds in the direction of the 
ﬂ  eeing victims, according to the report.
One of the rounds went through 
the rear window of the Hyundai, pass-
ing through the driver’s seat before 
striking the dashboard. Police weren’t 
able to determine where the other two 
shots struck.
After being read his Miranda rights, 
Sanders said he was at Majestic Oaks 
trying to ﬁ  nd out who beat up his 
cousin and put them in the hospital.
Sanders also said he knew one of 
the victims may have had something 
to do with it. He was willing to ﬁ  ght 
that person, but several people showed 
up and acted aggressively toward him.
Sanders remains in Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $300,000 bond.Man arrested, accused of shooting into group 
Sanders
A nightclub bouncer is being ac-
cused by Gainesville Police of striking 
a man unconscious Sunday.
Joseph Henley, 
18, was charged 
with aggravated 
battery.
On Saturday 
around midnight, 
at least four bounc-
ers kicked the vic-
tim out of Simon’s 
nightclub, located 
at 8 S. Main St., according to the ar-
rest report. At some point, the victim 
walked away and into the street.
As the group of bouncers followed 
him, the victim took off his shirt, ac-
cording to the report. Henley was one 
of the bouncers and was holding an 
expandable baton. He punched the victim on the right side of his face and 
hit him with the baton on the left side 
of his face.
The strike from the baton caused 
the victim to go unconscious and fall 
to the ground, according to the report. 
Video surveillance caught the whole 
incident.
The victim was lying unconscious 
in a pool of blood, according to the re-
port. Bystanders did not help and only 
recorded the victim on the ground 
with their cell phones.
The security staff did not call the 
police or paramedics and left the vic-
tim on the ground in the blood, accord-
ing to the arrest report.
A GPD ofﬁ  cer found the victim ly-
ing on the ground 12 minutes later and 
called emergency services to the scene, 
according to the police.Simon’s employees and security 
staff denied knowing what happened 
to the victim when questioned by GPD.
The victim was sent to the intensive 
care unit and was unable to speak, ac-
cording to the report. He had fractures 
to his face and spinal ﬂ  uid leaking 
from his nose.
After being read his Miranda rights, 
Henley acknowledged that he hit the 
victim in the face while holding a ba-
ton, according to the report. He said 
he hit the victim because they ran at 
him. He also acknowledged that he of-
fered no medical help and didn’t call 
the police.
Henley remains in Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $75,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgBouncer arrested in connection with assualt
Henley
Stories By Devoun Cetoute | Alligator Staff WriterEditorial
ColumnElection prep: Part 4
Targeted ads will save advertising
You search Google for “sunglasses.” 
You browse for a while. You look 
at a few on Amazon, a few on Ray-
Ban’s website and ultimately decide 
to leave the purchase for another day. 
But now every website with Google AdSense, 
like the sidebar on Facebook, offers you sun-
glasses. It’s called targeted advertising, and 
even if you might think it’s annoying, com-
puters seem to know us better than we know 
ourselves. I’m okay with big data as long as 
it’s good data.
The targeted advertising you see on Facebook is col-
lected from your browsing history when you view a 
retail website. Your browser, Chrome, Firefox or what-
ever you may be using, submits 
information about what you’re 
looking at to third-party adver-
tising networks, like doubleclick.
net. To make a long story short, 
you are tracked all over the inter-
net via cookies, small bits of infor-
mation tied to your digital identity, which let advertis-
ers know what you’re looking at, when you’re looking 
at it and if you allow location services, where you’re 
looking at it from.
Using all that data to sell you things isn’t necessar-
ily a bad thing in my book. Think of it like this: Web 
browsing is annoying enough as it is. Even with all our 
desperate, millennial-minded tactics of using AdBlock 
and related extensions to remove ads from our web 
experience, some websites require you to disable it to use them. Think of sites like bibme.org that a 
lot of us use to compile and format APA cita-
tions. Advertising can be disruptive and often 
annoying, but plenty of journalism websites, 
like those of The New York Times and The 
Washington Post, heck even The Independent 
Florida Alligator, use ads to make money.
Do you really want your browsing experi-
ence to be full of ads for things that have no 
relevance to you?
I want to support The Times and The Post, 
but I don’t want to be bombarded with annoying ads 
for a new car, especially when I’m not in the market 
for one. I’d much rather my browser and internet ser-
vice provider sell my data to advertisers, so I can get 
a glimpse of sunglasses instead. 
Advertising, despite our best at-
tempts to quash it, will never per-
ish from the earth. We can only 
make a best effort at keeping it 
from being rage inducing.
It’s easy to be scared of tech-
nology. The long-running meme is that there is an FBI 
agent constantly watching over you through the camera 
in your phone or your laptop. There are valid privacy 
concerns as well. But provided we do a good job of 
regulating it, I think the “creepy” ads that pop up to fol-
low you on Facebook aren’t creepy at all. They are the 
future of a more pleasant internet.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political science junior. 
His column comes out Tuesday and Thursday. TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Endorsements, much like winter in Westeros, are com-
ing. The Alligator will be gathering information provid-
ed from most candidates for most ofﬁ  ces in the coming 
weeks. 
In the meantime, we continue our rundown of every 
possible candidate Alachua County residents will have the op-
portunity to vote for or against. Today, we’ll be looking at can-
didates for the Alachua County Soil and Water Conservation 
District and the state commissioner of agriculture. Please note 
these editorials are not  an endorsement of any candidate.
Alachua County Soil and Water Conservation District
This ﬁ  ve-member commission is in charge of keeping your 
soil clean and your water safe to drink. If there was ever a gov-
ernmental body that most directly affects your ability to physi-
cally live, this is the one. 
Seats 1, 3 and 5 are up for grabs Nov. 6, though only Seat 3 
has any race to speak of. Kaithleen Hernandez and Chris Rose 
II are running to ﬁ  ll the impending vacancy. Hernandez made 
a name for herself in January 2017 when she and a handful of 
others were arrested while protesting the construction of the 
Sabal Trail pipeline.
Rose II is a Libertarian candidate and said he believes the 
government wastes too much money trying to ﬁ  x environmen-
tal issues. 
Commissioner of Agriculture
Current Commissioner Adam Putnam is set to relinquish his 
seat with the election of one of seven candidates. Four Republi-
cans and three Democrats are vying to be his replacement. 
The Republicans running against each other are Matt 
Caldwell, Denise Grimsley, Mike McCalister and Baxter Trout-
man. 
Caldwell sports an endorsement from Sen. Marco Rubio and, 
after his tweets during the 2016 presidential race surfaced criti-
cizing President Donald Trump, said the president “can count 
on my loyalty.”
Grimsley has been a Florida senator since 2012 and is the 
chair of the Senate Agriculture Committee. She also said she 
is in favor of making it easier for ex-felons to have their voting 
rights restored after they’ve served their sentences. 
McCalister is a retired U.S. Army colonel who served from 
1971 to 2005. He unsuccessfully ran for governor in 2010 and 
again for U.S. Senate in 2012. 
Troutman is a former state representative from Winter Haven 
and a direct relative of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Jr. He was also the vice 
chair of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the 
Environment & Natural Resources Council. 
The Democrats running in the Aug. 28 primary are Nicole 
“Nikki” Fried, Jeffrey Duane Porter and Roy David Walker.
Fried is a lobbyist and lawyer focusing on residents’ access to 
medical marijuana. She earned her bachelor’s degree in politi-
cal science, her master’s in political campaigning and her law 
degree all from UF. She was also Student Body president during 
her studies. 
Porter is the mayor of Homestead and has worked in South 
Florida politics for 10 years. He is running on a platform of op-
posing Trump’s tariffs, which he said has hurt farmers and their 
businesses. 
Walker is an environmental scientist and president of the 
South Florida Audubon Society. He said he would support legal-
izing recreational marijuana with conditional laws attached to 
treat it like tobacco products. He also said he is for enforcing 
existing gun laws more consistently.
We at The Alligator urge you to learn more about these and 
all other candidates for local, state and national ofﬁ  ce before 
heading to the polls this month and in November. Florida resi-
dents can register to vote at registertovoteﬂ  orida.gov.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
“Using all that data to sell you things 
isn’t necessarily a bad thing in my book.”
Stephan Chamberlin
Alligator Columnist
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Let us help your 
dog stay healthy 
and happy!
3717 NW13th St.
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 372-8387
shoresanhosp.comWellness Day &  
Vaccine Clinic  
for dogs
Friday, August 17
8 am - 6 pm
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
As the end of the Summer se-
mester approaches, weeks 
of hard work are coming to 
fruition.
Libraries across campus 
ﬁ  ll with hordes of students. Amid 
the silence of focus, small hums of 
conversation focus on lack of sleep, 
cups of coffee and hours spent 
studying.
It’s almost a competition. Who took the 
most credit hours, who did the most extracur-
ricular activities or logged the most hours at 
work. 
Life is a never-ending game of quantity over 
quality. Our world often focuses on numbers. 
They deﬁ  ne our acceptance into college, wheth-
er we move onto the next class and seemingly 
if we worked hard enough. 
Increasingly, life is about quantity over 
quality. That’s not to say numbers as a form 
of quantifying work is 
bad. However, our so-
ciety seems to take this 
to an extreme. Some-
times these numbers feel 
like our worth. Sleeping 
less and doing more is 
rewarded in this world that revolves around 
work. 
It’s thought to bring more productivity. 
More tasks complete. More ideas. More effort. 
More progress. More money for a company. 
More job advancements. More and more and 
more. 
But what happens when there’s nothing left 
to give, like at the end of the semester when 
students are often sleep deprived and burnt 
out?
Students should evolve the way they see 
their work. More isn’t always better.
Working to the extremes of fatigue is dan-
gerous. Numerous articles appear when you 
look up “overworking.”
Overwork leaves your body run down and 
low on sleep. This leaves you as an easy tar-get for illness. Stay on campus for 
a semester, and you can tell when 
people are getting tired. Everyone is 
sick.
You’re likely emotionally, men-
tally and physically exhausted. Over-
working can lead to less productivity 
for this reason. There’s a point when 
continuing to work or study ceases 
to be worth the loss of sleep.
Studies on this topic go as far as to ﬁ  nd that 
overwork can even lead to early death. This 
jarring statement shocked me to my core. Since 
I was an elementary student, the school sys-
tem I learned in enforced the reality that more 
work equals more success. We were made to 
be test-taking machines, competing against one 
another for the highest grades and recognition.
I think this is dangerous and needs to 
change. 
I’ve been on the receiving end of burnout. 
In a particularly tough 
school year, I was hospi-
talized four times. I have 
a chronic illness. Stress 
and lack of sleep make it 
worse.
However, in my life, 
sleeping less and doing more was met with 
reward, which reinforced the need for my be-
havior. If I wanted to be successful, I needed 
to work more — even if it was at the cost of 
my health.
Even outside of the school system, into col-
lege and onto the world of the job market, the 
same message of working more often perme-
ates.
I think adjustments should be made so 
people take care of themselves and don’t see 
time spent away from work as a consequence 
of more work or less sleep later.
The time between semesters shouldn’t be 
the only time for sleep.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday and Thursday.Exhaustion shouldn’t be a badge of honorColumn
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org Since I was young, I 
was always taught 
to save my money 
for a rainy day. I 
got piggy banks as 
gifts and learned to pick up 
pennies on the street (only 
the ones faced heads up for 
good luck). I knew that if 
I saved up enough, I could 
buy my own house just like my mom 
did. But somewhere along the line, 
the messages I was receiving about 
penny-pinching became inconsistent.
I know people in my family who 
worked hard and saved their whole 
lives just to retire. I just can’t bring 
myself to get behind this ideology. I 
know this is the conservative and safe 
way to live, but 
it doesn’t make 
a whole lot of 
sense. I don’t 
think there is 
enough of a 
beneﬁ  t at the 
end to justify living sparsely your 
whole life. This whole conversation 
relates to what you believe your pur-
pose on this Earth to be. Everyone 
has their own idea about what this 
purpose is, but I think most people 
would agree that working 40 hours a 
week for 40 years isn’t it. I need my 
life to have a greater meaning to it 
than just building the wealth of the 
CEO of the company I work for.
I don’t want to exclusively en-
joy life when I’m 65. I want to en-
joy it while I’m young and energetic. 
There’s no way to guarantee that all 
your saving and frugalness will pay 
off once you’re old. You can lose it all 
at any point. You might as well con-trol where you lose it. I per-
sonally ﬁ  nd it depressing to 
have to put money toward 
Social Security that won’t 
even be able to provide all 
my beneﬁ  ts by the time I am 
old enough to claim them. 
Maybe I’ve just been 
listening to too much Lana 
Del Rey, but I agree with a 
more “live fast, die poor” mentality. 
I know this is the typical college stu-
dent mindset, but that’s the fun part 
of being young — you think it will 
last forever. I recall during one of my 
ﬁ  rst driving lessons, my dad taught 
me to switch to the correct lane when 
I got closer to the turn rather than far 
in advance. “You have plenty of time, 
worry about it 
when you get 
there,” he said. 
Since then, I’ve 
applied this phi-
losophy to my 
life in general. 
I’m creative, and I’d rather ﬁ  gure it 
out when I get there. 
Of course, I need to survive some-
how. I have to do some ﬁ  nancial 
planning, but I don’t want to be over-
ly obsessed with it. Living for your re-
tirement years isn’t living at all. From 
what I’ve seen, people who live this 
way plan on having fun when they’re 
older. The problem is that fun and 
happiness are a muscle that have to 
be exercised. If you’re too focused on 
having a fun retirement, you’ll forget 
the meaning of fun along the way. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising 
junior. Her column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday.Make money to live, don’t live to 
make moneyColumn
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
“Life is a never-ending game of 
quantity over quality.”
Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Columnist“I don't want to exclusively enjoy life 
when I'm 65.”
Layla Soboh
Alligator Columnist8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
HER PHOTOS SHOW 
DIFFERENT IMMIGRANTS 
AROUND GAINESVILLE.
By Victoria Salomon
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a climate of uncertainty 
and hatred toward immigrants, 
Gainesville artist Renee Hoffinger, 
65, brought light to their stories in 
a photo exhibition Sunday.
“Immigrants of Gainesville” 
was sponsored by Welcoming 
Gainesville and Alachua County 
(WG&AC). It was shown at Em-
manuel Mennonite Church, located 
at 1236 NW 18th Ave.
Hoffinger said her favorite story 
was about an immigrant from Sen-
egal called Baye. She would often 
see him working at Publix and then 
Lucky’s Market, but knowing his 
story was truly rewarding. 
“Many of the people I interview 
are immigrants,” Hoffinger said. 
“With everything that is happening 
with (President Donald Trump’s 
immigration) policy, I think it’s 
important to show these positive 
figures.”
One of the challenges she faced 
making the exhibition was con-
vincing subjects to tell their stories.
“It had some little obstacles, 
but the process was mostly fun,” 
Hoffinger said. 
She is the administrator of the “Humans of Gainesville” page, 
which is based on the “Humans of 
New York” photo book and blog 
that presents New York City resi-
dents.
“I started ‘Humans of 
Gainesville’ about six years ago,” 
Hoffinger said. “A few times a week 
I would go out, find someone, take 
their picture and interview them.”
The exhibition drew a crowd of 
about 70 people, including mem-
bers of WG&AC, united in the spir-
it of sharing the pictured subjects’ 
stories.
WG&AC, which formed in 2015, 
has programs like a book club and 
a conversational table for people 
to learn English, said Richard Mac-
Master, 83, the chairman of the 
organization. These are meant to 
show the importance of immigrant 
communities.
The biggest struggle for the 
events is money, MacMaster said. 
The funding for the Sunday event 
came from a grant by the Catholic 
Campaign for Human Develop-
ment. WG&AC printed and framed 
the pictures.
The exhibition will be open for 
the upcoming months and can be 
accessed Wednesdays, Thursdays, 
Saturdays and Sundays.
“It is so important to acknowl-
edge everyone’s story,” Hoffinger 
said. “Diversity makes a commu-
nity richer, stronger and better.” ‘Humans of Gainesville’ founder shows off new exhibition
Victoria Salomon / Alligator Contributor
Hoffinger stands in front of one of her photos at her new exhibit, “Immigrants of Gainesville. ”
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF researchers have developed a new in-
expensive mosquito trap to lower the cost 
of genetically modified mosquito captures 
and releases.
Published in the Public Library of Sci-
ence One last Thursday, the project focused 
on the Aedes Aegypti, or “yellow-fever mos-
quito.” These insects are a primary world-
wide health concern as they carry arbovi-
ruses, which are diseases such as dengue, 
yellow fever, Zika and brain inflammation.
The battery-powered trap uses sound to 
imitate the wingbeat of female mosquitos to 
attract males. UF Department of Electrical 
and Computer Engineering doctoral student 
and trap developer Barukh Rohde explained 
that although females are the only ones that 
bite, they are harder to trap.
Males are more likely to swarm where fe-
males are flying, which they detect through 
acoustics. Making a trap for the males is 
easier because they only rely on sound.
In recent years, scientists have been re-
leasing sterile or genetically modified mos-
quitoes to limit the spread of viruses. Sci-
entists do this by infecting the male with 
the “Wolbachia” virus. If one has the virus, 
after mating with a female, the eggs will not 
be able to hatch. This in turn significantly 
decreases the Aedes Aegypti population 
over time.
However, this method of population 
control is only financially accessible to de-
veloped nations, which have the money to 
pursue these sorts of projects.
“Releasing enormous amounts of mos-quitoes is not necessarily cheap,” Rohde 
said. “You want to make sure that the mos-
quitoes you’re releasing get into all the ar-
eas that they need to go.”
U.S. Department of Agriculture research 
entomologist and Rohde’s mentor Richard 
Mankin explained the release and monitor-
ing of these Wolbachia-infected males has 
not been cheap, costing more than $100 for 
each trap. Rohde’s invention is important to 
areas of the world that cannot afford to con-
stantly release mosquitos, as his only costs 
around $10 in the U.S.
“(Rohde) is focused on an area where he 
is particularly good at coming up with ways 
to decrease the cost of electronic equip-
ment,” Mankin said.
Another experiment conducted earlier in 
July wiped out over 80 percent of disease-
infected mosquitos in specified locations 
across Australia. This has caused a bit of 
a debate.
World Mosquito Program director Scott 
O’Neill explained that this method can be 
costly and not long lasting, as the remaining 
mosquito population can regain numbers in 
the next mating season.
A similar project to the Australian one is 
set to begin in the Florida Keys within the 
next few months.
Rohde hopes the new trap will set a prec-
edent for the development of financially ac-
cessible solutions to public health problems.
“I want scientists to think of ways that 
they can make devices cheaper for the gen-
eral public,” Rohde said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF scientists create low-cost trap to reduce mosquito population
Courtesy of Barukh Rohde 
Scott Ritchie tries to relax as mosquitoes feed on his leg. 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Michael Knauff
Alligator Contributing Writer
To combat the dwindling freshwater sup-
ply, UF scientists are teaming up with uni-
versities across the nation to develop more 
efﬁ  cient ways to water crops. 
Eric McLamore, an associate professor in 
the Department of Agricultural and Biologi-
cal Engineering at the UF Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences, said the schools 
are working on an open-source library called 
SmartPath. 
UF speciﬁ  cally is working with George A. 
Smathers Libraries on SmartPath. Farmers 
would use the data to pick which type of wa-
ter works best for them and use it to water 
their crops. 
The group is looking at three different wa-
ter types as alternatives to fresh water: brack-
ish water, untreated pond water and second-
ary treated water from wastewater treatment 
plants. The group will see if any of these op-
tions are as effective in irrigating crops.
McLamore compared growers browsing 
the library to shopping on Amazon and said 
growers would have a wide range of options 
to choose from, including what others have 
worked with. 
The library will have data about water 
combinations that would reduce the amount 
of fresh water used when irrigating crops 
based on where in the country the crops were 
being grown. 
Using alternatives would limit water use 
on farms and allow unused water to be used 
for drinking, McLamore said. 
The development of SmartPath is impor-
tant because of the rapid urbanization of so-
ciety. More agriculture is being done in high-
population areas, and that type of farming 
requires more water than traditional agricul-
ture. Currently, about 70 percent of freshwa-
ter used in the world goes toward agriculture 
as a whole.
Once the new technology is implemented 
on farms, sensors will be placed in the pumps 
distributing the water and in the water itself. 
The sensors will determine how much water 
is being used and how much is needed. 
The sensors will send the information to another device, which will then process the 
information and make real-time adjustments 
to manage the water being dispersed.
This technology already exists in things 
like pool ﬁ  lters, which contain sensors that 
read water quality and levels, but it has not 
been used to the level this project is requir-
ing.
“The question is, ‘Can this same technol-
ogy be applied to a farm?’” McLamore said. 
“You’re going from 17,000-gallon pool to 
17-million-gallon (farms).”
Kati Migliaccio, professor and chair of ag-
ricultural and biological engineering at IFAS, 
said in an email interview the project dem-
onstrates the future of agriculture and uses 
resources smartly. She is in charge of the ex-
tension effort of the project and is an expert 
in water conservation and irrigation. 
Migliaccio said there aren’t any growers 
lined up to start the project yet. However, an 
advisory board has been established that will 
outline the vision for the project. 
UF is working with Texas A&M Univer-
sity, Iowa State University, the University of 
Wisconsin and the University of Maryland 
Eastern Shore to develop the technology. The 
schools were awarded a ﬁ  ve-year, $5 million 
grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
to fund the project. 
However, there are some challenges asso-
ciated with the project.
McLamore said one of the biggest con-
cerns for growers is staying economically sus-
tainable when switching irrigation methods. 
If farmers are losing money by adopting the 
new technology, they won’t want to continue 
using it. 
Another concern is fecal matter contami-
nation in the freshwater alternatives. Brack-
ish, secondary-treated water and pond water 
all contain microorganisms that would create 
feces in the water. A microorganism that is 
notably dangerous is known as Vibrio and 
can be harmful to humans. 
Farmers also need to be able to use the 
technology and be able to understand how 
it works. McLamore said the system will be 
designed to be as user-friendly as it needs to 
be so growers who are not as adept with tech-
nology are able to manage the system.UF IFAS researchers to develop 
open-source library for farmers
By Jacob Kovach
Alligator Staff Writer
UF announced last week it received 
a record $837.6 million to fund research 
for 2018.
The amount exceeds the previous re-
cord set in ﬁ  scal 2016 by $113.6 million 
— nearly 16 percent, according to a news 
release by the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Research.
Joseph Kays, the director of research 
communications in the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Re-
search, said it received 5,393 proposals. 
Of those, about 2,760 were awarded.
David Norton, the vice president for 
research at the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Research, 
said the record is indicative of the uni-
versity’s national standing and its fac-
ulty’s determination.
“I think it’s fair to say the University 
of Florida is in as good a position as it 
has ever been in relation to its peers and 
being competitive,” Norton said. “That 
number really represents several thou-
sand faculty working really hard, being 
very competitive, to get those dollars.”
One faculty member who beneﬁ  ts 
from this is Dr. Nancy Mendenhall, 
medical director of the UF Health Proton 
Therapy Institute. She said her team was 
awarded $11.5 million to conduct ex-
perimental proton therapy treatment for 
prostate cancer — a treatment offered by 
only 24 locations in the country.
“Ultimately, our end goal is improving 
patient quality of life,” Mendenhall said.
Traditional radiation ﬁ  res X-rays at a 
person. She said they can cause ioniza-
tion, which can lead to cell death. Dam-
age is done to cells where the beams 
enter and exit the body as well as the 
targeted tumor.
Because of the amount of energy lost 
in the process, patients are given higher 
doses than they need, which, in exces-
sive amounts, can lead to other side ef-
fects. Mendenhall said these include 
bowel urgency, bowel frequency and 
rectal bleeding.
Proton therapy uses proton particles, 
which make up atoms. The treatment is 
drastically less invasive and only sends 
particles to the tumor, not through the 
body entirely.
Protons are 1,800 times heavier than 
the subatomic electrons they collide with, making them more efﬁ  cient in use 
and allowing the mid-body stop. They 
are then transformed into things such as 
water.
“It’s just more targeted, more precise 
treatment,” Mendenhall said. “We can 
put more of the target dosage in a pa-
tient.”
Mendenhall said prostate cancer is the 
third-most common cancer in the U.S. as 
of 2018. She added that the top two are 
breast and lung cancer, and the three 
cancers have tendencies to alternate po-
sitions.
According to the American Cancer So-
ciety, about 164,690 new cases of pros-
tate cancer will be diagnosed in the U.S. 
About 29,430 of these cases are expected 
to be fatal.
With the boost in research funding, 
Mendenhall’s team has more money to 
conduct paid patient surveys. Patients 
are measured from three perspectives —  
disease control, a gastrointestinal toxicity 
assessment and quality of life post-treat-
ment — which measures the side effects 
of treatment.
Funding also goes to institutions that 
collect the treatment data. Proton ther-
apy is about 1.3 times more expensive 
than conventional treatment, though this 
can vary by insurance providers and the 
number and intensity of treatments.
“Protons look incredibly promising on 
paper. We do need to have some clinical 
proof to show if they’re effective,” Men-
denhall said. “We ask ourselves and the 
patients how much better is this, and is 
this worth it?”
For Norton, increased funding to proj-
ects such as Mendenhall’s means UF is 
moving in the right direction on the na-
tional stage.
He encouraged student and faculty in-
volvement in research opportunities, cit-
ing them as reasons behind UF’s increas-
ing public perception, including being 
ranked as a top-10 school by U.S. News 
& World Report.
“Our president is a member of the 
National Science Board,” Norton said. 
“Having leadership involved with those 
national organizations is important … in 
helping the direction of our country rela-
tive to higher (education), research and 
innovation.”UF gets record-breaking 
$837.6 million for research10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Mark Stine
Alligator Staff Writer
Ohio State University’s head foot-
ball coach Urban Meyer is currently 
on administrative leave for suppos-
edly knowing about domestic vio-
lence committed in 2009 and 2015 by 
OSU assistant Zach Smith against his 
now ex-wife, Courtney.
Smith was 
ﬁ  red from Ohio 
State in July.
Ohio State has 
conducted an in-
vestigation into 
Meyer and plans 
to conclude it 
within 14 days, 
according to a statement released 
Sunday night.
Ohio State fans rallied outside of 
the school’s football stadium Mon-
day night, demanding the coach stay 
with the program. 
Meyer admitted July 24 at Big Ten Media Days that he knew about the 
2009 incident, which occurred while 
Smith was a graduate assistant under 
Meyer at UF but denied knowing of 
such issues from 2015, which hap-
pened under his tenure at Ohio State.
“I don’t know who creates a story 
like that,” Meyer said.
A statement was released on 
Twitter on Friday, saying he failed to 
tell the truth at Big Ten Media Days. 
Steve Addazio, head coach at Bos-
ton College and former assistant un-
der Meyer at UF from 2005 to 2010, 
announced in a statement Saturday 
that he knew about problems be-
tween Smith and his ex-wife in 2009 
but proceeded to hire him as a wide 
receivers coach at Temple University 
in 2011. 
“As a husband, father and coach, 
I have zero tolerance for domestic 
abuse,” Addazio said. “There is no 
place in our program at Boston Col-
lege for any member of our staff in-
volved in domestic violence.”Former UF coach center 
of controversy
Meyer
DOCTORS HOPE TO 
TREAT PATIENTS WHILE 
TEACHING STUDENTS.
By Victoria Chin
Alligator Contributing Writer
The U.S. spends more than 
$90 billion on the treatment and 
diagnosis of back and neck pain 
each year, and a new center at 
UF aims to provide cost-effective 
treatment for these patients.
UF Health Comprehensive 
Spine Center, which opened 
Monday, lets patients see physi-
cians from different areas of ex-
pertise relating to back and neck 
pain. This cuts costs and saves 
time for patients who are often 
referred to multiple doctors.
The center is located in the 
$415 million UF Health Heart 
& Vascular and Neuromedicine 
Hospitals built in December 
2017.
Before the center was built, doctors who treated patients 
for back and neck pain would 
informally consult with doctors 
of other specializations, said Dr. 
Andrew McNeil, assistant pro-
fessor of anesthesiology.
Now, neurosurgeons, ortho-
pedic surgeons, physical medi-
cine and rehabilitation phy-
sicians, pain physicians and 
neurologists can work together 
to ﬁ  nd the right diagnosis.
“We really have pretty much 
all the bases covered,” said Dr. 
Daniel Hoh, associate professor 
of neurosurgery.
The center also allows more 
patients to be seen and with 
same-day appointments, Hoh 
said.
“In our ideal system, a patient 
who wants to be seen calls one 
phone number, and they get a 
quick, efﬁ  cient access to be seen 
by one of our doctors,” Hoh said.
Back and neck pain can affect 
a person’s quality of life, Hoh said. Patients are often given 
incomplete diagnoses or redun-
dant information from doctors.
“What we’re focused on … is 
providing sort of tailored, per-
sonalized medicine for each in-
dividual to optimise their quality 
of life,” Hoh said. 
The center will also provide 
medical students and residents 
insights into a variety of pain 
treatment options, Hoh said. It 
also expands the opportunity 
to study patient outcomes and 
treatment effectiveness to de-
velop protocol that will beneﬁ  t 
patients on a larger scale.
Because UF Health is well-
recognized, patients will travel 
far to receive care, Hoh said.
“I really do believe the sys-
tem that we’ve created here is 
unique and is very best suited 
towards the type of patients, as 
well as the greater sort of huge 
catchment area that the Univer-
sity of Florida covers,” Hoh said.UF opens new spine centerBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS. Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
Designated drivers are the greatestAlligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1800/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000                    8-22-18-7-2
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
PART-TIME
● yard work ● cleaning ● chores ● errands, 
etc. 6 - 12 hours per week.
$10 / hr + tip.
Apply at:  www.Gator2018.com         8-7-5-14
SIMEDHealth is hiring a full time Maintenance 
Technician for our Gainesville office location. 
$14-$16 per hour. 
Visit our website at
simedhealth.com/jobs to apply.    8-9-18-5-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs PT 
and FT Sales Associates. We are 1 mile 
north of UF on 13th St, next to Starbucks! 
Must maintain consistent weekly schedule 
with 1 day on weekend a must!    8-24-18-
6-14
Hiring Servers!!!
Exp. A Plus
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
8-22-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
PART TIME - $15 PER HOUR - FUN  
Promote delicious wines at your local 
grocery store on weekends!
APPLY HERE: Cheerfulpromo@gmail.com 
Include your phone #                    7-7-18-3-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Make Money Online
While In College. 
https://tinyurl.com/y86d9y4a     
8-15-18-5-20
Learn how to make up to $400
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: http://www.makemoneynow.shop/
8-15-18-5-20
$4000/ mo playing video games.
Learn how to become a tester for the latest 
video games. Go To: www.paidtoplay.club    
8-22-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
FREE E-BOOK
 "Lying For Fun and Profit" 
Exposes media promotion of health fraud. 
www.smashwords.com           8-9-18-2-21Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LARGE HABITAT FOR SNAKE
2 pieces. $130 or best offer. Pick-up only. 
text 727-504-8382                8-15-18-3-24
1. Ichiro Suzuki became the oldest 
player since 1900 to start a game in 
center field (43 years, 246 days) when 
he did so for the Marlins in 2017. Who 
had held the post-1900 record?
2. In 1996, two players on the same 
National League team each hit 40 or 
more home runs, and each had more 
homers than walks. Name either player.
3. How many years was it before 
2016 that the University of Colorado 
football team played in a bowl game?
4. Name the first African-American 
to be inducted into the Basketball Hall 
of Fame as a player.
5. Since the Presidents’ Trophy was 
created in 1985-86 to recognize the 
NHL’s best regular-season team each 
year, how many times has the winner 
gone on to win the Stanley Cup?
6. Which female athlete has won the 
most medals in the Winter Olympics 
Games?
7. In 2018, Moriya and Ariya Juta-
nugarn became the second set of sib-
lings to each win on the LPGA Tour. 
Who was the first set?
Answers
1. Boston’s Rickey Henderson (43 
years, 211 days), in 2002.
2. Andres Galarraga and Vinny Cas-
tilla of the Colorado Rockies.
3. Nine years (2007).
4. Boston Celtics great Bill Russell, 
in 1975.
5. Eight times (out of 32).
6. Marit Bjoergen of Norway, with 
15 medals.
7. Annika and Charlotta Sorenstam, 
in 2000.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
August 6, 2018King Features Weekly Service
1.  Fictional bear
1.  Group within a group5.  Rinse, soak
2.  Large bird6.  Mad
3.  Classy7.  Cadence 
4.  Jet ____KMOSYE
BSTEUSTEABH
RITEA
RISHCTO
EGAETNLTHMHYR
RSAETMANSWERS: 1A-Smokey  5A-Bathe  6A-Irate  7A-Rhythm
1D-Subset  2D-Ostrich  3D-Elegant  4D-Stream  B-Kathy Bates8-7-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actress auditioned for the role of 
Janet Wood on “Three's Company.”
BONUSACROSS
1 Knock for a loop
6 “The jig __!”
10 Wing
measurement
14 The “N” of USNA
15 Beer-brewing
mixture
16 Taper off
17 Rare baseball
event
19 28-Across, in
German
20 Troubling Nixon
records
21 Supermarket
walkways
23 Falafel bread
24 Antiterrorism
legislation of
2001
28 Single
29 Double-helix
molecule
30 Slake, as thirst
31 Hardly current
33 Bridges of
Netflix’s
“Bloodline”
36 Snob’s “in the air”
body part
37 Nightlife sphere
of activity
40 “That sounds
painful”
43 Brussels-based
defense gp.
44 Clear data from
48 Like a damaged
atmospheric
layer
50 Letter after pi
52 World Series
org.
53 Race terminus
56 Smear, as paint
57 Narrow
waterway
58 Coins of 
59-Down
60 All-encompassing
62 Theater direction
... and a hint to
17-, 24-, 37- and
53-Across
65 Actor’s part
66 Narrate
67 Celebrated chef
Ducasse
68 Intuit
69 Canadian gas
brand
70 Big Apple 52-Acr.
playerDOWN
1 Colony insect
2 Tennis great
Navratilova
3 Takes to the skies
4 Frank of avant-
garde rock
5 Magazine with
the column 
“Ask E. Jean”
6 Little devil
7 Dinner course, to
Heinrich
8 TWA rival
9 Body structure
10 Equal or Splenda
11 Italian pal
12 “Bel Canto”
novelist Patchett
13 Video game
letters
18 Little League
broadcaster
22 Singer Rawls
23 Jack-in-the-box
sound
25 Limerick’s rhyme
scheme
26 Emails a dupe to
27 First word of
numerous
Grisham titles
29 Md. neighbor
32 German veal dish34 Approximate fig.
35 Oak-to-be
38 Not pure
39 Opposite of paleo-
40 “That sounds
painful”
41 Action film
weapon
42 Bring comfort to
45 Composite dental
filling material
46 Flavored icy drink
47 Recede, as a tide49 Syr. neighbor
51 Often hyperlinked
word
54 Low-cal beers
55 Tilted type: Abbr.
56 Newspaper
frequency
59 Tehran’s land
60 Collie’s comment
61 Clog front
63 Mop & __:
cleaning brand
64 Blasting letters
By Jake Halperin
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/07/1808/07/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 7, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Indian state
bordering Bhutan
6 Pasture sound
11 Cheese go-with
14 Fiji neighbor
15 Asperity
16 Trick taker, often
17 Dog that loves a
burger topping?
19 Mme., in Madrid
20 Blueprint
21 Loved ones
22 Colorless
24 Repeating
26 “__ Day”: chapter
in the ’50s “The
Thin Man” TV
series
28 Noel
29 Dog that loves a
winter sport?
34 Called from the
pasture
36 Bearish?
37 “The Facts of
Life” actress
Charlotte
40 Barbecue, say
42 “As if!”
43 Equanimity
46 Vacant, as an
apartment
49 Dog that loves to
play in the rain?
51 Green pair, often
55 “Do __ others ... ”
56 Cancellation of a
sort
58 Bit of statuary
61 Undercover cops’
gear
63 Part of un giorno
64 Brown, e.g.
65 Dog that loves
spaghetti?
68 Born, in Brest
69 Vast quantity
70 Socially active
sort
71 Triage ctrs.
72 Limp Bizkit
vocalist Fred
73 Black shade
DOWN
1 Very minute
2 Beethoven’s
“Moonlight,” for
one3 Inveterate critic
4 Back
5 Hindu meditation
aid
6 Rest
7 Pinocchio, at
times
8 Arachnid’s
hatching pouch
9 Verizon
subsidiary
10 Generous bar
buddy
11 Chop finely
12 Real estate unit
13 Signify
18 Oscar winner
Kingsley
23 Comes out with
25 Take badly?
27 “Hamlet” prop
30 Two-time N.L.
batting champ
Lefty
31 One standing at
the end of a lane
32 A, in Acapulco
33 Acquire
35 Brothers’
keeper?
37 Zodiac critter
38 Toon storekeeper39 Antiquity, in
antiquity
41 Perfectly correct
44 27, for
Beethoven’s
“Moonlight”
45 One-legged
camera support
47 Netflix installment
48 252 wine gallons
50 Divining rod
52 Grew fond of53 Deep dish
54 Like a cloudless
night
57 NRC forerunner
58 Food sticker
59 “Your turn”
60 Bakery
selections
62 See __ an omen
66 Prefix with
pressure
67 Hack
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/03/1808/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 3, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 EntertainmentFormer UF tight end T ate Casey 
will become a football sideline 
reporter with the Gators IMG 
Sports Network in the fall.OHIO STATE FANS HOLD RALL Y FOR URBAN MEYER
Over 100 Buckeye fans held a rally in front of Ohio Stadium in support of 
Urban Meyer. He is currently on paid leave during an investigation into his 
knowledge of a domestic violence between assistant coach Zach Smith and 
his ex-wife.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
Alligator Staff Report
We’re not perfect here at alligatorSports. 
This summer, we’ve been going over some 
of the best athletes and teams. 
But now, we’re going to take 
a look at some of those 
programs or people that 
we left out or missed. 
Our staff roundtable 
of Brendan Farrell, An-
drew Huang, Evan Lepak, 
Chris O’Brien and Mark 
Stine contributed their Honor-
able Mention of the Year.
Brendan: We’ve covered a lot 
for our alligatorSports Awards, but I 
think that the UF soccer team prob-
ably deserves more attention than we’ve 
given them over the past couple months. I 
realize that football, basketball and baseball 
are the most popular sports on campus, but 
I think we do forget about some of the other 
sports in Gainesville.
This team went 17-7 over the course of the 
season and made it to the Elite Eight of the 
NCAA tournament. The United Soccer Coach-
es postseason poll had the team ﬁ  nish sixth in 
the country.
Arguably, the best moment of the sea-
son came in postseason play in the Sweet 16 
against Washington State. The Gators had their 
chances in this game, but neither team could 
break through in regulation as the game head-
ed to overtime in a scoreless tie. 
In the ﬁ  rst overtime, senior Gabby Seiler 
slid a through pass to freshman Deanne Rose. 
Rose took a touch, evaded two defenders and 
took a shot at an open goal. The ball sailed 
over the crossbar as a dejected Rose fell to the 
ground.
The game went on.
Moving onto the second overtime, Seiler 
again moved towards goal before giving the 
ball to junior Lais Araujo. Araujo gathered it 
and played it back to a streaking Rose. Rose 
was now one-on-one with the goalkeeper. 
Rather than sailing the ball towards the heav-
ens, Rose kept it low, burying the shot in the 
corner of the net, sending the Gators to the 
Elite Eight for the sixth time in program history 
and the ﬁ  rst since 2014.
It might not have been the biggest sporting event at UF over the last year, but I feel that it 
at least deserves a mention.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell1@alligator.org 
Andrew: An up-and-down season that ﬁ  n-ished on a sour note – early exits in both the 
SEC and NCAA tournaments – might distract 
the casual fan from the amount of talent on the 
UF men’s basketball roster. 
Chris Chiozza (First Team All-SEC, SEC 
All-Defensive team), along with at-times lethal 
scorers KeVaughn Allen and Jalen Hudson, were part of a crowded back court rotation for 
the Gators. It was hard for UF’s guards to all 
shine at once, especially Allen, who led Florida 
in scoring the season before last.
But graduate transfer shooting guard Egor 
Koulechov might have been the most con- alligatorSports Awards: Honorable Mentions
Alligator File Photo
Graduate transfer Egor Koulechov came to Florida as a shooting guard, but spent most of last season ﬁ  lling in as a power forward. 
He ended up leading the Gators in rebounding with 6.4 per game. 
Alligator Staff Report
We’re not perfect here at alligatorSports. 
This summer, we’ve been going over some 
of the best athletes and teams. 
But now, we’re going to take 
a look at some of those 
programs or people that 
Our staff roundtable 
of Brendan Farrell, An-
drew Huang, Evan Lepak, 
Chris O’Brien and Mark 
Stine contributed their Honor-
able Mention of the Year.
: We’ve covered a lot 
for our alligatorSports Awards, but I 
UF soccer team
  prob-
 UF soccer team
  prob-
 UF soccer team
ably deserves more attention than we’ve 
given them over the past couple months. I 
realize that football, basketball and baseball 
are the most popular sports on campus, but 
I think we do forget about some of the other 
This team went 17-7 over the course of the 
season and made it to the Elite Eight of the 
NCAA tournament. The United Soccer Coach-
es postseason poll had the team ﬁ  nish sixth in 
Arguably, the best moment of the sea-
son came in postseason play in the Sweet 16 
against Washington State. The Gators had their 
chances in this game, but neither team could 
break through in regulation as the game head-
ed to overtime in a scoreless tie. 
In the ﬁ  rst overtime, senior Gabby Seiler 
slid a through pass to freshman Deanne Rose. 
Rose took a touch, evaded two defenders and 
took a shot at an open goal. The ball sailed 
over the crossbar as a dejected Rose fell to the 
At last Thursday’s media day for 
the UF football team, head coach Dan 
Mullen had a chance to set the record 
straight on his team’s buffoonery and 
stupidity associating with a Santa Fe 
student named Devante Zachery over 
the summer.
Instead of punching it straight up the 
gut, Mullen fumbled on the one-yard 
line.It was expected that he would re-
ceive some tough questions because 
of his players’ antics, and for the most 
part, he faced the media and didn’t run 
from the inquiries.
But there were a few answers that 
should leave Gator fans feeling uneasy.
When Alligator sports editor Mark 
Stine asked, “Do you have a policy 
on your players owning guns?” Mul-len promptly responded, “I have a no-
weapons policy, but I think -- it’s not 
like you’re not allowed to have a gun. I 
mean, we live in a country where that’s 
one of your rights.”
So...a no-weapons policy where...
you can have weapons?
Obviously this is a snippet of a larger 
answer, but the gist of what Mullen got 
into at the press conference was his 
players could own weapons, just make 
sure they know how to use them.
He talked about how his policy was more about educating the players on 
safety and when to possess weaponry 
rather than not have them at all.
Yikes.
He should have said something 
along the lines of this:
“I have a no-weapons policy and I 
mean no weapons. Our players should 
see no reason to possess a weapon. But 
if they do choose to have a gun because 
that’s their right, then they better not get 
caught with it or let me ﬁ  nd it, because Dan Mullen missed the mark at UF Media DayO’B-Wan Kenobi / Opinion
Chris O'Brien
Twitter: @THEChrisOBSEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
AP
Associated Press
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP) — 
Less than a year after emerging 
from a long run of NCAA issues, 
North Carolina is dealing with rule 
violations again — this time for 
football players selling team-issued 
shoes.
The school announced Monday 
that 13 players will miss games 
serving suspensions for the second-
ary NCAA violations, which will 
leave the Tar Heels shorthanded 
during much of the season’s open-
ing month. While secondary viola-
tions are generally considered less 
severe, the penalties in this case 
will result in several players being 
forced to sit out at least a third of 
the regular-season schedule.
In all, nine players will miss 
four games, two will sit two games 
and two others will miss one con-
test. The NCAA approved a school 
request to delay two suspensions 
affecting multiple players at one 
position, while the other 11 sus-
pensions begin with the Sept. 1 
opener at California.
The Tar Heels want to put move 
on quickly from this latest embar-rassment.
“The guys that are suspended, 
they’re very remorseful,” coach 
Larry Fedora said during a news 
conference Monday. “They don’t 
want to let their teammates down 
and they feel like they did in this 
situation. But nobody’s pointing 
fingers on this football team. ... 
We’re beyond that point now. It’s 
already happened. It is what it is, 
so they’re all looking forward and 
moving forward.”
The suspensions have had at 
least one major impact already.
With sophomore quarterback 
Chazz Surratt among the players 
suspended four games, the team’s 
most-watched preseason position 
battle has come to a swift end with 
Fedora saying junior Nathan Elliott 
will start against Cal.
The players facing four-game 
suspensions are: Surratt; defensive 
ends Malik Carney, Tomon Fox 
and Tyrone Hopper; offensive line-
men Brian Anderson, Quiron John-
son and Jordan Tucker; receiver 
Beau Corrales and linebacker Malik 
Robinson.
Defensive backs Greg Ross and 
Tre Shaw must sit two games, while quarterback Jack David-
son and offensive lineman Jonah 
Melton will each miss one.
Carney was the only suspended 
player to talk with reporters Mon-
day, saying he has apologized to 
the team.
“In the moment like that, you’re 
not really thinking about the conse-
quences,” Carney said when asked 
if he knew selling his pair of shoes 
was improper. “Like as a kid, when 
your mom tells you ‘Don’t touch 
the iron because it’s hot,’ you don’t 
really think that it’s hot. You just 
do it. It’s something you don’t real-
ly think about in the moment. And 
I made a wrong decision.”
UNC reported the violations af-
ter learning of the special-edition 
Nike shoes being sold to at least 
one retailer in an email from a 
member of the public in January, 
according to documents released 
after a public-records request from 
The Associated Press. That email 
contained a social media advertise-
ment from a retailer seeking $3,500 
for the shoes.
According to case documents 
released by the school, 15 players 
ultimately sold shoes either to a re-tailer or to a teammate, with three 
of those purchases for as much 
as $2,500. Two other players sold 
shoes for $200 or less.
One player — who isn’t named 
in the documents — purchased 
shoes from seven teammates for a 
total of $6,150.
Athletics director Bubba Cun-
ningham said school officials com-
pleted their early investigation 
within four days. Players refunded 
transactions and Cunningham said 
all but about nine pairs of shoes 
were recovered.
One of the retailers contacted 
by the school said he had previ-
ously purchased shoes from ath-
letes at Michigan, California and 
Marquette, according to the case 
documents.
“Absolutely we turned every-
thing in back in January and Febru-
ary, got a final adjudication as sec-
ondary violations from the NCAA,” 
Cunningham said, “so this case is 
closed and as soon as the suspen-
sions are served, that will be the 
end of it.”
With three defensive ends 
among the list, UNC sought — 
and received — approval from the NCAA to stagger some of the 
suspensions at the position, which 
can be allowed for concerns over 
health and safety during a game.
Carney will miss games starting 
Week 2 against East Carolina, UCF 
and Pittsburgh. He’ll return to play 
at Miami, then sit again at home 
against Virginia Tech on Oct. 13.
Fox won’t sit out until the Sept. 
27 game against Miami. He’ll re-
turn against Virginia Tech, then 
sit again against Syracuse, Virginia 
and Georgia Tech on Nov. 3.
The shoe-sale penalties come 
less than a year after UNC had fi-
nally emerged from its multiyear 
academic case, which had the 
school facing five top-level charges 
that included lack of institutional 
control. That case reached a no-
penalty conclusion in October.
And that case was an offshoot 
of an investigation into the foot-
ball program in 2010 for improper 
benefits and academic misconduct. 
That one ended when the NCAA 
issued sanctions in March 2012 — 
months before Fedora’s first game 
here — that included a one-year 
postseason ban and scholarship re-
ductions.13 UNC players arrested for selling school-issued shoesFOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators will take the 
field for the first time in full pads 
today. 
Head coach Dan Mullen tran-
sitioned the team on Sunday and 
Monday by holding practice in just 
helmets and shoulder pads. 
However, the rise in intensity 
hasn’t developed any separation 
between the two redshirt sopho-
more quarterbacks -- Feleipe 
Franks and Kyle Trask. According 
to Mullen, they unsurprisingly still 
have a long way to go in learning 
the offense. 
“To be a big-time quarterback, I 
don’t think they even think they’d 
know how hard that is,” he said. 
“They should understand it by 
hopefully next summer. I was hop-
ing maybe with just one of them it 
would really click, but I didn’t see 
that happen.”
Despite praising Trask on Fri-
day for recognizing a double team 
and hitting his check-down, the UF 
coach said there’s no separating 
the two yet. 
The fact that each of these 
quarterbacks don’t yet have a 
firm grasp of Mullen’s system af-
fects what kind of leaders they can 
be. Mullen emphasized that both 
Franks and Trask try to be leaders 
by example but aren’t comfortable 
enough to be vocal leaders. 
“I think the vocal leadership 
can come as they get more confi-
dence in what they’re doing,” he said. “Our guys are trying to figure 
out the reads and what they’re do-
ing and making sure they look the 
right way or they’re stepping the 
right way.”
However, a bright spot for UF’s 
offense is the addition of wide re-
ceivers Trevon Grimes and Van 
Jefferson, who were ruled eligible by the NCAA last week. Jefferson 
still has to clear SEC waivers since 
he transferred from Ole Miss.
“I called my mom and told her 
the news,” Grimes said on Satur-
day, “and I actually shed a little 
tear I was so excited to get on the 
field and be able to play this sea-
son.”
Both receivers said that Florida wasn’t a hard choice. With a new 
coaching staff, UF gave them the 
opportunity to join a team where 
everyone will have the same op-
portunity to learn Mullen’s system.
Former All-American receiver 
Percy Harvin visited spring practic-
es, allowing the tandem of trans-
fers to get acquainted with the school’s tradition at the position. 
“I think my third, fourth spring 
practice I talked to Percy one-on-
one, and he told me if I keep work-
ing hard and stay focused I can 
be a monster,” Grimes said. “If a 
great like him can say (that), then 
I definitely feel like it can be true.”
The additions of Grimes and Jef-
ferson took the Gators from need-
ing depth at receiver to having one 
of the best collection of players at 
the position in recent memory. 
Florida lost Brandon Powell, 
the team’s slot man and leader in 
receptions from 2017, and Antonio 
Callaway, who was suspended last 
year but could’ve been the team’s 
most explosive wide-out. But Jef-
ferson, who started in the slot 
for Ole Miss for two seasons, and 
Grimes, who at 6-foot-5 can both 
stretch the field with speed and 
bring down jump-balls, fit nicely 
into UF’s existing framework. And 
they, Jefferson especially, have 
been a help to the receivers since 
they arrived in January.
Junior Tyrie Cleveland, the 
team’s leading receiver from a sea-
son ago and biggest deep threat, 
even said he’s learned from the Ole 
Miss transfer. 
“I learned a lot from Van,” 
Cleveland said. Just being able to 
see him run different routes and 
how he handles himself on and off 
the field. I’m just trying to take up 
all the notes I can from him.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgQBs have lots to learn, transfer receivers settled in
Mark Stine / Alligator Staff
A unit of Florida wide receivers . including transfers Van Jefferson (12) and Trevon Grimes (8), rests 
after catching passes from the quarterbacks on Saturday. 
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenuesistent of the bunch. With the front court missing 
about half of its frontcourt depth due to injury, the 
6-foot-5, 205-pound Koulechov found himself lin-
ing up at power forward for much of the season.
He was a knockdown shooter – 39.5 percent 
from long range and 86.4 percent from the line – 
and these skills quickly earned him a nickname in 
Gainesville: “3gor.”
But that’s not what was most impressive about 
Koulechov. As an undersized power forward he led 
UF in total rebounds (218) and rebounds per game 
(6.4). The Gators’ No. 2 rebounder was 6-foot-9 
power forward/center Kevarrius Hayes (5.0 per 
game).  
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgEvan: Sometimes streaks are meant to be bro-
ken, and it certainly looked like one was coming to 
a miserable end for the Florida Gators football team 
in Lexington, Kentucky, last September.
UF came into the game riding a 30-game win-
ning streak against UK that dated back to 1987.
1987? Let that simmer for a second.
It’s been over 30 years since the Wildcats tasted 
sweet victory over the Gators.
That’s utter dominance by one team over an-
other, and, yes, that is also currently the longest 
active streak in the NCAA.
A 27-14 fourth-quarter deﬁ  cit for the Gators had 
me believing wholeheartedly that the streak was 
coming to an end that night.
And who wouldn’t? The offense had been stag-
nant all night, and Luke Del Rio was under center.
Thankfully for UF though, a trick play that fea-
tured Kadarius Toney tossing a 50-yard pass to 
Tyrie Cleveland set up a scoring drive that would 
close the gap to 27-21 with just over seven minutes 
to play.
On the next offensive series, after a stop by Flor-
ida’s defense, the unit kept the miracles coming.
Two third-down conversions and a couple atyp-
ical fourth-down conversions on the drive allowed 
the Gators offense to get inside UK’s 10-yard line 
with under a minute to go.
That helped set up a Luke Del Rio touchdown 
pass to an inconceivably uncovered Freddie Swain 
in the back corner of the end zone to give UF the 
28-27 lead.
UK would go on to miss a 57-yard ﬁ  eld goal to 
end the game and continue to break the hearts of 
the Kentucky faithful.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org
Chris: Honestly, I don’t think we gave enough 
love to women’s golfer Elin Esborn. She was a 
legitimate Newcomer of the Year candidate and we 
didn’t throw her a bone because she redshirted last 
year.
Her ﬁ  rst year in action was marred by incon-
sistency, but when she was on, man, she was on.
She deﬁ  nitely was the No. 2 on the team behind 
Sierra Brooks, who was one of the most dominant 
athletes in the sport, but Esborn was close behind 
her in a few events.
Before Brooks arrived in January, Esborn opened the season with a No. 5 ﬁ  nish at the Ocean 
Course Invitational in Kiawah Island, South Caro-
lina.
During the back half of the year though, the na-
tive of Sweden caught ﬁ  re.
She ﬁ  nished fourth at the Allstate Sugar Bowl 
in New Orleans, Louisiana, while playing individu-
ally. About 20 days later, she followed up that per-
formance with a top-3 ﬁ  nish at the Suntrust Gator 
Invitational in Gainesville.
Not bad for a freshman.
Finally, she ﬁ  nished tied for 12th at the NCAA 
Regional Tournament to lead the team to the 
NCAA Championship.
Maybe not the freshman of the year, but she 
deﬁ  nitely deserved an honorable mention.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Mark: If you’re a UF sports fan, you should 
know who Lindsey Ronbeck is.
The lacrosse team’s captain and leading scorer 
(65 goals) had a monstrous junior season, one 
where she led the team in scoring despite missing 
three games due to an injury she picked up against 
Navy on March 13. 
When she returned in the team’s matchup 
with Connecticut on March 31, Ronbeck scored 
10 points (six goals, four assists). The mark was a 
career high, and Ronbeck became only the second 
Gator (Ashley Bruns, 11, 2012 against Sienna) to 
register double-digit points. 
But she saved her best for the Big East Tourna-
ment, which was hosted by UF. 
In the semiﬁ  nal against Marquette, Ronbeck 
set the record for most goals scored in a Big East 
tournament game (8) and tied the Florida record 
for most goals in a game (Shannon Gilroy, 2014 
against High Point). 
The Gators cruised to 18-6 victory over Denver 
in the ﬁ  nal, and Ronbeck dumped in seven more 
scores, setting the Big East record for goals in a 
single tournament at 15 and earning her the tour-
nament MVP. She now holds the most goals in the 
tournament’s history (31), however, she won’t be 
able to extend that record as UF moves to the ACC 
next season. 
Ronbeck’s dominant 2018 season won her Sec-
ond Team All-American honors. 
It’ll be exciting what she’ll be capable of in her 
senior season, especially if she can stay healthy. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org AWARDS,  from pg. 14Ronbeck scored 8 against MU
there WILL be consequences.”
Mullen went on to say that 
he had players at Mississippi 
State that had bows and ar-
rows. I’d like to add that he 
speciﬁ  cally said they were used 
for hunting.
But when wide receiver 
Kadarius Toney was found 
with an AR-15 in his backseat, 
his well-known response was 
chilling: protection from locals.
I asked Mullen at the con-
ference about his reaction to 
Toney’s response, he said, 
“That’s education...Any time I 
look at a situation, I dive deep 
into it, dive deep into the back-
ground, dive deep into where 
you’re from, where you’re 
grown up, what your neigh-
borhood was like, what you’ve 
been exposed to in life, all 
those different situations.”
Yikes again.
Let’s again review what he 
should have said:
“I’m worried, for this team, 
for my players. We need to look 
into why he thinks he needs a 
riﬂ  e for protection from locals. 
Are my players in danger of 
any true harm? Is there some-
thing so sinister that he needs a 
deadly weapon? This is bigger 
than football.”
But again, he missed, and 
talked more about education 
than the actual problem at 
hand.
Overall, Mullen was stoic in 
his answers. He faced us, the 
media, and didn’t shy away.
But he had a chance to es-
cape the hurricane of confusion 
and criticism.
And he didn’t.
Chris O’Brien is a sports 
writer. Follow him on Twitter @
THEChrisOB and contact him at 
cobrien@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Alligator File Photo
Lindsey Ronbeck scored eight goals against 
Marquette in the Big East semiﬁ  nal. 
