We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Celebration Pointe expands oﬃ   ce space
Several businesses and an FBI ofﬁ  ce are prepared , pg 4
Big Smo comes to High Dive
Hick hop artist and TV personality is performing songs off his 
new album, pg 8Gators take ﬁ  rst at NCAA 
Kissimmee Regional
UF was led by a ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish by Andy Zhang 
and a 64 round by Chris Nido, pg 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 87
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Devoun Cetoute
Allligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police have a man in custody 
accused of fatally stabbing another man at 
Southern Pines Apartments, located at 4128 
SW 17th Place, on Tuesday afternoon.
Timothy Cooper, 23, was charged with 
ﬁ  rst degree murder. 
At 3:30 p.m., Cooper allegedly became up-
set with the victim, a 61-year-old man, over 
something the victim said to him inside the 
apartment, according to the report. The apart-
ment was occupied by Cooper, the victim and 
a witness.
The witness and the victim were on the 
couch when they saw Cooper walk toward 
the victim with his hands behind his back, 
according to the report. The witness reported 
that Cooper allegedly had a knife and fatally 
stabbed the victim in his upper torso. When 
the witness told Cooper he stabbed the vic-
tim, Cooper reportedly said, “I told that man 
to stop bothering me.” 
At 3:36 p.m., ofﬁ  cers were called to South-
ern Pines Apartments, according to GPD’s 
media release.
GPD ofﬁ  cers found the victim deceased 
on the couch and Cooper in his bedroom, ac-
cording to the report.
After Cooper was read his Miranda rights, 
he told ofﬁ  cers in an interview he confronted GPD: Southern Pines murder suspect apprehended Tuesday
SEE STABBING,  PAGE 4Devoun Cetoute /  Alligator Staff
The Gainesville Police Department found Timothy Cooper Tuesday evening at 6:46 in a Southern Pines Apartment bedroom. 
By Bailey Wingate
Alligator Staff Writer
With hurricane season approaching, the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency pro-
vided a list of ways homeowners can protect 
their property from the damage hurricanes can 
bring. 
Since Florida has experienced almost dou-
ble the number of recorded hurricane landfalls 
of any other state, residents should consider ways to prevent any injuries or damage that 
could result from hurricanes.
Homeowners should purchase ﬂ  ood insur-
ance because most home insurance policies 
don’t cover ﬂ  ood-related damage from hur-
ricanes, according to a media release from 
FEMA.
Hurricane season starts June 1, and Nation-
al Flood Insurance Program policies take effect 
30 days after purchase, so FEMA suggests buy-
ing ﬂ  ood insurance as soon as possible.Garbage cans, garden tools and outdoor 
furniture can all become projectiles under 
strong winds. Finding a spot to secure outdoor 
items during storms is a way to prevent prop-
erty damage and possible injuries, according to 
FEMA. 
Homeowners should purchase storm shut-
ters to protect windows from strong winds, 
FEMA suggested. 
Homeowners should also clear gutters and 
downspouts of leaves, twigs and other debris that may prevent rainwater from draining ef-
ﬁ  ciently, according to FEMA’s news release.
For more information on how to protect 
homes during hurricane season, follow FEMA 
and the Florida Division of Emergency Man-
agement @FEMARegion4 and @FLSERT or 
visit their Facebook pages at facebook.com/
FEMA and facebook.com/FloridaSERT.
@baileywingate1
bwingate@alligator.orgFEMA gives advice to Florida residents for hurricane seasonBy Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Smith Meyers no longer holds the 
title of Student Body President, but 
his vetoes live on. 
At Tuesday’s Senate meeting, 
senators were informed that six 
bills passed previously were vetoed 
by Meyers at the end of his term in 
April. 
Meyers submitted the vetoes from the Sunday to the Tuesday be-
fore he left ofﬁ  ce, Senate President 
Danielle Grosse said.
Business on the Senate’s agenda 
must be submitted to the Replace-
ment & Agenda Standing Committee 
prior to its weekly meeting, Grosse 
said. However, Meyers did not 
submit all the vetoes until after the 
meeting to write the agenda for the 
April 24 meeting. 
For this reason, the vetoes were not addressed at the last meeting 
of the Spring semester April 24. In-
stead, the vetoes were addressed in 
Tuesday’s meeting, Grosse said.  
Senator Joel Kratt (Inspire, Tol-
bert), an author to four and a spon-
sor to one of the six vetoed bills, said 
he found out about the vetoes an 
hour before the meeting started.
“I was a little confused by that,”  
Senator Joel Kratt (Inspire, Tolbert) 
said. “Practically the same people who passed the bills the ﬁ  rst time — 
unanimously — had such a change 
of heart that was unexpected.”
Some of the six bills that were 
vetoed would have required closed 
captioning on SG videos released 
via social media accounts and live 
stream the annual SG debate. An-
other bill would have created a 4:30 
p.m. deadline for candidate requests 
to be excused from mandatory can-
didate meetings. Other bills would have prohib-
ited supervisors and members of 
the elections committee from having 
any previous positions or relation-
ships with any SG party and the use 
of threat or intimidation to inﬂ  uence 
voting. Another bill would have al-
lowed party members to campaign 
in reserved classrooms.
All bills had at least one author or Smith Meyers’ 6 vetoes upheld, Impact Senator leaves party
SEE VETO,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 87
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Museum to open new bat 
exhibit Saturday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History opens its newest fea-
tured exhibit, “Masters of the 
Night: The True Story of Bats,” 
on Saturday with special ac-
tivities from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Visitors can match bats with 
the foods they consume, learn 
about echolocation, visit a sim-
ulated bat nursery and discover 
the areas bats live worldwide. 
While the exhibit has an en-
trance fee, museum members 
and UF students with a valid 
Gator 1 Card receive free admis-
sion. For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
bats or call 352-846-2000.The Florida Museum invites art-
ists and designers to ‘SciArt 
Meetup: Insects’ on Sunday
Artists and designers are invited 
to visit the Florida Museum of 
Natural History after hours for 
SciArt Meetups to explore ex-
hibits and create art inspired 
by Florida nature and culture! 
With partner Santa Fe College 
Art Gallery, join the museum 
Sunday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. for 
a brief art or science presenta-
tion on insects. Pre-registration 
is requested as space is limited. 
Access includes a working stu-
dio space and after-hours entry 
to all permanent exhibits. Artists 
must bring their own supplies. 
For more information or to reg-
ister, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/calendar/tag/sciart/ or call 352-273-2062.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to editor@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted "What's 
Happening" submissions may 
not appear in the paper. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  68°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Winter, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Victoria Gingras, 
  Stefano Ferreyros
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie 
  Alexander, Ruben Riera, Charles 
  Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 87THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
the victim about 
something the 
victim had said 
to him and the 
victim pulled out 
a knife. Cooper 
said he slapped 
the victim’s hand 
that was holding 
the knife and then they tussled, ac-
cording to the report. He also said 
the witness pulled the victim off of 
him and that is when he saw the 
victim fall on the couch.
In the report, GPD states Coo-
per did not have any marks on 
him that indicated a ﬁ  ght. Cooper 
showed the ofﬁ  cers an abrasion on 
his left shoulder, but it was clear 
to them it was not fresh and had 
already begun to heal, according to 
the report. 
Cooper remained in the Ala-
chua County Jail on Tuesday and 
Wednesday and was not offered 
bond. 
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgSTABBING,  from pg. 1Suspect is in 
ACSO jail
sponsor from both Impact and Inspire.
At Tuesday’s meeting, the Senate was given 
the option to override Meyers’ vetoes, which 
would have made the bills become law without 
the president’s signature.  
Meyers sent letters to Grosse about why he 
chose to veto these bills. Some of these letters 
were read aloud at the meeting. These letters 
were not distributed to the Senate mailing list un-
til the Wednesday following the meeting.  
Some of the reasons Meyers vetoed some of 
these bills were because of redundancy and lack of ﬂ  exibility.
Meyers did not respond to several calls made 
before the print deadline requesting commentary 
on the vetoes.  
Debate was to take place following a three-
minute explanation of the bills by their authors. 
Before the debate began, Senator Libby Shaw 
(Impact, Journalism) asked senators to choose if 
they wanted to end debate. Over two-thirds of 
the senators voted in favor of ending it.
Afterwards, Meyers’ vetoes were voted on all 
at once. The Senate announced in a 45 to 17 vote 
to uphold the vetoes.
After seeing these actions unfold, Senator 
Connor Bradley (Independent, Liberal Arts) an-nounced he would disafﬁ  liate from Impact. Brad-
ley said he would be an  Independent senator for 
the rest of his term.
Bradley said he didn’t believe many senators 
understood what they were voting for in regards 
to Meyers’ vetoes because debate was not heard.
“Representing the students should be our 
ﬁ  rst,and only priority,” Bradley said. “If we’re 
not doing that, by even hearing the legislation 
that should not have been vetoed this evening, 
we are not doing our justice as a Student Senate.” 
@gilliangsweeney 
gsweeney@alligator.orgVETO,  from pg. 1SG Senate was given option to override vetoesCooper
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff writer  
Celebration Pointe announced 
Monday that its newest ﬁ  ve-story 
ofﬁ  ce building is fully leased. 
There will be about 700 em-
ployees working in two Celebration 
Pointe ofﬁ  ce buildings by the end of 
2018, according to Senior Vice Pres-
ident of Asset Management Sean 
McIntosh.
McIntosh said 450 of the 700 em-
ployees will work in the new build-
ing at 5001 Celebration Pointe Ave. 
and 250 will work at Info Tech, 
the other ofﬁ  ce building. The new building will be shared by the Cel-
ebration Pointe parent company, 
SharpSpring, Inc., Nextran Truck 
Centers’ new corporate headquar-
ters, Frankel Media Group and an 
FBI ofﬁ  ce. 
McIntosh said these companies 
are relocating their Gainesville of-
ﬁ  ces to this area because of the loca-
tion and amenities. The ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of 
the new building will be used for re-
tail space and includes a nail salon.
“It also gives those people a 
place to be able to stick around af-
ter work and enjoy dinner, have a 
cocktail or watch a movie,” he said.
The new ofﬁ  ce building differs from others because employees 
can work outside at the centrally 
located, grassy seating area with ta-
bles, Wi-Fi and couches called Tech 
Park, he said.
Kiah Turner, a liberal stud-
ies senior at Hampton University, 
spent part of her 22nd birthday at 
Celebration Pointe on Wednesday 
morning with her friend Dévonja 
Roberts, 22. The ongoing construc-
tion piqued their interest. 
“I’m like, ‘What is this new area 
going on right now?’” Turner said. 
“I’m not recognizing Gainesville 
anymore.”
The only negative, Turner said, is the expected crowds once the 
bars, restaurants and stores open.
Roberts, a UF health education 
graduate, said larger cities she’s vis-
ited typically have an aesthetically 
appealing dining and shopping cen-
ter like Celebration Pointe. She said 
she likes the idea of a place that will 
attract more students and profes-
sionals to Gainesville. 
“I’m looking forward to every-
thing opening up,” she said. “I 
know it’s going to get really busy 
and crowded out here.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org Businesses, FBI ﬁ  nd home at Celebration PointeTHURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
May 19, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
Man accused of hiding cocaine in 
socks
Gainesville Police charged a man with al-
legedly attempting to introduce contraband 
into a county detention facility Tuesday.
Cocaine was reportedly found in the 
socks of Kevin Thomas, 
54, when he was being 
checked by staff from the 
Alachua County Jail. Ac-
cording to the GPD report, 
Thomas was detained due 
to a warrant for a condi-
tional release violation.
At about 1:30 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thomas was stopped on a bicycle 
along Northwest Third Avenue for a bicycle 
light violation. He did not have a rear light 
reﬂ  ector attached to his bicycle, according 
to the arrest report.
The warrant was conﬁ  rmed during a rou-
tine check, and Thomas was then transport-
ed to the Alachua County Jail, according to the report. Alachua County Jail staff dressed 
out Thomas while waiting for warrant infor-
mation documents from the criminal justice 
technician.
In between two layers of socks Thomas 
wore, staff found a small plastic bag contain-
ing a white, powdery substance. According 
to the GPD report, the substance ﬁ  eld tested 
positive for cocaine.
Thomas reportedly stated the substance 
was aspirin. He was allegedly quoted saying 
he carried it in between his socks because 
he is “country as hell.”
According to the report, Thomas had 
multiple chances to reveal any hidden con-
traband both on scene and prior to entering 
the jail. 
ACSO arrests woman for alleged 
robbery of TD Bank
Law enforcement arrested a Gainesville 
woman charged with robbery of TD Bank, 
located at 7515 W. University Ave., on Tuesday morning.
According to Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, 
Sacoya Everts, 47, walked 
into the bank at around 
8:55 a.m. After pausing 
to cover her hands with 
socks, Everts handed a 
teller a handwritten note 
stating, “This is a robbery.”
The teller provided her with a stack of 
money as well as a GPS tracking device, 
following TD Bank protocol. Everts took 
the money and placed it in the front of her 
clothes, according to the arrest report.
The bank manager, who witnessed the 
transaction, and the bank teller both ac-
tivated the silent alarms as Everts walked 
out the door, the report said. The manager 
then secured the doors to the bank and saw 
Everts walk east on West University Avenue 
until she was out of sight.
“Everts walked away from the bank into 
a multiagency, coordinated law enforce-
ment response,” according to the ACSO press release.
The GPS tracker was activated as soon 
as the money was picked up by Everts, 
allowing a nearby Gainesville Police ofﬁ  -
cer to track her on his laptop in real time. 
ACSO units in the area found Everts walk-
ing around Harbor Cove Apartments and 
stopped her.
Law enforcement was able to locate 
Everts in less than 10 minutes after the 
alarm was activated, the press release stated. 
When she was detained, Everts had money 
hidden in her pants. She had changed, and 
the clothes worn during the robbery were 
recovered nearby.
During an interview with ACSO de-
tectives and a special agent from the FBI, 
Everts told authorities about committing the 
robbery and hiding the clothes, according to 
the arrest report.
Everts was transported to the Alachua 
County Jail, according to the press release. 
Her bond is set at $75,000.Thomas
Everts
By Madison Rubert
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF cut the ribbon on the Jacksonville 
Aging Studies Center, known as JAX-AS-
CENT, at the UF Health Jacksonville cam-
pus on Monday.
The center was created to provide re-
searchers access to resources, experts 
and equipment to expand their portfolios 
and apply for grants, said Leon Haley Jr., 
M.D., dean of the UF College of Medicine 
- Jacksonville.
The National Institute of Health ap-
proved a five-year about $3.6 million 
grant for the center submitted by Marco 
Pahor, M.D., a professor and founding 
chair of the Department of Aging & Geri-
atric Research.
“Our goal was to develop a research 
study facility focused on aging and under-
served minority populations in Jackson-ville,” Pahor said.
The 5,000-square-foot facility is on 
the second floor of the Professional Of-
fice Building on Boulevard Street. It took 
about five months to renovate, Pahor said.
A study called SARA-INT, is in the 
works for the center. The study focuses 
on sarcopenia, the degenerative loss of 
skeletal muscle in those who are over 50. 
Jennifer Bowman, clinical research 
manager, is currently the only employee 
at JAX-ASCENT.
About 50 people were on the registry of 
research candidates as of last week, said 
Tina Bottini, assistant dean of research 
administration and compliance at the Col-
lege of Medicine - Jacksonville.
@MadisonRubert
madisonrubert@ufl.eduUF Health debuts new facilityAll Stories by Jessica Curbelo | Alligator Staﬀ   Writer
@ jesscurbelo | jcurbelo47@gmail.com
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Scientists at UF have recently developed a 
chemical for a new sunscreen that’s safer for 
humans and the environment.
The compound was created by Yousong 
Ding, 38, an assistant professor of medicinal 
chemistry, and other researchers from the UF 
College of Pharmacy. The sunscreen is main-
ly composed of cyanobacteria — more com-
monly known as blue-green algae — which 
produces shinorine. 
Shinorine, the main substance in the sun-
screen, is able to absorb UV-rays. This com-
pound is safer than the current chemicals 
used in sunscreen, oxybenzone and octinox-
ate.
Ding said chemical sunscreens can be highly toxic to human development, marine 
organisms and, most importantly, coral.
“Nature does not have a good way to re-
move the chemical,” Ding said.
According to a CNN report, Hawaii re-
cently passed a bill that bans the distribution 
of any sunscreen that consists of oxybenzone 
or octinoxate. Ding hopes Florida will follow.
“It’s something we have to do for the 
overall conservation, and we will see the re-
sults soon,” Ding said.
Ding hopes to commercialize the alterna-
tive sunscreen soon to avoid further damage 
to the environment and human health.
“Biodiversity is something we’re proud of 
in Florida,” Ding said. “It is something we 
need to protect for our future generations.” UF scientists unveil new 
sunscreen made with algaeEditorial
ColumnSummer in Gainesville can be a little aggravating. Your friends 
have abandoned you for the greener pastures of glorious unpaid 
internships or making plans with folks back home before quietly 
ignoring them for a longer nap. 
And so you sit in a musty stew of your pooling sweat in your 
dorm. The air conditioning is on the fritz once again. Your resi-
dent assistant tells you the obscene drawings on the whiteboard 
hanging from your door need to be taken down, “Or else...” 
It’s enough to make you reconsider college. It’s enough 
to make you reconsider Florida as a livable environment. It’s 
enough to make you want to run out to Midtown, throw down 
your backpack and righteously chuck — at no target in particular 
— a bunch of…
Prejudice has no place in scouting
The Mormon Church, in announcing 
their withdrawal from two major Scout 
programs last Friday, joins a growing 
number of religious organizations that 
are distancing themselves from Boy 
Scouts of America as the organization makes 
more socially inclusive moves, like admitting 
girls, transgender scouts and gay scouts. To 
those who will leave Boy Scouting because 
of their own prejudice, I say: good riddance.
Scouting has, historically, taught only 
boys and young men skills life will demand 
of them. As someone who has completed the entire 
Scout program himself, from age 7 to 18 and earning 
the rank of Eagle Scout and staying active in my troop, 
I can attest that being a Scout has nothing to do with 
your gender. Instead, it has everything to do with liv-
ing the Scout law — being trustworthy, loyal, helpful, 
friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, 
brave, clean and reverent.
It teaches the value of American citizenship, tak-
ing care of the environment, appreciating the outdoors 
and doing a good turn daily. It emphatically pushes 
youth to “be prepared.” It shows a young person — 
proudly now boy, girl or otherwise — the lovely green expanse of their open-hearted country is full 
of opportunity for growth and friendship. 
There is nothing about the male sex and/
or gender that grants it a monopoly on these 
qualities. Any person who believes Scouting 
will be diminished by the participation of a 
girl, a gay or transgender person has actively 
ignored tenets of the Scout law they have 
sworn to uphold. To turn their backs on new 
members, they abandon their commitment to 
friendliness. To not lend a hand, caked in 
mud from long hikes, to those who wish only 
to learn, they sell helpfulness down the river. 
Worst of all, to shy away from a diverse and inclu-
sive world, they cower from bravery.
I remember visiting the Kennedy Space Center as a 
young 12-year-old Scout to complete the space explo-
ration merit badge. Standing beneath the most power-
ful rocket built by man, the Saturn V, I was dwarfed 
by a monument to an endeavor I could not hope to 
understand but knew in my heart was noble. It stood 
for exploration.
That quality, mettle, is the Saturn V of the Scout-
ing program. The new generation of Scouts, especially 
those who are gay or transgender, will likely face a 
kind of adversity that only a youth program like Scout-
ing can hope to prepare them for. Scouting will better 
serve those who are not afraid of the unknown — and 
give them the tools to make sure they help everyone 
they meet along the way.
Stephan Chamberlin is a political science junior. 
His column comes out Tuesdays and Thursdays.THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
DARTS AND LAURELS
This Tuesday, former Student Body President Smith Mey-
ers vetoed a handful of bills. The way in which this was 
accomplished — not telling the Student Senate or nearly 
anybody else until about an hour before the Senate meet-
ing at which the measures would be discussed — is irre-
sponsible at best and decidedly underhanded at worst. 
Meyers’ term expired shortly after the election of current 
President Ian Green, but that hasn’t appeared to dissuade Meyers 
from taking one last stab at influencing Student Government’s 
politics. For that reason, Meyers gets one last dart to mark the 
final act of his administration. 
Even with Meyers’ bold veto, however, the Senate still had 
the opportunity to override his actions. But according Senator 
Connor Bradley, the vetoes were never debated and were hardly 
questioned. 
Bradley, currently with Impact Party, said he intends to ditch 
Impact and will continue to serve as Independent. For sticking by 
his convictions, we’re awarding a laurel to Bradley. He saw an 
issue with his party, and even though he said he felt like he was 
abandoning his friends still with Impact, made the tough decision 
to represent constituents over convenience. 
One surefire way to spark a debate is to fix the results of any 
given experiment. Professor Philip Zimbardo perhaps knew the 
outcome of his infamous Stanford prison experiment before any-
body else, including the “police” who turned into abusive over-
lords who harrassed college students with his blessing. 
So when a now-viral sound-based experiment hit the “Twit-
tersphere” yesterday, there was immediately something fishy 
about it. People were quick to figure out the scam involved, how-
ever. The “Laurel v. Yanny” case, while maybe not as physically 
abusive, is still on a similar level of bad idea as Zimbardo’s. 
By the time this prints, the public will have been inundated 
with everybody else’s opinion on the matter. So we’re throwing 
a dart toward that whole mess while it’s still relevant. Besides, 
both names are present in the recording we’ve all listened to a 
jillion times by now, so really, the whole thing is a wash. 
Half of the plastic in existence was produced in the past 15 
years. National Geographic is launching a long-term campaign 
titled “Planet or Plastic?” as the latest attempt to convince con-
sumers to think globally and with their future in mind. 
By reducing the consumption of single-use plastic — think 
plastic bags and straws — National Geographic promises the hu-
man race can make a worthwhile step toward a viable future. One 
not littered with used Starbucks cups and mechanical pencils, but 
with deserts, swamps and natural springs. A future in which the 
convenience of plastic bags does not outweigh the public’s love 
of swimming in its own oceans and lakes. 
We award a laurel to National Geographic for their unique 
approach to educating the globe on ecologically conscious prac-
tices but also for their promise to remember what binds us to-
gether, a need for survival on this living, breathing planet. 
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley 
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
“As someone who has completed the entire 
Scout program himself, from age 7 to 18 and 
earning the rank of Eagle Scout and staying 
active in my troop, I can attest that being a 
Scout has nothing to do with your gender.”
Stephan Chamberlin
Alligator ColumnistThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
OPEN DAILY: 6 AM - 10 PM
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner
3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
www.bojangles.com$5COMBO MEALS
Choose from 2Pc. Leg/Thigh Dinner With 
Biscuit Or Pulled Bbq Pork Sandwich Combo, 
Both Come With Side Item Plus Drink!
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
Weekends are often seen as 
a time to relax, hang out 
or get caught up on home-
work.
However, this weekend 
has a lot happening, especially Satur-
day.
For culture-buffs, there’s the royal 
wedding to watch, National Asian and 
Paciﬁ  c Islander Day and Culture Free-
dom Day. 
For patriots, there’s Armed Forces 
Day and Celebrate Your Elected Ofﬁ  cials Day.
And for the health-aware, there’s HIV/AIDS 
Awareness Day and National Hepatitis Testing 
Day. In the same token, there’s World IBD Day, 
a day with special meaning to me. 
On Feb. 2, 2012, I was diagnosed with ulcer-
ative colitis, a disease under the umbrella term 
inﬂ  ammatory bowel disease that also includes 
Crohn’s disease.
Colitis and Crohn’s are autoimmune diseases. 
Autoimmune is a term that means your body’s 
immune system attacks itself. In the case of in-
ﬂ  ammatory bowel disease, the attack happens 
in the digestive system. 
Colitis is something I haven’t always been 
comfortable talking about. However, I’m begin-
ning to be more and more open in hopes of help-
ing and educating others because colitis is an 
invisible illness. If I don’t talk about it, it doesn’t 
show.
While I may look like anyone else on the out-
side, my body is waging a war inside. 
Symptoms and experiences are unique to ev-
eryone.  
For me, it can be intense fatigue, running to the restroom dozens of times, dozens 
of pills with even more side effects, 
joint pain and stomach aches that feel 
like I’m being punched.
Beyond this, there’s isolation. 
Spending weekends in bed recuper-
ating instead of having fun. Wanting 
to take on opportunities and not hav-
ing them work out with my symp-
toms. Seeing more of doctors than 
my friends. Struggling to get through 
schoolwork and feeling like I have no 
control over my schedule.
Having an autoimmune disease often re-
quires taking medicines that reduce the function 
of your immune system and put you at risk for 
more illnesses.
Throughout high school and now college, 
I’ve had to miss weeks of school at a time. 
Then there’s always the questions of where 
I’ve been. It’s emotional because like I said in 
my last column, life is more than numbers and 
labels. I often feel stuck with the label of sick.
Colitis is a chronic disease with no cure, so it 
will always be a part of me. 
So this weekend, amid all the usual routine 
of the weekend, I ask you look into IBD and 
how it impacts millions around the globe. Un-
veil part of the curtain that makes this disease 
hidden. You can ﬁ  nd the World IBD website at 
worldibdday.org/about-us and the U.S. site at 
crohnscolitisfoundation.org.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesdays and Thursdays.We all breathed a 
sigh of relief when 
former Student 
Body President 
Smith Meyer’s pro-
bation presidency came to an 
end this past Spring.
However, Smitty made a 
cameo this past Senate meet-
ing through six vetoes he had 
apparently slipped in before 
he left ofﬁ  ce. Here’s how 
things went down.
Six bills went through the Senate 
on April 10 for their ﬁ  rst readings. We 
passed them unanimously. The same 
six bills passed unanimously through 
second readings April 17. On April 24, 
they weren’t listed as “bills pending sig-
natures,” so we thought we were done 
with them. Five of the bills had to do with 
elections reforms, such as mandating the 
livestreaming of some major Student 
Government events or explicitly outlaw-
ing voter coercion. The last bill created 
the ﬁ  rst section within our laws speciﬁ  -
cally for accessibility-related legislation 
and aimed to codify linking transcripts 
in and providing closed captioning for 
SG media. These were bipartisan bills, 
even current Student Body President Ian 
Green’s name is on one of the bills as a 
sponsor but apparently that doesn’t mean 
much to Smith.
My party was perplexed when we 
saw these six same bills pop up on the 
agenda for this past Tuesday’s meeting 
listed under “bills pending signatures.” I 
mean, surely, they hadn’t been vetoed. If 
that was the case, then they would have 
been categorized as “vetoed legislation.” 
We found out two hours before the meet-
ing the bills indeed had been vetoed by 
Smith, who graduated two weekends ago. 
When the meeting started, the major-
ity party leader pulled the “switcharoo” 
and relabeled the bills on the agenda 
from being listed as pending signatures, 
to being vetoed. She, then, bundled to-
gether the bills to all be heard at once 
— over our objections. During public 
debate, I tried to prod some answers out 
of the Senate about what happened. The 
senate president revealed Smith indeed 
had vetoed in time back in April. I asked 
multiple times why no one had told us 
anything during the three weeks since the 
vetoes and was greeted with multiple un-comfortable silences.
So we went on to pres-
ent the six bills at once. One 
of the authors brieﬂ  y went 
over the bills, then the senate 
president went over the dif-
ferent reasons why Smith ve-
toed the bills. For most of the 
elections reforms, Smith cited 
the authors not consulting the 
Supervisor of Elections as rea-
sons why he vetoed. For the 
bill concerning voter coercion, he claimed 
the behavior should already be prohibited 
by the Student Conduct Code.
After reviewing the code, I argue it 
isn’t explicitly done so and still wouldn’t 
constitute an elections violations by our 
own laws. 
For the closed captioning bill, Smith 
claimed the bill didn’t provide enough 
ﬂ  exibility for when captioning practices 
change. As an author of that bill, I know 
we took the standards in the bill from the 
Federal Communications Commission. 
It’s basic stuff like saying captions have 
to be displayed at a speed people can read 
or the captions should convey dialogue 
and background noises to the fullest ex-
tent possible (note that there’s already 
ﬂ  exibility built into the standards). May-
be one day, the FCC will change the stan-
dards to make it so that closed captioning 
should be displayed only at speeds that 
make it unreadable. Maybe one day, the 
FCC will change the standards so that 
closed captioning should convey dialogue 
and background noises to the least extent 
possible. If that happens… let me know, 
Smitty, and I’ll buy you a motorcycle.
The rest of the meeting went downhill 
fast. Since the majority party had more 
than two-thirds the seats in the Senate, 
they were able to shut off the Q&A period 
before it began, skipping debate and ﬁ  -
nal privilege. The majority party had the 
power to amend the bills however they 
wanted and then could have override the 
veto but chose to shut down debate and 
send the bills to the shadow realm. Truly 
moving gators forward, aren’t we?
Questions, comments or concerns? 
Email me at zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political 
science sophomore and Murphree Area 
Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government.For many with diseases, visibility is an issue Revenge of the SmithColumn Column
Sophie
Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
High school drama and zombies clash in Hulu’s ‘Freakish’ 
An inability to escape and familial problems lead to a familiar 
feel for a new show, pg 9Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. Summer guide to Gainesville
The sights, sounds and suds of the Summer, pg 10
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
Country twang meets rap as 
explosive hick hop artist Big Smo 
comes to High Dive on Saturday 
with support from Danny Dukes, 
Austin Hunter and Bandit.
Doors open for the show at 7 
p.m. and performances will begin 
at 8 p.m. Tickets for the show are 
available at the High Dive box of-
ﬁ  ce, Hear it Again Records and Tick-
etﬂ  y.com for $17 in advance and 
$20 on the day of the show. Guests 
under 18 must be accompanied by a 
guardian, and those under 21 pay an 
additional fee of $3 at the door.
To meet Big Smo before the show 
and get a photo and autograph, 
guests can purchase a VIP pass 
which includes a meet and greet as 
well as general admission into the 
show for $47.
High Dive features two bars, one 
inside the venue and one outside 
in the Beer Garden. Smoking is al-
lowed in the Beer Garden.
Big Smo has been creating mu-
sic since he was just 10 years old, 
recording music videos in his room 
back at his family’s 12-acre farm in 
Tennessee. Growing up in a small 
town, Big Smo did all the things 
country kids did, he said: bail hay, 
swim in the creek and listen to his 
family’s music.
“At that time, I was 10 years 
old in my bedroom, dressed up in my camouﬂ  age gear, my Boy Scout 
gear, with my dad’s aviator glasses 
on rapping DJ Jazzy Jeff and The 
Fresh Prince, ‘Parents Just Don’t 
Understand’ at a camera,” Big Smo 
said. “I look back at that footage. I 
have it on my phone just to remind 
myself that I’m on the right track.”
Back in the ‘80s, before the in-
ternet gave him ready access to 
music, Big Smo was inﬂ  uenced 
by his dad’s old school tunes, his 
brother’s love of hip hop and rock, 
movie soundtrack disco-pop and the 
Southern small-town radio station’s 
country classics.
Today, Big Smo is releasing mu-
sic that he doesn’t like to pigeon 
hole into a genre.
“People call it hick hop, people 
call it country rap, southern rap, 
whatever,” Big Smo said. “People 
call it whatever they want to call it. 
It’s just real-life music. It’s my mu-
sic. It’s my stories.”
Big Smo released his most recent 
album, “Special Reserve,” in Febru-
ary featuring pop, rock, strait coun-
try, strait rap, funk and more. 
“You’re not just putting in a disk 
and listening to 12 different songs 
that don’t have anything to do with 
each other emotionally,” Big Smo 
said. “The track list has everything 
to do with the ride. The blueprint 
that I designed is to take you on a 
journey.”
Though he doesn’t like to sub-
scribe to a genre label, Big Smo said his music does have a message. He 
wants his music to be a “healing 
stone,” in addition to being fun and 
entertaining.
“The main message that I am 
trying to get across to people right 
now is etiquette and humanity, two 
of the things that this country that 
we live in and this society that we 
dwell in is missing right now,” Big 
Smo said. “There’s very little respect 
for each other… I’m just afraid that 
that’s not something getting taught. 
It’s something that’s not getting 
passed down.”
In addition to his February album 
release, Big Smo is currently work-
ing to release his autobiography in 
the fall or winter: “My Life in a Jar 
— The Book of Smo.” After his old 
TV show, “Big Smo,” the book may 
be developed into a movie, bringing 
Big Smo back to the big screen.
Danny Dukes, or as he’s known 
at home, Danny Roberts, will be 
opening for Big Smo at Saturday 
night’s show. Dukes calls his style 
“backwoods rap,” digging into his 
country roots and outlaw attitude.
“I was rapping about being 
a backwood boy and going ﬁ  sh-
ing, working and doing this style,” 
Dukes said. “I gained some fans and 
was kind of one with it.”
Dukes is a Jacksonville native 
currently based in Middleburg. Start-
ing in elementary school chorus and 
middle school band, Dukes’ musical 
roots run deep. Dukes is a lifelong fan of Gun’s and Roses and Nirvana, 
but he also liked to sneak around 
and listen to the rap his Navy Master 
Chief dad didn’t approve of.
Today, Dukes is working on his 
fourth album to be released this fall 
and has a music video coming out 
soon. Dukes will be returning to High Dive on June 21 with Charlie 
Farley.
As far as what people can expect 
from Saturday’s show?
“They can expect Danny Dukes 
to come out there and ‘daggum’ tear 
the roof off of that place,” Dukes 
said.
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Contributor
Arctic Monkeys’ ﬁ  ve-year hiatus has come 
to an end with the release of their sixth studio 
album, “Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino.”
The album name is no misnomer. Warm 
vocals and an eerie keyboard synthesizer 
work together to create an atmosphere nearly 
identical to that of a haunted hotel in the ‘70s.
From beginning to end, Arctic Monkeys 
produce a committed listening experience 
that transports listeners to a spooky yet sexy 
setting, a rare and tricky combination.
The unique sound stays true to Arctic 
Monkeys’ formula of captivating lyrics and 
punchy guitar work. Still, the album marks a 
turning point for the band with a more mature 
and luxurious sound.
In previous albums, such as “Whatever 
People Say I Am, That’s What I’m Not” and 
“Favourite Worst Nightmare,” a faster pace, 
heavier drum and more electric guitar are 
used. Gritty, cheeky teenage rock band vibes 
ring throughout these albums with hits like “Dancing Shoes.”
In ”Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino,” we 
see less of the early characteristics synony-
mous with Arctic Monkeys. The majority of 
the new album has a slow pace perfect for 
playing in the background at your ﬁ  rst dinner 
party or a romantic night in.
The songs “Golden Trunks” and “The 
World’s First Ever Monster Truck Front Flip” 
are where we see falsetto vocals that are rem-
iniscent of Arctic Monkeys’ previous album 
“AM.”
“AM” was black leather and silver stud-
ded boots. This time around it is all brown 
suede and brass ﬁ  xings. Gone are the heavy 
drums and blaring electric guitar. “Tranquil-
ity Base Hotel & Casino” makes great use of 
organ sounds and smooth vocals. The sound 
on this album is something fresh for the band 
but not a complete shock.
Slow jams like “505” and “Mad Sounds” 
were sprinkled throughout prior albums. 
Now, Arctic Monkeys has given us an album 
full of songs set at a leisurely pace.  
On “Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino,” the 
songs melt into one another with seamless transitions. Each song complements the one 
before it. “One Point Perspective” and “Amer-
ican Sports” are an example of this.
All 11 songs work together to tell the story 
of a hotel and casino on Tranquility Base, the 
site where man ﬁ  rst walked on the moon.
Frontman Alex Turner’s lyrical writing 
paints the picture of a futuristic moon colony, 
complete with its own rooftop taco stand. The 
opening song “Star Treatment” sets the sexy, 
smoky atmosphere:
“Love came in a bottle with a twist-off 
cap... Let’s all have a swig and do a hot lap.”
Celestial and technological themes are 
weaved throughout the tracks. They can be 
heard on “Four Out of Five”:
“Lunar surface on a Saturday night, 
dressed up in silver and white.”
These themes can also be heard in “Bat-
phone”:
“Have I told you all about the time that 
I got sucked into a hole through a handheld 
device?”
Songs like “Four Out of Five” command us 
to “take it easy for a little while” with a reas-
suring sound that is a reminder of a night out with old friends.
“Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino” demon-
strates Arctic Monkeys’ capability to create a 
distinct listening experience. We have seen 
Turner’s musical work in ﬁ  lm before with the 
2010 ﬁ  lm, “Submarine.” This most recent re-
lease by the band begs the question, is there 
another cinematic collaboration in the near 
future?
Although Arctic Monkeys are currently on 
a worldwide tour, one can dream velvet-cov-
ered dreams that they ﬁ  nd the time to give us 
a chilling movie soundtrack.
Arctic Monkeys manage to stay true to 
themselves with the compelling lyrics and ec-
centric storytelling that fans have seen from 
them since the beginning. “Tranquility Base 
Hotel & Casino” should satisfy fans that have 
been waiting for the band to release new mu-
sic.
Those looking for something comparable 
to previous albums like “AM” will be dissatis-
ﬁ  ed. No fast-paced bops are to be found on 
“Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino,” only me-
lodious, well-produced tracks that transport 
listeners to a place yet to be invented.Big Smo at High Dive
Arctic Monkey’s long-awaited return sends listeners
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Big Smo will perform at High Dive Saturday night alongside 
Danny Dukes, Austin Hunter and Bandit.
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
Come see Coach Mullen May 24, 2018  
7 pm. Holiday Inn (13th & Univ.) Free to members, $25 for guests.
Join the Fightin’ Gator Touchdown 
Club and receive: discounts at 
local businesses, including food, 
drinks, and golf; see website 
for complete list. You will have 
access to buy football season 
and away game tickets.
www.FGTC.org or www.facebook.
com/FightinGatorTouchdownClub  
or @FGTCgatorsThe FGTC has c ontributed over 
$400,000 to an endowment for 
athletic scholarships. We have 
monthly guest speakers Jan-July, 
and weekly mid-Aug to mid-Nov
Also, come out for our Fishing 
tournament, June 23rd, at the 
Plantation on Crystal River.
4122 NW 6th St.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Although many hesitated at 
the thought of another zombie-
themed drama, Hulu’s original 
series “Freakish” has delivered 
a binge-worthy show that keeps 
you guessing.
“Freakish” is a Hulu original 
program that debuted Oct. 10, 
2016. 
When production released the 
ﬁ  rst trailer, the program received 
mixed reception as people criti-
cized the cast ﬁ  lled with social 
media stars.
The series stars social media 
inﬂ  uencers Liza Koshy, Meghan 
Rienks and Hayes Grier among 
other actors.
Koshy was originally known 
for her zany and high-energy vid-
eos on the social media app Vine, 
but she has since transitioned 
into producing longer content on 
YouTube. 
Rienks gained her fame 
through a prominent following 
online for her lifestyle and fash-
ion videos on YouTube. Grier and his brother Nash be-
came famous on Vine and, simi-
larly to Koshy, transitioned to 
YouTube.
Koshy, Rienks and Grier may 
have had acting aspirations from 
the start. However, critics were 
quick to state these actors gained 
their fame through quick internet 
videos, and they may not provide 
the quality that a fully produced 
series needs.
Despite initial hesitation, 
“Freakish” takes the action of a 
zombie ﬁ  lm and uses the conﬂ  ict 
provided by a high school setting 
to create a basic but entertaining 
program.
With talk of a third season, 
after successful responses to the 
ﬁ  rst two, it’s time to discuss the 
plot and what makes this show 
binge-worthy.
The story begins in a small-
town high school with typical 
teenage drama and clique con-
ﬂ  ict. 
Before viewers can get too 
comfortable with the characters, 
the plot shifts. A huge explosion 
at a local chemical plant releases a dangerous gas into the atmo-
sphere. 
The majority of the school 
forgo the emergency protocol and 
run outside where they believe 
they will be safe, but they are 
wrong.
 In that moment, horror strikes 
as they are all affected by the 
toxic gas. All those who come 
into contact with the gas become 
zombies.
Complications and conﬂ  ict 
arise as some survivors want to 
do only that, survive. For some, 
survival comes at the cost of kill-
ing. 
Unlike other apocalyptic 
zombie shows and ﬁ  lms, these 
zombies aren’t just mindless, 
blood-hungry creatures with no 
relationship to the characters. 
They are mindless, blood-hungry 
friends, foes and spoiler alert, 
family.
One of the most interest-
ing dynamics of the show is the 
overarching constant conﬂ  ict of 
safety. 
Again, what separates this 
zombie program from the others is the inability to escape. This 
group of teens cannot just make 
a team and change location, like 
characters do in “The Walking 
Dead.” 
If they breathe in the gas that 
is covering the city or get bitten 
by any of the other zombies, they 
become monsters too.  
Along with the larger issue of 
survival, the teenagers face issues 
of love and heartbreak.
 What viewers will discover 
as they progress through the se-
ries is that the surviving students 
are not there by accident. Every 
character has a past with at least 
one other person. Each character 
is somehow connected through 
multiple storylines.
As they ﬁ  ght for their lives as 
humans, they are also ﬁ  ghting 
about rejections and relationships 
as teens.
One of the most interesting 
concepts and story arcs pushed 
throughout the series is that the 
explosion and the difﬁ  culty to 
gain outside contact are not ac-
cidents. 
As the team explores options for rescue, they begin to question 
the origin of the explosion and 
why their efforts have seemingly 
failed.
The addition of this conﬂ  ict 
was necessary to the show’s suc-
cess. This plot complexity adds a 
much-needed element of mystery 
and unpredictability to “Freak-
ish.”
While the rest of the plot pro-
vides drama that sustains the 
show from episode to episode, 
the mystery explosion creates a 
reason to watch to the end and 
get an answer to the question — 
why?
“Freakish” may not be the 
most dynamic and complex show 
ever written, but it ﬁ  nds redemp-
tion. 
The zombie genre and high 
school drama genre are both 
oversaturated. 
However, this series man-
ages to bring in compelling plot 
aspects. These twists and turns 
within the plot provide the need-
ed excitement that make “Freak-
ish” a reasonable binge-watch in 
your spare time.Series review of the week — Hulu’s ‘Freakish’
TELEVISION10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Writer
For fans eager to see the royal wedding of the 
ﬁ  rst American-born British princess, May 19 can-
not come soon enough.
The world watched Prince Harry grow up 
from his birth in London, to accompanying his 
late mother, Princess Diana, in her funeral pro-
cession, to his life as a soldier. Now, the world 
gets to watch as Prince Harry marries American 
actress Meghan Markle this Saturday.
There are a number of ways to view the royal 
wedding, as it will be covered on almost all net-
works. The event can also be live streamed and 
will be shown at select movie theaters nationally. 
Gainesville residents can also catch the wedding 
here in town.
Haile Village Bistro, located at 5323 SW 91 
Terrace, is hosting a Royal Wedding party on 
May 19 from 3-5 p.m.
Here, an English high tea will be served with 
ﬁ  nger sandwiches, quiche, scones, jam and clot-
ted cream for $22 per adult, $11 for children. 
There will be trivia and fascinator contests, 
though no special attire is needed. Call 352-378-
0721 to reserve a table as reservations are re-
quired.
Those hosting their own watch party, can 
watch on a variety of networks. To stay true to 
theme, hosts can pick up scones, jam, quiche and 
Earl Grey tea from Whole foods, Publix or Trader 
Joes to watch at home.
Broadcasting starts early Saturday with the 
ﬁ  rst guests arriving at St. George’s Chapel at 10 a.m. Greenwich Mean Time, 5 a.m. EST. The 
wedding service starts at 7 a.m. EST.
NBC kicksoff its multi-day coverage with a pri-
metime special, “Inside the Royal Wedding,” on 
May 16. On Friday, the entire Today show cast 
will spend its four-hour show live at Windsor. On 
May 19, NBC’s Hoda Kotb will kickoff live cover-
age of the wedding from 4:30 a.m. to 11 a.m EST.
CBS has wedding coverage at Windsor all 
week with Gayle King and King Frazier starting 
the wedding coverage at 4 a.m. on the 19. Af-
ter the royal wedding takes place, CBS will air 
“Royal Romance: The Marriage of Prince Harry 
and Meghan Markle” at 8 p.m. For those who 
don’t have cable, CBSN and CBS will live stream 
their coverage starting at 4 a.m.
HBO offers a humorous take on the Royal 
Wedding with Will Ferrell and Molly Shannon re-
prising their roles as mock “broadcast legends,” 
Cord and Tish.
Shannon and Ferrell previously hosted cover-
age of the Rose Bowl Parade as their comedic per-
sonas of Cord and Tish, broadcast anchors. The 
comedic duo will start their coverage at 7:30 a.m. 
and their humorous coverage will repeat later 
that night at 9:45 p.m.
ABC will send Robin Roberts and David Muir 
to cover the wedding starting at 5 a.m., and can 
be watched online at ABCNews.com.
Those who would like a royal wedding photo 
but can’t make it to Windsor Castle can down-
load the ABCNews app to take a royal wedding 
photo using augmented reality. Users can choose 
a photo with the queen’s guard or with the royal 
carriage.By Natu Tweh
Avenue contributor
Summer in Gainesville is 
no death sentence for students 
who remain. 
Gainesville is a chef’s pot 
full of different ﬂ  avors and ex-
periences — all it takes is a little 
fostering of that adventurous 
spirit to discover all the nature, 
history, culture and community 
the city has to offer.
Alachua County contains 
more than four state parks, all 
near to Gainesville. These parks 
give visitors the chance to hike, 
bike, go horseback riding and 
tap into Gainesville’s past.
Paynes Prairie Preserve State 
Park is a whopping 21,000 
acres, which is the equivalent 
of 15,880 football ﬁ  elds. It is 
a vast piece of land containing 
trails for visitors and exposure 
to wildlife like alligators and 
buffalo.
Devil’s Millhopper Geologi-
cal State Park is one of two 
geological parks in the state. 
It consists of a 120-foot-deep 
limestone sinkhole named 
Devil’s Den that is fed by 12 
springs and a diverse environ-
ment, even though it is a small 
64-acre park.
Dudley Farm Historic State 
Park is a historic district locat-
ed in Newberry. It is a work-ing farm where visitors can see 
Florida’s agricultural history 
from the 19th century to the 
early 20th century.
The home of Pulitzer Prize-
winning Florida author Marjo-
rie Kinnan Rawlings Historic 
State Park located in Cross City. 
The park is only eight acres, but 
the property alongside the park, 
managed by Alachua County 
Parks and the University of 
Florida Foundation, is 60 acres.
San Felasco Hammock Pre-
serve State Park is alongside 
Devil’s Millhopper and contains 
20 miles of trails. Visitors to the 
park will have the chance to 
see bobcats, turkeys, gray foxes 
and more.
Aside from the state parks, 
there are many historic districts 
and areas around Gainesville 
and Alachua County.
There are many historic 
buildings very close to campus, 
such as the The John F. Seagle 
Building
and the Mary Phifer McKen-
zie House, now the Sweetwater 
Branch Inn Bed and Breakfast.
Gainesville has a rich music 
history, and this is reﬂ  ected in 
the many venues that frequent-
ly have live shows. The Atlantic 
Nightspot, the High Dive, the 
Hardback Cafe, One Love Cafe, 
Madrina’s, Felipe’s Mexican 
Taqueria, Lightnin’ Salvage En-terprises, SweetBerries Eatery 
& Frozen Custard, 8 Seconds, 
Loosey’s and more constantly 
have shows that cater to a wide 
range of audiences.
Food is critical to life in 
Gainesville, and the variety 
here does not disappoint.
Crane Ramen, Mr. Han’s 
Restaurant & Night Club, Vol-
canic Sushi + Sake, Fehren-
bacher’s Artisan Sausage, Ta-
mal, LEJ Pretzel, Co., Sababa, 
Caribbean Spice Inc, Daybreak 
Pleasant Street and Beque Holic 
are some of the multicultural 
dining choices Gainesville has 
to offer.
Alongside food is beer.
Gainesville is home to sev-
eral microbreweries for those 
willing to step away from Nat-
ural Light, Budweiser, Miller 
Lite, Busch and Corona.
Swamp Head Brewery, 
Blackadder Brewing Company, 
Cypress & Grove Brewing Com-
pany, First Magnitude Brewing 
Company and Alligator Brewing 
all offer a variety of local brews, 
both staple and seasonal.
Staying close to campus is 
easy and everything around it 
is familiar, but there is plenty 
to discover beyond the box 
formed by Southwest 13th 
Street, Southwest 34th Street, 
Southwest Archer Road and 
West University Avenue.
Ways to watch the royal wedding of Prince Harry and MeghanA guide to summer in Gainesville
Natu Tweh / Avenue Contributor
Devil’s Millhopper has a series of boardwalks that allow visitors 
to safely view the Devil’s Den sinkhole.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle pose for engagement photos.
LOCALBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
For Sale: Kymco Like 200i Scooter.
Just broken in and serviced. Transferable 
warantee, windshield and cover. $1500. Don 
352-328-0764    5-29-18-5-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-1297 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2 male Grad students seek a
male roommate who is clean &
studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,
own bed/bath, on bus stop
close to UF. Pool, hot tub,
tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3
util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House across from Law house available 
August 2018! 4/2 full bath renovated, gran -
ite counter tops, parking, WD, lawn care and 
sunroom for studying! Walk to class! $2250  
352-317-6353    5-22-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
W/D, front & back porches. $840/mo + utils. 
Call 352-871-6413    5-24 18-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 7 Computers 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
The Floor Store at Thornebrook is looking for 
sales staff part time up to 25HRS
Pay $10 to $15 / HR Apply in Person.
5-22-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)FAST TYPISTS NEEDED
- Create your own schedule
- Close to campus
- Earn raises quickly
Apply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
Experienced Swim Lesson Instructors need -
ed beginning in May. Please email resume, 
hours of availability, and 2 references to 
jwilby@cox.net     5-17-18-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-17-18-4-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      5-24-18-
4-14
Established studio seeking applicant with 
exp teaching kids martial arts. Looking to 
start ASAP. Email cory.schafer@iskaworld -
hq.com to apply. PT $10-14/hr    5-24-18-4-
14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
1. INVENTION: When was the 
nylon-bristle toothbrush invented?
2. HISTORY: By what other name 
was the French military leader Joan of 
Arc known?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What color is the famous Hope Dia-
mond?
4. U.S. STATES: What is the capital 
of Kansas?
5. TELEVISION: What was the 
theme song to the 1970s cop show 
“Baretta”?
6. BIBLE: Who are the only two 
angels to be directly named in the 
Bible?
7. GEOGRAPHY: What is the name 
of the main mountain range where 
Mount Everest is located?
8. MEDICAL: What area of the body 
is affected by bursitis?
9. LANGUAGE: What is an elision?
10. ENTERTAINERS: For what 
crime was actress Sophia Loren jailed 
in 1982?
Answers
1. 1938, by Dupont
2. The Maid of Orleans
3. Blue
4. Topeka
5. “Keep Your Eye on the Sparrow”
6. Michael and Gabriel
7. The Himalayas
8. The joints
9. Omission of a sound or syllable
10. Tax evasion
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 14, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Were you an INDUSTRIAL TRADESMAN 
(machinist/boilermaker/pipefitter etc) and re -
cently diagnosed with LUNG CANCER? You 
may be entitled to a SIGNIFICANT CASH 
AWARD. Risk free consultation! 855-259-
0557      5-17-1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Selfies, e.g.
5 Consumer
protection org.
8 Grey Poupon
variety
13 “I must be cruel,
__ to be kind”:
Hamlet
14 Bar mixer
15 Slip away from
16 __ all-time low
17 “Beat it!”
18 Bit of Blake
19 Trousers in the
Liberace
Museum?
22 Guffaw syllable
23 Estadio cheer
24 Hardware item
25 Overalls part
28 Aquarium fish
30 Title for Maggie
Smith
31 “Mr. Robot” TV
network
32 Less colorful
African carpet?
35 Morales of
Netflix’s “Ozark”
37 Father of
octuplets on “The
Simpsons”
38 Not yet up
39 Surfeit of
sweets?
44 Many a craft beer
45 Folk singer Axton
46 Scenic highway
offerings
48 “Absolutely”
49 Hose users:
Abbr.
50 Holm of “The
Hobbit”
51 GI address
53 Made-to-order
drum?
56 Cold dish
59 Island off
Tuscany
60 Whodunit canine
61 Interspersed with
62 Nectar flavor
63 User of black
lipstick, perhaps
64 Gumption
65 Nursery
purchase
66 “Orinoco Flow”
singerDOWN
1 Cook in hot milk,
say
2 Since
3 “Homeland”
Emmy winner
4 Harmonized, with
“in”
5 Lawn game
6 Vanilla
7 Drive someone
home?
8 Fan
9 Composer
Charles
10 8-Across holder
11 Goes overboard
(on)
12 Wedding notice
word
14 Forensics facility,
briefly
20 Circle dance
21 Unfeeling
25 Masters champ
in 2012 and 2014
26 “That’s clear”
27 Meter writer
29 Twin Cities daily,
familiarly
30 Home __
33 Slow-but-steady
progress34 Demolish
35 Former Skype
owner
36 Dover fish
40 “Dang!”
41 Some assents
42 Video game figure
43 Spanish lad
47 Inconsistent
50 Boast in a 1987
Michael Jackson
hit52 Lincoln 
neighbor
53 “__ help you?”
54 Muffin spread
55 Sorcerer in
fantasy 
games
56 “Grace and
Frankie” actor
Waterston
57 Latin trio word
58 Cured salmon
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/17/1805/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 17, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 __ media
5 Last year’s frosh
9 With 65-Across, it
has a 54-Across,
so they say
14 Bug bite
symptom
15 Indonesian boat
16 British prime
minister before
Brown
17 “Cooking From
the Hip” chef
Cat __
18 Prilosec target
19 Well-manored
men?
20 Old Glory
23 Pigs and hogs
24 Nov. voting time
25 Dead heat
28 “Don’t incriminate
yourself!”
31 Platters from the
past
34 “Otello” baritone
35 “__ and Louis”:
1956 jazz album
36 Marjoram kin
38 Like the
Constitution, 27
times
41 “Unforgettable”
father or daughter
42 Nerve cell
transmitter
43 Sci-fi extras
44 1983 Lionel
Richie #1 song
49 Guitar great Paul
50 Bring in
51 New, to Neruda
54 Upside of 9-
Across/65-
Across ... and,
chemically
speaking, what
each pair of
circles represents
57 Storage towers
60 City on its own
lake
61 Morally
repugnant
62 Fill with delight
63 Pie containers
64 “La Dolce __”
65 See 9-Across
66 Ford
contemporary
67 Eden exile
DOWN
1 Layered silicate
2 Tiny physics
units3 Threaded
hardware
4 Islamic law
5 Guy who is out of
this world?
6 Killer whale
7 Indicate with an
index finger
8 Lived it up
9 Online marketing
technique
10 YouTube journal
11 Musical gift
12 Relieved (of)
13 Trips around the
sun: Abbr.
21 Gandhi’s land
22 Early-to-mid-
August baby
25 El Niño feature?
26 Shoreline recess
27 “Jeepers!”
29 “May __ now?”
30 Lady bird
31 From this area
32 Humble worker,
briefly
33 Succeeds
commercially
37 Bk. with the ark
story
38 Rocker Rose
39 Like a particularly
dark sky after
sunset40 The blahs
42 In imminent
danger
45 Opened or
closed, as a lens
aperture
46 Hairdresser’s
goop
47 Must
48 Swiss convention
city
52 Brilliantly 
colored53 Soul singer
Baker
54 Annual Jan.
speech, in
Twitter 
hashtags
55 Orange skin
56 Flashy rock
genre
57 “Wait a __!”
58 Under the
weather
59 Poet __-tzu
By Jared Tamarkin
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/16/1805/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, May 16, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Sword, for example
1.  Venus, to Earth5.  Pig ____
2.  ____ Sea6.  Subtle sarcasm 
3.  Result7.  Apprentice 
4.  Waxy writing stickAPWONE
EAWRRMORSTA
NRYOI
BANAAIR
UOCOEMTNIRNET
YOCRANANSWERS: 1A-Weapon  5A-Roast  6A-Irony  7A-Intern
1D-Warmer  2D-Arabian  3D-Outcome  4D-Canyon  B-Marine Corps.5-17-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The United States ____ ____ 
traces its roots back to 1775. BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.SEC Pitcher of the Year Kelly 
Barnhill and second overall 
seed Florida begin NCAA 
Regional play Friday.NHL Conference Finals resume tonight
The Las Vegas Golden Knights took a 2-1 series lead over the Winnipeg Jets 
Wednesday night. In the east, the T ampa Bay Lightning look to even their 
series with the Washington Capitals at two-apiece in tonight's game.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S GOLF
Gators re-write record books at NCAA Kissimmee Regional
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Andy Zhang claimed victory at the NCAA Kissimmee Regional, leading the team with a 13-under-par effort in 
its record-breaking performance at the Watson at Reunion Resort on Wednesday.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
History was set on the final day of the NCAA 
Kissimmee Regional.
Sophomore Andy Zhang and freshman Chris 
Nido carded career-best scores to finish first and 
second in the tournament, respectively. Every 
Gator finished below par. UF was also the only 
team in the field to have all five of its golfers fin-
ish at 2 under or below.
But that wasn’t historic. That’s commonplace 
for the team that wins the tournament. The real 
history came with the score.
The Florida men’s golf team won the regional 
by 12 strokes over second-place UCF, finishing 
the tournament at 42 under par. That score is the 
lowest in program history, beating the previous 
record of 37 under set in 2006.
“We designed everything this year to make 
sure we were ready for this tournament,” coach 
J.C. Deacon said in a release. “Forty-two under 
par, a University of Florida all-time scoring re-
cord, that is pretty special and especially to do it 
when you need it the most.”
Florida definitely needed it and got it at the 
best possible time. With the NCAA Champion-
ships coming up on May 25, having two of its 
golfers put up 13-under and 12-under scores gives 
the Gators momentum heading into the biggest 
tournament of the year.
Zhang was in a tie for first at the start of Day 
3. His back-to-back birdies on the first two holes 
helped distance himself from the pack early. 
For the round, Zhang tallied six birdies and 
one bogey to win his second consecutive tourna-
ment, as he won the SEC Championship on April 
28. His score of 13 under was tied for the fourth 
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15
BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
 
Camaraderie. Togetherness. Team.
All words UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
used to describe his baseball team’s trip to 
Starkville, Mississippi.
The No. 1 Florida Gators (41-12, 20-7 SEC) 
have been a force this year and look to finish 
the regular season strong with a series against 
the Mississippi State Bulldogs beginning to-
night.
Although Mississippi State (28-24, 12-15 
SEC) hasn’t had an incredible season and the 
series doesn’t really matter to the SEC champi-
ons, O’Sullivan seemed excited that his team had a chance to bond over the trip and close 
out the year in a positive fashion.
Led by center fielder Jake Mangum and 
pitcher Ethan Small, MSU has had its share of 
success in 2018. 
Mangum, a junior, is tied for the confer-
ence lead in total hits (79) and doubles (19) 
on the year. He's also tied for fifth in steals 
with 14.
Mississippi State will start pitcher Konnor 
Pilkington in the first game of the series. Pilk-
ington has mustered a 2-6 record and a 4.35 
ERA. 
The Bulldogs have an ace in Zach Neff, No. 1 Florida prepares for 
final regular-season series
Good on you, George 
Hill.
“I can tell you that 
not even the NBA 
Eastern Conference 
Finals could have kept me 
from enjoying this moment,” 
Hill said at his college gradua-
tion Saturday.
The 32-year-old Cavaliers 
point guard actually missed 
Saturday’s practice, as Game 1 between 
Cleveland and the Boston Celtics was 
played on Monday, to receive his diploma 
from the Indiana University-Purdue Uni-
versity Indianapolis (IUPUI) college of lib-
eral arts. However, we need to talk about the fact that this happened 10 
years after leaving the college 
ranks to begin his professional 
career.
I applaud Hill’s decision 
to finish his formal educa-
tion, especially because he’s 
already earned about 60 mil-
lion dollars as an NBA player. 
I also respect that he did so 
working a full-time job that 
requires him traveling the country on a 
weekly basis for six to eight months of the 
year.
How easy could it have been for Hill? Why aren’t we talking about the 
pros that go back to college?Huang Story Short / Opinion
Andrew Huang
twitter: @AndrewJHuang
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
lowest three-day total in program history.
Nido’s day was ﬂ  awless. The freshman 
carded nine birdies, including seven on the 
back nine, and didn’t register a single bogey. 
His round score of 9 under was the lowest re-
corded by a freshman in UF program history. 
He recorded four consecutive birdies at the 
end to help secure sole possession of second 
place, as he beat the third-place golfers by two 
strokes.
Freshman John Axelsen wasn’t too far be-
hind his teammates. After recording a bogey 
on the fourth hole, Axelsen ﬁ  nished the day 
with three birdies, setting his score at 9 under, 
good for a tie for sixth place.
Junior Gordon Neale and senior Alejandro 
Tosti rounded out Florida’s lineup with 2-un-der performances. Neale had four birdies and 
four bogeys, including back-to-back birdies 
on two of his last three holes.
Tosti’s day was almost the same. The se-
nior had ﬁ  ve birdies and four bogeys on the 
round, pushing him to 2 under and putting 
him and Neale in a tie for 26th.
The Gators now turn their attention to the 
NCAA Championship in Stillwater, Oklahoma, 
starting on May 25th. The top-ﬁ  ve teams from 
each regional qualiﬁ  ed for the tournament.
“Our team showed today exactly what they 
are made out of,” Deacon said. “We have a 
week to go before the National Championship 
and we’re going to use that time to get a little 
sharper and more prepared. We’ll give it our 
all in Stillwater.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGOLF,  from pg. 14Nido carded a bogey-free 63 who carries a 2.72 ERA, but won’t play him for at least 
the ﬁ  rst two games of the three-game series, likely due 
to him pitching 1.2 innings in relief last Sunday and it 
being the last series of the season.
Small will start Game 2. He is 5-3 on the year with a 
2.75 ERA, the sixth-best ERA in the SEC. He also sits at 
second in the league with 93 total strikeouts.
Out of the bullpen, the Bulldogs will likely turn to 
relief pitcher Blake Smith. His 18.2 innings are the most 
for any pitcher not starting for MSU, and he carries an 
ERA of 2.41.
For the Gators, consensus ﬁ  rst-round pick Brady 
Singer will take the mound in Game 1. The lanky right-
hander is 10-1 on the season and sports an ERA of 2.25.
In Game 2, Jackson Kowar will take the rock with a 
9-2 record and a 2.56 ERA.
Closing the series for Florida will be freshman righty 
Jack Leftwich. Leftwich’s season has been marred by 
inconsistency, but he has shown ﬂ  ashes of bright spots. 
He heads into the weekend with a 4.26 ERA and a 4-3 
record.
Third baseman Jonathan India and catcher/ﬁ  rst 
baseman JJ Schwarz anchor UF's offense. India is sec-
ond in the SEC with a .383 batting average and leads 
the league in slugging and on-base percentage, with 
.772 and .524, respectively.
Schwarz has been a constant presence in Florida’s 
lineup, playing in every single game in his college ca-
reer and starting in all of them.
The Gators have already clinched a regular-season 
SEC title, so the series won’t affect their ﬁ  nal placement. 
However, they'll put their regular-season series win 
streak on the line. Having won 19 in a row, Florida 
hasn’t lost more than a game in every series it has 
played dating back to last season.
@THEChrisOB 
cobrien@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Gators head to MSU with 19 straight regular-season series wins
Alligator File Photo
Juniors Brady Singer (pictured) and Jackson Kowar lead the UF pitching staff with respective records of 10-1 and 9-2. 
They will both be taking the mound this weekend in Starkville, Mississippi, during Florida's ﬁ  nal regular-season series.
He jumped at the opportunity to be-
come a big-time professional with a 
contract potentially worth millions of 
dollars and “settled” for that, at the ex-
pense of some college classes that, if 
we’re being honest, are a scam.
I can’t blame anybody for seizing 
the chance to get paid to play the sport 
they love, but these athletes’ choices 
to go back and ﬁ  nish what they started 
should garner more attention than they 
do. 
The more these achievements are 
publicized, the better, because these 
same athletes are often stereotyped as 
unintelligent and best-suited to, as Fox 
News host Laura Ingraham said to Leb-
ron James, “shut up and dribble.”
We, as the media who publish 
these stories and consumers who hit 
the share button, need to normalize 
the idea that these people aren’t just a 
bunch of dumb jocks.
And I would know.
I’ve interviewed plenty of UF ath-
letes and coaches in my year and a 
half as a local sports reporter. I was a 
beat writer for the Florida volleyball 
team, and I can tell you that the team’s 
student-athletes and head coach, Mary 
Wise, are anything but unintelligent. 
I covered UF men’s basketball, too – 
head coach Mike White consistently 
gives well-articulated, detailed answers 
to media questions. Gators head foot-
ball coach Dan Mullen is well-spoken 
and personable during interviews. All 
of these coaches are former players.Percy Harvin and Ahmad Black, a 
pair of integral members of the 2008 
national championship-winning foot-
ball squad, have both returned to 
school and are currently ﬁ  nishing their 
degrees at UF.
But former Gators wide receiver 
Gary Rolle, who played in the 1982-84 
football seasons, tops them all. I had 
the pleasure of interviewing him last 
summer.
Rolle was eventually drafted by the 
Denver Broncos, where he spent his 
three-year NFL career. He didn’t see 
the ﬁ  eld as much as he would have 
liked, but he still had to beat all sorts of 
odds to make it there in the ﬁ  rst place.
But just competing for the chance to 
play football at the highest level wasn’t 
enough for Rolle, who spent a year en-
rolled in medical school – at the same 
time.
He went on to complete his educa-
tion and is now an orthopedic surgeon 
two hours north in Tallahassee.
Shut up and dribble?
Try telling that to Rolle or Hill. Or 
Shaquille O’Neal, or Michelle Kwan, or 
Venus Williams, or any other athletes 
who ﬁ  ght the unfair battle for recogni-
tion of their intelligence – the unsung 
grads of the sports world.
 
An article from ESPN contributed to 
this report.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports writer. Fol-
low him on Twitter @AndrewJHuang 
and contact him at ahuang@alligator.
org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
1
2
T-6
T-26
T-26FINISH
POSITION
A. ZHANG
C. NIDO
J. AXELSEN
G. NEALE
A. TOSTI68
71
69
68
7468
70
68
74
6967
63
70
72
71203 (-13)
204 (-12)
207 (-9)
214 (-2)
214 (-2)NAME ROUND 1 ROUND 2 ROUND 3 FINAL SCORE
(TO PAR)16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2018
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
2-4-1 
Poke Bowls
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail  
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week7 pm – 12am
2-4-1  
Appetizers 
2-4-1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$5 Flat Breads 
(Margherita or Buffalo Chicken)
$2 Premium 
Wells
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ 
Cheese
(Buffalo Chicken or  
BBQ Pulled Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
BAR BINGO   
@7:30pmNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Double Wells
$4 Swamphead/ 
1st Magnitude 
Drafts
$4 Tito’s Vodka
$5 K.C. Nacho’s
$6 Chicken 
Tenders
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseSUNDAY
FUNDAYBLOWOUT
MONDAYS2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
MAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm