We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A community comes together after hate
Newberry residents respond after a transgender woman had a 
slur spray painted on her door, pg. 4
Catholic Gators building demolished
The building will was torn down after 60 years of use, pg. 5THE STREAK IS DEAD
The Kentukcy Wildcats beat Florida 27-16 Saturday night, end-
ing 31 years of futility against their divisional foe, pg. 14.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 8
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Terry Wilson had Florida de-
fenders diving helplessly at his 
feet.
The Kentucky quarterback 
consistently found himself in 
open space with no one within 
reach of him until he had moved 
10, 15, 20 yards up the ﬁ  eld.
No one except running back 
Benny Snell, who ran just as eas-
ily over Florida’s defensive front.
The Gators never found a way 
to contain the duo as they fell to 
Kentucky 21-16 at home on Satur-
day night.
And Florida’s fate ultimately 
trended down to a lack of physi-
cality. Neither side of the ball es-
tablished the toughness needed to 
compete with the Wildcats.
The Gators’ offensive line was 
dominated by Kentucky’s defen-
sive front in every way possible.
Left tackle Martez Ivey never 
seemed to settle into the game as 
Kentucky middle linebacker Kash 
Daniel and defensive end Josh Al-
len had their way all night.
It was a wakeup call for Ivey 
and the offensive line. And he knows they have to ﬁ  nd a way to 
establish toughness as a unit.
“We’re gonna know what we 
gotta correct and get right and do 
what we gotta do and get better. 
Just practice harder and let this 
loss not sink in,” Ivey said. “It’s 
a light to show us we got to go 
much harder than what we think 
we’ve been giving.”
The story was much of the 
same on the other side. Corner-
back Marco Wilson went down 
early in the ﬁ  rst quarter of the 
game with a torn ACL, and Flor-
ida’s defense never established 
any sort of dominance.
There was a forced fumble 
by James Houston and an inter-
ception by defensive back C.J. 
Henderson at the end of the ﬁ  rst 
half, but that faded into the back-
ground behind all of the missed 
tackles and inability to set the 
edge.
It’s not that the opportunities 
weren’t there.
There were several instances 
in which Wilson or Snell should 
have been tackled for a loss but 
instead ended up gaining huge  STREAK OVER: Florida falls to Kentucky 27-16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Dan Mullen said the winning streak had nothing to do with Saturday’s game against 
Kentucky. “I mean it ended, ” he said. “It happens, it’s sports. It’s a tough loss for us. ”
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Rabbi Berl Goldman celebrates with about 700 attendees during the Lubavitch Chabad 
Jewish Center’s Rosh Hashanah service on Sunday night. The service commemorates 
the Jewish new year and is delivered in Hebrew.
Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
UF continued to climb the ranks one 
year after making a list of top 10 public 
universities. 
UF tied for eighth place with the Geor-
gia Institute of Technology in the U.S. 
News and World Report’s 2019 list of top 
public universities, according to the re-
port. UF placed ninth last year.
No other Florida public university 
ranked higher than UF, according to the 
report. Florida State University ranked at 
26th, the University of South Florida at 
58th place, the University of Central Florida 
at 87th place and Florida International Uni-
versity at 100th.
“We’re not surprised we went up a 
step, but it’s always gratifying to be rec-
ognized,” UF Provost Joseph Glover said. 
UF rose from 42nd to 35th place on the 
Best National Universities rankings list.
The UF Board of Trustees and UF Presi-dent Kent Fuchs want to move the univer-
sity further up the list, Glover said. The 
ranking helps to attract more students and 
faculty members.    
The university is rated on different 
factors, including average class size and 
graduation rates, Glover said. Students, 
university applicants and faculty under-
stand that UF is a high-achieving univer-
sity when they see a high ranking, he said. 
It also gives alumni a reason to donate.
Samantha Miller, a 22-year-old UF me-
chanical and aerospace engineering se-
nior, said UF’s reputation has given her 
opportunities like an internship with Gen-
eral Electric.
“I never really thought about rankings 
coming here,” Miller said. “I guess it was 
just what the school’s known for and the 
opportunities I would have.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgUF rises to No. 8 in top 10 
public university rankingsT oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Geocaching Gators
Interested in adventuring 
outdoors and treasure hunt-
ing? Looking to explore 
Gainesville’s parks and natu-
ral spaces? Then geocaching 
might be the perfect activ-
ity for you. Learn more about 
geocaching at the Geocaching 
Gator club’s meeting at 6:30 
p.m. Wednesday at Matherly 
Hall Room 6. For more infor-
mation and events, search 
for the “Geocaching Gators” 
Facebook page.
The Path to Fulbright: Challenges, 
Opportunities, and Rewards 
with Marcía Porter
The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to in-
vite the UF community to the 
first Fulbright event of the 
semester, which will be held 
at 2 p.m. Friday at the Music 
Building in Room 101. Marcía 
Porter, an award-winning so-
prano and professor of voice 
at the Florida State University 
College of Music, is an active 
recitalist who has performed in 
numerous venues and presti-
gious festivals throughout the 
United States, Italy, Brazil and 
the Czech Republic. Porter was 
a Fulbright Scholar to Brazil. 
There will be a meet and greet 
after the talk. For additional 
information please contact 
Claire Anumba at canumba@
ufic.ufl.edu. 
Absentee Ballot Requests 
UF Student Government’s 
due date to request an absen-
tee ballot for the Fall Student 
Government elections is due by 
5 p.m.  Wednesday. Information 
can be found at sg.ufl.edu/elec-
tions. 
Volunteer opportunities 
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is holding an orienta-
tion for adults interested in 
learning more about volunteer-
ing. The presentation 3 p.m. 
to 5 p.m. Wednesday will help 
participants identify the best 
match for their interests and 
abilities. Volunteers serve as ex-
hibit guides to school groups and 
other museum visitors, or work 
in the collections and research 
departments. Pre-registration is 
required, and volunteers must be 
18 years or older. For more in-
formation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/volunteers or call 352-
273-2055.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Viva 
Museum’ Sept. 15
Celebrate South American cul-
ture from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.  
Saturday at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. Enjoy the 
musical group Danzas PeruJax 
as they perform traditional 
music and dance, and view 
seldom-seen Andean artifacts 
from the museum’s South 
American ethnographic collec-
tion. This is a bilingual, family 
event. Este es un evento biligüe 
y familiar. For more informa-
tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/viva-museum or 
call 352-273-2061.
Florida Museum bat exhibit 
leaves Sept. 16
 Museum visitors may match 
bats with the foods they con-
sume, learn about echoloca-
tion, visit a simulated bat 
nursery and discover the areas 
bats live worldwide in the mu-
seum’s current featured exhib-
it “Masters of the Night: The 
True Story of Bats.” While the 
exhibit has an entrance fee, UF 
students with a valid Gator 1 
Card and museum members 
receive free admission. For 
more information, visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/bats or 
call 352-846-2000.
Local Art
On Saturday, Hardback Cafe 
will host “For Overthinkers & 
Artists.” Join them as art and 
hip-hop combine in celebra-
tion of local music producer 
and artist Nxt Lvl’s new proj-
ect, “For Overthinkers.” Local 
art will be on display by some 
of Gainesville’s most talented 
artists, including a live paint-
ing exhibit. Nxt Lvl will be 
performing songs from his lat-
est project, as well as his vast 
library of music. Special guest 
Elixir Flow from Orlando will 
open the show. Doors open at 
7 p.m. The event is free and 
open to those 18 and older.
DreamQuilt
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting artists 
and performers for SoulMakes, 
an Immersive Art Show from 
noon to 4 p.m. Sept. 22 at 
Cypress & Grove Brewing Co. 
All types of artists welcome, 
and presenting artists are en-couraged to do demos, talk 
with guests and work on proj-
ects right there in the space. 
Participants and guests interact 
in an open, creative environ-
ment blending different forms 
of art with a unique experience 
for visitors. Current students 
may apply to show their work 
for free. To sell art or craft 
items, a booth fee of $15 ap-
plies. Learn more by emailing 
booking@dreamquilt.org or 
texting 352-872-2620.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of men and 
women who have a desire to 
recover from their eating disor-
ders. There is no one “too sick” 
or “not sick enough” to attend. 
Men and women of all ages are 
welcome. For times, locations 
and more information, please 
email GainesvilleEDA@gmail.
com or text/call 954-319-6365. 
You can also visit 4EDA.org 
for more information. 
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of 
journalists advancing diversity 
in the workplace. With mem-
bership, students get access 
to networking opportunities 
and connections to top editors 
in national media organiza-
tions, as well as scholarships 
and mentorships. It is not just 
limited to journalism majors. 
For more information, email 
Alexandria Ng at alexandri-
ang@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 8
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief David Hoffman, Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgUF ranked #8 among  
public universities
 – U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2019
THANK YOU   faculty, staff and  
students. It is because of your hard 
work we can celebrate this success.  
As we look to the future and ask  
what’s next for this great University, 
the answers are infinite. Together we 
will keep pursuing solutions to the world’s toughest challenges. We will 
continue this climb. Because we know 
that our efforts can lead us not only  
to the mountain top we’re seeking,  
but also to new and exciting horizons. 
We do it for the future of our state,  
nation and world. For the greater good.
INVESTING IN OURSELVES.  
INVESTING IN WHAT’S NEXT.#GATORGOODMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   34   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
After working to earn her 
master’s degree in occupational 
therapy since Fall 2016, Stepha-
nie Robertson won’t walk across 
the stage of the O’Connell Center 
this December like she planned. 
It’s not because she missed an 
assignment or failed an exam. In 
fact, it’s a situation all graduat-
ing students will find themselves 
in after UF announced that it’s 
changing the way commence-
ment is run. 
Starting in December, stu-
dents from every college will now 
attend one university-wide com-
mencement ceremony together 
in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, said 
Stephanie McBride, director of 
commencement. This ceremony 
will have a choir, an orchestra, 
speakers and UF will confer the 
degrees, but students will not be 
individually recognized. Each in-
dividual college will also have the 
option to hold their own separate 
ceremony where students can be 
recognized. The change doesn’t 
apply to doctoral students. “(Colleges) can celebrate how 
they choose to,” McBride said. 
“They will have more freedom to 
make those ceremonies look how 
they want them to look.” 
UF came under fire for their 
commencement procedures af-
ter a graduation marshal aggres-
sively rushed students across the 
stage during this year’s Spring 
commencement. McBride said 
that wasn’t the only reason the 
structure was changed. 
The previous commencement 
structure was trying to accom-
plish too many things at once and 
isn’t sustainable for UF’s growing 
population, McBride said. 
“There needed to be a way of 
addressing the fact that we were 
going to bust at the seams,” she 
said. 
This December, 14 of the 16 
colleges will be holding their own 
ceremonies in various buildings 
including the Reitz Union and 
the O’Connell Center, except the 
Levin College of Law and College 
of Dentistry because they don’t 
have Fall graduates, McBride 
said.
McBride has already received some emails expressing concerns 
about the change. 
She believes holding the large 
ceremony outdoors and creating 
two separate ceremonies are the 
primary causes of people’s frus-
trations.
UF created a task force to re-
view the graduation ceremonies, 
said David Parrott, the vice presi-
dent for Student Affairs. They are 
aiming to balance efficiency, tra-
dition and celebration. 
“The goal is to have ceremo-
nies that celebrate and are mean-
ingful for all graduates,” he said.  
Robertson has decided to fore-
go the big ceremony in the sta-
dium. She’ll attend her college’s 
individual ceremony instead.  
“Without that individual rec-
ognition, I really don’t see a point 
in going,” the 31-year-old said. “I 
think that’s a big part of the UF 
experience, is getting to walk on 
that big stage in front of a large 
crowd in front of all of your fam-
ily and friends.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgUF changes graduation procedures  
Jessica Curbelo and  
Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writers
UF will “shut up and dance” to 
Walk the Moon at Gator Growl, 
event organizers announced.
The alt-rock-pop band will head-
line the UF Homecoming pep rally 
Nov. 2 on Flavet Field, according to 
a press release. Andrew Kelly, the Student Government Productions 
chairman, declined to comment on 
how much the group is being paid 
to perform. Other performers have 
not been announced yet.
Tickets are currently being sold 
on Ticketmaster and on Turlington 
Plaza, said Marie Nanney, an event 
organizer. Students can buy gen-
eral admission tickets for $15 with 
a discount code sent to their UF 
emails and can buy pit passes for $30. Non-UF students can pay $25 
for general admission tickets and 
$50 for pit passes, Nanney said.
Walk the Moon won two Bill-
board Music Awards in 2016, ac-
cording to Billboard. Some of the 
band’s top songs include “Shut Up 
and Dance,” “Anna Sun” and “One 
Foot.”
Liliam Clavijo, a 19-year-old UF 
political science sophomore, was 
thrilled to hear that Walk the Moon is playing at Gator Growl. 
A year ago, she and two friends 
saw the group perform live at a 
concert.
“They’re nostalgic for me,” 
Clavijo said. “I wouldn’t say I’m a 
huge fan, but I do enjoy their mu-
sic. They’re so upbeat and fun.”
Artemis Magliveras, a 21-year-
old UF chemistry senior, disagrees. 
Magliveras said she was disap-
pointed when she heard the news because she was expecting a big-
ger artist. She said some of the art-
ists Gator Growl has chosen aren’t 
artists people want to listen to in a 
concert setting.
“If they were to interview peo-
ple to see where their interests are 
each year, they would be able to 
pick a better artist,” Magliveras 
said. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.org
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgWalk the Moon to headline at Gator Growl Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville grassroots organi-
zation is launching a new initiative 
to improve student performance in 
East Gainesville.  
James Lawrence, the director of 
Gainesville4All, presented the ini-
tiative, called the “empowerment 
zone,” at Eastside High School on 
Thursday. The zone is meant to pro-
vide services to improve student per-
formance at Marjorie Kinnan Rawl-
ings and W.A. Metcalfe Elementary 
Schools, which both send many of 
its students on to attend Howard W. 
Bishop Middle School.
Services will include tutoring, 
mentoring, mental health counseling 
for students and job counseling for 
parents. The group plans to launch 
the initiative Oct. 13. 
United Way of North Central Flor-
ida, a local branch of the nationwide 
nonprofit, has agreed to provide its 
services, Lawrence said. He hopes 
more individuals and businesses in 
the community will contribute be-
cause the empowerment zone de-pends on volunteers and doesn’t 
have funding.
“We are not to be viewed as sav-
iors,” Lawrence said. “We are part-
ners.”
The group will hold a stakehold-
ers meeting Sept. 17 involving com-
munity leaders like pastors and 
social agency providers. Lawrence 
hopes the zone will improve the co-
ordination of community services.  
“We want to get these people to 
the table, so they can talk and hope-
fully make a bigger impact,” he said.
Tamelia Malcolm, the parent-
teacher-student-association presi-
dent of Howard Bishop Middle 
School, said she hopes the initiative 
will create a partnership between 
Howard Bishop and the elementary 
schools.
“Any support into a community 
that has disparities would be benefi-
cial,” Malcolm, 36, said. “It depends 
on how they involve families. Par-
ents need to be at the table.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgEast side elementary schools 
to get special focus, servicesAmanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Alecia Abel ripped a Post-It note from 
her door Thursday night. It said, “Move 
or die.”
She tore it up and threw it away. 
Abel, a 38-year-old engineer and New-
berry resident, came out as a transgender 
woman three months ago. The note was 
the most recent incident after a month of 
harassment from strangers, until early 
Friday morning, Abel said.
She found the same threat spray-
painted on her garage door in big black 
letters, but with a slur added at the end. 
Deputies were patrolling the Newber-
ry Oaks neighborhood about 2:15 a.m. 
Friday when they noticed the vandalism 
on the garage door, said Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Sgt. Brett 
Rhodenizer. 
Abel was enjoying her new fire pit in 
the backyard while her wife, Lizzy, was 
asleep. The couple’s dogs began barking 
uncontrollably when a deputy knocked 
on their door. When Alecia Abel walked into the 
house, she saw the living room bathed in 
red and blue lights from the patrol car. 
Lizzy Abel didn’t know about the slur 
sprawled across her garage door. 
The letters were taller than she is, she 
said. 
Alecia and Lizzy Abel think the house 
was vandalized between 12:30 a.m. and 
2:30 a.m.
Lizzy Abel was shocked this would 
happen in Newberry Oaks.
“That’s not politics,” she said. “That’s 
somebody’s hatred.”
Alecia Abel said in the past month 
random people on the street have wolf-
whistled and rolled their eyes at her 
when she’s  “all girled up” in her wig and 
makeup. She is hoping facial feminiza-
tion surgery will soften her features.
“They wouldn’t know I’m a trans 
woman,” she said. “They’ll just see me 
as a woman.”
Within a day, the garage door looked 
new. By Sunday, the GoFundMe Lizzy 
Abel made Friday hit $1,105. 
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office is investigating the vandalism as a hate 
crime and reviewing security camera 
footage, Rhodenizer said. 
Newberry Mayor Jordan Marlowe and 
Naim Erched, 35, an insurance company 
analyst, went to the couple’s home Sun-
day to help set up a security camera. Ale-
cia Abel said she bought it months ago 
but never got around to installing it.
Erched said he was shocked to see the 
graffiti on Facebook. He didn’t know the 
couple well, but offered to help, he said.
“This is not our Newberry,” Erched 
said. 
Alecia Abel said she feels validated by 
the support from neighbors and people 
she has never met. Within a day after 
the vandalism appeared, neighbors ap-
proached the Abels offering to paint over 
the graffiti, cook them dinner and pitch 
in money to help Alecia Abel’s transition.
“At this point, I have absolutely no 
fear,” she said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgNewberry rallies behind transgender woman targeted with a slur
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Alecia Abel, a 38-year-old Newberry resident, came out 
as a transgender woman three months ago. A vandal 
painted a slur on her garage door early Friday morning. 
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator Staff
Catholic Gators’ building behind Midtown on Northwest First Avenue was demolished 
last week. The organization plans to build a new house in a different location. 
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Father David Ruchinski isn’t sad to see the 
Catholic Gators home of 60 years torn down.
Instead, Ruchinski knows the new facili-
ties will be even better for their attendance 
of thousands.  
The “Hurley House,” which was named 
after Archbishop Joseph Hurley, was used 
for college members in Catholic Gators at St. 
Augustine Church to congregate for 60 years. 
Last week, it was torn down. The lot of the 
old building, along West University Avenue, 
will be used for reconstruction along with an-
other new facility and parking lot across the 
street, said Casey Krahmer, a Catholic Gators 
member and 19-year-old UF health science 
sophomore. 
Standing at six stories tall and about 
10,000 square feet, the new house will be 
almost 50 percent larger, said Father David 
Ruchinski, the pastor and director of St. Au-
gustine Church and Catholic Gators. The new 
land is located directly behind St. Augustine, 
at 1738 W. University Ave.
New features of the home will include a 
parking garage, a meeting space, an outdoor picnic area and a chapel accessible to all stu-
dents 24/7, Ruchinski said. The construction 
has already started. 
The church’s land has been near campus 
since the 1920s. This is the second time the 
land will be redeveloped in almost 100 years, 
according to the Catholic Gators website. In 
1959, the complex was reconstructed into 
what was the recently demolished house. 
Surrounding land was bought last year to ac-
commodate the larger house, Krahmer said. 
Plans for construction have been in the works 
for about 10 years. 
Members are hosting events in a tempo-
rary house at 2222 W. University Ave.
Krahmer said she was excited for the ame-
nities in the new house. 
“It seems promising,” Krahmer said. 
The home is being developed by Roger De-
velopment Group, Ruchinski said. 
The new facility will help accommodate 
the growing population of Catholic Gators’ 
members on campus, Ruchinski said. 
“It’s a positive sign for the future direction 
of this campus ministry program,” Ruchinski 
said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgCatholic Gators house torn down, expanding to new lot
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Prayer books are laid out at the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center for Rosh Hashanah. 
Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the sounds of He-
brew prayers reverberating 
through the air and the taste 
of a traditional meal on 
their tongues, UF students 
celebrated Rosh Hashanah.
The Lubavitch Chabad 
Jewish Center hosted a ser-
vice and dinner for about 
700 people to start Rosh Ha-
shanah, the Jewish celebra-
tion of the New Year,  Rabbi 
Berl Goldman said. 
The center expects about 
2,000 people to attend over 
the holiday’s three days.
“What better way to 
bring in the New Year than to pray as a community all 
together,” Goldman said. 
Chabad had prepared 
for about 500 people, but 
halfway through the service 
had to add more than 100 
chairs, which still wasn’t 
enough, Rabbi Aaron Notik 
said. 
Those who arrived early 
enough got a seat at one of 
the many tables that lined 
the ﬂ  oor, and the rest stood 
around the perimeter of the 
room. 
“This is a holiday that 
is typically celebrated with 
family, so for students who 
can’t go home, this is their 
family,” Notik said.
The room was divided by a large screen, with men 
on one side and women on 
the other during the service. 
But as soon as the rabbi said 
the closing blessing, the 
screens were pushed aside 
and everyone ate together.
Attendees ate Chal-
lah bread and apples with 
honey, which symbolize a 
sweet year, said Nell Shara-
bani, a 23-year-old UF mar-
keting senior. 
“The amount of people 
here is overwhelming, but 
I feel so connected even to 
like people I don’t know 
here, just because the whole 
Jewish community here is 
so welcoming,” Sharabani 
said.Local Jewish New Year celebration to draw 2,000 peopleMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5Editorial
ColumnThe student debt crisis 
is at a critical point
Why politics tend to lean toward debate
The day after Donald Trump became presi-
dent, I was walking near Turlington Plaza 
and heard a commotion. There was a large 
group of people, somewhere between 100 
and 150, circled around a few individuals 
wielding megaphones near the Turlington Potato. 
One megaphoned man wore a “Make America 
Great Again” cap, and the other three or four who 
stood on the opposite side of the circle were evi-
dently anti-Trumpers. Some people in the crowd 
held posters with witty political jabs or slogans. 
The rest were recording the spectacle for Snapchat or Ins-
tagram.
It was a strange thing to stumble upon, but I quickly real-
ized it was supposed to be a debate of sorts, to settle whether 
Trump would harm or beneﬁ  t our country. The few with 
megaphones were supposed to represent and speak for their 
political bases. And the crowd was to be the judge of who 
was more persuasive.
There was a gulf, though, between the intent of the event 
and the outcome. The exchange between the megaphoned 
pro- and anti-Trumpers was certainly not a civil conversa-
tion, let alone a thoughtful debate. Rather, it was a shouting 
contest, a game of loud assertion. They categorically denied 
the other’s arguments — then asserted their own. The mega-
phones could barely project over the crowd members, who 
either found it all to be funny or interjected with their own 
arguments, creating an orchestra of partisan noise.
As it turns out, the phenomenon I witnessed at Turlington 
is more of the norm than it should be. People are not congre-
gating in their towns and shouting at each other, but I would 
submit that normal political dialogue, speciﬁ  cally between 
Democrats and Republicans, is not that distantly related — 
perhaps because that dialogue barely exists.
The Pew Research Center found that nearly half of self-
identiﬁ  ed Republicans and Democrats have a highly unfavor-
able view of the opposing party, up by more than 2 percent 
since 1994. In 2014, the center discovered that close to a 
third of both parties considered the other party’s policies to be a threat to the nation’s well-being. So polarized 
are the two parties that they do not even want to 
live in the same areas.
One could dedicate a life to studying the fac-
tors that have contributed to this; I will select the 
one that I think is important: Moral feeling. As 
a culture, we believe that ethics are personal, 
meaning that moral values are not to be imposed, 
but selected from within. We are a subjective cul-
ture. We believe that you should have the right to 
determine for yourself what is right and wrong.
This belief poses a problem: On what basis should one 
delineate between right and wrong? Our culture’s answer 
tends to be feeling. Follow your heart — this is our culture’s 
foundational belief. To follow your heart is to follow your 
feelings; to follow feelings is to follow what seems intuitively 
right and true.
Another problem arises: Why, if the standard of right and 
wrong is subjective feeling, should I be persuaded to take on 
your right and wrong for myself? Your ethics are yours, mine 
are mine, and we simply have different feelings about these 
things. What then?
This is the problem we encounter today, and the prob-
lem I witnessed ﬁ  rsthand on Turlington. Because we choose 
our beliefs based on personal feeling, it is difﬁ  cult to civilly 
discuss these beliefs with someone who feels completely dif-
ferent; following our hearts tempts us into thinking that the 
world is self-evidently the way we perceive it to be.
It is no surprise, then, that few committed Republicans 
will freely interact with equally as committed Democrats, 
and vice versa. It is also no surprise that shouting down the 
other side is a popular conversational tactic. For we are not 
simply discussing politics anymore. Our hearts are in this 
now; our validity as people is at stake. This is personal.
I’m worried that our hearts are leading us into a more 
fractured union. Perhaps there is something better to follow 
in life. 
Scott Stinson is a UF english senior. His column appears 
on Mondays.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Picture this: You did college right. You graduated, got a 
job, bought a car. You hold a steady job and pay your 
taxes. You are what society considers a full-ﬂ  edged 
adult, but you have a deathly fear of your own in-
box. Student loan collection emails have been rolling 
in steadily since you graduated, and you can’t bear the sight 
of each new one. In ﬁ  nancing your education, you took out 
somewhere between $10,000 and $25,000 in loans. Twenty 
years after you started college, you still owe about $10,000.
Your situation, statistically, would be similar to most other 
student-loan debtors, according to education researcher Erin 
Dunlop Velez, who analyzed a trove of student debt repay-
ment data released by the Department of Education last year. 
Through analysis of that data, we are growing more aware 
that urgent action is needed. Defaults of academic loan debt 
are on the rise, the cost of going to college is skyrocketing, and 
median household income has not risen to meet it. Soon, the 
collective debt may prove too heavy of a burden to bear, and 
the U.S. government may forgive all $1.5 trillion of it.
UF boasts about its low cost of education. Indeed, we are 
one of the least expensive, most valuable education institution 
in the country. Our school is listed at No. 20 on America’s Best 
Value Colleges for 2018, according to Forbes. But public uni-
versities like ours still seem to be part of the student loan debt 
problem. For all the low-cost vocabulary being thrown around 
by public colleges, administrative salaries and stafﬁ  ng budgets 
at public educational institutions have risen dramatically, add-
ing to the cost of getting a degree.
Public educations are still good investments, at least for 
now. But students are being priced out of their ﬁ  rst choice 
schools across the board — those seeking private educations 
are choosing public ones, and many who seek full degrees are 
settling for certiﬁ  cates. This is especially true for students from 
low- and mid-income families, who opt to enroll in associate 
degree and certiﬁ  cate programs because of the ﬁ  nancial bar-
rier that bachelor’s degrees pose. If you or your friends went to 
a local community college before transferring into UF to keep 
costs down, you embody that experience. This trend shows 
that students aren’t pursuing their full educational potential 
simply because of college affordability issues.
So what should be done about the looming crisis? One ma-
jor problem that the debt crisis poses is a reduction in consum-
er demand. Recent graduates who took out loans are much 
more hesitant to buy cars, homes, plane tickets and candy bars 
in order to save money to pay down their debt, 90 percent of 
which is held by the government.
So how could the government beneﬁ  t from having that debt 
go away?
It is estimated that if the government canceled all the debt it 
is owed and bought the debt held by private creditors, it would 
increase gross domestic product by between $86 billion and 
$108 billion every year for the next 10 years. That may be the 
smartest move, as students who took loans out in the 1990s 
are still struggling to pay back what they owe, not to mention 
students who recently graduated or those still in school.
It is a growing idea that all public colleges should be tu-
ition-free. Sen. Bernie Sanders introduced legislation last year 
to turn that idea into a reality. For those of us lucky enough 
to receive Bright Futures scholarships, the state of Florida al-
ready covers the bulk of our tuition costs. But given the cur-
rent presidential administration’s actions, like proposing a 
budget that would cut $5 billion in funding for higher educa-
tion, tuition-free college seems like a long way away.
What we hope for instead is student loan forgiveness. 
While Florida gives us a great example of the economic ben-
eﬁ  ts that come with publicly funded education, we need to 
take immediate action on the debt crisis before it grows to 
unsolvable proportions.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORScott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
On Nov. 6, 2018, Florida voters will 
decide the fate of eight possible 
amendments to the state consti-
tution. One of these is Amend-
ment 4, entitled “Voting Restora-
tion Amendment.” According to the Miami 
Herald, Amendment 4 would restore vot-
ing rights to felons who had served their 
time (except for more serious crimes like 
murder or sexual offenses). Previously, ac-
cording to The Palm Beach Post, felons convicted of 
nonviolent crimes would have to wait at least ﬁ  ve 
years before petitioning to have their voting rights re-
stored, with their case being argued before the board 
of Ofﬁ  ce of Executive Clemency, headed by Gov. Rick 
Scott.
Amendment 4 will be a big change to felon voting 
rights, but it is a necessary change. For one thing, the 
system it would be replacing is deeply ﬂ  awed and 
has received much criticism. For example, according 
to The Palm Beach Post, the system imposes a heavy 
burden on petitioners, such as requiring them to trav-
el to Tallahassee to face the board. The system is also 
cumbersome to navigate and severely backlogged, 
with 10,000 applications still awaiting review by the 
Commission on Offender Review as of January 2018. 
The system was also harshly criticized in a March 
court order by U.S. District Judge Mark Walker, who 
called the system “fatally ﬂ  awed” and open to abuse 
due to the fact that Scott and other members of the 
board are elected ofﬁ  cials who have to run for reelec-
tion. Walker ordered the state to come up with a new 
voting rights restoration system by April 26, but this 
ruling was later stayed by a U.S. Appeals Court, allow-
ing the current system to remain in place. However, 
the issues Walker raised came up during Scott’s 2018 
senatorial run: An ABC News article from August ac-
cused Scott of being able to “(pick) his own voters” 
due to him having the ﬁ  nal say in who can have their 
voting rights restored — the current system gives the governor of Florida “unfettered discretion” 
to deny clemency in voting rights. 
However, the failure of the old system 
isn’t the only reason why Amendment 4 
should pass. Low-level felons who have 
served their time should not have their pun-
ishment extended by being denied the right 
to vote. As it is, felons face huge obstacles 
once they are released back into society. 
According to WBHM radio station of Bir-
mingham, Alabama, prisoners often struggle to ﬁ  nd a 
job after their release, and sometimes those who can-
not ﬁ  nd a job end up returning to crime to make ends 
meet. One reason for this is that many employment 
applications ask potential employees to check a box if 
they’ve ever been convicted of a felony, leading to a 
nationwide “ban the box” campaign to remove such 
question from employment applications. In addition 
to being unable to ﬁ  nd a job, seven states (includ-
ing Florida) ban former drug felons from collecting 
food stamps and, even more, restrict former prison-
ers’ access to TANF (Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families). Finding a home and obtaining ofﬁ  cial ID 
are also big challenges for former felons. 
And yet despite all the issues they face, former 
felons do not have the political power to change any 
of this. We deny countless opportunities to prisoners 
who have already served their time, and we expect 
them overcome all these obstacles while giving them 
no voice to remove these obstacles. Not only is this 
blatantly unfair, but it goes against America’s repu-
tation as a "land of opportunity." These issues are 
nationwide, but incremental progress can be made on 
a state-by-state basis. Now, it’s Florida turn. To re-
store a just society that gives everyone, even former 
prisoners, a chance to succeed, voters must approve 
Amendment 4 in November.
Jason Zappulla is a UF journalism sophomore. His 
column appears on Mondays.Non-violent felons deserve the right to vote: 
Why you should support Amendment 4Column
A few days ago, 
Twitter put the 
ﬁ  nal nail in the 
cofﬁ  n for con-
spiracy theorist 
Alex Jones’ social me-
dia life by permanently 
banning him from the 
platform. The ban co-
incidentally came a 
day after Jones pub-
licly challenged Twitter CEO Jack 
Dorsey and U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio 
in Washington, D.C. The move 
was the last in a line of social 
media bans, as other tech giants 
like Apple, Facebook and Google 
all banned Jones and his site In-
foWars.com from their platforms 
last month. 
To some, it might be tempt-
ing to cheer Jones’ removal from 
Twitter — especially if one reads 
Twitter’s abusive behavior policy, 
which states, “You may not en-
gage in the targeted harassment of 
someone, or incite other people to 
do so.” According to Twitter, abu-
sive behavior includes attempts 
to “harass, intimidate, or silence 
someone else’s voice.” 
Curious isn’t it? All of a sud-
den, Jones doesn’t look like the 
only person on Twitter who has 
tried to harass, intimidate or si-
lence voices. Parkland shooting 
survivor and activist David Hogg 
attempted to silence Laura In-
graham through several boycott 
campaigns on Twitter. Noted 
racist and anti-Semite Louis Far-
rakhan still has an active Twitter 
account despite violating Twitter’s 
hateful conduct policy with his 
bigoted tweets. Sarah Jeong, The 
New York Times’ newest editorial 
board member, clearly violated 
Twitter’s hateful conduct policy 
(which speciﬁ  cally mentions ha-
rassment or threats on the basis 
of race as a violation) when she 
tweeted about “canceling white 
people” and celebrating that white 
people will “all go extinct soon.” 
Her account? Still active. Even the 
Muslim Brotherhood, which some 
countries including Saudi Arabia 
and Jordan have classiﬁ  ed as an 
terrorist organization, is allowed 
on Twitter.  
Does anyone still believe Twit-
ter’s reasoning for banning Alex 
Jones? Just a month ago, Dorsey 
said in response to a question 
about Jones,“the most important 
thing for us is that we are consis-
tent in applying our enforcement.” 
To put it kindly, if that wasn’t 
true before, it certainly has been 
proven true with Jones’ banning. 
Dorsey has lost all credibility. 
Even if Jones violated Twitter’s 
abusive behavior policy, which 
is vague and subjective at best, 
Twitter has essentially conﬁ  rmed 
it has a political bias. The platform 
has shown it is quick to respond 
to public pressure calls to ban in-
dividuals who fall outside of the 
political monolith that is the main-
stream media, Hollywood and 
Silicon Valley. Over the last few 
years alone, Twitter has perma-
nently banned Roger Stone, Milo Yiannopoulos, Tommy 
Robinson and Gavin 
McInnes, and also tem-
porarily banned Sheriff 
David Clarke, Candace 
Owens and Benghazi 
hero Kris Paronto. Pres-
ident Donald Trump’s 
account was also brief-
ly suspended once in 
what Twitter called a 
“human error by a Twitter em-
ployee.” For the record, how often 
have Twitter accounts on the po-
litical left also been suspended via 
human error?
You don’t have to agree with 
Jones, Stone, Yiannopoulos or 
even Trump himself to protest 
their Twitter suspensions. If you 
believe in a principle, in this 
case free speech, then it should 
be applied to everyone, not just 
individuals you like. Bill Maher 
of HBO recently made this argu-
ment when Jones was temporarily 
banned from Twitter last month 
saying, “That’s free speech for 
the speech you hate. That’s what 
free speech means...I don’t like 
Alex Jones, but Alex Jones gets to 
speak. Everybody gets to speak.”
The case against this is that so-
cial media companies are private 
entities, and thus are not bound 
by the First Amendment. While 
this is true to a degree, a federal 
judge recently ruled that Twitter 
is a public forum. Similarly in tes-
timony on Capitol Hill earlier this 
year, Facebook CEO Mark Zuck-
erberg struggled to answer when 
asked if Facebook was a “neutral 
public forum.” He instead stated 
that Facebook is a “platform for 
all ideas.”
Additionally, it’s not as simple 
as “ﬁ  nding another platform” as 
the free-capitalists have argued. 
Try ﬁ  nding an alternative for 
Google when they have a mo-
nopoly on engine searches and a 
duopoly with Facebook on digital 
ad revenue. Competition isn’t as 
abundant in Silicon Valley as they 
might think. 
Nonetheless, while the debate 
on the First Amendment’s appli-
cations to social media continues, 
consider this: Do you really want 
the political views of a few tech 
executives and their employees 
to determine what is and isn’t al-
lowed on the internet? Because 
in all honesty, if you can’t share 
something on Facebook, Twitter, 
Google or Apple, then you can’t 
share it anywhere. What if these 
companies started banning some-
one you follow or know? Would 
you cheer it then? 
For companies that claim to 
be in favor of a free and open in-
ternet, the Big Tech companies 
have obtained massive amounts 
of power in controlling what infor-
mation is available on the internet. 
Americans of all political stripes 
should start paying attention, be-
fore it’s too late. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF ﬁ  nance 
senior. His column appears on 
Mondays.Tech company censorship 
threatens open discourseColumn
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.org
Dear disgruntled customer, 
I know that last night was rough for you. I 
put you on a wait-list even though you could 
see the empty table over my shoulder. Both 
you and your stomach growled in protest but 
turned away before I could explain. Thirty 
minutes later, I had the audacity to lead you 
to the cramped table next to the bathroom. 
It wasn’t even a booth, and it was the last 
straw. 
To begin with, I know you were upset that I’d dare 
to put you on a wait-list with that empty table practi-
cally glowing behind me. If I were competent at my 
job, people would already be sitting there, and we 
would be further down the list, right? Not quite. You 
see, typically I’ve already called someone for that table 
and am waiting for them to arrive. If not, then I have 
yet to call the next in line because I was busy taking 
your name down ﬁ  rst. It could even be that I had to 
take a moment to do one of my other jobs: helping 
bussers clean, rolling silverware, grabbing a to-go or-
der, stocking items, running food for servers or even 
dealing with another angry customer. Either way, I 
apologize you had to see that and that the night only 
got worse from there. 
The best part of our interaction is supposed to be 
when I take you to your table. Your eyes gleam, your 
heart races. It’s time. Except in cases like our encounter 
last night: It’s the part I dread most. I know where I’m 
taking you, and I know you might ask to switch tables. 
It’s not a booth, it’s too loud, it’s by the bathroom, it’s by the kitchen, it’s cramped, it’s not where 
you sat last time, there’s children nearby. In 
short, for one reason or another, it isn’t what 
you want. But in many restaurants, servers 
are given designated sections to increase ef-
ﬁ  ciency. Should the customer ask to move, a 
few things happen. It ruins the rotation of the 
servers, effectively swamping the others with 
too many tables at once and preventing the 
one skipped from making money. The back-
lash reaches yours truly. It’s my job, after all, to moni-
tor the ﬂ  ow of the restaurant. So, when I lead you to 
one of these tables, know that every host and server is 
watching to see if the landing is successful. When you 
turn around in protest, as you did, we expect it. But 
if you accept it, listen closely. You’ll hear the relieved 
sighs in unison from around the room.
Please do not take offense, though. If you have 
never worked in a restaurant then it’s impossible to 
understand exactly how these things work, and I have 
barely brushed the surface of frustrating behaviors. I 
do hope that by arming with this new information, I 
have saved you and your future waitstaff from frus-
tration. However, if you still ﬁ  nd yourself angry that 
there is an empty table, I will still smile at you. That 
is my job. 
Forever yours to step on, 
The Hostess
Scarlett Payne is a UF advertising junior. Her column 
appears on Mondays.A friendly open letter from your waitstaﬀ  Column
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Scarlett Payne
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Young the Giant lead vocalist Sameer Gadhia rocks out to featured songs including 
“Simplify” and “My Body” on stage at the free Rock the Vote concert presented by UF 
Student Government Productions Friday night at Flavet Field. 
William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Two attendees sing along during indie rock band Joywave’s performance at the free 
Rock the Vote concert on Flavet Field Friday night. The band played several hits in 
front of a crowd of more than 1,000 attendees.
Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer
A tomato-killing fungus might be 
eradicated thanks to the work of four UF 
researchers.
The fungus, Fusarium Wilt, grows 
on tomatoes and has caused damage to 
the crop all over the world, said Jessica 
Chitwood, a UF horticultural sciences 
doctoral student and one of the project’s 
researchers. 
In order to find a solution, the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture’s National In-
stitute of Food and Agriculture gave re-
searchers at UF’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences a grant of $490,000 
in August for the next four years.
This fungus has drastically affected 
the tomato crop in Florida, causing the 
yield to decrease and the industry to 
struggle, said Samuel Hutton, another re-searcher on the project. 
Floridian farmers and customers will 
start seeing less diseased plants within 
the next three years, Hutton said.
“I am confident that after this re-
search, tomato producers will see a huge 
difference in their crops,” he said. 
Three races of the fungus have existed 
in Florida since the early 1900s, when to-
mato farming first became common, she 
said. 
The team is studying whether the is-
sues lie within the tomato’s genes or at-
tached chromosomes, Chitwood said. 
Even as scientists tried to treat earlier 
strains of the fungus, it became resistant 
and continued to spread, she said. The 
latest fungus emerged in the 1980s. 
“This grant could not have come at a 
better time,” Hutton said. “The tomato 
industry is struggling.” Tomato fungus to hurt 
Florida farmers no more  Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
For the last two years, Young 
the Giant’s “Amerika” has woken 
Joelle Dorset up every morning. 
She’s had the song as her alarm 
clock ringtone since its release 
in 2016, she said. As Dorset, a 
20-year-old UF psychology junior, 
walked to Flavet Field with her 
friends, she hoped they’d play it.
On Friday night, Dorset’s wish 
was granted with the first song of 
the set. 
Alternative rocks bands Young 
the Giant and Joywave performed a concert free to the public to 
kickoff UF’s civic engagement 
week. Young the Giant was paid 
$78,000, and Joywave was paid 
$20,000 from student activity 
fees, Student Government Produc-
tions Chair Andrew Kelly wrote in 
an email.
Civic Engagement Week is a 
voter registration competition 
among all universities in the state 
of Florida that begins Monday and 
ends Friday, said Dylan Santalo, a 
co-chair of Chomp the Vote. 
Santalo said the number of UF 
students who registered to vote 
at the event and during civic en-gagement week will be counted 
Friday. 
Shannon Pinzon, a Chomp the 
Vote co-chair, said this was the 
third year UF Chomp the Vote and 
SGP partnered for a concert. 
“We just want to shift the 
mindset that students have about 
what it means to be civically en-
gaged,” Pinzon said. “We really 
want to promote the fact that vot-
ing is your basic right as U.S. citi-
zen, and we really want to engage 
them in a way that’s more fun.”
Young the Giant lead vocalist, 
Sameer Gadhia, led the band in a 
12-song set. Attendees jumped, screamed, clapped, blew bubbles 
and hit beach balls into the air 
during the songs.
When Gadhia clapped, the 
crowd of thousands mimicked. 
When he waved his arms in the 
air, the audience of more than 
a thousand turned into a sea of 
waving arms. 
The band also gave their first 
live performance of their new song 
“Superposition.” Gadhia thanked 
everyone for being a source of in-
spiration for him and the band for 
the last 10 years and encouraged 
attendees to keep “voting which-
ever way you’d like,” he said.Stephen Michel’s eyes scanned 
the crowd around him as the next 
song of the set, “Simplify,” began. 
He tapped his foot and bobbed his 
head while he watched the orange 
stage lights reveal thousands of 
faces, and a smile flickered across 
his face. 
“With concerts like these, all 
of these people are never going to 
be in the same place again,” the 
20-year-old UF biomedical engi-
neering junior said. “So it’s a very 
unique moment.” 
 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgYoung the Giant headlines UF Rock the Vote event
Emily Thomas
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can swipe right exclusively 
with each other through the Tinder app. 
Tinder’s newest feature, which launched 
Aug. 21, attempts to make matchmaking 
easier and safer for college students, Lauren 
Probyn, Tinder’s director of global market-
ing and events, wrote in an email. “Tinder 
U” lets students from four-year, accredited 
schools register with a valid .edu email ad-
dress and matches them with students from 
their campus or other schools within a 100-
mile radius, she said. 
Probyn hopes that Tinder U’s verification 
process will provide an advantage over other 
online dating apps by helping students get 
to know one another beyond their everyday 
meetings and classes. 
“Students will be able to see other stu-dents in their area first while they’re swiping, 
thus opening their social circle and becoming 
more ingrained in student life,” Probyn said.
Tinder’s popularity on campus didn’t 
shock 18-year-old UF nursing freshman Hal-
ey Jacobowitz. Now that she’s single, she 
said she would consider using the app. 
“I would probably sign up in the future 
because I’d have a better idea of who the 
people were,” she said. 
Tinder U’s email verification process 
makes Tinder U feel like a safer environment 
to connect with others, Jacobowitz said. 
One of Tinder’s competitors is the dating 
app Bumble, but for 20-year-old UF biology 
junior Andromarc Permis, the competition 
isn’t even close.
“I feel like Tinder U could help with show-
ing you who specifically is at your institution 
and is available as opposed to playing the 
guessing game,” Permis said.Tinder launches new service 
with college email addressesAmanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville police union felt 
like it received a slap in the face af-
ter trying to negotiate with the city 
Friday night, a union spokesperson 
said. 
After a 10-hour public hearing, 
the City Commission voted 4-3 
to change officer work schedules 
and reject the Gainesville police 
union’s proposal to increase offi-
cer’s wages every year. The police 
chief can designate the hours of-
ficers to work anywhere between 
eight to 12 hours, according to the 
new contract.
The meeting was supposed to 
settle a two-year-long contract bat-
tle between city management and 
the Gainesville Fraternal Order of 
Police, the police union spokesper-
son, Matt Goeckel, said.
“Overall, we’re severely disap-
pointed in the city commission to-
night,” Goeckel said. “We feel like 
they didn’t listen to the public at 
all.”
About 50 people implored 
the commission to side with the 
union’s “step up” plan during pub-
lic comment. 
However after public com-
ment ended, Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos motioned to side 
with city management’s proposal 
of a one-time payment of $800 
in addition to a flat-rate wage in-
crease, and the commission agreed. 
GPD officers will receive the 
highest starting pay and higher 
average wages compared to Uni-
versity Police and Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office deputies, Hayes-
Santos said. 
But the flat-rate wage increases don’t help the officers’ pay com-
pression issue, which makes it pos-
sible for newer officers to make the 
same amount of money or more as 
veteran officers, Goeckel said. 
Commissioners Gail Johnson, 
Harvey Ward and Gigi Simmons 
voted against the motion. Com-
missioners Hayes-Santos, Helen 
Warren, David Arreola and Mayor 
Lauren Poe voted for the motion.
The commission decided 
against the union’s “step up” plan 
that would increase officer wages by about 2 percent every year.
GPD Chief Tony Jones was the 
first to speak during public com-
ment and backed the union’s posi-
tion.
“We gotta reach a decision to-
night,” he said. “I got to pull the 
police department back together.”
The commission changed the 
contract wording to guarantee the 
schedules would stay the same for 
six months at a time and officers 
will be given a four-week notice 
prior to their schedule changing, Hayes-Santos said.
Revisions that took from the 
union’s proposal included keeping 
overtime as is and paying officers 
for three years worth of clothing 
and dry cleaning allowance, which 
they didn’t receive during the on-
going contract negotiations. 
City management and the local 
police union renegotiate their con-
tract every three years, but when 
the most recent contract expired 
in 2016, the two parties couldn’t 
agree, Goeckel said. GPD sworn officers have operated without a 
contract for two years.
The union announced an im-
passe in May 2017. Although a 
special magistrate, or independent 
mediator, sided with the union’s 
wage proposal in May 2018, city 
management rejected his opinion. 
Police union supporters filled 
City Hall to the brim to listen to 
Gainesville residents and former 
law enforcement officers speak 
during public comment at 6:45 
p.m. By the time public comment 
was in full swing, more than 100 
union supporters crowded into City 
Hall. Those who couldn’t fit in the 
auditorium watched the livestream 
from the lobby, break room, con-
ference room and training room.  
Trina Pate, 57, said she came to 
the meeting to learn why police of-
ficers are leaving Gainesville, but 
she left more confused than before. 
She said she noticed fewer officers 
were patrolling the streets and 
heard about the wage dispute from 
neighbors. 
“Why has this gone on for so 
long, especially when the magis-
trate said the money is there?” she 
said.
Pate and her husband Walter 
moved to Gainesville from Peo-
ria, Illinois, three years ago after 
they retired. Since the couple is 
new to the community, Pate said 
they’re concerned about how the 
city treats its officers. Now she 
doesn’t know if she wants to live 
in Gainesville.
“For my husband and I to stay 
here, things will have to change,” 
she said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgCity Commission votes against police union’s wage proposal
(Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff)
Scott Lamp, 61, adds detail to the clouds he’s painted at the 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens during the 16th-annual Worldwide 
Artist Paint Out event Friday afternoon. “I do paint outs, but I have 
another job so this is when I get to paint, ” he said. “I take time off 
and come out and paint with everybody. ”
Painting picture-perfect gardens
(Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff)
Michele Karahalios, 65, looks to the palm trees for inspiration as she paints them on the canvas in 
front of her. Karahalios participated in the Worldwide Artist Paint Out at the Kanapaha Botanical 
Gardens Friday afternoon. Karahalios has painted in this event for several years now.  “I’m fortunate 
to be invited each year, ” she said.
Amanda Rosa / Alligator Staff
Gainesville police union attorney Jim Brantley presents the union’s contract proposal to City 
Commission during a public hearing Friday afternoon.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
After Tropical Storm Florence 
strengthened to a hurricane Sun-
day morning, the National Weath-
er Service is urging Floridians not 
to let their guard down yet. 
The storm, which is currently 
brewing in the southwest Atlantic, 
is projected to make landfall late 
Thursday somewhere between 
Savannah, Georgia, and the outer 
banks of North Carolina, said in-
tern meteorologist Kip Bricker, 
of the National Weather Service in Jacksonville. Although Florida 
likely won’t receive a direct hit, 
residents should still expect large 
swells and riptides at northeast 
Florida beaches. 
Hurricane Florence is expected 
to become a Category 3 or higher 
hurricane by 2 p.m. today, accord-
ing to the National Hurricane Cen-
ter. 
Floridians should continue to 
monitor the storm as there is still a 
lot of uncertainty, said meteorolo-
gist Scott Cordero, of the NWS.
“Our preliminary thinking is 
basically, we’re not out of the woods yet for Florida,” he said. 
As of Sunday night, Hurricane 
Florence has maximum sustained 
winds of 85 mph and is moving 
west at 7 mph, Bricker said.
The storm is expected to pass 
between the Bahamas and Ber-
muda late Tuesday and early 
Wednesday, Cordero said. It 
should become a major hurricane 
as it approaches U.S. southeast 
coast.
@jessica_giles_ 
jgiles@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
It wasn’t the stolen bikes that took him in. 
It was the Coca-Cola. 
Brian C. Wasilenko, 36, of Gainesville, 
is accused of stealing two bicycles from 
Walmart last Thursday and Aug. 23, accord-
ing to a Gainesville Police arrest report.  On 
Saturday, Wasilenko was arrested after he drank a bottle of Coca-Cola without paying, 
police said. 
A Walmart security 
guard told police he saw 
Wasilenko drink the Coke 
and leave the store, the 
report said. Police ap-
proached Wasilenko less 
than a mile away from the 
store and asked him to re-turn to Walmart with them. 
While at the store, the guard told po-
lice Wasilenko stole a Mongoose bike Aug. 
23 and a black mountain bike last Thurs-
day, said GPD Lt. Marc Plourde. The guard 
showed police photographs of Wasilenko 
stealing a Mongoose bicycle worth $129 and 
a black mountain bicycle worth $149, police 
said.
After he was read his Miranda rights, Wasilenko admitted to stealing the bikes 
from Walmart, police said. He told police he 
gave the bikes to homeless people or threw 
them in the woods.
Wasilenko was charged with one count of 
retail theft and one count of swindling prop-
erty. He was released from Alachua County 
Jail Sunday morning without bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Man steals bikes from Walmart, gives bikes to homeless
Hurricane Helene: 
• Currently a Category 1 hurricane 
• Maximum sustained winds of 
75 mph 
• Moving west at 13 mph 
• Projected to turn north into the 
Atlantic Ocean 
THE APP TEACHES USERS 
HOW TO PERFORM CHEST 
COMPRESSIONS.
Hannah Beatty
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new app coming to Alachua 
County could be the difference 
between life and death for people 
suffering from cardiac arrest.The app, PulsePoint, alerts us-
ers if there is someone within a 
quarter mile radius suffering from 
cardiac arrest in a public place, 
said Harold Theus, the Alachua 
County Fire Rescue Deputy Chief.
PulsePoint directs citizens to 
their location and shows them 
how to perform chest compres-
sions until emergency responders 
arrive.
It also directs users to the near-est automated external defibrilla-
tor, he said.
Theus believes that the app will 
be an asset to the community. 
“This PulsePoint impetus push-
es us forward to train more and 
more people to get CPR,” Theus 
said. 
The county has been looking 
into using PulsePoint for several 
years but cost prevented it from 
happening, Theus said. The app was finally made avail-
able through a $10,000 donation 
by the Jerome H. Modell, M.D., 
Professorship of Anesthesiology, 
said Jeff Taylor, the assistant chief 
of Alachua County Emergency 
Medical Services. 
EMS has been working with UF 
Health to find areas where they 
don’t see CPR happening before 
arrival. 
They will target those areas to teach life-saving measures at com-
munity functions, Taylor said. 
Grace Kellaher, a 21-year-old 
UF applied physiology and kine-
siology senior, said she plans to 
download PulsePoint and use her 
CPR training to help the commu-
nity. 
“I think all students could ben-
efit from downloading this app,” 
she said. “It’s not just for health 
students.”A new app urges Alachua County residents to save a life Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
T aking steps around the world
Members from 14 chapters represented by the UF Multicultural Greek Council perform 
step dances at the MGC Showcase Friday night in the Reitz Union. The theme of this year’s 
showcase was “Around The World with MGC. ”
Florence becomes a hurricane, threatens US southeast coast  
Gillian Sweeney and  
Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writers
Hannah Fox’s music taste changed 
after seeing Mac Miller perform when 
she was in ninth grade. 
It’s how the 18-year-old UF el-
ementary education junior will re-
member the late rapper.  
He was part of her and her friends’ 
“era of music.”
Mac Miller, a 26-year-old rapper, 
known for songs such as “Self Care” 
and “Donald Trump” died Friday of a 
suspected drug overdose, the Los An-
geles Times reported.
The Pittsburgh-born singer and 
producer, whose real name was Mal-
colm James McCormick, released a 
new album, “Swimming,” last month.
“He was a bright light in this world 
for his family, friends and fans,” his 
family said in a statement to Rolling 
Stone. “Thank you for your prayers. 
Please respect our privacy. There are no further details as to the cause of 
his death at this time.”
The rapper split with singer Ariana 
Grande in May, and shortly after, he 
wrecked his Mercedes G-Wagon, Los 
Angeles Times wrote. Following the 
crash, he was arrested and charged 
with driving under the influence.
Jacklyn Griffis, an 18-year-old UF 
environmental engineering freshmen, 
said she saw social media posts from 
Miller’s friends expressing the diffi-
culties he faced with drug use.
Getting help for problems that in-
volve mental and physical well-being 
can be difficult to talk about, Griffis 
said.  
“There are places on campus that I 
could go,” Griffis said. “I don’t know 
necessarily that he had people he 
could go to.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgStudents respond to rapper 
Mac Miller’s deathOTHER STORMS TO WATCH
Tropical Storm Isaac:
• Projected to become a hurricane 
this morning 
• Maximum sustained winds of 
70 mph 
• Moving west as 12 mph 
• Currently projected to pass 
between Puerto Rico and 
VenezuelaWasilenko
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
1BR for rent in 2-story house.
Available now for college student. $500/mo 
incl elec. Near UF: 1022 NW 3rd Ave. Call 
352-672-8657    9-14-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14How to make an
Extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student
Go to: www.studentopportunity.services     
9-19-18-5-14
Help Wanted: Customer Service, Data Entry 
and Accounts Receivable for a local pest 
control company. Flexible part time hours. 
Great working environment. Candidate must 
have good customer service skills and a 
positive attitude. $10 per hour.15 - 20 hours 
per week. Please send resume to Jennie@
orkinsolutions.com     9-14-18-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     9-14-18-
6-14
Learn how to
make an extra $300 - $400 per week
doing surveys.
Go to: http://collegecashoffers.club     9-12-
18-5-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
MAKE EXTRA $450 a week
taking surveys as a college student. Go to 
www.collegemakemoneyopportunity.club    
9-10-18-3-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
Swim Lesson Instructors
Need transportation
Weekdays 3-6pm with option of 2x/week
Weekends Sat 9-12 Sun 2-5
Call Jill at (352) 335-0518     9-17-18-5-14
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
September 15, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get Paid To Test Apps!
College students can make up to $400 per 
week testing Apps. Get started here: www.
testappsforcash.com     9-12-4-20
Learn how to
make an extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.paidcollegesurveys.com     9-12-
4-20Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
20 Events/Notices
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Quiet and easy to care for: 
Female Diamond Dove
with cage $10. Can deliver.
Contact nancyivey3@gmail.com    8-2-1-24Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: NICE WATCH
In front of Old Florida Gym on Wednesday, 
9/5. Call to identify. Ronald 352-466-3646    
9-12-3-25
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 “We Create 
Music” org.
6 “You’re a riot”
10 Sportscaster 
Albert
14 Diner counter 
alternative
15 Hasn’t paid yet
16 Jai __
17 Job
19 Govt. crash 
investigator
20 Weather-
affecting current
21 Give up all 
expectations
23 __ Strauss, 
female touring 
guitarist for Alice 
Cooper
25 Greek “i”
26 BB-shaped 
legume
29 Switching from 
cable TV to 
streaming, say
34 Relaxing time in 
the chalet
36 Skin ink
37 Four-time 
’60s-’70s A.L. All-
Star __ Powell
38 42-yr.-old skit 
show
40 Regarding
41 Not at all 
abundant
44 Totally loses it
47 Bedsheet buyer’s 
concern
49 Observe
50 Pop’s Lady __
51 1982 Disney  
sci-fi film
53 Most ordinary
57 Hydrocodone, 
e.g.
61 Like un maní aco
62 Composition 
for violin, viola 
and cello ... and 
what the starts 
of 17-, 29- and 
47-Across 
comprise
64 Color of raw silk
65 Sights from la mer
66 Longtime senator 
Specter
67 Vintage Jags
68 Not e’en once
69 Wall Street’s 
Standard & __
DOWN
1 Having the skills
2 Window box dirt3 Hartford’s st.
4 Had food 
delivered
5 “Hooked on” 
language 
teaching method
6 In what way
7 GI on the run
8 Valiant
9 Invites to the 
prom, say
10 Borough across 
the Harlem River 
from the Bronx
11 Voice above 
tenor
12 Abrasive tool
13 Hard-to-explain 
feeling
18 Pics
22 Bluesy James
24 Boats like Noah’s
26 Brew brand with 
a blue-ribbon 
logo
27 Pleistocene 
period
28 Cheering and 
yelling, as a 
crowd
30 Down Under dog
31 “Who’s there?” 
response from a 
couple
32 Naples night33 Golden-egg layer
35 Flagrant
39 Rude dude
42 Actor Scott or his 
dad James
43 Enters sneakily
45 2001 scandal 
company
46 Temporary 
solution
48 Structure 
protected by a 
moat52 The “N” in “TNT”
53 Theater suffix
54 What a key 
opens
55 Farmland 
measure
56 One in a forest
58 Woody Guthrie’s 
son
59 Stadium section
60 Many millennia
63 Dead Sea 
country: Abbr.
By Matt McKinley
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/10/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 10, 2018
ACROSS
1 Way to get up in 
Gotham
8 Obeyed a 
laryngologist
14 Ones on the left
16 In a showy way
17 Aptly named 
barbell brand
18 Furniture wood 
named for its 
color
19 “Hah!”
20 Activewear shoe 
brand
22 Fig. targeted in 
some hacks
23 Humble abodes
24 Knight clubs
26 “Oye Como 
Va” songwriter 
Puente
27 Superman and 
Supergirl
28 Crony of  
Captain Bildad, 
in “Moby-Dick”
29 Jaguar spot?
30 2014 title role for 
Mia Wasikowska
32 Works that are 
up and down?
34 Where some  
get sloshed  
at sea?
35 Onetime 
members of 
the Winnebago 
Nation
36 Put to rest
37 Put up
40 Pickup line?
41 River critter
42 Pair of British 
puzzles?
43 Minolta Maxxum, 
e.g.
44 “Dragonwyck” 
novelist Seton
45 Film with Manny 
the Mammoth
47 Escape __
49 “Yeah, right”
51 Offers?
52 They’re free of 
charge
53 Disc golf starting 
point
54 WikiLeaks editorDOWN
1 Buoyant
2 Ventilate
3 Hardware with 
crosspieces
4 Rips
5 Frenzied revelry
6 Accident scene 
arrival
7 Drug company 
founder Lilly
8 One-piece 
garments
9 Bailiwick
10 “__ better be 
good!”
11 Second section 
of Verdi’s 
“Requiem”
12 League’s best
13 Sacred song 
collection
15 Tomorrowland 
attraction
21 Australian food 
spread
25 Eagerness
26 Smiley formerly 
of PBS
28 House helpers
29 One with  
app-titude?30 Confusing tourist 
attractions
31 “Don’t kid 
around!”
32 Real whopper
33 Hotel door 
posting
34 Soup often 
served with sour 
cream
37 Pummel
38 Bed border39 Sub-Saharan 
menace
41 Without  
stopping
42 Eyeball-bending 
critter
44 Between ports
46 Stops shooting
48 Masked worker, 
perhaps
50 Org. featured in 
TV’s “Weeds”
By Ryan McCarty
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/08/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/08/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 8, 2018
1.  Try hard
1.  Hyundai ____5.  ____ passage 
2.  Leftover part6.  Serious theatrical piece
3.  Mount Rainier, for one7.  Calm
4.  BestowRVSTEI
ANSTAOSLANA
AARDM
UEERDSI
LVOACONRPESEO
TAEDNOANSWERS: 1A-Strive  5A-Nasal  6A-Drama  7A-Repose
1D-Sonata  2D-Residue  3D-Volcano  4D-Donate  B-Diana Ross9-10-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This singer was born in Detroit 
on March 26, 1944.
BONUS1. Who was the oldest catcher to 
hit a home run in the All-Star Game 
before St. Louis’ Yadier Molina (34 
years, 363 days) did it in 2017?
2. When was the last time before 
August 2017 that the Los Angeles 
Dodgers were 50 games over .500 
during a season?
3. Between the 2000 and 2017 NFL 
seasons, how many teams other than 
New England and Pittsburgh won the 
AFC Championship?
4. When was the last time before 
2018 that the West Virginia men’s 
basketball team was ranked as high as 
second in The Associated Press Top 
25 poll?
5. In 2018, Tampa Bay’s Mikhail 
Sergachev became the youngest play-
er in team history (19 years, 300 days) 
to score an NHL playoff goal. Who 
had been the youngest?
6. When was the last time for 2018 
that Germany’s men’s soccer team 
was eliminated in the first round of the 
World Cup?
7. In 2018, Gennady Golovkin tied 
the record for most title defenses as 
a middleweight. Who else holds the 
mark?
Answers
1. Yogi Berra of the New York Yan-
kees (34 years, 83 days old), in 1959.
2. It was 1953.
3. Four — Baltimore (twice), Indi-
anapolis (twice), Denver (twice) and 
Oakland.
4. It was December of 1959.
5. Jason Wiemer (20 years and 2 
days old), in 1996.
6. It was 1938.
7. Bernard Hopkins (1996-2005).
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 10, 2018King Features Weekly Service21 Entertainment 24 Pets 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 PersonalsSophomore cornerback 
Marco Wilson tore his ACL on 
Florida’s ﬁ  rst defensive series 
of the game against Kentucky. 
He will miss the rest of the 
season.Soccer match postponed
Lightning delays forced UF’s soccer match with UCF to end prematurely 
Sunday night. The teams will play again today at 1 p.m.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
chunks of yardage.
“They had good players, but 
when you miss tackles and al-
low them to continually move 
the chains, that’s hard,” Mullen 
said. “We had opportunities sev-
eral times to get them behind the 
chains and get off the ﬁ  eld, and 
we weren’t able to do that because 
of some missed tackles. I’m going 
to watch the ﬁ  lm to really see the 
physicality of where we are making 
plays on the defensive front.”
Florida knew coming in that 
Snell would be a big factor in the 
outcome of the game. Defensive 
coordinator Todd Grantham even 
said during the week that setting 
the edge and minimizing those big 
runs would be a primary focus.
But Snell and Wilson combined 
for 280 of the Wildcat’s 303 rush-
ing yards thanks in large part to 
those same big runs that Florida 
needed to prevent. 
So how do the Gators ﬁ  nd that 
physicality that was missing in Sat-
urday’s game? Mullen says it starts 
in the preparation.
“We’ve got to learn how to prac-tice every single day. I think guys 
are kind of used to – like practices 
are a lot more like a walkthrough, 
and they’re not. That shows you,” 
he said. “You don’t end up being 
a really good physical team when 
you do that.”
But physicality isn’t so easy to 
teach, especially in those practice 
situations.
“They just have to learn how 
to practice the right way,” Mul-
len added. “I watched some of the 
stuff – when you’ve got scout peri-
ods, you’ve go to the other team’s 
looks, they kind of treated that as 
walkthroughs, and it’s not. You’ve 
got to thud. You’ve got to wrap up. 
You’ve got to drive back.”
Kentucky outplayed Florida in 
every facet of Saturday’s game. 
The Gators know it. And the Wild-
cats know it.
“We practiced. We prepared 
for this. We prepared for a situa-
tion like this,” Allen said after his 
team’s victory, “and the better 
team won.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.org  FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Florida falls to Kentucky for irst time in over three decades
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
A six-hour turnaround wasn’t ideal for No. 
8 Florida volleyball to retake the court in Flag-
staff, Arizona, to ﬁ  nish out its three-game stint 
in the Lumberjack Invitational.
The Gators managed to ﬁ  nish out the week-
end 2-1 despite the tough schedule, with the 
team’s sole loss coming from Friday night’s 
matchup against Northern Arizona. The Lum-
berjacks had never beaten a top-25 team be-
fore.
Looking back at the Gators’ (5-3) weekend, 
here are three things that can be taken away 
from their matches:
Rachael Kramer stepping up is a huge 
asset to a young Gators’ team 
Maybe it was the work done in the gym 
during practice last week. Maybe it was the ex-
citement of playing in front of her home state 
crowd, but whatever it was, Rachael Kramer stepped up her game this weekend.
The 6-foot-8 middle blocker had failed to 
break 10 kills in a single match since the 2018 
season began before Friday’s matchup against 
Northern Arizona.
However, against the Lumberjacks, the 
Phoenix, Arizona, native logged 17 kills on 
25 attacks, just three kills below her career-
high against Nebraska in the Vert Challenge 
last year.
The Gators will need Kramer to stay on top 
of her game once again to help secure a win 
over Florida State heading into the midweek 
matchup. 
 
Thayer Hall continues to impress 
It’s not a normal match for the Gators if 
freshman outside hitter Thayer Hall isn’t on 
the leaderboard in at least one area.
The Spartanburg, South Carolina, na-
tive continued her impressive performance  Three takeaways from the Gators’ 
weekend at the Lumberjack InviteJessie White / Alligator Staff
Starting cornerback Marco Wilson (not pictured) tore his ACL Saturday night during Florida’s loss 
to Kentucky. Cornerback C.J. Henderson (5) was reluctant to talk about it after the game.
Mark My Words / Opinion
By Mark Stine
Naomi Osaka tried to make 
it a happy moment. 
The 20-year-old stood on 
the podium as the ﬁ  rst Japa-
nese tennis player -- man 
or woman -- to win a major 
championship. Yet, she cov-
ered her face with her hand, 
preventing millions of viewers world-
wide from seeing tears of sadness stream 
down. 
Osaka’s impressive straight-set vic-
tory over her hero, Serena Williams, 
was overshadowed by an unjust penalty 
from chair umpire Carlos Ramos late in 
the second frame. The 23-time major 
champion called him a “thief” after he 
penalized her a point for shattering her 
racket out of frustration. The result of 
that angry comment in Ramos’ mind: “verbal abuse,” which led to a 
reprimand of an entire game.
Yes, Ramos held the pow-
er to hand down such a steep 
penalty. And yes, he abused 
his power in a way that 
doomed Serena’s chances of 
victory. But penalties or not, 
Serena was never going to 
win. 
I agree with you Serena. You were 
shown injustice after being frustrated to 
no end. But we have to think about both 
parties involved. The young woman on 
the other side of the court controlled 
only what she could control. Yet her per-
formance was hijacked by the umpire. 
The Japanese phenom cruised to a 
6-2 ﬁ  rst-set win and was already up a 
break when she was awarded a game 
because of Serena’s argument with Ra- Serena shown injustice, but 
Osaka was the real victim
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16
Mark Stine
opinions@alligator.orgGOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The women’s team was ranked 12th in the nation, and ju-
nior Sierra Brooks was named a Golfweek Preseason Second-
Team All-American heading into the first tournament of the 
fall season. Both have proven themselves to be worthy of 
their preseason praise following their first day in their open-
ing competition. The Gators are in the lead at the Cougar 
Classic after one round and Brooks is atop the individual 
leaderboard. 
Brooks (7-under) started her fall season the right way, 
scoring four birdies and only one bogey on her first nine 
holes. She stayed hot through the back nine, and an eagle on 
the 18th hole capped off an incredible round. 
Clara Manzalini (3-under), the freshman from Milan, It-
aly, posted the second-best score of the day for the Gators. 
She had an even front nine, but an eagle on the 15th hole 
highlighted a solid 3-under par back nine. Manzalini ended 
the day tied for third individually. 
Sophomore Addie Baggarly and junior Marta Perez posted 
even rounds. They’re two of four Gators inside the top 30 
along with Brooks and Manzalini rounded out a successful 
first day of competition for the women’s team. 
Rain in the area postponed the end of the first round for 
12 of 19 teams in the tournament, though UF managed to 
finish its round. Teams will finish the first round tomorrow 
morning and continue on into the second. 
Men’s golf finishes miserable weekend in 13th
The No. 8 men’s team came into the Carpet Capital Col-
legiate in Dalton, Georgia, looking to start its season on the 
right foot in a tournament that featured seven other ranked 
teams. 
That didn’t happen. 
The Gators were in a tie for 11th place out of 15 teams 
after Day 1, fell to 13th after two rounds and finished the 
tournament in that spot, six strokes behind 12th-place Ken-
nesaw State and 49 strokes behind winner Tennessee. The 
team improved its score from Day 2 by one stroke, but the 
damage had already been done by that point. 
Sophomore Chris Nido (3-over) had the best weekend on 
the team, finishing in a tie for 27th. Nido’s 71 on Sunday was 
UF’s lowest score in the tournament. 
Freshman Aden Ye (16-over) was solid through two 
rounds, sitting at three strokes over par, but he fell apart on 
Sunday. Ye bogeyed the first hole of the round and never 
recovered, scoring an 85 (13-over) for the day. 
Senior Gordon Neale (10-over), sophomore Manny Girona 
(11-over) and freshman Eugene Hong (11-over) rounded out 
the rest of the team. Senior Ryan Celano (22-over) finished 
his weekend competing as an individual with a 78. 
The men’s golf team is back in action on Sept. 23 in Dallas 
at Trinity Forest, hosted by SMU.
Axelsen wins international title with Team Denmark
The best performance by a golfer on the men’s team was 
one not on the course in Dalton, Georgia. 
John Axelsen spent the weekend representing his home 
country of Denmark at the World Amateur Championship. 
Team Denmark, led by Axelsen and Danish twins Rasmus 
and Nicolai Hojgaard, won the tournament on Saturday. 
Axelsen became the first UF golfer to play in the World Ama-
teur Championship since J.C. Deacon took over in 2014. 
Axelsen shot a 69 to close out his tournament, though 
it didn’t count because his two teammates posted higher 
scores as Team Denmark held off a surging American squad. 
“I remember being at the opening ceremony and we stood 
there and talked, and I turned around to Nicolai and said ‘Yo 
Nicolai, I have a very good feeling about this World Am,’” 
Axelsen said in an interview with AmateurGolf.com. “These 
guys just play so well, and I played well the first two days 
and they just played really well the last two days. It’s a team 
event and that really showed.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgMen’s, women’s 
teams begin seasonsFOOTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
The walls were caving in on 
Feleipe Franks. 
Stepping up in the pocket on a 
play that was essentially second 
and goal from his own 25, Franks 
couldn’t see Kentucky defensive end 
Josh Allen coming on his blind side. 
A block was missed by senior 
left tackle Martez Ivey, as Allen cor-
rupted Franks’ wind-up for a heave 
that would’ve taken a decade of 
the rosary to go for a touchdown. 
The ball squirted loose. After much 
confusion, safety Davonte Robin-
son scooped up the ball and fought 
his way into the endzone, tacking a 
touchdown on his statline.
But the walls had been closing 
on Franks all game. The redshirt 
sophomore quarterback was forced 
to scramble and get rid of the ball 
all night. He was hurried four times, 
sacked twice and completed 17-of-38 
passes.
“It starts even just how we prac-
tice with the guys,” UF coach Dan 
Mullen said. “When you’ve got scout 
periods, you go to the other team’s 
looks, they kind of treated that as 
walkthroughs, and it’s not.”
There were outrageous plays and 
an incomprehensible field goal call, 
but the Gators ultimately withered in the trenches under the lights at Ben 
Hill Griffin. They survived the first 
half but faded along with their high-
tempo offense in the first loss to UK 
since the stadium ‘formerly known 
as Florida Field’  was named Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium in 1989.
Mullen said during fall camp he 
wanted to keep the run-pass ratio 
50:50 this season, and the play count 
was 14-12 in the first 30 minutes.
Franks went 7-for-12 with a touch-
down as Florida took a 10-7 lead into 
the locker room. The defense ben-
efitted from two turnovers in its own 
territory despite giving up 161 yards 
on the ground.
The Gators played more up-tem-
po in the second half, handing it off 
or deploying Franks 15 times, but 
throwing the ball 26 times.
The quarterback was feeling much 
more pressure and mustered 10 com-
pletions, including an interception in 
UF territory and a four-yard touch-
down to junior Freddie Swain.
Kentucky stuck with its gameplan 
of pounding the rock with quarter-
back Terry Wilson and running back 
Benny Snell, who slipped away from 
lunging Florida linemen and backers. 
He runshed 19 times on first down 
at a rate of 8.9 yards per carry. Ken-
tucky netted 141 yards on the ground 
in the second half.
“When you miss tackles and al-low them to continually move the 
chains, that’s hard,” Mullen said. 
“We had opportunities several times 
to get them behind the chains and 
get off the field.”
The Wildcats worked their way 
into third-and-manageable situa-
tions. Their average distance on third 
down: 4.2 yards. Florida’s was 8.2.
One of the few times the Gators 
held Wilson in an obvious passing 
down was one third-and-11 from the 
UK 46. The Gators rushed four and 
Wilson lofted a 54-yard gut-buster 
over the top of the Florida defense. 
21-10. 
“We got no rush and we had a 
breakdown in the secondary,” Mul-
len said about the touchdown.  “We 
had a safety there and he just got 
himself out of position… I don’t 
think we did a great job rushing the 
passer.”
Kentucky ran the ball 13 of 15 
plays after the bomb. The other two 
plays were screen passes.
“I don’t know if the loss will hurt 
or help moving forward,” Mullen 
said. “If we find a way to get one 
more stop and we get the ball and 
score one more time, I’m walking 
in here and we still have the same 
physicality problem.”
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.orgGators’ poor tackling, lack of 
physicality bad look for new defense
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Florida’s defense gave up 141 rushing yards in the second half in the team’s 27-16 loss on Saturday. The team 
gave up 454 total yards throughout the game, including 303 on the ground and another 151 through the air. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018
MONDAY NIGHT 
Burger Night
$3.99 BURGER
5PM- CLOSE
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • (352) 505-3595
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
Walkins Welcome
352-379-4686Welcome  
Class of 2022!
We want to  
make our  
52nd year of  
sevice our  
best yet!
Monday - Friday 
8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday
9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
throughout the tournament 
logging a career-high of three 
service aces against the Cali-
fornia State Northridge Mata-
dors and 36 kills on 107 swings 
through the weekend’s three 
games.
That brings her up to 123 
kills for the season in which 
the Gators have only played 
eight matches (33 sets). The 
second-highest on the roster 
for kills is right-side attacker 
and setter Holly Carlton (87).
If Hall’s performance is 
this impressive now, it’s hard 
to imagine how much better 
she’ll become as her career 
progresses.
Anything can happen this 
early in the season
It’s hard to argue that the 
most unexpected part of the 
weekend came late Friday 
night when Florida dropped 
its third match of the season 
in ﬁ  ve sets against unranked 
Northern Arizona, giving the 
Lumberjacks their ﬁ  rst win over a ranked opponent in pro-
gram history.
It’s a hard loss for the 
Gators to handle. It also shows 
that anything can happen in 
the world of NCAA volleyball.
No. 10 Southern California 
— who beat UF on Aug. 31 — 
dropped its own match in ﬁ  ve 
sets to No. 25 Marquette on 
Friday in Milwaukee. No. 15 
Baylor defeated No. 2 Wiscon-
sin on Friday night in Waco, 
Texas, in four sets for the 
Bears’ highest-ranked win in 
program history.
The Gators’ loss against an 
unranked opponent isn’t the 
end of the world. Upsets hap-
pen and streaks end. But a 
team’s response to that loss, 
in its own way, prepares it for 
the NCAA tournament in De-
cember.
The Gators will travel to 
Tallahassee, Florida, for a 
midweek matchup against 
the Seminoles at 6 p.m. on 
Wednesday. 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org  VOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Hall notched 36 kills on 107 swings at the Lumberjack Invitational
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Freshman Thayer Hall leads Florida with 123 kills on the season through eight matches. The Gators went 
2-1 this weekend at the Lumberjack Invitational in Flagstaff, Arizona.
mos. Osaka played the entire match 
like a seasoned pro. She deservingly 
won the match, which Williams ad-
mitted during the trophy presenta-
tion. 
I’m not saying all hope was lost 
for Serena when she was penalized. She’s the greatest tennis player of 
all time, and if anyone could fash-
ion a comeback in the U.S. Open 
ﬁ  nal, it’s her. But the thrill of win-
ning a major, which Williams has 
experienced 23 times as previously 
stated, is now something that Osaka 
will have to continue to wait to truly 
experience. What should’ve been elation for 
Osaka was pain and misunderstand-
ing. It’s impossible to feel good af-
ter a win when the entire stadium 
“boos” as soon as you step onto the 
podium. 
Luckily, her hero was alongside 
with her to provide some encour-
agement. Ramos, please come out and 
apologize.
Apologize to Serena for penaliz-
ing her in a way that allowed you to 
determine the ﬁ  nal outcome. 
But especially apologize to Osa-
ka for taking away her fantasy of 
meeting, then beating, her hero in 
a Grand Slam ﬁ  nal, and then stomp-ing on it because you can’t control 
your temper when her opponent 
voices frustration. 
Mark Stine is the online sports 
editor at The Alligator. You can 
follow him on Twitter @mstinejr 
or contact him at mstine@alliga-
tor.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Osaka won U.S. Open in straight sets over Williams 6-2, 6-4