We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF researchers develop anti-theft tool
The new device combats credit card skimming, pg 10
Oldest male Indian rhino celebrates birthday
Henry the rhinoceros turned 37 on Saturday, pg 8Gators celebrate their seniors
UF baseball seniors JJ Schwarz and Nick 
Horvath were honored before Sunday’s game,
pg 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 86
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
France Jackson, 29, and Jes-
sica Jones, 28, made history on 
May 4 by becoming the ﬁ  rst 
African American women to re-
ceive PhDs from the Computer 
and Information Science and En-
gineering Department at UF. 
Both Jackson and Jones grad-
uated with their doctorates in 
human-centric computing from 
the Wertheim College of Engi-
neering. They said they are ea-
ger to encourage other women 
to pursue science, technology, 
engineering and math majors as 
well. 
“We have to have more role 
models for girls,” Jones said. 
According to a report from 
the U.S. Department of Com-
merce, women made up around 47 percent the workforce in 
2017. Only 25 percent of em-
ployed women held STEM posi-
tions. 
The same report also noted 
that while men and women 
make up around the same 
amount of all college degree 
holders, only 30 percent of all 
STEM degrees are held by wom-
en.
Jones and Jackson agreed the 
best way to motivate the next 
generation of women to major 
in STEM degrees is through rep-
resentation and encouragement.
“You rarely see women in 
STEM on TV,” said Jones. “If 
you do, then they’re the stereo-
typical nerds, but there’s no one 
way to be a woman in STEM.”
Jackson said she believes a 
love for engineering and science 
should be nourished, and she 
had advice to share with other women interested in technol-
ogy. 
“You are just as smart as ev-
eryone else in the room, and you 
deserve to be there,” Jackson 
said. “Don’t be afraid. Don’t feel 
like just because you may not be 
the majority in the class that you 
can’t be successful at it.”
Both Jones and Jackson re-
ceived their master’s degrees 
from Clemson University. Jack-
son received her master’s degree 
in industrial engineering, while 
Jones got hers in computer engi-
neering. They had both already 
broken into the world of STEM 
careers before receiving their 
doctorates.
Jones currently works as a 
research scientist for the Navy. 
Jackson began working full time 
in January. She builds  what she 
described as innovative applica-
tion experiences for Intel Corp. First African American women 
earn PhD from CISE departmentBy Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
In the aftermath of the gradua-
tion ceremony that became nation-
al news, UF President Kent Fuchs 
is seeking help from students on 
how to rethink future commence-
ments.
Fuchs said in a video he posted 
on Twitter on May 8 that 22 stu-
dents were rushed off stage at the 
commencement ceremony May 
5 by an as-of-yet unnamed mar-
shal. The employee has since been 
placed on paid administrative 
leave, UF spokesperson Margot 
Winick said.
Fuchs addressed the incident 
that occurred at the College of Lib-
eral Arts and Science’s graduation 
at the O’Connell Center by tweet-
ing apologies personally and on 
behalf of UF on May 6. The state-
ment said the marshal acted “inap-
propriately aggressive in rushing 
students across the stage.”
Mackintosh Joachim, an 
18-year-old UF psychology and 
women’s studies sophomore, said 
the initial online apology was half-
hearted and did not achieve any 
results. Joachim posted the video 
of the incident taken by UF public 
health student Tasha Raymond, 21.
Winick wrote in an email May 
8 that UF is reviewing the incident 
and will not identify the marshal 
nor have further comment while 
under review.
“I don’t think it’s a fair punish-
ment because he was clearly tar-
geting black students,” Joachim 
said. “I think that they are trying 
to protect him because they know 
what he did was wrong.”
Nafeesah Attah, 20, is one of 
three black students who were 
ﬁ  lmed being ushered off stage. The 
international studies graduate said 
she was going to perform a historic 
dance from her sorority called a 
duck walk — waving your arms 
up and squatting while stomping 
your feet — at the ceremony be-
fore the marshal interfered.
Attah said members of the so-
rority, Delta Sigma Theta, have 
done the dance at previous UF 
graduations and that other stu-
dents were dancing and backﬂ  ip-
ping but were not handled in the 
same manner.
“Although I appreciate the 
apology from (Fuchs), I think it’s 
a little too late,” Attah said. “I deﬁ  -
nitely hope the UF administration 
holds the person accountable.”UF graduation incident prompts commencement reform 
SEE GRAD,  PAGE 4Courtesy of Zachariah Chou
UF has not yet revealed the identity of the graduation marshal who shoved 22 students off stage during a 
commencement ceremony on May 5. The marshal has been placed on paid administrative leave. 
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
The Innovative Product Development 
Center at Santa Fe College is aiming to 
help entrepreneurs and innovators in Ala-
chua and surrounding counties develop 
their discoveries into commercial prod-
ucts. Its main focus is mentoring start-up 
companies.
Santa Fe received a $499,914 three-
year grant in 2017 from the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce that was used directly 
to create the IPDC. The grant will be used 
to fund eight to 15 startups per year and 
create 75 to 100 new jobs in Gainesville, 
IPDC Director Karl Zawoy said. 
Zawoy said the center will work with 
entrepreneurs to determine if their dis-
coveries, encompassing information tech-
nology, medical devices, biotechnology, 
manufacturing technology and consumer 
products, have commercial potential.
The center is located in the Gainesville 
Technology and Entrepreneurship Center at 2153 SE Hawthorne Road #101. Zawoy 
said the center is interested in working 
with anyone who has a promising idea or 
product.
“The goal is to help the companies 
in whatever stage they’re at to get to the 
next stage, so that they are able to be suc-
cessful, grow and create new jobs in the 
area,” Zawoy said. “We’re building a net-
work of investors who potentially could 
provide anything from investing in the 
company to maybe even securing some 
loans.” 
Zawoy, who has been at Santa Fe since 
April, has almost 30 years of experience 
in the product development ﬁ  eld. He said 
his experience in transferring technology 
from the laboratory to the market is part 
of what makes him qualiﬁ  ed to lead this 
initiative. 
After determining if the discoveries 
have commercial potential, the center 
will then connect entrepreneurs with pro-New Santa Fe center to 
promote startup companies 
SEE SANTA FE,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
HIGH  85° LOW  67°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Renovations begin for the Boys & 
Girls Club of Alachua County
All community members are in-
vited to join the Board of Directors 
and Staff of the Boys & Girls 
Club of Alachua County, along 
with Gainesville Area Chamber 
Leaders for a groundbreaking cer-
emony at the Northwest Boys & 
Girls Club on Wednesday begin-
ning at 3:00 p.m. Local business 
leaders have united to plan and 
fund a series of substantial up-
grades to the Boys & Girls Club of 
Alachua County facility, located 
at 2661 NW 51st St.
Two Gainesville commissions to 
meet this week
The Alachua County Planning 
Commission will meet Wednesday 
at 6 p.m. The Alachua County 
Development Review Committee 
will meet Thursday at 1:30 p.m. 
Both meetings will be held in the 
Jack Durrance Auditorium, Room 
209, on the second floor of the 
County Administration Building, 
located at 12 SE First St. Items 
on the commission’s agenda in-
clude rezoning for residential 
and commercial developments, a 
public hearing on developments 
at Celebration Pointe and plans 
to add on to the Second Morning 
Star Missionary Baptist Church.
1000 Degrees Neapolitan Pizzeria 
announces grand opening in 
Gainesville
1000 Degrees Neapolitan Pizzeria, 
a fast-casual American spin on au-
thentic, hand-tossed Neapolitan 
pizza has announced the grand 
opening of its Gainesville loca-
tion for Thursday. The new res-
taurant is located at 4062 Plaza 
Blvd. in Suite 20. To celebrate, 
the first 12 guests through the 
doors during the grand opening 
event at 11 a.m. will receive free 
pizza for a year (one free pizza 
each week excluding gluten-free 
crust). In addition, all guests who 
visit the grand opening between 
11 a.m. and 7 p.m. and “like” the 
location’s Facebook page will re-
ceive a free 10-inch pizza of their 
choice (excludes gluten-free piz-
za crust).
Brick City Blues Festival hits 
Ocala
Are you a soul man or soul wom-
an? Feed The Need of Marion 
County will be traveling around 
Marion County the next couple 
weeks featuring businesses, or-
ganizations and individuals that 
support the Brick City Blues 
Festival on Friday. The festival 
will feature the bands Little Jake 
& The Soul Searchers, Rondo & The Mojo Downs Band, Sheba 
The Mississippi Queen and The 
Reverend Billy C. Wirtz. Visit 
feedtheneedmarioncounty.com 
to learn how you can get in-
volved.
Keep up the pace with the second 
race of the Dash & Splash Race 
Series
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
department (PRCA) wants to 
keep athletes and beginners moti-
vated with the second race of the 
2018 Gainesville Dash & Splash 
Race Series! The distances are a 
little longer, with a different race 
surface than the first. This is a 
perfect opportunity to challenge 
your fitness goals! The race takes 
place Saturday at H. Spurgeon 
Cherry (Westside) Pool, which is 
located at 1001 NW 31st Drive. 
This race starts at the pool and 
consists of a two-mile running 
route, partially on the trails of 
Loblolly Woods Nature Park, and 
a 400-meter swim at Westside 
Pool. For race information, please 
contact Scott Chase, program 
coordinator, at 352-393-8751 or 
ChaseSA@cityofgainesville.org. 
Road and lane closures through 
May 25
The following are the City of 
Gainesville traffic impacts sched-
uled through Friday. Northwest 
Second Avenue will be closed be-
tween Northwest 18th Street and 
Northwest 19th Street for utility 
work. This project is expected to 
be completed by May 25. A de-
tour will be set up directing traf-
fic around the project. Southwest 
42nd Street will have periodic 
closures between Southwest 20th 
Avenue and the 1400 block of 
Southwest 42nd Street for drain-
age improvements. This project 
is expected to be completed by 
Friday. Northeast 10th Avenue 
will have intermittent closures 
for roadway improvements near 
Northeast Sixth Terrace through 
Thursday.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mmcmullen@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. 
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
55 dead in Gaza protests as Israel celebrates US Embassy move
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip  — In a 
jarring contrast, Israeli forces shot 
and killed at least 55 Palestinians 
and wounded more than 1,200 
during mass protests Monday 
along the Gaza border, while just 
a few miles away Israel and the 
U.S. held a festive inauguration 
ceremony for the new American 
Embassy in contested Jerusalem.
It was by far the deadliest day of 
cross-border violence since a dev-
astating 2014 war between Israel 
and Gaza’s Hamas rulers, and 
further dimmed the already bleak 
prospects for President Donald 
Trump’s hoped-for peace plan.
Throughout the day, Gaza pro-
testers set tires ablaze, sending 
thick plumes of black smoke into 
the air, and hurled firebombs 
and stones toward Israeli troops 
across the border. The Israeli 
military, which has come under 
international criticism for using 
excessive force against unarmed 
protesters, said Hamas tried to 
carry out bombing and shooting 
attacks under the cover of the 
protests and released video of 
protesters ripping away parts of 
the barbed-wire border fence.
Monday’s protests culminated 
more than a month of weekly 
demonstrations aimed at break-
ing a crippling Israeli-Egyptian 
border blockade. But the U.S. 
Embassy move, bitterly opposed 
by the Palestinians, added further 
fuel.
Court says states can OK sports 
betting
WASHINGTON  — The Supreme 
Court cleared the way Monday 
for states coast to coast to legal-
ize betting on sports, breaking a 
longtime ban and creating a po-
tential financial boon for states 
and the gambling industry. The 
first bets could be placed within 
weeks.
Despite opposition from the ma-
jor sports leagues and the Trump 
administration, the high court 
struck down a federal law that 
had barred betting on football, 
basketball, baseball and other 
sports in most states. States that 
want to take advantage of the 
ruling now will generally have 
to pass legislation to allow sports 
books to open. Some, including 
New Jersey, which brought the 
case to the Supreme Court, have 
a head start.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 86
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Digital Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Winter, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Victoria Gingras, 
  Stefano Ferreyros
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie 
  Alexander, Ruben Riera, Charles 
  Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
INDOOR & OUTDOOR SEATING WITH FREE WIFI
NOW OPEN
SELF-SERVE
PIZZA BY THE SLICE
SALAD BAR &  INTERNATIONAL CUISINE
COFFEE & ESPRESSO
COLD-PRESSED JUICE ON TAP
BUILD YOUR OWN ACA Í BOWLTHOUSANDS OF
LOCAL & ORGANIC PRODUCTS  
HUNDREDS OF
WINES & CRAFT BEERS  
HIGHEST QUALITY
SUPPLEMENTS & BODY CAREFEATURING
Visit us at the new Butler Town Center 
SW Archer Rd. & SW 34th St .4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A collision left a man dead on the inter-
section of U.S. Highway 441 and County 
Road 234 on Saturday afternoon.
Jeffrey DeLong, a resident of Clermont, 
Florida, was traveling south on U.S. High-
way 441 with another passenger when the incident occurred at 12:54 p.m., according to 
a press release from Florida Highway Patrol.
At the intersection of CR 234, DeLong 
pulled across the southbound lanes of U.S. 
Highway 441 traveling east from the east-
bound stop sign on CR 234. He was driving 
a 2006 Suzuki motorcycle with no helmet, 
according to the release.
DeLong collided into the left side of a 
1998 Lincoln Continental as the second driv-er, 50-year-old Ocala resident Freddie Slater, 
was crossing the southbound lanes of U.S. 
Highway 441.
DeLong, 28, was pronounced dead at the 
scene of the crash. Slater suffered no inju-
ries, the press release said.
The motorcycle passenger Alaina John-
son, 25-year-old resident of Fort McCoy, 
Florida, suffered serious injuries, according 
to the press release. Her current condition is unknown.
According to Lt. Patrick Riordan, a public 
affairs ofﬁ  cer for FHP, the investigation into 
the collision is on-going. It is unknown if al-
cohol or drugs were involved in the incident.
Follow Jessica Curbelo on Twitter @jess-
curbelo and contact her at jcurbelo@alliga-
tor.org
 Man dead after motorcycle crash on US Highway 441 
Wallace Mazon, a UF po-
litical science and African 
American studies senior, said 
students are constantly raising 
their hands, shouting or danc-
ing during the commencement 
walk across the stage.
“If you’ve been to a gradua-
tion, that’s, like, something you 
know,” Mazon, 23, said. “For 
that big guy to put his hands on 
graduating students after they 
put in so much work, to not 
only beneﬁ  t the students but to 
also make UF more prestigious 
— it was complete negligence.”
Fuchs spoke at a Faculty 
Senate meeting last Thursday 
afternoon and outlined his 
plans to create a task force to 
rethink future ceremonies. Stu-
dent Body President Ian Green 
conﬁ  rmed his role as a co-chair 
in the initiative along with Vice 
President Dave Parrott.
“I want to be thinking out-
side the box and making sure 
it’s truly a celebration with the 
students in mind,” Green said. 
“I think (Saturday) deﬁ  nitely 
shows that we have some chal-
lenges at UF that we need to work on together.”
Fuchs said the task force be-
ing assembled is partly because 
of May 5’s graduation and to 
create ways that would make 
the ceremonies “more appro-
priate for the students of to-
day.” He said he would like to 
see commencement in Decem-
ber and May as a ceremony for 
all graduating students inside 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
He proposed that colleges 
and departments hold their 
own ceremonies that are ca-
tered speciﬁ  cally to their wants 
and needs, whether they be 
more formal or more celebra-
tory.
“I just believe that in (the 
current) commencement cer-
emonies, we’re doing too 
much,” Fuchs said at the meet-
ing. “We’re trying to accom-
plish a university-wide com-
mencement ceremony with all 
the pomp and circumstance 
around that.”
Fuchs said UF would send 
out a campus-wide notice to 
seek students’ input and any 
ideas they’d like to suggest.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgGRAD,  from pg. 1Fuchs asked for input
fessional advisors and mentors who 
know the speciﬁ  c market well. These 
experts are there to offer help with 
things like understanding how to form 
a company and create a business plan, 
Zawoy said. 
For the Gainesville economy, he 
said the center will create eight to 15 
startups per year and use the services 
and support networks in the commu-
nity surrounding the growing busi-
nesses. It will offer online classes and 
resources for company CEOs and prin-
cipals to learn how to create business 
plans and investor presentations.
“A startup company that has a rapid 
growth phase may double in size in the 
ﬁ  rst few years,” Zawoy said. “You’re 
hiring people who are entrepreneurs 
who are looking to do the next big 
thing, and startups typically need to 
hire people quickly.” 
Zawoy said the IPDC will have 
“lunch and learn” opportunities, train-
ing events and guest speakers to con-
nect startup companies with the men-
tors in the community. He plans to 
start a social media campaign to pro-
vide the community with information 
about the center.
He said the ﬁ  rst step is to get con-
nected with the community and ﬁ  nd 
out who needs help. UF’s Innovate and the Hub is one 
partner of the IPDC. UF Innovate Di-
rector of Incubation Services Mark 
Long said the partnership will allow 
the IPDC access to resources and pro-
grams for community-based startups. 
“UF Innovate and the Hub already 
have a signiﬁ  cant network in place for 
the university-based companies, and 
the Innovative Product Development 
Center really expands that to include 
community startups,” Long said. 
The combination of the IPDC and 
UF Innovate will signiﬁ  cantly increase 
the entrepreneurial ecosystem in 
Gainesville, Long said.
“What is signiﬁ  cant most of all for 
startup companies is the network that they can access for support, advice, di-
rection, capital and experience,” Long 
said. “I’m only as good as the people 
I know.” 
Dug Jones, associate vice president 
for economic development at Santa Fe, 
said the idea for the IPDC resulted from 
a lack of support for entrepreneurs and 
inventors who are not afﬁ  liated with 
UF and who may not have business 
experience in the community. 
“That’s the beauty of it,” Jones said. 
“When this works the way we expect 
it to, it ultimately gets a product to the 
market that people want.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgSANTA FE,  from pg. 1Zawoy predicted eight to 15 startups a year
Courtesy of Karl Zawoy 
Santa Fe’s new Innovative Product Development Center will be locat-
ed in the Gainesville T echnology and Entrepreneurship Center. 
TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
Attempted rape at Circle K store
 By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man accused of attempting 
to rape a woman at a Circle K convenience store, located at 
2152 NW 39th Ave., on Saturday evening.
Pedro Gutierrez, 28, was charged with 
sexual battery, domestic battery, posses-
sion of a controlled substance and false 
imprisonment. 
According to the report, Gutierrez 
entered the Circle K bathroom alone 
around 4 p.m. The victim then went into 
the store to ﬁ  nd him. Gutierrez called her 
into the bathroom and she entered will-
ingly, according to the report.
Around 4:15 p.m., the two began arguing, but it quickly 
ended after Gutierrez kissed the victim, according to the re-
port. A witness stated in the report they heard an argument 
and banging on the bathroom door.
The victim said she felt Gutierrez was kissing aggres-
sively and tried to push him away. The victim tried to leave 
multiple times, but Gutierrez physically restrained her from 
leaving, the victim said.
Gutierrez then undressed the victim and attempted to 
rape her but failed, the victim said. 
The witness said it appeared as if the victim was ﬁ  xing 
her pants when both of them left the restroom and Circle K. 
According to the report, as they walked toward a Sonic 
Drive-In parking lot, a witness saw the victim push Gutier-
rez. Gutierrez then pushed her to the ground and attempted 
to hit her. 
The witness also stated they overheard the victim saying 
Gutierrez had tried to rape her.
After transporting Gutierrez to the GPD station, the ar-
resting ofﬁ  cer checked underneath the back seat of the pa-
trol car where Gutierrez was sitting and found a plastic bag. 
The bag contained a small pink pill, identiﬁ  ed as dextro-
amphetamine, and a white powdery substance, identiﬁ  ed 
as about 1.6 grams of methamphetamine, according to the 
report. 
Gutierrez remained in Alachua County Jail on Saturday 
and Sunday in lieu of a $150,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgUnidentiﬁ  ed shooter on West 
University Ave.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was shot early Saturday morning after 
reportedly being involved in a dispute near UF 
campus. Gainesville Police is currently searching 
for the shooter, according to a press release.
Ofﬁ  cers were patrolling West University Av-
enue when they heard a shot ﬁ  red shortly after 3 
a.m. When they arrived on scene near Kava Hoo-
kah Lounge, located at 1007 W. University Ave., 
a man was found lying outside. 
The man reportedly suffered from a single gun-
shot wound to his side, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben Tobias said. GPD is still waiting for conﬁ  rma-
tion from hospital reports.
According to a preliminary investigation, the 
victim allegedly pulled out a gun after having a 
dispute with an unidentiﬁ  ed person. The victim 
then reportedly went after another person when 
he was shot in the side by an unknown person.
The unidentiﬁ  ed shooter ﬂ  ed the scene before 
GPD arrived, which began deploying its issued 
trauma kits. It’s unknown if the shooter ﬂ  ed by 
foot or vehicle, Tobias said. The victim was trans-
ported to a hospital by Gainesville Fire Rescue 
and Alachua County Fire Rescue.
As of Saturday morning, the man was in the 
intensive care unit. His current condition is un-
known, Tobias said, and his identity has yet to 
be released.
GPD has not yet conﬁ  rmed any description of 
the suspect, Tobias said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMultiple stores victim of credit card fraud
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man and woman accused of 
spending $1,021.18 on a stolen credit card in less than two 
hours Friday. 
Brandon Harry Driggers, 25, and Taylor Shockey, 23, from 
Columbus, Ohio, were charged with unarmed burglary to un-
occupied conveyance, theft grand, criminal use of personal ID 
information, fraudulent use of credit card, scheme to defraud 
and obtain property and dealing in stolen property.
On April 20 at 11:50 a.m., the victim parked their vehicle at 
6611 W. Newberry Road. About two hours later they discov-
ered their car window was smashed. The victim’s book bag 
and their companion’s purse were stolen, according to the ar-
rest report. 
At 12:46 p.m., Driggers and Shockey purchased $41.15 
worth of fuel from Sunoco Gas Station, located at 6800 NW 
Eighth Ave., using the victim’s stolen credit card, the report 
states. 
They reportedly continued to make multiple stops at various 
stores to purchase more items with the stolen credit card. Less 
than 10 minutes later, they allegedly purchased $352.90 in Visa 
gift cards at Walgreens, located at 7520 W. Newberry Road. 
They left and arrived at The Home Depot, located at 7107 
SW Fourth Blvd., only 25 minutes later and allegedly pur-
chased two DeWalt drills for $413.22. Less than 15 minutes lat-
er, $213.91 in Visa gift cards were purchased at the Walgreens 
located at 9125 NW 39th Ave., the report states.
After purchasing the two DeWalt drills from The Home 
Depot, Driggers and Shockey allegedly falsiﬁ  ed a pawn slip at 
Oaks Pawn, located at 2530 SW 34th St., and sold them, the 
report states.
According to the report, Driggers and Shockey attempted to 
make a purchase of $360 at CVS Pharmacy, but the clerk asked 
for ID and they both ran.
GPD believes the fast-paced criminal activity indicates that 
Driggers and Shockey were working together from the begin-
ning and knew the consequences to the victims, the report says.
Driggers and Shockey remained in the Alachua County 
Jail on Friday and Saturday. Driggers’ bail amount is set at 
$195,000, and Shockey’s bail amount is set at $130,000.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgGutierrez
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
With the start of Summer A and C, 
I’m reminded that summer is my 
favorite time of year at UF.
My ﬁ  rst experience with sum-
mer classes was at Miami Killian 
Senior High School in Miami in 1972. That 
year, Killian offered students in my senior 
class the opportunity to graduate in Janu-
ary instead of May if we attended school 
the summer before graduation.  Many of us 
wanted to get out of high school as soon as 
possible, so we took a full load of summer classes. I felt 
that I learned more in those summer classes than I did 
during the usual academic year.
Some 34,000 students will attend at least one UF 
Summer session this year. Currently, in sessions A and 
C we have more than 27,000 students, with more than 
18,000 undergraduates and more than 9,000 graduate 
and professional students. The number of undergradu-
ates is signiﬁ  cantly larger than previous Summers due 
primarily to federal Pell Grant and Florida Academic 
Scholars funds now being available for summer school.
Summer at UF has a different vibe. There are plenty 
of students, faculty and staff on campus and everyone is 
working hard. However, there is more time to work on 
large projects and strategic goals. As a student, although 
many faculty travel in the summer, there is more op-
portunity to get to know one or two professors in depth. 
Faculty often use much of the Summer to attend confer-
ences and work on books, papers, proposals and prepa-
ration for the Fall semester.
Summer is a time for personal and physical renewal, 
including renewal of our campus facilities and infra-
structure. Campus facilities projects this summer include 
upgrading the Hub ground ﬂ  oor lobby area, upgrading 
Pony Field for marching band practice, repairing mul-
tiple roofs, replacing HVAC units on several buildings, 
renovating the Katie Seashole Pressly Softball Stadium 
and enhancing the entrance to Library West.
Summer is also a time when UF renews its people. New students are introduced to UF through 
Summer Preview; many new students start 
their time at UF in Summer B, and many new 
faculty and staff begin their appointments in 
the Summer.
For students, although your classes may 
be intense, I believe you will ﬁ  nd, as did I 
some 46 years ago, there is something special 
about taking classes in the Summer. I have 
two recommendations to further enhance 
your experience. First, I recommend you 
spend time with at least one professor outside of classes. 
Make an appointment to ask the faculty member for 
their advice on courses, internships and careers or vol-
unteer to help them in their research, course develop-
ment or other projects.
Second, I recommend you do something signiﬁ  cant 
and memorable in our Gainesville and Alachua County 
community outside of the classroom. Here are a few per-
sonal recommendations:
1) Spend a half day with a guest at UF’s RecSport 
facilities on Lake Wauburg. Bring your Gator 1 Card and 
enjoy the lake.
2) Ride your bike, jog or walk the 16-mile Gaines-
ville-Hawthorne Trail.  Look out for the bison and the 
alligators.
3) On July 3, enjoy Fanfares and Fireworks at the 
Bandshell on Flavet Field, sponsored by WUFT and the 
College of Journalism and Communications.
4) Tube, canoe or swim Gilchrist Blue Springs State 
Park and Ichetucknee State Park.
5) Discover a new favorite ice cream shop.
Finally, a number of Gator sports have not yet ﬁ  n-
ished their seasons. This past weekend we watched 
baseball win the SEC championship, men and women 
track and ﬁ  eld teams win SEC championships and soft-
ball win the SEC tournament. Gator sports in the Sum-
mer are worth watching.
If you are new to UF, welcome!  I look forward to 
meeting you this Summer.How to spend your summer semester at UFTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
UF got a black 
eye when 
black students 
were aggres-
sively forced 
out of their strolls while 
walking during gradua-
tion. Strolls, in case you 
aren’t familiar, are tradi-
tional, celebratory danc-
es that originated with 
historically black Greek 
organizations. They’re a 
lot more meaningful than the usual 
dabs we often see.
Nearly everyone in the room 
caught on there was something 
wrong with the moment. In a rare 
display of unity, the audience main-
tained solid boos for almost a solid 
10 seconds. The whole situation 
was impressively bad.
But, hey, at least people in the 
room recognized what happened 
was messed up and shouldn’t have 
happened. The UF Twitter put out 
a vague, non-apology apology later 
that night. Then, UF President Kent 
Fuchs put out a more comprehen-
sive two-part Twitter apology the 
next day, also reﬂ  ected in his com-
mencement address in subsequent 
ceremonies as well as through his 
ofﬁ  ce’s Facebook page.
Unfortunately, our experience 
within the room wasn’t reﬂ  ected 
well online. There’s no shortage 
of people calling the students hoo-
ligans or insisting graduation cere-
monies are supposed to be respect-
ful, classy, decorous or whatever. 
Because nothing says “decorous” 
like parents honking smuggled air 
horns or holding screaming babies. 
Nothing says “respectful” like par-
ents sassing one another and bick-
ering over saved seats. Nothing says 
“classy” like graduates ripping off 
their gowns as they walk.
And yes, I’m talking about white 
people as well as minorities. Don’t 
let your prejudice pigeonhole you 
into thinking only black graduates 
were strutting their stuff creatively 
this past weekend. The reason ev-
eryone is angry is because the mar-
shal’s harassment of black students 
was completely out of line com-
pared to how he treated students of 
other ethnicities (or non-treatment 
in the case of some students from 
multiple non-black ethnicities that 
he inexplicably did not harass).
And yes, I watched the whole 
darn livestream even though I was 
there in person just to make sure I’m writing this accu-
rately.
But back to decorum; 
something tells me the 
people making mindless 
comments don’t know 
what our ceremonies are 
like. At the beginning 
of his commencement 
speech, Fuchs makes 
a reference to how the 
graduating class sur-
vived tide pods and the 
“stiff arm dance” (also known as 
ﬂ  ossing). In the ﬁ  rst couple of cere-
monies, he just says it and everyone 
laughs since he’s our Gator dad; 
he’s funny and we love him. After 
around four or ﬁ  ve ceremonies, 
someone or several people from the 
group of “decorous” distinguished 
guests and faculty decided to actual-
ly start doing the dance after Fuchs 
makes the reference and the newly 
born tradition carried on until the 
last ceremony. We actually got less 
“classy” and less “decorous” over 
time.
The point is that we clearly have 
not chosen to conduct these cere-
monies as people might have during 
the 12th century. If you think cere-
monies should be dreadfully boring, 
prim and proper, you’re perfectly 
free to live your boring life and die a 
boring death, but that doesn’t mean 
anyone else has to suffer the same 
boring fate, so stay in your boring 
lane.
Fuchs pokes fun at how aca-
demic dress codes used to be in ad-
dition to joining the students in the 
“decorous” tradition of decorating 
one’s mortarboard. If you’re going 
to scold someone for trying to stroll 
or dance while at a UF graduation 
ceremony, you’re clearly missing 
the forest for the trees.
If you’re going to just call it 
“ratchet” dancing, I encourage 
you to learn more about strolling. I 
used to be relatively ignorant about 
strolling, . Initially, it was just a lot 
of yelling and weird moves and 
such to me. But over time, I got to 
know more people within the or-
ganizations and eventually started 
to understand the meaning behind 
the practices. I would highly recom-
mend against disguising ignorance 
with a false sense of supremacy 
since, if you are, you’re just setting 
yourself up to fail. 
Zachariah Chou is a 20-year-old 
UF political science sophomore and 
Murphree Area Senator.On ‘decorous’ graduation 
ceremonies and responses
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Morgan McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORMorgan McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
May 19, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
If I had to describe the American side of 
my family in one scene from a TV show, 
it would deﬁ  nitely be from “Desperate 
Housewives” season four episode 14.  Bree 
says whenever she “feels her emotions get-
ting the best of her,” she “pictures an empty 
box, puts her emotions in the box and puts 
that box in an empty closet.” Then she deals 
with her emotions later. I’m not trying to say 
all American families are as cold as mine, but 
in comparison to my Arab family, they are Ant-
arctica. 
When spending time with my Palestinian 
family, it is not uncommon for them to erupt 
in passionate yelling and expressive faces. 
There is seemingly zero wait time between 
when someone feels offended and when they 
verbally seek apology or retribution. No issue is too small to be brought up.
Didn’t like how someone ne-
glected the dishes? Yell. Didn’t like 
someone’s tone? Yell. Someone 
stole your clothes? Yell, yell, yell. 
I can’t even count how many 
nights of my childhood I was kept 
up from the sounds of my aunts’ 
petty ﬁ  ghts. A miscommunication 
with your cousin on the school 
bus can quickly lead to an intense 
WWE-style wrestling match on the couch 
(there is a reason why I’m so tough).
Is it possible this assertive, passionate and 
confrontational culture is actually healthier 
than what I experience back home in the U.S.? 
My American mother’s side of the family 
deals with things a little differently. They expe-rience similar frustrations, but their 
coping tools are a bit unsatisfying in 
my opinion. 
In fact, they’ll do just about any-
thing besides confrontation: the si-
lent treatment, absence from family 
events, separate therapy sessions 
and the ostracizing of family mem-
bers for decades at a time. There is 
more of an emphasis on being well-
mannered and civilized than on be-
ing heard. 
We're often encouraged to pre-
tend like things never happened and 
just move on. But it is clear these 
feelings bubble under the surface and some-
times build up into an emotional volcano that 
erupts at the slightest irritation. At that point, 
confrontation is forced, but the origins of these 
feelings are mixed and can seem unfounded. 
These types of last-minute conﬂ  icts aren’t usu-
ally resolved well.Obviously, my Arab family members don’t 
always resolve their problems through yelling 
and talking, but they do confront each other 
and make themselves heard. I am not condon-
ing violent and directionless anger but rather 
constructive and controlled expression.
Holding in your emotions is really toxic 
sometimes. It leads to accumulated anger and 
bitterness toward each other. There must be 
some kind of release. 
When my immediate family ﬁ  ghts, it’s com-
mon to see us laughing together 10 minutes lat-
er. Family shouldn’t hold grudges; they should 
talk to each other. 
We tend to be overly polite to friends and 
coworkers because we know they aren’t fam-
ily and won’t love us unconditionally. But I 
believe that by addressing people and making 
our feelings heard, we can save relationships 
and be more successful at school and work.  
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her 
column comes out on Tuesdays. 
When you come to 
college, it’s easy to 
be deﬁ  ned by ev-
erything but what 
you actually are. 
There’s your UFID num-
ber, your majors and minors, 
how many credits you are 
taking, how many clubs you 
are in. It’s a never-ending 
cycle. Just typing it out feels 
exhausting. 
There’s more. How many leader-
ship positions do you have, what’s your 
GPA, how much of a Gator are you or 
who takes on the most?
It’s easy to lose yourself in these la-
bels and numbers, especially in a uni-
versity where it’s easy to feel small on a 
campus of thousands.
I think it’s time to break free of labels 
and numbers. 
You’re more than just a student, 
your major or your ID number. College 
is all about ﬁ  nding out who you really 
are inside and outside of the classroom.
In my ﬁ  rst few semesters, I’ve been 
guilty of getting caught up over unim-
portant measurements that I let deﬁ  ne 
how I felt about my worth.
Attaching your worth to a grade on 
a test, your GPA or the major you’ve se-lected is exhausting and can 
crush your self-esteem.
This summer I’ve decided 
to stop using numbers and 
labels to deﬁ  ne myself and 
discover who I am in ways 
outside of a transcript. 
College is important, but 
not at the cost of who you are 
as a person and your mental 
health.
So as you begin Summer 
A, think of yourself as more than just 
a student.
It’s easy to lose yourself in compari-
sons and make college an experience 
that is not your own.
I’m not saying to disregard classes or 
the importance of extracurricular activi-
ties. College is a time to explore yourself 
beyond the bounds of just your grades 
or resume.
Make real experiences. Make memo-
ries. Go beyond your comfort zone and 
ﬁ  nd where you belong at UF. Find your 
Gator family. Be more than a number or 
a label, and don’t compare your journey 
to someone else’s.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journal-
ism junior. Her column comes out on 
Tuesdays. Please don’t put your emotions in a box
Forget the labels and numbersColumn
ColumnLayla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
Transportation and Parking Ser-
vices suffers from an image crisis. 
With the Food for Fines program, 
Transportation and Parking Ser-
vices chipped away at its reputa-
tion as a ticket writer to reveal a seeming-
ly more compassionate side — one that 
is willing to trade donations to Field and 
Fork Pantry for overdue citations. 
However, the Student Body should 
not become complacent: Campus park-
ing is still plagued by high ticket costs, 
predatory ticketing and a stagnant population of 
parking spaces.
In December 2017, Scott Fox, the director of TPS, 
said it wasn’t “our pleasure to... write parking tick-
ets,” but that it was “our reluctant duty.”
While I would wager Fox and his staff do not 
personally enjoy writing tickets, I’m less conﬁ  dent 
about UF as an organization on a budget. 
UF made $1,531,532 from parking tickets in the 
2016-2017 ﬁ  scal year. The cost of individual parking 
citations ranges from $35 to $250 and beyond.
The price per violation suggests money is a fac-
tor at play here. TPS can claim to not be motivated 
to proﬁ  t off of students, but the math says other-
wise. The more tickets written, the more money 
they bring in.
One can only guess in frustration where the park-
ing attendants hide to pounce so quickly. Do they 
live under large ﬂ  at rocks in the lot like a colony of 
newts? Do they leap from the bushes like hunters when they smell a violation? What cold 
reptilian instinct makes them emerge to 
cite ﬂ  eets of cars in the early hours of the 
morning?
Now imagine being a ﬁ  nancially in-
dependent student, surviving on a part-
time minimum wage job. Paying that $35 
ﬁ  ne, which you feel is cruelly imposed, 
steals four hours of your hard-earned 
money for a ﬁ  ve-minute mistake. 
The university proﬁ  ts off students un-
der the guise of maintaining order, and 
students often cannot afford to pay. 
The origin of Food for Fines is not as bright and 
charitable as the cheery promotional videos for the 
program. You may have deduced they are having 
an image problem due to their ticket-writing habit. 
What you may not know is it follows closely from 
stagnant parking spot numbers. 
The number of spaces on campus has been 
largely unchanged since 1998. There are 24,000 
spots servicing an on-campus population of more 
than 52,000. 
Perhaps instead of a one-time program which 
was a self-admitted publicity stunt, TPS should 
have to save its ticket revenues and buy us a new 
parking garage. 
It’s time we get real solutions to the parking 
problem. UF students don’t deserve to be burdened 
for failing to navigate a broken parking system. 
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political science 
junior. His column comes out on Tuesdays. The Food for Fines program is a farceColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgSophie 
Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
Oldest Indian Rhino turns 37
Barry Janks, the 62-year-old co-owner of the Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation 
Foundation, feeds Henry his watermelon, carrot, and hay birthday “cake. ”  Henry, the world’s oldest male Indian Rhinoceros, celebrated his 37th birthday at 
Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation on Saturday morning.
A carrot cake (which featured a rhino drawing by Christine Janks, co-founder of Carson 
Springs) was offered to visitors in honor of Henry’s birthday.Henry’s watermelon, carrot and hay birthday cake next to miniature rhino 
plush dolls on a booth outside of the male rhino’s enclosure at Carson Springs. 
Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Alligator StaffTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF researchers have developed an anti-
theft device called the “Skim Reaper” to 
reduce incidents of stolen credit card infor-
mation. 
The device functions as a mock credit 
card. It was invented to prevent skimming, 
which involves stealing card information 
by using a device planted on common 
card readers. The “Skim Reaper” displays 
a warning on a small device attached via 
wire if the reader has a skimmer.
Under Professor Patrick Traynor, UF 
doctoral students Christian Peeters and 
Nolen Scaife developed the device at the 
Florida Institute for Cyber Security. They 
partnered with New York Police to conduct 
ﬁ  eld tests in all ﬁ  ve boroughs of New York 
City.UF researchers plan on launching a mod-
el for public use within six to nine months.
“Skimming is a multibillion dollar busi-
ness,” Scaife said. “We wanted to build a 
device with the power to detect (card skim-
ming) in the hands of consumers.”
Card skimming has become a problem 
in Gainesville, said Financial Crimes Detec-
tive Ryan McCazzio of Gainesville Police. 
He said GPD has found skimmers inserted 
into gas pumps throughout the city and 
county.
UF researchers plan on launching a mod-
el for public use within six to nine months.
GPD has requested a prototype of the 
“Skim Reaper” for a demonstration.
“The more people who know about it, 
the better off we’ll be,” McCazzio said.
@danacassidy_
danacassidy1@gmail.com UF researchers develop ‘Skim Reaper’, public use to come
Courtesy of Nolen Scaife
The “Skim Reaper” essentially functions as a mock credit card. The user inserts it 
into a suspect scanner and, if tainted, the card signals a warning.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
Lake Property Liquidation
Foreclosure Resale $39,900
Before Foreclosure sold for $137,900
Financing Available. Being sold off May 5th!
Watch Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com
877.712.3650
Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed 
Real Estate Broker.      4-20-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N     4-20-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
For Sale: Kymco Like 200i Scooter.
Just broken in and serviced. Transferable 
warantee, windshield and cover. $1500. Don 
352-328-0764    5-29-18-5-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
2008 Yaris 2-door hatchback. 37mpg hwy, 
5-speed, A/C, new tires & brakes,CD, power 
windows, mirrors, locks, Advanced air-bags, 
tilt steer. VG-condition, clean. 208K. Bluebook 
$3,666, sell $2,949. 352-213-8769 Rich   
5-15-18-2-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-1297 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2 male Grad students seek a
male roommate who is clean &
studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,
own bed/bath, on bus stop
close to UF. Pool, hot tub,
tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3
util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
5-15-18-21-2
House across from Law house available 
August 2018! 4/2 full bath renovated, gran-
ite counter tops, parking, WD, lawn care and 
sunroom for studying! Walk to class! $2250  
352-317-6353    5-22-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
W/D, front & back porches. $840/mo + utils. 
Call 352-871-6413    5-24 18-4-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Total Home looking for a floor associate
in downtown Gainesville. Duties include: 
working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, 
loading materials and general upkeep.
$10/hour. Email resume to
totalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-
10-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-17-18-4-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      5-24-18-
4-14
Established studio seeking applicant with 
exp teaching kids martial arts. Looking to 
start ASAP. Email cory.schafer@iskaworld -
hq.com to apply. PT $10-14/hr    5-24-18-4-
14
The Floor Store at Thornebrook is looking for 
sales staff part time up to 25HRS
Pay $10 to $15 / HR Apply in Person.
5-22-3-14
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer-
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.Engineering & Arts Day Camp
Hiring Now! Build and play with kids this 
summer. Need education, engineering, arts 
majors to help us run this incredibly special 
camp experience. (FT/PT avail)
www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    
4-20-18-7-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED
- Create your own schedule
- Close to campus
- Earn raises quickly
Apply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
Experienced Swim Lesson Instructors need -
ed beginning in May. Please email resume, 
hours of availability, and 2 references to 
jwilby@cox.net     5-17-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
5-15-18-4-14
Makos Aquatics Club of Gainesville
Is looking for swim/lesson coaches
for May &amp; summer work. $11.00 an
hour. Send resume/3 references to
kraus.leonard@gmail.com      5-15-18-4-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE
OF PROPOSED REVISIONS
TO THE
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT PLAN
OF THE
METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
ORGANIZATION
FOR THE
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED AREA
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area will consider revisions to its Public
Involvement Plan at its Monday, June 25,
2018 meeting at 5:00 p.m. in the Jack
Durrance Auditorium, Alachua County
Administration Building, 12 SE 1st Street,
Gainesville, Florida. The Metropolitan
Transportation Planning Organization for the
Gainesville Urbanized Area is inviting
interested persons to review and comment 
on
these proposed revisions at this meeting.
The Public Involvement Plan document may
be viewed at the following website
(www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo); Alachua County
Library District Branches within the 
Gainesville
Metropolitan Area; and at its staff office, 2009
NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653.
For further information, call 352.955.2200
5-15-1-20
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. Who was the first player to hit his 
499th and 500th career home runs in 
the same game?
2. Name the player who led the 
American League in both doubles and 
triples in 1970. Hint: He played for 
the Minnesota Twins.
3. Who was the last running back 
before Matt Dayes in 2016 to rush 
for at least 1,000 yards in a season for 
North Carolina State?
4. Which was the last NBA team 
before Golden State in 2016 to have 
47 assists in a game?
5. Who was the first American wom-
an inducted into the Hockey Hall of 
Fame?
6. Name the last woman before 
Evgenia Medvedeva in 2017 to win 
back-to-back world figure skating 
singles titles.
7. Entering 2018, when was the last 
U.S. Open playoffs for men’s golf? 
Answers:
1. Albert Pujols did it with the 
Angels in 2014.
2. Cesar Tovar had 36 doubles and 
13 triples that season.
3. T.A. McLendon, in 2002.
4. The Phoenix Suns, in 1991.
5. Cammi Granato, who was captain 
of the U.S. women’s hockey team that 
won Olympic gold in 1998.
6. Michelle Kwan, in 2000-01.
7. It was 2008, when Tiger Woods 
beat Rocco Mediate.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 14, 2018King Features Weekly Service
1.  Plain, open country
1.  Bar5.  Stringed instrument
2.  Midday 6.  Lived (in)
3.  Magazine buyers7.  Plaster of Paris material
4.  Formal orderUNARTD
ETANRVIOALV
EDTWL
OAONYND
ERSREDASPMUGY
CMUDTIANSWERS: 1A-Tundra  5A-Viola  6A-Dwelt  7A-Gypsum
1D-Tavern  2D-Noonday  3D-Readers  4D-Dictum  B-Soviet Union5-15-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This existed from 1922 to 1991. BONUS
ACROSS
1 Lymph __
5 Offended smack
9 Catch some rays?
13 Universal blood
type, for short
14 Cursed
15 First bet in a
summer World
Series
16 Sharp tooth
17 Purina product for
a young tabby
19 Actress Hagen
20 Comes down with
21 Boca __, Florida
22 Nickname for
Coolidge
25 Looks
embarrassed
27 Popeye’s energy
source
28 Syst. for the
hearing-impaired
30 Sci-fi writer
Bradbury
31 Extreme degree
32 Grand Canyon
State sch.
33 Theater level
34 __ Dhabi: Persian
Gulf port
36 Fragrant
evergreens
38 More than pique
39 Nutritious berry
40 Fitting
41 Toy dog, briefly
43 “__ be an honor”
44 Tokyo’s former
name
45 Most obsequious
49 Force back
51 Toe-tapping
number
53 Classroom
fixtures
55 Mai __: tiki drinks
56 Burgundy on
screen
57 Riviera gambling
destination
59 Group activity at
a Jewish wedding
60 Mystical old letter
61 Bargaining group
62 Still unfilled, as a
position
63 Ocular woe
64 TV screen meas.
65 Sassy
DOWN
1 Easy to prepare,
in adspeak
2 How bettors may
act3 Alaska’s __
National Park
4 Breakfast staple
5 Light activator
6 Heaps of,
informally
7 Sculpture,
paintings, etc.
8 Look closely (at)
9 Britannica fodder
10 How people react
to slasher films
11 Prehistoric period
12 Chop with an axe
14 Book of drawing
paper
18 Clipper’s target
20 Annoying flying
insect
23 Boredom
24 Cut with a
surgical beam
26 Easter coloring
29 “Sneaking”
feeling
32 Annoying
crawling insect
33 Word after time
or term
34 Pantomimed
35 With “a,”
someone
undesirable ...
and what’s found
in the circled
letters?37 Apple with
earbuds
39 “Into Thin __”:
Jon Krakauer
book
42 Corrida cheers
44 Actress Sommer
45 Bump’s place,
idiomatically
46 Liechtenstein
locale
47 Nighttime
noisemaker48 Lodger
50 Makeup maven
Lauder
52 Sunlit lobbies
54 Gulf War
weapon
57 Dash of 
flavor?
58 “Wheel of
Fortune”
purchase
59 Make like a
bunny
By Joe Kidd
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/15/1805/15/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 15, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Distribute, with
“out”
5 Jets and Nets
10 Kenan’s comedy
cohort
13 Like crazy
14 Street thief
15 Bullring “Bravo!”
16 Tennessee River
city
18 Luxury hotel
facility
19 Places
20 Migratory herring
21 Uni- + bi-
22 H.S. exam for
college credit
24 Longtime Bob
Keeshan kids’
character
30 Anatomical canals
31 On the ship
32 Mediterranean
peak
33 Parts
35 Actress Headey
of “Game of
Thrones”
38 Home of college
sports’ Green
Wave
40 Certain tanker
41 Philatelist’s pride
45 Mass
communication?
46 Final: Abbr.
47 Sounds of
disgust
48 Calming agents
53 “The Producers”
screenwriter
Brooks
54 “Shut your trap!”
... and,
graphically, what
the circled letters
do
57 Old __
58 Becomes used
(to)
59 Sinewy
60 Common ID
61 Enclosed for
security, in a way
62 Choice word
DOWN
1 Computers that
may run Virtual
PC
2 K-123 Precisely
4 Famous final
question
5 Pay attention
6 Film directors’
challenges
7 Earlier
8 “A Wrinkle in
Time” girl
9 Mme., in Madrid
10 Where to get
gefilte fish
11 Sun Bowl city
12 Bring about
14 Motherly start
17 Cheerios
20 Twinkly, skywise
22 Muchos meses
23 Links letters
24 Fr. company
25 Court fig.
26 Modern Olympic
event one shoots
for?
27 Emotional
wounds
28 Krypton escapee
29 Presidential
nickname
33 Somewhat blue
34 Artist whose
apartment
overlooks
Strawberry Fields36 Prefix for
movement
revivals
37 Prince Valiant’s
son
39 ICU staffer
40 Group of eight
41 Competitive dry
spells
42 Auburn or
Princeton athletes
43 Soothed44 New York
Harbor’s __
Island
48 Bern’s river
49 Auld lang syne
50 Carbon
compound
51 Tears
52 Eye malady
54 Boar, e.g.
55 Spanish article
56 Tsk relative
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/26/1804/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, April 26, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 PetsSEC Player of the Year Amanda 
Lorenz  and the Florida Softball 
team open regional play 
on Friday against Bethune-
Cookman. HORFORD AND CELTICS IN ACTION TONIGHT
The former Gators star impressed against the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 
1 of the Eastern Conference Finals and will look to take a 2-0 series lead 
tonight in Boston. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
No tears dropped, but a soft, 
bittersweet smile found its 
way onto senior JJ Schwarz’s 
face. Giving a small wave, it fi-
nally hit him that his last sea-
son in a Florida baseball jersey 
would soon come to an end.
“My best decision was com-
ing to this school,” Schwarz 
said in an interview posted on 
Twitter. “I’m so happy I came 
here.”
Schwarz and fellow senior 
Nick Horvath were acknowl-
edged in their final regular-
season home game for UF. 
Highlight videos of both play-
ers’ most unforgettable plays 
while at Florida displayed on 
the video board as the two se-
niors were given their iconic 
framed white jerseys.
Kara Schwarz and Pamela 
Horvath, the mothers of the 
pair, threw out the ritual first 
pitches as Senior Day fell on 
Mother’s Day.
Although the Gators 
dropped their series finale 
to Georgia on Sunday, coach Kevin O’Sullivan couldn’t help 
but reflect on the careers of his 
seniors.
“It can be a bit emotional,” 
O’Sullivan said in a release. 
“You spend four years with 
the seniors, and you recruit 
them two to three years out. 
Nick and JJ are from my home-
town, so I’ve known them for 
a long time.”
Schwarz had a stellar ca-
reer while at Florida. He now 
holds the record for most 
games started at UF with 260, 
although he saw a significant 
drop in numbers in his sopho-
more and junior campaigns. 
He came out strong with a 
.332 batting average in his 
freshman year and has a .333 
average thus far in his senior 
season.
“It’s pretty sweet,” Schwarz 
said when asked about how he 
raised his average by almost 
50 points in the last month. 
“I feel like at this time of year 
I’m pretty locked in. I’m see-
ing the ball good, and I feel 
good up there.”
“JJ’s had an unbelievable  Seniors, moms, baseball – all common sights on Sunday
Alligator File Photo
Senior JJ Schwarz has increased his batting average by almost 50 points in the last month, rising from 
.284 on April 13 to .333 currently. He rode an eight-game hitting streak prior to Sunday's 4-1 loss. 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
TRACK AND FIELD
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Before donning their gray SEC Champi-
ons shirts, members of Florida’s track and 
ﬁ  eld teams wore t-shirts with two large, blue 
words scribbled across the front.
“We Believe.”
Belief led UF’s women to their ﬁ  rst out-
door conference title since 2009. And it’s 
what it took for the men to obtain their sixth 
outdoor title in program history.
“Everybody believed. Everybody trust-
ed,” coach Mike Holloway said on an SEC 
Network broadcast after the meet. “That’s 
why they’re the SEC Champions.”
Four titles over the course of three days 
propelled the Gators to victory. 
One of those came on the second day of 
the meet from a thrower who wasn’t even sure if she would be able to step onto the 
ﬁ  eld to compete.
On May 1, sixth-year senior Avion All-
good was involved in a motorcycle accident 
after a car pulled out in front of her. She said 
in a video posted on Twitter that the acci-
dent left her with abrasions on her hands 
and knees, as well as an ankle injury.
But she returned to the ﬁ  eld 11 days later 
to participate in the women’s javelin throw 
and collected 10 points for the Gators from 
her throw of 55.40 meters.
“(The pain) was pretty bad but adrenaline 
helped me out a lot,” Allgood said on Satur-
day in a video posted to Twitter.
She wore the same “We Believe” t-shirt 
as she detailed the adversity that she’d over-
come to get there.
“I told God I don’t care what the outcome Florida's 'belief' carried it to 
victory at SEC Outdoors 
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 16Legal or not, sports gam-
bling is everywhere. 
It’s obviously in 
Las Vegas, Nevada, 
the stronghold of the 
sports-betting industry. 
And it occupies a sig-
niﬁ  cant chunk of the under-
ground economies in all the 
other states. That includes 
places like, well, Gainesville. Here, gam-
bling can range from small, friendly cash 
wagers to untraceable online betting with 
cryptocurrencies and updating browsers. 
But maybe this subterranean world of 
illegal sports betting will soon become a 
thing of the past thanks to the decision 
reached by the Supreme Court in Mur-
phy v. The National Collegiate Athletic 
Association on Monday. In a 6-3 ruling, 
the court determined that the legaliza-tion of sports gambling will 
be up to the states to decide 
for themselves, striking down 
the Professional and Amateur 
Sports Protection Act (PAS-
PA) passed in 1992. 
“The legalization of sports 
gambling requires an impor-
tant policy choice, but the 
choice is not ours to make,” 
Justice Samuel Alito wrote for the court 
majority. “Congress can regulate sports 
gambling directly, but if it elects not to do 
so, each state is free to act on its own.”
This is exciting news for all states 
not called Nevada — which became the 
only state to allow single-game wagering 
after the 1992 law was passed. Because 
sports betting ﬁ  nally has the opportunity 
to crawl out of its illegal, and sometimes The Supreme Court made the correct 
decision regarding sports gamblingMark My Words / Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mrstinejrTUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
MEN’S TENNIS
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
When the Florida men’s tennis team 
stepped onto the court for the ﬁ  rst two 
rounds of the NCAA Tournament, it 
looked a little younger than its oppo-
nents. Where experience trumped all 
for other teams, talent in the young 
core prevailed for the Gators.
Of the six positions available in the 
singles lineup, four of them were ﬁ  lled 
by underclassmen for most of the sea-
son: three freshmen and a sophomore. 
At a point in the season where expe-
rience is seemingly most important, 
Florida has deﬁ  ed that logic.
One reason for this is the immense 
talent of the Gators’ underclassmen. 
Florida’s recruiting class in 2017 was 
ranked second in the nation behind 
only University of California, Berkeley. 
Among the new faces was the No. 2 re-
cruit in the nation, Oliver Crawford.
The South Carolina native lived up 
to the hype with an outstanding spring 
season that saw a 12-match win streak 
in singles and a 15-2 record in doubles. 
It earned him SEC Freshman of the 
Year honors. Crawford and his doubles 
partner, senior Chase Perez-Blanco, are  
currently on a nine-match win streak.
Even though this is his ﬁ  rst season, 
Crawford credits the toughness of the 
SEC for giving him wisdom early in his 
career.
“It’s been a good experience to play 
these top teams in the conference,” 
Crawford said. “The SEC gets you ready 
for what is to come.”
Others among the 2017 class are 
freshmen Duarte Vale and Andy An-
drade.
Andrade has been vital for his team down the stretch of the season. The 
Bradenton, Florida, native has clinched 
ﬁ  ve matches this season and is cur-
rently on a ﬁ  ve-match win streak head-
ing into the Round of 16 of the NCAA 
Tournament.
“I’ve been so proud of these young 
guys,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “In 
singles, they’ve really stepped up to 
help the team.”
While Vale has struggled in singles 
play — he has a 5-11 record in dual 
singles — his strength has been in dou-
bles. Vale and his partner, junior and 
team captain McClain Kessler, have 
the second most wins on the team (13) 
and have won their last two doubles 
matches to help their team advance in 
the NCAA Tournament.
Johannes Ingildsen, the lone sopho-
more in the lineup, has also shined in 
doubles. He and his partner, junior Al-
fredo Perez, are 10-6 on the year and 
were the No. 1-ranked duo in the na-
tion for ﬁ  ve straight weeks during Feb-
ruary and March.
Florida will continue to rely on the 
young core of players to help it advance 
past Ole Miss in the Round of 16 on 
May 18. Shelton has emphasized the 
importance of the ﬁ  re and spirit these 
young players bring.
“It’s their energy and their enthusi-
asm,” Shelton said. “They bring an en-
ergy to the court that is special.”
Looking forward, the Gators current-
ly hold the top recruiting class for 2018, 
which includes two blue-chip prospects 
in Sam Rifﬁ  ce and Lukas Greif. They 
will help UF continue to be competitive 
for the next few years.
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org Young core leads Florida 
to NCAA Round of 16MEN’S GOLF
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Faced with over an hour of rain delays at the 
Watson Course at Reunion Resort, the Florida 
men’s golf team didn’t let the weather affect its 
postseason aspirations.
Instead, the Gators jumped out to a tie for 
ﬁ  rst place at 12 under after Day 1 of the NCAA Kissimmee Regional on Monday, thanks to top-
10 performances from three of its players.
Sophomore Andy Zhang (tied for ﬁ  fth), ju-
nior Gordon Neale (tied for ﬁ  fth) and freshman 
John Axelsen (tied for ninth) combined for 14 
birdies and just three bogeys.
“Obviously, a very nice start for the Gators 
today,” coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. “It 
was fun watching our guys prepare for and en-
joy some tough conditions.”
Zhang shot an even par on the front nine, 
failing to record a birdie or bogey. The rain de-
lay seemed to help the sophomore on the back  
nine, as he recorded four birdies to end his day 
at 4 under.
Neale’s day was almost the same. After 
sinking three birdies on the ﬁ  rst nine holes, he 
carded a bogey on the 12th hole before tally-
ing back-to-back birdies on the 13th and 14th 
holes. Neale also ﬁ  nished at 4 under.
Axelsen started his day with two consecu-
tive birdies. He totaled ﬁ  ve on the day but shot 
two bogies on the back nine. He is currently at 
3 under.
Freshman Chris Nido also shot under par, 
ﬁ  nishing at 1 under on the day. While his card 
was mostly ﬁ  lled with pars, he recorded two 
birdies and a bogey over the opening round.
While everyone else found success on the 
course, senior Alejandro Tosti faltered a bit. A 
bogey on the fourth hole was immediately fol-
lowed by a double bogey on the ﬁ  fth. He re-
sponded with two birdies and a bogey to ﬁ  nish 
the day and limit the damage to 2 over.
“Adversity just isn’t that big of a deal any-
more,” Deacon said. “We have a long way to 
go, but today was a great foundation to build 
on. I’m excited to see us play even better.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
  Gators tied for ﬁ  rst after Day 1 
of NCAA Kissimmee Regional
Alligator File Photo
Gordon Neale led Florida to a tie for ﬁ  rst place 
after Day 1 of the NCAA Kissimmee Regional. 
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 15, 2018
career,” O’Sullivan said.
Horvath is currently batting 
.271 this season, a drastic in-
crease from his 2017 average 
of .186.
The two share three College 
World Series appearances, two 
SEC regular season champion-
ships, one SEC Tournament 
championship, and, in 2017, a 
national championship.
After a resurgent senior 
year, Schwarz will almost cer-
tainly hear his name called at 
the MLB Draft in June. Drafts-
ite.com has him going early in 
the fifth round to the Philadel-
phia Phillies.
Schwarz, Horvath and the 
Gators return to action in their 
final regular-season series 
Thursday in Starkville, Missis-
sippi, as they take on the Mis-
sissippi State Bulldogs at 7:30 
p.m.
@THEChrisOB 
cobrien@alligator.org. BASEBALL,  from pg. 14
Gators head coach Mike Holloway: 'Everybody believed'
is,” she said. “I’m just thankful to be out 
here.”
“Less said.” It’s what Grant Holloway’s 
t-shirt said after he won the long jump, his 
ﬁ  rst of two titles on the weekend.
He had to come from behind to beat Ken-
tucky’s Tim Duckworth and Texas A&M’s 
Will Williams late in a competition that he 
described as “nerve-racking.” But he took off down the runway on his 
ﬁ  fth and title-winning jump, leaning solely 
on the belief that somehow he would get it 
done.
“I just let the sand come to me,” the 
sophomore said in a video posted to Twit-
ter.
His return to competition was in a 
110-meter hurdles race on the ﬁ  nal day, 
which ended in a new school record for the 
Gators, a new SEC Championships record 
and the second-fastest time in collegiate his-tory. He clocked a time of 13.15 to help the 
men take their third SEC Outdoors title un-
der Mike Holloway.
“We don’t really talk about points and 
talk about titles. We just challenge every-
body to come in and do their job,” Mike 
Holloway said in an SEC Network broadcast. 
“From the moment we got on the plane in 
Gainesville, everybody’s been very focused 
and very workman-like, and everybody’s 
been business.”
The 10th-year head coach challenged his teams to believe in him and in themselves 
the second they landed in Knoxville, Ten-
nessee, and to trust that the marks and 
times would eventually come.
And it ended in just the fourth sweep of 
SECs by a program since 1991.
“I just trusted them to believe in who we 
are and how we do things,” Mike Holloway 
said. “Don’t worry about the score. Just take 
your individual events, and we’ll be ﬁ  ne.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgTRACK,  from pg. 14Horvath is batting .271 so far this season
dangerous, hole and into a regulated, revenue-
generating home. 
For a city like Gainesville, where gambling 
occurs side-by-side with collegiate athletics, gov-
ernment regulation can mean the end of student 
bookies and could potentially ﬁ  lter out any deep-
seeded corruption that may or may not already 
exist. 
And for states like New Jersey, whose casi-
nos have struggled to compete with those in sur-
rounding markets, legalization of sports betting 
means positive economic impact for casinos as 
well as meaningful tax revenue for the state itself. 
Of course there are those in support of PASPA, 
like former New Jersey senator and former New 
York Knick Bill Bradley, who argued that allow-
ing open betting on games jeopardizes the integ-
rity of American sports. But regardless of federal 
regulation of sports gambling, it will continue to 
happen legally in Nevada and illegally in every 
other state. 
So, I pose this question to those with similar 
convictions as Bradley: Does federal restriction 
of gambling really give sports more integrity, or 
should we allow Americans to gamble with more 
integrity?
Mark Stine is the sports editor at the Alliga-
tor. You can contact him at mstine@alligator.
org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Alligator File Photo
Nick Horvath and fellow senior JJ Schwarz were honored in UF's ﬁ  nal regular-season 
home game on Sunday. Both recieved framed jerseys in the pregame ceremonies. 
