We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo welcomes gibbon
The name and sex won’t be known until it is 3 months old, pg. 3
Eastside High School students walk out
The national walkout took place on the 19-year anniversary of 
the Columbine shooting, pg. 4Gators place third in NCAA Super 
Six
Florida’s gymnastics team will lose seniors Alex 
McMurtry, Kennedy Baker and Rachel Slocum, VOLUME 112 ISSUE 84
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A man shot in front of a home 
near Satchel’s Pizza on Sunday af-
ternoon was later pronounced dead, 
Gainesville Police said.
The man, whose identity has not been released, was arguing with at 
least two other men in a black se-
dan in front of the house, located 
near the intersection of Northeast 
23rd Avenue and Northeast 15th 
Street, said GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  -
cer Ben Tobias. Witnesses called 911 
at about 3 p.m. and reported hear-ing gunshots before seeing the car 
drive away, leaving the man on the 
ground, Tobias said.
Police arrived shortly after and 
found the man in critical condition 
with multiple gunshot wounds, To-
bias said. Gainesville Fire Rescue 
and Alachua County Fire Rescue took the man to UF Health Shands 
Hospital where he was pronounced 
dead.
Tobias did not know if the man 
was shot inside the car and pushed 
out of it, or if he was shot outside 
of the car. He said police will notify 
the man’s family and continue to in-vestigate.
Authorities said anyone with in-
formation should call GPD’s Detec-
tive Bureau at 352-393-7670  or the 
Combined Communications Center 
at 352-955-1818. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgGainesville Police: Man shot, killed near Satchel’s PizzaWill Clewis / Alligator Staff
BROWSING FOR BOOKS 
Shoppers browse and ﬂ  ip through a row of mystery books and other genres at the Friends of the 
Library Alachua County Library District book sale on North Main Street on Sunday afternoon. The 
Spring 2018 book sale, which is open to the public, began on Saturday and ends on Wednesday.
By Amanda Rosa, Christina 
Morales and Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writers
Forest High School students were 
supposed to walk out in calm pro-
test. 
Instead, they ran out ﬂ  anked by 
armed police ofﬁ  cers. 
The students had planned to 
walk out of their classes at 10:20 
a.m., along with other schools across 
the country, in honor of the 19-year 
anniversary of the shooting at Col-
umbine High School. However, minutes after school started Friday, 
Sky Bouche, a 19-year-old former 
student, shot a 17-year-old student 
in the ankle, putting the second-
largest high school in Marion County 
on lockdown, according to Marion 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
Police were called at about 8:40 
a.m. when the sound of Bouche’s 
shotgun rang out, according to the 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce. School resource of-
ﬁ  cer Jim Long, who was assigned to 
the high school, ran toward the shot, 
found Bouche and stopped him, 
Sheriff Billy Woods said.“I want to assure Marion County 
residents that today, they should 
be proud of their ﬁ  rst responders,” 
Woods said.
Deputies, Ocala Police and Flori-
da Highway Patrol responded to the 
school.
Bouche was arrested on charges 
including terrorism, aggravated as-
sault with a ﬁ  rearm, possession of a 
ﬁ  rearm on school property and pos-
session of a short-barreled shotgun.
MCSO deputies escorted Bouche 
in a white jumpsuit out of the school, 
according to a video posted on the MCSO’s Facebook page. Media who 
swarmed him as he was taken to a 
patrol car asked if he had anything 
to say.
“Sorry,” he said, pausing. “It 
doesn’t make it better anyways.”
After his arrest, Bouche told dep-
uties he drove nearly an hour from 
his home in Crystal River, Florida, 
with a 17.5-inch barreled shotgun 
hidden in a guitar case. He said he 
didn’t want to hurt anyone, just 
scare students, according to an ar-
rest report. 
He had planned to conduct a shooting April 13 but changed his 
mind, according to the report. He 
told police he had researched shoot-
ings and knew a school shooting 
would gain more public attention. 
Before the shooting, Bouche put 
on a tactical vest and gloves in a 
school bathroom, according to the 
report. When he came out of the 
bathroom, a female student walked 
passed him without noticing him, so 
he ﬁ  red the shotgun at a door, depu-
ties said.
He dropped the gun and surren-MCSO: Forest High School shooter tells deputies why he did it
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Shortly after midnight Friday, red, 
blue and white ﬂ  ashing lights lit the 
30-mile path from Trenton to Gaines-
ville’s medical examiner’s ofﬁ  ce. 
Two Gilchrist County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce deputies, who died in a shooting 
Thursday afternoon, were brought 
to Gainesville in two hearses and 
escorted by hundreds of patrol cars 
from over ten local law enforcement 
agencies, including Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, Gainesville Police and 
Florida Highway Patrol, at about mid-
night. 
Sgt. Noel Ramirez, 30, and Deputy 
Taylor Lindsey, 25, 
were eating at Ace 
China restaurant, 
located at 1122 E. 
Wade St. in down-
town Trenton, at 
about 3 p.m. when 
John Hubert High-
note, 59, of Bell, Florida, walked in 
the restaurant and 
shot them, Gilchrist 
Sheriff Bobby 
Schultz said. High-
note was found 
dead inside his 
car from what ap-
peared to be a self-
inﬂ  icted gunshot 
wound.
Responding deputies found both 
Ramirez and Lindsey dead from their 
injuries, according to a press release.
They were the ﬁ  rst deaths in the 
line of duty in Gilchrist County since 
Sheriff Mark Read was killed in 1956 
while responding to a drunk person 
with a shotgun, according to the press 
release.
At about 7:30 p.m., after notifying 
their next of kin, Schultz announced 
Ramirez and Lindsey’s names during 
a press conference outside the restau-
rant, saying nothing about the shoot-
er’s identity.Gilchrist County 
Sheriﬀ  ’s Oﬃ   ce deputies 
to be buried TuesdaySEE SCHOOL,  PAGE 4
SEE DEPUTIES,  PAGE 4 Ramirez
Lindsey
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
HIGH  80° LOW  67°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month
April commemorates the first 
Japanese immigration to the 
U.S. on May 7, 1853. It also 
honors the Chinese immigrants 
who worked to complete the 
transcontinental railroad May 
10, 1869. Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs will celebrate 
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month with 
events until today. The 2018 
theme is the Japanese concept 
of ikigai, meaning “a reason to 
live.”
Midnight Fun Run 
UF RecSports is calling all su-
perheroes for a Midnight Fun 
Run on Wednesday. The event 
is open to faculty, staff, stu-
dents and guests. Each par-
ticipant will receive an event 
T-shirt and breakfast following 
the race. Register today on RS 
Connect.
‘What Were You Wearing?’ art 
exhibit
The “What Were You 
Wearing?” art exhibit is being 
displayed until April 30 on the 
third floor of the Ustler Hall 
Library. STRIVE at GatorWell 
and the American Student 
Medical Association have col-
laborated with anonymous UF 
student survivors to show the 
outfits they wore during their 
attacks. For more info, call 
352-273-4450.
Runoff election early voting 
Early voting sites for the 
2018 City of Gainesville run-
off election will be open until 
Saturday. Hours of operation 
are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., except 
Tuesday and Thursday, when 
locations will be open from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. The early vot-
ing locations are Cone Park 
Branch Library at 2801 E. 
University Ave., Millhopper 
Branch Library at 3145 NW 
43rd St. and the Supervisor of 
Elections Office at the Josiah 
T. Walls Building at 515 N. 
Main St.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters, 
which helps people get more 
comfortable speaking in pub-
lic, meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in Steinmetz Hall, 
Room 1031. Meetings are free 
to attend and open to all. For 
more information, visit talking-
gators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Computing Program 
 UF is accepting applications 
from ninth and 10th-grade 
high school students for the 
Gator Computing Pre-College 
Program for summer 2018.  The  
program will be held from 8:30 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. from June 4 
to June 15 at UF.  Program at-
tendees will explore the role of 
computers in society, research 
and the economy with faculty 
from engineering, social sci-
ences, medical research and 
biotechnology disciplines, as 
well as university staff with 
expertise in emerging tech-
nologies, such as 3-D printing 
and virtual reality.  Visit cpet.
ufl. edu for more information 
and to access the application 
portal.  The cost is $500. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Nicaragua's president cancels 
social security overhaul
 Nicaragua's president on 
Sunday withdrew changes to 
the social security system that 
had triggered deadly protests 
and looting. President Daniel 
Ortega said in a message to 
the nation that the social se-
curity board of directors had 
canceled the changes imple-
mented on April 16. The over-
haul was intended to shore up 
Nicaragua's troubled social se-
curity system by both reducing 
benefits and increasing taxes. 
Libyan navy rescues migrants
Libya's navy says it has recov-
ered the bodies of 11 migrants and rescued 263 others in two 
separate operations off Libya's 
western coast. Libya was 
plunged into chaos following a 
2011 uprising and is now split 
between rival governments in 
the east and west, each backed 
by an array of militias. Libya 
has since been a frequently 
used route to Europe for mi-
grants fleeing poverty and con-
flicts in Africa and the Middle 
East.
Toll from Kabul bombing 
climbs to 57 dead 
 Afghan officials say the toll 
from a suicide bombing in 
Kabul claimed by the Islamic 
State group has risen to 57 
dead and 119 wounded. Public 
Health Ministry spokesman 
Wahid Majro confirmed the 
toll of Sunday's attack, in 
which the bomber targeted 
a voter registration center in 
the capital. IS claimed the at-
tack, saying it targeted Shiite 
"apostates." Both IS and the 
more well-established Taliban 
have stepped up attacks across 
Afghanistan in recent years.
UK calls on social media firms 
to better protect children
Britain's health secretary says 
the government will introduce 
new laws targeting online so-
cial media companies if they 
don't do more to protect chil-
dren. In a strongly worded 
letter to Facebook, Google, 
Snapchat, Twitter and others, 
Jeremy Hunt said their failure 
to prevent young children us-
ing social media and exposing 
children to its "harmful emo-
tional side effects" was "unac-
ceptable and irresponsible." 
Hunt said Sunday he was par-
ticularly concerned about the 
lack of age verification mea-
sures, with thousands breach-
ing minimum user age rules. 
He gave the companies a week 
to set out steps they are taking 
to cut underage use, prevent 
cyberbullying and promote 
limited screen time.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 84
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Engagement Managing Editor  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
 Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
  rellenbogen@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
 Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
  mmcmullen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
 Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Angela DiMichele / Alligator
Cajun’s trainer, Sidnee Santana-Mellor, reaches out to the new mother during a 
demonstration training session on Sunday morning at the Santa Fe College T eaching 
Zoo. The 3-week-old newborn is clinging to Cajun’s stomach.
By Angel Kennedy
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers have discov-
ered ways to identify patients who 
may suffer from long-term physi-
cal pain, which can help physical 
therapists provide tailored treat-
ment instead of prescribing opioid 
medication. 
The team of ﬁ  ve UF research-
ers published the study April 16 
in a peer-reviewed journal called 
Physical Therapy, said UF physical 
therapy research assistant profes-
sor Jason Beneciuk. The study test-
ed two tools made by the UF Pain 
Research and Intervention Center 
of Excellence, which assessed pa-tients to ﬁ  nd who would be more 
prone to long-term pain.
The study said patients who 
showed an initial high intensity of 
pain, had previous medical diagno-
ses, physical symptoms and psy-
chological issues were more likely 
to experience chronic musculoskel-
etal pain, or pain to the muscles, 
bones and joints, one year after 
receiving treatment, the study said.
About 2.4 million Americans are 
hooked on powerful prescription 
painkillers or heroin, according to 
the Associated Press. 
About 120 people in the U.S. 
die from opioid overdose every 
day, and many hundreds more are 
brought back from the brink of death, AP reported.
Musculoskeletal pain is a lead-
ing cause of disability, affecting an 
estimated 126.6 million Americans 
— one in two adults — according 
to a 2016 report by the American 
Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. 
Common musculoskeletal disor-
ders include arthritis, back pain, 
neck pain and osteoporosis, the 
report said.
“The link to opioid use is us-
ing tools like this to identify pa-
tients that are more vulnerable to 
developing musculoskeletal pain,” 
Beneciuk said. 
The research team received a 
$300,000 grant by the Orthopae-
dic Section of the American Physi-cal Therapy Association in 2012, 
Beneciuk said. He said the study 
began in 2013 and took 2 1/2 years 
to complete testing.
The study looked at 440 patients 
who were receiving physical ther-
apy treatment for shoulder, back, 
neck and knee pain, Beneciuk said. 
Patients were initially assessed for 
a measure of pain intensity and a 
history of previous mental diagno-
ses and the two new assessment 
tools created by the team.
UF professor Samuel Wu, an-
other researcher involved in the 
study, said one tool asked patients 
to report physical symptoms they 
felt in their body. The other tool 
screened for pain-related psycho-logical issues, including depres-
sion, anxiety and pain acceptance. 
“The purpose of the study was 
to develop these two tools,” Wu 
said.
Patients involved in the study 
completed the screening tools pri-
or to treatment, then again four 
weeks, six months and one year 
after treatment, Wu said.
Of 279 patients who were as-
sessed a year after treatment, 101 
patients, or 36.2 percent, were 
found to have a higher pain in-
tensity than the remaining par-
ticipants, the study said. These are 
patients who could be prescribed 
tailored physical therapy rather 
than opioids. UF study identiﬁ  es patients prone to long-term pain
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Clarie Santiago spoke to about 20 
people Sunday morning, a white-handed 
gibbon named Cajun swung down from 
the top of her enclosure with a 3-week-old 
black peach-fuzz fur baby clutched onto her 
stomach.
Santiago, 25, spoke to the audience at 
Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo’s Earth Day 
event about a typical ﬁ  ve- to seven-minute 
training session zoo trainers give the gib-
bons. She is joining the gibbon-training 
team in May and will be one of the ﬁ  rst stu-
dents to work with the newborn. Santiago 
explained that when the trainers gave an 
“L” with their hands, the primates knew to 
open their mouth. Then, they gave them a 
piece of food for reward. 
Santiago said she is about to begin her 
fourth semester as a zoo animal technology 
student at Santa Fe. She was assigned to 
work with Cajun, who gave birth March 31.
“The baby gibbon looks like a little alien 
with big eyes and long ﬁ  ngers,” Santiago 
said. “When it was born, it was about the 
size of a sweet potato, and now it’s only 
slightly bigger.”
Cajun, a 27-year-old primate, has lived in the Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo for 
about 10 years, said Jade Salamone, the 
zoo’s conservation education specialist. 
The gibbon family of ﬁ  ve includes Cajun, 
her two sons Rainer and Gibson, the father 
Eddie and the unnamed newborn.
They are one of the smallest ape species, 
Salamone, 33, said. They’re only about 
3-feet tall standing up on their legs. When 
Cajun was pregnant, her stomach was the 
size of a basketball. 
In the wild, this species lives around 30-
plus years, but in captivity, they can live 
up to 40 years, Salamone said. Eddie is 37 
years old.
The name and sex of the newborn will 
not be known until it is about 3 months old, 
Salamone said. Cajun keeps it close to her 
body and tucked away, making the sex un-
identiﬁ  able.
Keepers discovered the baby after doing 
their daily enclosure checks, Salamone said. 
They called Chelsea Dunlap, an assistant 
curator at the zoo, and asked her to come 
to the gibbon enclosure. Dunlap had a good 
feeling and asked, “Is there an extra one?” 
Salamone recalled.
Salamone said students who work with 
the gibbons get to see the newborn up close 
frequently during training sessions.Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo welcomes newborn gibbon
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
May 19, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018ABOUT 200 STUDENTS 
WALKED OUT OF CLASS.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Hours after a single gunshot rang 
out at Forest High School about 40 
miles away, about 200 students 
walked out of Eastside High School 
on Friday morning as part of a Na-
tional School Walkout.
The Eastside High School walk-
out, which was coined “Unity Day,” 
was organized in hopes of bringing 
together students from various pro-
grams to continue the conversation 
about gun reform, said Jovanna Li-
uzzo, an Eastside junior and walk-
out organizer. At 10 a.m., students 
walked out onto the track field and 
listened to speeches by three peers. 
Until 10:45 a.m., the group complet-
ed laps around the track, toting signs 
and chanting pro-gun-reform slogans 
like “Hey Hey, Ho Ho, the NRA has 
got to go.”
“There’s so many things that we 
can do in this town to invoke actual 
change,” she said.
The walkout was meant to both 
give students a voice and point them to resources they could use to con-
tinue their involvement, she said. 
The 17-year-old encouraged students 
to register to vote at a booth set up 
during lunch.
Bailey McIntyre, 17, stopped be-
fore walking out of her math class to 
send her parents a text to let them 
know she was being cautious. The 
news of the school shooting Ocala 
still lingered in her mind.
“I remember I walked out and I 
don’t know, I still had this fear,” the 
Eastside High School senior said. 
“Nothing has changed really.”
One Forest High School student 
was injured after a non-student 
brought a sawed off shotgun and 
shot it into a classroom minutes after 
first period started Friday, according 
to Alligator archives. 
McIntyre said students will have 
to stand together to create the change 
they want to see.
“We need to help teach each 
other and share our experiences with 
each other and connect so that we’re 
not ostracizing each other,” she said.
  @jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgEastside High School students participate in walkout
Courtesy to The Alligator
Students at Eastside High School walk out of class as part of a National School Walkout. It aimed to 
continue the conversation about gun reform on the 19-year anniversary of the Columbine shootings.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Law enforcement officers closed West University Avenue as the 
killed deputies are escorted to the medical examiner’s office Friday.
dered to a teacher, MCSO said. He was taken 
to the Marion County Jail where he remains 
without bond.
Forest High School has 2,350 students and 
125 teachers, according to its website.
All Marion County middle and high schools 
were put on code yellow, which closes cam-
puses to outsiders, as a precaution Friday.
Not even five minutes into Fletcher Re-
ece’s first period reading class at 8:30 a.m., the 
17-year-old heard the sound of one gunshot 
echo through his classroom in Building 1, D 
Hallway.
“It sounded like a bomb went off,” the For-
est High School junior said. “It was echoing off of everything. It was kind of like a sonic 
boom.” 
His teacher, Ms. Williams, rushed everyone 
from the class in the hallway into the class-
room, turned off the lights and made everyone 
get away from the door. Fletcher quietly sat 
down with his classmates who whispered to 
each other, trying to figure out what was going 
on. A woman came onto the announcements 
and said there was a code red.
Across the school, his sister Katie Reece, 15, 
was listening to the same announcement with 
her teacher and 14 other students. The class, 
locked behind a thick wooden door, turned off 
the lights and huddled together, nervous and 
whispering. She told herself she would be OK.
“I knew I was going to be fine and that 
nothing was going to hurt me in the moment,” she said. “I knew God was going to protect me 
no matter what.” 
Fletcher texted his mom as soon as the 
shooting happened and told her about the gun-
shot he heard.
Fletcher and Katie’s mother, Amber Reece, 
texted them to stay safe and use their best 
judgement.
“She told me she loved me a whole bunch,” 
Katie said.
At about 10:30 a.m., two SWAT officers and 
three police officers checked her classroom, 
erupting the students to tears and Katie into 
a panic attack. It took her a couple of minutes 
to calm down. She was hyperventilating and 
thought she was going to pass out. She saw the 
SWAT car outside the window she was stand-
ing by, took a video and calmed down.“I realized that everything was under con-
trol,” she said.
About 10 minutes later, a police officer told 
the students to walk out of the school with 
their hands up. She boarded a bus for a five-
minute drive to the First Baptist Church in Oc-
ala, where parents were picking up their kids.
Katie was reunited with her brother and 
then their mother.
“I could tell she had been crying,” she said. 
“It was just a happy moment to realize that I 
could’ve died today, I could’ve been shot and 
never have seen my mom again, so I was lucky 
that I was able to see her again.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
“The world is full of cowards, and 
the world is full of heroes,” Schultz 
said. “We need to highlight those he-
roes.” 
He went on to talk about the depu-
ties and their experiences at the coun-
ty’s sheriff’s office.
“Sgt. Ramirez and Deputy Lindsey 
were the best of the best,” Schultz 
said. “They were men of integrity. 
They were men of loyalty. They were 
God-fearing, and they loved what 
they did, and we are proud of it.”
Ramirez had been in law enforce-
ment for about seven years and with 
GCSO for about two years. Ramirez 
was a husband and father with an 
“infectious” smile, Schultz said. He 
said Lindsey had worked with the 
sheriff’s office in the past and recently 
returned.
The shooting is still an active in-
vestigation, and there is no apparent 
motive, Deputy Chief Darry Lloyd 
said. The type of weapon used and how many rounds were fired have 
not been released, he said.
Sheriff’s offices and police depart-
ments from around the state and 
country, including Pasco County 
Sheriff’s Office, Los Angeles Police 
and Gainesville Police, have sent their 
condolences for the deputies through 
tweets.
“Our hearts are heavy today hear-
ing from the Gilchrist County Sheriff’s 
Office that they lost two of their own,” 
according to a GPD Facebook post. 
“Please keep their agency and fami-
lies in the forefront of your minds.”
GPD Lt. Marc Plourde said 
Gainesville police officers support 
their fallen brothers. As the hearses 
drove on West University Avenue, 
Gainesville officers blocked intersec-
tions with their patrol cars. When the 
bodies were carried into the medical 
examiner’s office on Southwest Third 
Avenue, officers stood at attention.
“It’s overwhelming,” Plourde said. 
“This is like a brotherhood. Unfortu-
nately, it has to be at a time like this when you see it at its strongest.”
At about 6:45 p.m. Saturday, an-
other escort of about 100 vehicles 
took the deputies from the medical 
examiner’s office to a funeral home 
in Trenton, said ACSO Lt. Becky 
Butscher. 
“That is a show of support for our 
fallen heroes that died in the line of 
duty,” said Butscher, who was part of 
the escort.
Drummond Community Bank 
opened an account for donations 
to the families of the deputies, and 
Ramirez’s father-in-law started a Go-
FundMe page for his grandchildren, 
which has raised $11,945, as of press 
time.
On Tuesday, a public viewing will 
be hosted for the deputies in Trenton, 
followed by a service at 11 a.m. at 
Bell Middle/High School, GCSO said. 
The burial and graveside honors will 
be held at 2:30 p.m. at Bronson Cem-
etery on Northeast State Road 24.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgMiddle and high schools went on lockdown 
About 100 vehicles escorted themSCHOOL,  from pg 1
DEPUTIES,  from pg 1MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Daphna Krause
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF researcher wants to make 
golf courses nationwide more eco-
friendly. 
The golfing industry is trying to 
reverse its poor environmental poli-cies. Mark Johnson, associate direc-tor of the environmental program with Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, said he put out a proposal request to researchers in order to fix the issue. 
He ultimately chose UF because 
the state of Florida has specific guidelines already laid out for golf course management.  
“For many, many years, the golf 
industry did not communicate what they were doing,” he said. 
Bryan Unruh, a UF environmen-
tal horticulture professor, said he has worked alongside a team of re-searchers from other universities to implement change in the industry since 2003.
Through their research, they’ve 
created a web portal for Florida golf courses that will outline more envi-ronmentally friendly practices based off of each golf course’s needs. 
This web portal was created to 
help connect courses with the best management practices and mitigate these environmental misconcep-tions, Johnson said.
Golf course management can go 
into the web portal and fill out their course characteristics such as the weather and water drainage. The portal will tailor to the individual needs of their specific courses, their conditions and their constraints. 
These outlines “are the shared 
language between regulation agen-cies, activists and scientists,” Unruh said.
But Unruh’s manual goes beyond 
the permit-driven Clean Water Act of 1972, by having whole sections of best management practices in ar-eas such as energy conservation and protecting pollen producers.
Unruh was contracted by the Golf 
Course Superintendents Association of America in 2015 to bring this man-ual-creating system to the nation, Unruh said. The system is scheduled to make a nationwide launch this August. The association granted UF $47,358 for the research. 
Unruh said his goal is to have a 
web portal for each state by 2020. 
UF researcher aiming to make golf courses eco-friendly nationwideT amarra Thal / Alligator
Rhett Barker, 24, leads 25 hikers down Hawthorne Trail for a six-mile hike. Saturday’s hike was the second one organized by Barker and some friends to tell lawmakers to invest in conservation land.
By T amarra Thal
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twenty-five people armed with backpacks, 
cargo pants and hats took off on a six-mile hike 
on a 70-degree cloudy Saturday afternoon to 
persuade Florida legislators to preserve the state’s wildlife.
This was the second time a group of  
Gainesville residents made the trek to raise awareness for environmental protection, but 
last Fall, the hike was in Ocala. On the day 
before Earth Day, the group followed the Haw-
thorne Trail from First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., to the La Chua Trail and back.
Rhett Barker, a 24-year-old UF wildlife ecol-
ogy and conservation alumnus, said he orga-nized the hike to tell lawmakers they should 
follow through on the promises they made re-
garding Amendment One.
In 2014, Floridians voted for Amendment 
One, passing legislation for what they thought would focus on land acquisition and reinstat-ing money into the Florida Forever program, 
which is an environment conservation fund. 
Instead, funds from the amendment have been spent on small projects and maintenance for 
currently owned land, Barker said.
“Many Floridians live here because of the 
outdoors, and it would be a shame to obliterate that,” Barker said.
At the rate Florida’s population is projected 
to grow, its wildlife habitat is in danger of be-ing destroyed, Barker said. In order for wildlife 
to truly be sustainable across large areas, it-must have a single connection — that connec-
tion being the Corridor.
The Corridor is a statewide network of land 
and water, which could help conserve wildlife by connecting existing pieces of land, Barker 
said. Large animals, such as bears, require a lot of land to live, which is why it’s imperative 
Florida uses the Corridor for wildlife conserva-
tion. 
Lindsey Jones, a Gainesville resident, said 
she decided to participate in the hike because people don’t appreciate the natural area in the county. 
“I really enjoy North Florida’s nature and all 
that it has to offer,” the 26-year-old said. “It’s important to me because I see that Gainesville 
is changing, and I want our nature to be pro-
tected.”About 30 people make trek for environmental awareness
By Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer 
One viral Facebook post has 
led a Gainesville Police “hot 
cop” to be at the 61st Grammy Awards show in Los Angeles in early 2019 to interview celebri-ties on the red carpet. 
He’ll then continue to do the 
same thing at the Oscars on Feb. 24, 2019.
SWAT Officer Daniel Renger-
ing, 28, is better known as the GPD officer with the swooped back hair in a selfie posted on GPD’s official Facebook account that went viral in September. The original post was taken down Sept. 15 after one of the officers in the photo made a statement that was contrary to the views of GPD, said GPD spokesperson Officer Ben To-bias.
Before it was taken down, 
the post had 186,000 comments and a reach of 52,662,033 peo-ple, Tobias said.
Rengering said he will be re-
porting live from the Grammys for PopWrapped TV, he wrote in an email. The gig was set up by his manager Zachary Jaydon, who has previously been a voter for the National Academy of Re-cording Arts and Sciences, the group that votes for the Grammy winners. 
“I’m beyond floored, and re-
ally honored to be able to repre-sent such an amazing organiza-tion,” Rengering said. “To stand on such an iconic red carpet and be able to candidly chat with so many incredible performers is both humbling and unreal.”
Rengering said he will also 
be a host at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Jan. 27, 2019 and will be a guest speaker at the 91st Annual Rudolph Valen-tino Memorial in August.
“I don’t know if I’m sup-
posed to say anything yet, but I’m also doing the same thing for the Oscars the following week,” he said.
Rengering said he is still 
employed by GPD and plans to continue working there even while taking up work in enter-tainment. 
“I will continue to bring 100 
percent to whatever job I’m working on, whether it’s on the SWAT team, in a police car or on a red carpet,” Rengering said. 
As for the rumors on his po-
tential status on the next season of “Survivor,” he said he cannot comment at this time. 
Danielle Jaffe, a 21-year-old 
UF nursing junior, said she rec-ognized the GPD officer’s name as being one of the internet viral “hot cops.” 
“It blows my mind the ways 
in which people can become famous nowadays,” Jaffe said. “It’s cool, though, to have some-one from the same area as UF being on national television for an awards show.”
One of GPD’s ‘hot cops’ will be 
at the Grammys, then Oscars
THERE WERE NO 
REPORTED INJURIES.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Three days after two Gilchrist 
County Sheriff’s Office deputies 
were slain, a Marion County Sher-iff’s Office deputy was shot at early Sunday morning, MCSO said.
Deputy Joseph Spratlin was re-
sponding to a call at around 2 a.m. about a crowd of people gathered outside Paradise Bar & Lounge, located at 13007 N. Highway 441, in Citra, said MCSO spokesperson Lauren Lettelier. While Spratlin worked to clear the group, a sepa-rate group of people started shoot-ing into the crowd and at the depu-ty. No one was injured.
Spratlin took cover behind his 
patrol car, which was hit by a bul-let on the driver’s side door handle, according to a press release. He did not return fire because he was try-ing to get people to safety, accord-ing to the release.
Lettelier said Spratlin and the 
group he was with were shot at multiple times by multiple people, but she did not know how many people there were or if they came on foot or by car.
“We don’t know whether the 
deputy was the target or the crowd, or both,” Lettelier said.
The shooting was over in min-
utes, and the crowd dispersed be-fore Spratlin or responding depu-ties could interview witnesses, Lettelier said.
“This is a fresh and ongoing in-
vestigation,” Lettelier said.
Lettelier said the shooting was 
not related to Thursday’s shooting of the GCSO deputies in Trenton.
Authorities ask anyone with in-
formation to call Sgt. Donald Buie at 352-368-3538 or the Marion County Crime Stoppers at 352-368-7867.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgMCSO deputy, group 
shot at by other groupThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Farewell column: This is how you start to let go
I’ve never been good at goodbyes. I much 
prefer a quick hug and a “see-you-later” 
to a drawn-out adieu. It’s not because I’m 
not emotional; on the contrary, it’s be-
cause I’m afraid I’ll start to weep as soon 
as I meet your eyes with that “Well, this is it” 
look we’ve all seen before.
But I’m not looking to make this column a 
French leave or an Irish exit. In keeping with 
the tradition set forth by current and former 
staff members at The Alligator, I present to 
you, in roughly 600 words, my farewell column.
This is how you start to let go. You look around your 
college apartment with the tapestries on the walls, the 
empty wine bottles on the cabinet tops and the cheap, 
plushy chairs in the living room. You walk with a little 
less urgency as you pass Century Tower. You look up 
and around you a little more, breathe a little more deep-
ly. You smile a little more to yourself.
This is how you start to let go. You mind a little less 
when someone catches you on Turlington Plaza with 
a ﬂ  ier. You print your essay with borrowed paper and 
realize only after turning it in that it’s the last one of 
your undergraduate years. You chuckle like the sea-
soned student you are while everyone else registers for 
classes next year.
This is how you start to let go. You say “yes” a little 
bit more. You say “no” a little bit more, too. Your throat 
tightens when you notice the milk expires after gradu-
ation. You shake your head because grocery shopping 
shouldn’t induce this much emotion. You cross the days 
off the calendar until the rest of the semester is staring 
right back at you. You don’t know whether to smile or 
shudder, so you do both.
This is how you start to let go. You go to Midtown with your friends on a weekday and stay in 
with your roommates on the weekend, just 
because. You show up to your ﬁ  nal exam 
without a pencil. You end sentences with “...
before we all …” and trail off without ﬁ  nish-
ing the thought. You walk through campus, 
through Midtown, through downtown and the 
memories ﬂ  ood back. You let them.
This is how I’ve started to let go. I’ve re-
ﬂ  ected on the experiences that have made me, 
me each year I’ve been here. I’ve remembered 
the veteran members of my extracurriculars 
and classes who welcomed a frightened, confused teen-
ager into their ranks. I’ve thought of the friends, new 
and old, who pulled me close and said, one way or an-
other, “You have a home here.”
This is how I’ve started to let go. I’ve felt nostalgic 
for a place I haven’t even left yet. I’ve begun to write it 
all down. I’ve hugged people a little tighter, and hon-
estly, I’ve studied a little less. I’ve said “thank you” in 
my head more times than I can count — and I know 
it’s time to start saying those thank-yous out loud. But 
you’ll have to excuse me if the tears start to ﬂ  ow.
Letting go is a process of loving, even though you 
know it’s time to leave. For me, it’s just about that time. 
I will never forget the memories I’ve made, the lessons 
I’ve learned and the folks I’ve shared the time with 
along the way. I am, and always will be, grateful for 
this university, for this town and for these people. Good 
luck to all of you, no matter where life takes you in the 
future near and far. 
This is how I’ve let go.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. This is her ﬁ  nal column.Don’t ﬁ  ght prejudice 
with prejudice 
Around 3 p.m. Thursday, two Florida deputies were eat-
ing at a Chinese restaurant in Trenton, Florida, when 
they were shot and killed by a gunman.
According to Gilchrist County Sheriff Bobby Schultz, 
the gunman ﬁ  red through the window of Ace China and 
hit the two ofﬁ  cers who were eating inside. Schultz said the two 
deputies were 30-year-old Noel Ramirez and 25-year-old Taylor 
Lindsay. He further dubbed the two men as “the best of the best.”
The Miami Herald reported the gunman, as well as the two 
deputies, were found dead on the scene. The suspect has been 
identiﬁ  ed as 59-year-old John Hubert Highnote.
During a press conference held shortly after the incident, 
Schultz stated the deaths were not a result of political issues but 
did hint at the idea of it. He asked the audience, “What do you 
expect happens when you demonize law enforcement to the ex-
tent that it’s been demonized?”
His question is not without reason. Throughout the past sev-
eral years, police ofﬁ  cers have made headlines across the country 
for targeting minority populations in their arrests and for a slew 
of accidental shootings, often resulting in the murders of black 
men. As a result, many Americans have developed an unfavor-
able opinion of police ofﬁ  cers, citing that they are racist or trigger 
happy. And in suit, Americans have found themselves divided on 
yet another major issue.
What this gunman did in north Florida is horrendous. It was 
cruel, heartless and unhinged. More than that, it was disrespect-
ful to the many men and women in uniform who work tirelessly 
every day to protect us. 
That being said, an issue with police brutality against minori-
ties does exist, and we cannot pretend it doesn’t by neglecting 
to publish stories about it in the media. No amount of respect 
for our ofﬁ  cers deems it acceptable to ignore the fact that glaring 
racial disparities exist in how police ofﬁ  cers use force.
In 2017, Vox released an analysis of FBI data, showing black 
people are far more likely to be shot at by a police ofﬁ  cer than are 
white people. In fact, despite making up only 13 percent of the 
U.S. population, black people make up 31 percent of those killed 
by police ofﬁ  cers. When considering the number of people killed 
by policing while not attempting to attack anyone, the number 
jumps to 39 percent.
We can’t pretend this isn’t a problem. There is a bias against 
black people in this country, and that’s true whether you are a 
police ofﬁ  cer or not. When the media publicizes events where 
black people are once again treated unjustly and with a clear bias, 
they do it to bring attention to the topic and let people know rac-
ism and proﬁ  ling are still very much alive in our country. 
However, despite the fact they are often received as such, 
these stories also are not published in an effort to demonize po-
lice ofﬁ  cers. Understandably so, many minority groups have lost 
faith in police ofﬁ  cers and others have been led to believe all 
ofﬁ  cers are evil and racist. But when you are making those as-
sumptions about police ofﬁ  cers, aren’t you doing the same thing 
they are supposedly doing with black people?
The key to ﬁ  ghting prejudice and violence is not more preju-
dice and violence. Just how we cannot ignore that there is an 
issue with police brutality against black people, we can’t ignore 
that there is an issue with Americans proﬁ  ling police ofﬁ  cers. 
The uncertainty makes for a less safe environment and for a 
country ﬁ  lled with even more hate than we currently have.
The lives of deputies Ramirez and Lindsay should serve as a 
call to action for Americans and ofﬁ  cers to stop the epidemic of 
prejudice in our country. It’s time we stop adding fuel to the ﬁ  re.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
DIGITAL
MANAGING 
EDITORJimena T avel
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING 
EDITOR
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Happy Monday, dear readers. That 
sentence holds a lot of weight for me 
because this is the last time I will be 
writing it in a column in this paper.
I have had the privilege of having 
a weekly platform for my opinions for the past 
two years. I remember reading the opinions 
section when I was a freshman and thinking 
about how incredible it would be if I got to 
write my own column. 
Sophomore Fall rolled around, and I went 
to The Alligator’s open house, dripping with 
August sweat and carrying a freshly printed 
resume and cover letter in my equally sweaty 
hands. I was ecstatic a few days later to open 
an email telling me I was offered a spot. I 
knew it would be cool, but I never thought I 
would love it as much as I did.
I have changed my mind and changed it 
again since starting college. I have changed 
my major and my career path. I have changed 
political afﬁ  liations. I have changed my goals. 
I am not the same person I was when I walked onto this campus, and I am not the 
same person I was when I clicked 
“send” on my ﬁ  rst column back in 
September 2016.
I would like to thank everyone 
who ever supported me, but also 
to everyone who ever challenged 
me. If no one ever challenges you, 
you won’t have the opportunity to 
grow. I have found myself through 
the process of being challenged by 
circumstances and by people. Of 
course, challenges are just that — challenging. 
You may feel downtrodden, overwhelmed 
and just plain tired sometimes. College is 
hard. Life is harder. You’re trying to do both 
right now.
While success and salary and your love 
life and your grades and whatever else you’re 
worrying about today are important, these are 
not the most important things. The two most 
important things in this life are the people you 
love and your mental health. Notice you can-not hope to be there for the ﬁ  rst if 
the second is not taken care of.
I will no longer be writing a col-
umn in this paper, but I will never 
stop ﬁ  ghting for awareness of men-
tal health. I will never stop work-
ing to help people understand how 
important they are. I will never stop 
ﬁ  ghting for love and for self-care. I 
will never stop reminding others of 
their importance.
Additionally, I want to make 
sure you know you have a voice. You may not 
think you do. You may not think what you say 
or do impacts anyone, but I promise it does. 
I spent much of the past two years thinking 
no one even read my columns. But I have 
had many people come to me and talk about 
them. I mean, you’re reading it right now. 
You may not think anyone listens to you, 
but I promise, someone out there is listening. 
Don’t give up. Keep writing, keep speaking, 
keep sharing. Keep ﬁ  ghting to make your voice heard. If it matters to you, it matters. 
Don’t let the world make you think it doesn’t.
 You are loved. You are enough. Love 
yourself, and love others. There is already 
enough hatred and anger in this world. Don’t 
add to it. I’d like to leave you with my favorite 
quote from Gandhi: “Be the change you wish 
to see in the world.” 
Remember, as hard as you try and as much 
as you do, you can’t force others to change. 
Rather, be that change. Be a light in this 
world. I’ve spent the last two years talking 
about school shootings, intolerance of mental 
illness, transphobia, racism and more. Help 
create a world where these are a thing of the 
past. 
Above all, take care of yourselves and take 
care of each other, dear readers.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focused on 
mental health.Take care of yourselves and take care of each other: my parting wordsColumn
Earth Day was this past Sunday. Across 
the country, children drew Earth on pa-
per plates while learning to reduce, re-
use and recycle. 
Today’s relatively stronger push by 
the general population for a more environmen-
tally friendly country can be attributed to more 
generations of Americans growing up and ex-
periencing those Earth Day campaigns in el-
ementary school.
Although more people may care about the 
environment, the world isn’t much better off 
than it was decades ago. Eighty percent of 
energy still comes from fossil fuels, more car-
bon dioxide is present in the atmosphere than 
ever before in modern civilization and an un-
derfunded Environmental Protection Agency 
administration refuses to even use the words 
“climate change.”
The lack of effectiveness in environmental 
campaigns originates from less impactful fo-
cuses. More people may care about the con-
sequences of human actions on the environ-
ment, but they are misled to concentrate on 
movements that don’t maximize effectiveness. 
If scientists and policymakers want to see more 
success in movements to protect this precious planet, they must improve their ar-
gument as to what people should 
really focus on.
The three Rs are a prime exam-
ple of a relatively successful envi-
ronmental effort that falls short on 
impact. The U.S. recycling rate is 
ﬁ  ve times higher today than it was 
in 1970, the year Earth Day began. 
Policymakers were successful in 
getting people to recycle, but let’s 
analyze the importance of increased recycling 
efforts from a scientiﬁ  c point of view. 
One reason for the push in recycling is the 
mentality that Americans are running out of 
landﬁ  ll space. If we don’t minimize the amount 
of trash we produce, we will soon see trash in 
every direction we look. In reality, according 
to Clark Wiseman, an economist at Gonzaga 
University, if Americans keep dumping trash 
into landﬁ  lls at their current rate until the year 
3000, landﬁ  ll space would only amount to 35 
square miles for all of the U.S.
Another misconception is landﬁ  lls are pol-
luting the environment, but landﬁ  lls have been 
under strict regulations since the Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act was enacted in 1976. Landﬁ  ll operators are re-
quired to monitor nearby ground-
water for any leachate pollution, 
and the amount of methane emis-
sions from the decomposition of 
landﬁ  ll garbage is restricted by the 
Clean Air Act.
Now, it may seem as though 
any sort of environmental move-
ment is successful despite its level 
of impact, but people can only exert 
so much effort in caring for the environment. 
According to a series of studies recently pub-
lished in the European Journal of Psychology, 
a considerable amount of people hold strongly 
negative stereotypes about environmentalists, 
and those feelings reduce the average person’s 
willingness to adopt the behaviors environ-
mental activists promote.
Basically, the average person cares about 
the environment as long as that concern doesn’t 
consume their lives, and environmentalists are 
currently wasting the average person’s limited 
attention on less important problems. Condi-
tioned since childhood that recycling can save 
the Earth, people are given the false hope that 
throwing their trash in different bins is doing enough for the planet. On the other hand, there 
are other focuses that could have more impact 
on saving the environment.
Somewhere between the 1960s and today, 
the fundamental point of environmental pro-
tection got lost in translation. The point of 
environmental action is to save lives and pro-
mote health, things that any sane person can 
understand. Promoting clean air and clean 
water with pollution prevention and govern-
ment regulations ensures access to necessi-
ties of life. If focus on environmental action 
intertwines with human health, environmental 
movements would become necessary instead 
of polarizing. 
Environmentalists care for the environment 
because it’s the right thing to do. The average 
person isn’t going to buy that argument. If en-
vironmentalists really want to save the planet, 
they’re going to have to harness the limited at-
tention of the average Joe. To do so, the focus 
of environmental movements need to concen-
trate on the fundamental importance of envi-
ronmental protection.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineer junior. His column focuses on science.To save Earth, environmentalists should improve their argumentColumn
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
Scott Streit, 38, holds April Bieri’s legs, 25, during the wheelbarrow 
exercise portion of the “Workout Two” event. Scott and April both 
attend the same gym in Deerfield Beach called CrossFit HSN.
Participants perform toes to bar during the workout event called “10 minute AMRAP” at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
The majority of the exercises performed at the 2018 Swamp Challenge ook place on the Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium field.
Denise Pope, a 37-year-old Gainesville resident, competes 
alongside her female partner, Melissa Scott, 43, in the ball wall 
exercise.
Photos by Alan Alvarez
Alligator Staff
The 2018 Swamp Challenge, 
which celebrated its eighth year this 
past weekend, is the only CrossFit-
style event to take place on an SEC field, according to its website. Hun-
dreds of athletes participated in car-
dio, bodyweight and obstacle work-
outs at the one day event across 
three classes, Male/Male, Female/
Female and co-ed, and three divi-
sions, Masters, Scaled and RX.The Swamp sweats: Hundreds join CrossFit-style event   MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Left: 
Danny Guerra, 19, and Shauntelle Cruz, an 18-year-old UF geography 
freshman, help to clean up garbage on the banks of Lake Alice as part of 
the Earth Day Campus Clean Up hosted by the Strong Roots Movement 
and UF’s Surfrider Foundation.
Above:  
Ashley Powers, a 20-year-old UF marketing junior, helps to pick up trash 
around Lake Alice with Natalie Belluccia, a 20-year-old UF business 
administration sophomore, and her dog Boo.
A cleaner campus: Students celebrate Earth Day
Photos by T aylour Marks 
Alligator Staff
The Alligator will not be publishing from 
Friday, April 27th
to Monday, May 14thATTENTION
Alligator  
Advertisers
Display 352-376-4482  • Classified 352-373-3463The deadline for Tuesday, May 15th is Thursday, 
May 10th by 4:00 p.m. for Display & Classified Ads
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
HE CREATED A PROGRAM 
FOR SELF-DRIVING CARS.
By Vivian Nguyen
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Solomon O’Leary lost 
his vision four years ago, he never 
thought he’d run errands alone.
But in January, O’Leary got into 
the rear passenger seat of a Volk-
swagen SUV and went to Kmart 
— guided by Atlas, a program in 
self-driving cars designed by UF re-
searcher Julian Brinkley to address 
the needs of those with visual im-pairments.
Brinkley said he designed the 
system to help visually impaired 
people interact with a self-driving 
vehicle. He used about $60,000 in 
grants from UF and Enteraxion Labs 
to fund his research, which began in 
2016.
Because the project is in its early 
stages of development, Brinkley 
could not estimate how much the 
program will cost users. But. he add-
ed, the idea is that it will be incorpo-
rated into manufacturer systems and 
cost nothing for the user. 
The Atlas system is part of a larg-
er research project that consisted of surveys, focus groups and participa-
tory design sessions with blind and 
low-vision participants, the 39-year-
old said. The goal was to identify the 
needs, preferences and concerns of 
visually impaired people using self-
driving cars.
O’Leary, a 34-year-old from Ocala 
who tested the program, said he got 
in the car and used voice commands 
to operate it. Even without having 
the address, Atlas took O’Leary to 
the nearest Kmart. 
Along the way, Atlas told him the 
landmarks he was passing, O’Leary 
said. Just in case O’Leary needed 
to stop at a gas station, Atlas could change the route. 
When O’Leary arrived at his 
destination, Atlas told him where 
he was and gave him walking di-
rections to get inside, he said. The 
system even asked him if he wanted 
it to park the car and wait for him.
“I liked that it was very easy to 
control,” O’Leary said. “A child can 
do it.”
Brinkley said he began working 
on Atlas in 2017 but has been work-
ing on technology to help the visu-
ally impaired since 2012, when he 
was working on his master’s degree 
at East Carolina University in North 
Carolina. People with disabilities who can’t 
drive often have higher rates of un-
employment, Brinkley said. Limited 
mobility has been related to medical 
issues, mental health issues, social 
isolation and lower quality of life. 
He said the problem is self-driv-
ing technology is potentially inac-
cessible to visually impaired people.  
O’Leary said Atlas is important 
because it gives him the freedom to 
do things on his own, without rely-
ing on others for help.
“One of the main things you 
lose when you lose your vision is 
your independence,” he said. “Atlas 
would definitely change my life.”
THE APP REWARDS USERS BY 
PLANTING TREES IN NEPAL, 
MADAGASCAR AND HAITI.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
A student-developed app tracking environ-
mental impact will allow users to help trees be 
planted in Nepal, Madagascar and Haiti. 
LiveGreen, an app created by UF students, 
tracks a user’s carbon footprint — the amount 
of carbon dioxide contributed to the environ-
ment — by asking users to log their meals, 
transportation, expenses and utilities, said one 
of the app’s developers, Brian De Souza, 20.By logging their daily carbon footprint, us-
ers can get random points, the computer sci-
ence sophomore said. After 100 points, a tree 
is planted. 
“The reason behind (including) those coun-
tries is because they were deeply affected by 
deforestation,” he said. 
The developers committed with the non-
profit Eden Reforestation Project to plant about 
2,500 trees for $350. As more users engage 
with the app, the number of trees planted can 
change, he said. 
Users can see how many trees they’ve 
raised and where they’re planted on an inter-
active map.
The app will also offer in-app messaging, but only for users participating in the daily 
environmental challenges, like the “green-
est commuters of the day,” where people are 
ranked for their carbon footprints with trans-
portation.
The app will be available for download 
through Apple’s app store Friday, De Souza 
said. Eventually, he hopes to expand to An-
droid. The app currently has 10 people testing 
before its launch, and about 50 more will test 
it soon, he said. 
The app was supposed to launch Sunday, 
on Earth Day, but needed final tweaks, like 
adding the metric system, said Pablo Garces, 
20, another app developer.
“We have a lot of interest from people in European countries too, so we had to give an 
option for metric values,” he said.
Garces, a computer science sophomore, 
said they’re trying to get environmentalists to 
use the app, but they hope other people can 
join too.
The goal of the app is to make users aware 
of their habits and help them make small 
changes to their lifestyles, De Souza said.
“The app itself cannot solve climate change, 
the app is just a tool, and the people who are 
using it are the ones doing the change,” he 
said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgUF researcher’s project to help blind, visually impaired
UF students launch app to encourage eco-friendly habits
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator
Flennoy Powell, 44, cooks bacon at the 39th Annual 5th Avenue Arts Festival on Sunday. He made 
avocado BLTs for the Fountain of Restoration Ministries.Marcelo Rondon / Alligator
The Jazz Bandits, a local band, performs at the 39th Annual 5th Avenue 
Arts Festival. From left to right: Shireen T aha, 35, Mary Fukuyama, 70, 
and Kali Blount, 61.
CELEBRATING COMMUNITY THROUGH MUSIC, FOODBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Lake Property LiquidationForeclosure Resale $39,900Before Foreclosure sold for $137,900Financing Available. Being sold off May 5th!Watch Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com877.712.3650Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.      4-20-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     4-20-1-10
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
2 male Grad students seek amale roommate who is clean &studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,own bed/bath, on bus stopclose to UF. Pool, hot tub,tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83705-15-18-21-2
House across from Law house available August 2018! 4/2 full bath renovated, gran-ite counter tops, parking, WD, lawn care and sunroom for studying! Walk to class! $2250  352-317-6353    5-22-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
Experienced Swim Lesson Instructors need -
ed beginning in May. Please email resume, hours of availability, and 2 references to jwilby@cox.net     5-17-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    5-15-18-4-14
Makos Aquatics Club of GainesvilleIs looking for swim/lesson coachesfor May &amp; summer work. $11.00 anhour. Send resume/3 references tokraus.leonard@gmail.com      5-15-18-4-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-17-18-4-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 14 Help Wanted
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  Mass ____
1.  Repeat performance 5.  Hot ____
2.  Apple ____6.  Another time
3.  Out of the loop7.  Onset, arrival
4.  Red ____DSXUEO
RNEOECCAOOC
INAAG
DARROHC
WRUNEAAVNADTE
EPLTNAANSWERS: 1A-Exodus  5A-Cocoa  6A-Again  7A-Advent
1D-Encore  2D-Orchard  3D-Unaware  4D-Planet  B-Copernicus4-23-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ lived from 1473 to 1543.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Ejects, volcano-
style
6 Coin toss
10 Org. with a
“Parliament” TV
channel
13 Vietnam’s capital
14 Loughlin of “Full
House”
15 Hide in the soil16 *Actor who
played Ché in the
1996 “Evita”
movie
19 Conked out20 Sign light
21 “Snowy” bird
22 Sobbed
24 Winter bug
25 *1990s-2000s
Red Sox Hall of
Fame pitcher
32 Scratch or dent
34 With courage35 Actress Campbell36 Leave out, as the
“g” when saying“sayin’”
38 From __ Z39 It’s accessed via
manholes
40 To boot41 End of a Seuss
title about amischievousfeline
43 Good bud44 *Argentine who
shared the FIFA
Player of the 20thCentury award
with Pelé
47 Rte. finder
48 October
birthstones
50 Tea variety
53 Extra: Abbr.
56 British slammer58 *20th-century
Spanish dictator
61 Like small print62 Civil mayhem63 Like Machu
Picchu
64 Explosive stuff65 Without ... or, as
a plural, what thestarts of theanswers tostarred clues arewithout?
66 Winter melodiesDOWN
1 Roe fish
2 Lose it in an
emergency
3 “Star Trek” ship
4 Stereotypical
surfer’s wagon
5 Pride or envy
6 Ice sheet
7 Gray wolf
8 Persian rug
source
9 Sticker
10 1804 duel winner11 Scottish hillside
12 Skin concern
15 “Begin the __”:
Cole Porter song
17 Vedic weather god
18 Shoulder muscle,
informally
23 Beat by a bit
24 Cook in deep fat
26 Nebraska city27 Parking __28 Hawaiian
welcome
29 Puma competitor30 Perpetually31 Celsius freezing
point
32 Honeyed drink33 “__ want for
Christmas ... ”37 Danged
39 “Cut that out!”
41 Many corp. 
logos
42 First name from
which the “Adi” in
Adidas is derived
45 Oil gp.
46 1998 Olympics
city
49 Tinseltown
region, familiarly
50 Fizzling sound51 Ireland, in verse52 German thinker
Immanuel
53 Largest 
continent
54 Anti-rodent 
brand
55 Things to
connect
57 Chaney Jr. and
Sr.
59 Tax-auditing org.
60 __ Tin Tin
By Jeff Stillman
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/23/1804/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, April 23, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Classic dramatic
device
10 Demonstration of
power, perhaps
15 Winter carnival
attraction
16 Mythical myrtle-
and-roses wreath
wearer
17 Updated “What a
shame!”
18 Cane-carrying Mr.
19 Country E of
Cyprus
20 Marsh growth
21 Beauty aisle
brand
22 Virus eponym23 Assigns new
rankings to
24 Narrow types27 Caravan
components
28 Parting word
29 1848 classic
song about an
Alabama-to-Louisiana traveler
32 Court pros33 Lingerie
specifications
34 Hair products35 Uris WWII novel37 Harass38 “Help me out,
bro”
39 Nissan compact40 Actor’s dream42 Cleverly planned,
as a trick
43 Warn, in a way
44 Territory with a
palm tree in its
seal
45 Onetime JFK
arrival
48 Like some casks49 Fate of Peter’s
father, in kiddie lit
51 Sections52 Dell gaming
brand
53 Barista’s offering54 Intimidating
psychological
tactics
DOWN
1 Makes sense2 Hurting3 Run like the wind4 Liable5 Research subjects
6 Message
disseminators
7 Not as punctual
8 Justified serious
studying for
9 Former NFL
receiver Welker
10 Sinestro and
Professor Zoom,in their respectiveuniverses
11 Tour coordinator12 Home on a high
cliff, perhaps
13 Rose14 18-Across and
others
21 Important player
in the founding-
of-Rome story
22 Child-raising
technique?
23 Rough-sounding
24 Wire sticker25 What a raised
index finger mayindicate
26 Present often
mailed
27 Lout
29 “Law of
parsimony”
philosopher30 Brewer, e.g.,
briefly
31 Cinema pooch
33 Waiting room
site
36 Matisse work
featuring hand-holding
37 Wearing a grin39 Skate home40 Skimboarding
hazard
41 Top prom wear?42 Abu Simbel’s
region
44 Severe blow45 Filter target46 “Game of
Thrones”address
47 Screen-printing
targets
49 Sound from a 
fan
50 Lindbergh Line
airline
By Daniel Nierenberg©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/21/1804/21/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, April 21, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1. Who was the last Chicago Cubs 
pitcher in the modern era before Jake 
Arrieta (2015, ‘16) to toss more than 
one no-hitter?
2. In what year did Rickey Hen-
derson pass Lou Brock as baseball’s 
career stolen base leader?
3. Adam Gase, in 2016, became the 
third Miami Dolphins coach to win six consecutive games. Who were the other two to do it?
4. Kentucky’s men’s basketball 
team holds the record for most official NCAA Tournament appearances (57). Which school holds the men’s mark for the most Final Four appearances? 
5. Name the last rookie before Van-
couver’s Brock Boeser in 2018 to win 
the MVP Award at the NHL All-Star 
Game.
6. How many consecutive 400-meter 
hurdles races did Edwin Moses win between 1977 and 1987?
7. In 2018, Bubba Watson became 
the third PGA golfer to win three 
times at Riviera Country Club in Cal-ifornia. Name either of the other two golfers to do it.
Answers
1. Ken Holtzman, in 1969 and 1971.2. It was 1991 when he surpassed 
Brock’s 938 career steals.
3. Don Shula and Nick Saban.4. North Carolina, with 20.
5. Pittsburgh’s Mario Lemieux, in 
1985.
6. He had 122 consecutive wins.7. Ben Hogan and Lloyd Mangrum.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 23, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsMarta Perez and the Florida 
women's golf team fell to 
Arkansas in the quarterfinal 
round of SEC T ournament 
match play on Saturday.GATORS WIN FOURTH STRAIGHT BIG EAST TITLE
Florida's lacrosse team defeated Denver 18-13 on Saturday to increase its 
record in conference play to 8-0. With the five-goal victory, UF clinched its 
fourth consecutive regular season Big East title.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
McKethan Stadium is quiet 
now. 
Florida just wrapped up a road 
trip to Lexington, Kentucky, this 
weekend, where the No. 1 Gators 
took two of three games from the 
Wildcats. Their first contest back 
home will be against Mercer on 
Tuesday night at 6, but if you were 
to walk by the stadium sometime 
Monday afternoon, you’d probably 
never know.
You might hear the rhythmic 
whir of a lawnmower or the per-
sistent ping of leather meeting 
aluminum, but the stadium seems 
dormant in the absence of fans and 
teams and life. Rest assured that 
inside, where nobody’s watching, 
plenty of preparation is going into 
Tuesday’s game against the Bears. 
Mitchell Wydetic knows that 
better than anyone. He’s the head 
student manager for Florida's base-
ball team, and his job is basically 
to make sure everything that needs to get done behind the scenes 
does indeed get done. His journey 
started back at Henry Plant High 
School in Tampa. 
He wanted to play baseball, but 
he was too small. At 5-foot-8 and 
without standout skills, his coach 
approached him with a proposi-
tion: What if he gave up playing 
and used his strongest baseball 
attribute — his brain — to help 
coach the team?
“People don’t give up their ca-
reer at 15 to start coaching,” Wy-
detic thought. “They do that at 35.”
But he wanted to stay around 
baseball, and becoming a student-
coach would make that happen. 
“I’ll do it,” he finally decided, 
“but if I don’t like it after two 
weeks, I’m out.”
About six years and one college 
enrollment later, he’s still perform-
ing many of the same tasks minus 
the actual coaching. And on a re-
cent Tuesday, he sat down to ex-
plain how he and the rest of the 
operations staff makes sure games 
get played smoothly. The Balls
What would baseball be with-
out, well, baseballs? You can’t play 
a game without them, after all. But 
the scale at which UF purchases 
these spheres of cork and yarn 
wrapped like sausage between two 
leather strips may surprise you.
Wydetic explained that UF or-
ders about 35 cases of baseballs 
every fall. Each case carries 120 
balls, which makes the total about 
4,200. Each ball is worth about $5 
individually, Wydetic said, with-
out factoring in any bought-in-bulk 
discounts. 
Some of them get used right 
away as practice balls, which are 
kept in their own basket for bat-
ting practice. Others are saved for 
games.
Read the rest of the story online 
at alligator.org/sports.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgBehind the scenes at McKethan: 
The logistics of UF baseball gamesWOMEN'S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
Last year, Florida’s women’s tennis 
team fell to Vanderbilt in the champi-
onship match of the SEC Tournament. 
This year, it was more of the same.
The No. 1-seeded Commodores de-
feated UF 4-0 in the conference tour-
nament title match on Sunday, their 
second sweep of the Gators this year.
Freshman Katie Kubicz and senior 
Peggy Porter were the first to fall in 
doubles play, as the duo lost to the 
Commodores’ Christina Rosca and 
Amanda Meyer 6-1. Vanderbilt’s Fer-
nanda Contreras and Astra Sharma 
clinched the doubles point with a win 
over senior Anna Danilina and fresh-
man Victoria Emma. Danilina and 
Emma, despite being UF’s No. 1 duo, 
went winless in doubles play through-
out the entirety of the SEC tournament.
Up 1-0, the Commodores contin-
ued their strong play in singles. Meyer 
struck first with a win over Emma 6-1, 
6-2.
Summer Dvorak, who defeated Porter on April 14 to clinch the regular 
season SEC championship, followed 
up shortly after with a 6-2, 6-1 victory 
over Kubicz.
The Commodores completed the 
shutout when Contreras defeated se-
nior Josie Kuhlman, winning 6-2, 6-1 
and bringing the SEC Tournament tro-
phy back to Nashville.
Despite the lopsided defeat, UF 
coach Roland Thornqvist looked on 
the bright side after the match.
“We’ve come close to two tro-
phies,” Thornqvist said in a release, 
“but I feel nothing but pride on what 
these Gators have achieved.”
Florida will get a short break before 
they move on to the NCAA Tourna-
ment, which begins on May 11.
“We’ve got three weeks here, so 
we can take care of some academics 
and then start working toward the 
NCAAs,” Thornqvist said. “We can 
start from zero in our preparations. It 
comes at a good time for us.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgVandy shuts out Gators 
in SEC Tournament finalBASEBALLGYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer 
As it marched out to The Chain-
smokers’ “Something Just Like This,” 
the Florida gymnastics team danced, 
Gator Chomped and smiled, hyping up 
the crowd at Chaifetz Arena in St. Lou-
is on Saturday night with its infectious 
energy. Even UCLA’s fans participated 
in the fun, doing the Gator Chomp 
back to UF as it lined up single file on 
stage to collect its third-place trophy at 
the NCAA Super Six team final. There 
were no signs that the team had just 
lost a national title to UCLA by .225 
of a point. 
But there was one gymnast whose 
smile was masked by tears. Senior 
Alex McMurtry moved a little slower 
than her teammates, gazing around the 
arena as her final collegiate gymnastics 
meet officially came to a close. 
“No regrets,” McMurtry said in a 
release. 
For the 18-time All-American, there 
shouldn’t be. In the 2018 season alone, 
she scored two perfect 10s — one on vault and one on beam — in the 
Gators’ meet against Oklahoma on 
Jan. 26. Her score on beam completed 
a “Gym Slam,” which is when a gym-
nast records a 10 in every event over 
the course of her career.
She played a key role in UF's two-
loss regular season and led the Gators 
with 26 event titles, including 10 on 
bars, eight on vault, five on beam, two 
in all-around and one on floor. 
“We had the toughest season I’ve 
ever been a part of,” McMurtry said. “I 
started balling, not because I was that 
upset, but because I was so happy that 
we finished on a strong note.”
The team will also say goodbye to 
seniors Rachel Slocum and Kennedy 
Baker. Slocum made an impact at the 
NCAA Regionals on April 7 with a 
shared win on floor and a win on vault 
and continued to be a source of joy and 
motivation for the Gators. Though Bak-
er’s season ended early — she suffered 
a ruptured Achilles tendon on Feb. 23 
in a meet against Arkansas — she also 
served her time well this year, posting Florida says goodbye to McMurtry, Slocum, Bakers after NCAAs
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry is one of three seniors departing from Florida's gymnastics program following 
UF's third-place finish at the NCAA Super Six on Saturday.
 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
MEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
In a backyard as big as his imagi-
nation, a young Alfredo Perez Jr. 
can’t resist the sweet summer smell 
of fresh mangoes.
His parents have told him many 
times to stay out of the trees, but 
they can hardly contain their son’s 
hunger for fun. In a sacred moment 
of privacy, Alfredo Jr. jumps into 
the long arms of the mango tree 
and climbs toward his prize. Once 
within reach, he snaps the fruit from 
its branch and lowers himself excit-
edly to the green grasses of his child-
hood, where he is free to enjoy his 
hard-earned fruit.
The memory of its taste will be 
enough to bring a blushing smile to 
his face over a decade later. But for 
now, Alfredo Jr. isn’t thinking about 
the future or his 300-mile journey to 
a foreign, but free, country. He only 
wants to play.
It’s the summer of 2006 and at 
9 years old, Alfredo Jr. has grown 
accustomed to the freedom of long 
days playing in the street in front of 
his home in Artemisa, Cuba. He has 
many neighborhood friends, and to-
gether they fly kites against the blue 
sky, roll marbles and spin tops on 
the paved roads and play hide-and-
seek in the large lawn.
When parents finally manage 
to herd their children indoors after 
dark — sometimes as late as 9 p.m. 
— the kids all gather at Alfredo Jr.’s 
house. Here, the ceiling and walls do 
little to curb the merriment. Alfredo 
Jr. plays his favorite song on a CD 
player given to him by his godfather. 
Its name will eventually be forgot-
ten, but his parents will remember 
its maker: Shakira. Her signature vi-
brato begins to narrate the evening’s 
fun as the friends sing and dance 
playfully. Ever the jester, Alfredo Jr. 
throws himself to the floor as part of 
his choreography. He will repeat the 
song more than 15 times tonight and 
many other evenings to come.
This is the life Alfredo Jr. knows. 
But in less than one year, he will 
find himself far from home, stripped 
of the power of his native language 
and equipped with only a dream of 
greatness. Fortunately for Alfredo 
Jr., a tennis ball responds to the lan-
guage of passion alone.
•   •   •
Tennis runs in Alfredo Jr.’s fam-
ily.
Alfredo Perez Sr. began playing 
as a young child and never gave it 
up, ultimately making it his profes-
sion to teach the sport. So it wasn’t 
out of the ordinary when he first 
put a racket in his son’s 1-year-old 
hands. Alfredo Jr. — “Alfredito,” 
as his father calls him — played 
with tennis rackets and threw balls 
against walls before he could even 
walk.
When he did learn to walk, Al-
fredo Jr. joined his father at the ten-
nis courts. While Alfredo Sr. played, 
Alfredo Jr. stood beside the court 
and mirrored his father’s actions: 
the long forehand motion, the quick 
movement of his feet.Soon enough, the younger Al-
fredo was obsessed. He played ev-
ery day — on the court after school, 
against the wall behind his house 
after practice and against the walls 
in his house after dark.
By the time he was 7 years old, 
his father recognized he had a gift. 
As an experienced tennis player 
himself, he had an eye for talent and 
saw that his son was special.
Once a year, Alfredo Jr. had the 
opportunity to travel and represent 
his hometown in another province 
for a junior-level national tourna-
ment. He remembers the tourna-
ment fondly, grateful to have had 
the chance to visit another part of 
Cuba.
“We didn’t really get to travel 
much,” Alfredo Jr. said. “(The tour-
nament) was a reason I kept playing 
at first.”
But he had to go without his par-
ents. 
Travel was expensive, especially 
in the context of a broken, commu-
nist economy. An average salary 
wasn’t enough for Alfredo Sr. to af-
ford many necessities. He relied on 
the black market to provide for his 
family, but still, food was a daily 
struggle. 
“If you have a child who asks 
you for a candy and you do not have money for a candy, it’s very hard,” 
Alfredo Sr. said. “So you start to 
look at other options.”
In 1994, he applied for residency 
in the United States. The paperwork 
was finally completed 13 years later.
•   •   •
On April 30, 2007, the Perez fam-
ily cashed in on the spring’s promise 
of rebirth and left Cuba to start their 
lives anew. At 10 years old, Alfredo 
Jr. — with both his parents and his 
2-year-old brother, Alejandro — ar-
rived at their new home: Miami.
Fortunately, one of Alfredo Sr.’s 
brothers, who had immigrated to 
South Florida several years prior, 
agreed to house the Perezes for the 
next 12 months before they could af-
ford a place of their own.
Living with family helped protect 
Alfredo Jr. from the growing pains 
associated with such a radical tran-
sition. He remembers playing with 
his cousins in a big backyard, where 
mango and avocado trees added a 
touch of familiarity.
During Alfredo Jr.’s first junior 
tennis tournament in Miami, he ex-
perienced what would ultimately be 
his greatest challenge in the U.S. He 
didn’t speak any English and found 
he had no means of expression with-
out language.“I couldn’t explain myself. I 
couldn’t talk,” Alfredo Jr. said. “It 
was not good.”
Alfredo Jr. lost handily in the 
tournament’s first round. A new 
home, a new language and a crush-
ing defeat all thrust into the arms of 
a 10-year-old boy.
With the help of an Argentinian 
referee, Alfredo Jr. was able to com-
municate with other players during 
his next few tournaments. But the 
feeling of estrangement remained. 
One weekend, a local coach 
named Robert Gomez happened to 
see Alfredo Jr. play at a tournament 
and was immediately convinced of 
his potential. He approached Al-
fredo Sr. and expressed an interest 
in working with Alfredo Jr. While 
the offer was everything the Perez-
es wanted for their son, they knew 
they couldn’t afford private lessons.
But money didn’t matter to Go-
mez. Whether moved by the pas-
sion that pumped through each of 
Alfredo Jr.’s lanky limbs or touched 
by the story of a boy looking for his 
place in a new world, Gomez just 
wanted to help. And so he began to 
teach Alfredo Jr. for free.
•   •   •
Gomez is the director of tennis at 
the Biltmore and Salvadore Tennis Centers in the Miami area, where he 
operates a youth program for a vari-
ety of levels. After agreeing to train 
Alfredo Jr., Gomez offered Alfredo 
Sr. a job as a coach for entry-level 
players. Thanks to the grace of Go-
mez, the Perezes were finding their 
fit in Miami.
Alfredo Jr. quickly advanced to 
the top of Gomez’s program and 
became his primary project. The 
two began traveling together to give 
Alfredo Jr. the opportunity to play 
competitive tennis. In the five years 
that Alfredo Jr. trained under Go-
mez, he played in over 100 United 
States Tennis Association (USTA) 
junior tournaments. 
At the age of 15, Alfredo Jr. se-
cured the seventh seed in the 16-un-
der division of the Bobby Curtis 
State Championships in Orlando. He 
made the trip with Gomez, an assis-
tant coach and his training partner 
Mirko Radosevic, who competed in 
the same age division as Alfredo Jr. 
After unchallenged victories in 
the first two rounds, Alfredo Jr. ex-
perienced what Gomez refers to as 
“a mental lapse.” 
He lost the first set of his round 
of 16 match 6-4 and faced his first 
deficit of the tournament. But be-
fore his rising temper lost him the 
match, he reversed his apparent fate 
and won 12 consecutive games to 
advance in dominating fashion. 
The victory wasn’t enough to 
save Alfredo Jr. from the wrath of 
his assistant coach. Immediately af-
ter the match, Alfredo Jr. was forced 
to run a mile as punishment for his 
slow start. He ran his mile through 
the deep, green forestry surrounding 
Sanlando Park and then ran through 
his remaining three opponents, in-
cluding Mirko in the final round. Al-
fredo Jr. was a state champion. 
“That was a pretty cool mo-
ment,” Gomez said.
Alfredo Jr. defended his title the 
following year, a feat rarely accom-
plished by a junior tennis player, ac-
cording to Gomez.
But the winning never surprised 
Gomez. He had always known who 
Alfredo Jr., the tennis player, could 
be. In their five years together, how-
ever, Gomez spent much less time 
in the presence of Alfredo Jr., the 
young man.
But on a trip to Kalamazoo, 
Michigan, for a national tourna-
ment, 16-year-old Alfredo Jr. shed 
himself of the competitive gusto that 
earned him his many trophies and 
revealed a piece of his heart.
Read the rest of this story online 
at alligator.org/sports.
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgFAR FROM HOME: Alfredo Perez thriving after immigrating
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida men’s tennis player Alfredo Perez moved from his hometown of Artemisa, Cuba, to Miami 
when he was 10 years old.
Alfredo Perez
Class: Junior
Height: 6-foot-3
Weight: 170
Hometown: Artemisa, Cuba16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2018
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize 
your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring 
semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.her third career perfect 10 on ﬂ  oor 
against Alabama on Feb. 9. 
“I am truly thankful for their 
leadership,” coach Jenny Row-
land said about the team’s three 
seniors. “They’ve left an amazing 
mark on this team.”
Even with the loss of McMur-
try, Slocum and Baker, UF has 
much to look forward to in its 
underclassmen. Freshman Alyssa 
Baumann was a major asset on 
the team, collecting three wins on 
beam and one win on ﬂ  oor in the 
regular season.
She also led the Gators on ﬂ  oor 
at the NCAA Championships and 
Super Six, ﬁ  nishing second in both events with a collegiate best 
of 9.950.
“This is just the beginning,” 
Baumann said. “The next three 
years is going to be special.”
In her third year as UF’s coach, 
Jenny Rowland has a lot to be 
proud of. Florida ﬁ  nished ranked 
third in the nation with accolades 
including advancing to the NCAA 
Championships for the 36th time 
in 37 years and 23 collegiate-best 
marks on the season. 
“They laid their heart out on 
the ﬂ  oor,” Rowland said. “They 
laid their gymnastics out on the 
ﬂ  oor, and I couldn’t ask for any-
thing more.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Freshman Alyssa Baumann led the Gators on ﬂ  oor at the NCAA 
Championships and Super Six this weekend.
Name Top Score on
VAULTTop Score on
BARSTop Score on
BEAMTop Score on
FLOORUF advanced to NCAA Championships for 36th time in 37 years
Sierra Alexander (So.) 9.85 (Jan. 19) DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE NOT AVAILABLETop Score on
ALL-AROUND
Kennedy Baker (Sr.) 9.90 (Two Times) 9.875 (Feb. 23) 9.80 (Jan. 12) 10.0 (Feb. 9) 39.35 (Jan. 12)
Alyssa Baumann (Fr.) 9.775 (Feb. 2) DID NOT COMPETE 9.975 (Two Times)
9.95 (Three Times)NOT AVAILABLE
Alicia Boren (Jr.) 9.95 (Feb. 16) 9.925 (Feb. 9) 9.925 (Five Times)
DID NOT COMPETE39.60 (Feb. 9)
Maegan Chant (So.) 9.825 (Feb. 9) DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE
DID NOT COMPETENOT AVAILABLE
Amanda Cheney (Jr.) DID NOT COMPLETE DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE
9.825 (Three Times)NOT AVAILABLE
Jazmyn Foberg (Fr.) 9.90 (March 9) 9.95 (March 9) 9.70 (Jan. 5)
9.875 (Two Times)39.125 (Jan. 5)
Rachel Gowey (So.) 9.875 (Feb. 23) 9.925 (Feb. 23) 9.95 (Two Times)
9.925 (April 21)38.725 (March 2)
Amelia Hundley (So.) 9.90 (March 24) 9.925 (Three Times) 9.90 (March 9)
DID NOT COMPETE39.475 (April 21)
Francesca Lawal (Fr.) DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE
9.90 (March 2)NOT AVAILABLE
Grace McLaughlin (Sr.) DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE 9.65 (Feb. 9)
9.925 (Two Times)NOT AVAILABLE
Alex McMurtry (Sr.) 10.0 (Jan. 26) 9.975 (Five Times) 10.0 (Jan. 26)
9.925 (Jan. 12)39.825 (March 9)
Megan Skaggs (Fr.) 9.825 (Three Times) 9.90 (Three Times) 9.90 (Three Times)
9.95 (Feb. 16)39.375 (March 9)
Rachel Slocum (Sr.) 9.95 (Two Times) DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE
DID NOT COMPETENOT AVAILABLE
Nicole Webb (Fr.) DID NOT COMPETE DID NOT COMPETE 9.725 (Feb. 16)9.95 (Two Times)
NOT AVAILABLEYEAR IN REVIEW: FLORIDA GYMNASTS TOP SCORES OF 2018