We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
SG senators look to expand free printing services
They will work with UF’s administration, pg. 5
Marston Science Library renovations open
The third ﬂ  oor got new furniture, pg. 3 FROM GEORGIA TO JAPAN
UF softball player Kelly Barnhill has developed 
a passion for Japanese culture after traveling to the country with T eam USA, pg. 15VOLUME 112 ISSUE 76
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
BO DIDDLEY GOES BLUE
Adrian Hayes-Santos, a Gainesville city commissioner, reads a statement from Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe proclaiming April as Autism Awareness month Monday afternoon outside of Bo Diddley Community Plaza.  “One of the most important things to know is that no matter how different you are, you are a part of the Gainesville community, ” he said. For the remainder of the month, the lights in the fountains on Bo Diddley Plaza will stay blue to raise awareness for individuals with autism.  
By Sabrina Conza
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s research spending 
reached a record high of $801.4 
million in 2017.
The university reported the 
amount to the National Science 
Foundation for an annual survey of universities. This is an increase from $791.3 million in 2016, said Joseph Kays, UF’s director of re-search communications.
“We’ve been on a pretty steady 
upward trajectory for the past de-cade,” he said.
He said exceeding $800 mil-
lion is a milestone because few universities receive that amount. 
In 2016, UF was ranked 24 in 
total spending out of about 900 universities that reported, ac-cording to the foundation’s 2016 
report. The universities ranked 
above UF all reported spending more than $800 million. The full 2017 report is expected to be re-leased in November. 
Kays said 74 percent of the 
spending was for life science re-search, which includes health and agriculture.
The increase is due to UF hir-
ing researchers who bring in grants and apply for ones at UF, he said. 
UF professor and researcher 
Doug Soltis said he received a 
grant in 2017 of about $6 million 
from the U.S. Department of En-ergy to research bacteria in plants that allow them to convert nitro-gen into fertilizer. The research would allow plants to grow with less fertilizer and in bad soil.
The university encourages 
collaboration among scientists, 
which has led to some of his proj-
ects, Soltis said. 
“Modern science is like a foot-
ball team,” he said. “It’s very im-portant to work together.”UF research spending 
exceeds $800 millionBy Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Police Depart-
ment released a statement Tues-
day morning saying it will work 
to revise its policy for dealing with non-citizens.
Chief Tony Jones requested the 
code relating to “foreign Nation-als” be rewritten to avoid confu-
sion when dealing with them, ac-
cording to a GPD Facebook post. The new code will clarify that 
GPD ofﬁ  cers  don’t report immi-
gration status to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
GPD made the announcement 
two days after a Guatemalan na-tional called 911 and said her boyfriend, Benjamin Perez-Bravo, 
22, who is also a Guatemalan na-
tional, kicked her, trapped her in their bedroom and kept her from 
calling police. 
The girlfriend told police he hit 
her with a gun and there was a hostage in the apartment, accord-
ing to Alligator archives. After investigating, police police were 
not able to ﬁ  nd a gun in the apart-
ment, Tobias said. In an arrest report, GPD said 
it would investigate the immi-
gration status of the Guatemalan 
nationals involved in the Sunday arrest and forward information 
to U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement.
The current code states that of-
ﬁ  cers who encounter non-citizens 
will write about the contact in a 
narrative section of a report, while a “Records Manager, or designee, 
is responsible for forwarding the 
proper information or documents to the appropriate agency, as re-
quired by federal regulations.”GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias said he was not sure what the new code will state.
“We have to take looks at it 
from all areas of the department,” Tobias said. “It’s not something 
we can sit down and write in an afternoon.”
According to the statement, 
there is no federal regulations requiring local law enforcement 
to report the immigration sta-
tus of non-citizens. The current language was included so GPD 
would remain in compliance with 
any future regulations were cre-ated.
“At the end of the day, it’s not 
our policy to work as immigration agents or report to (U.S. Immigra-tion and Customs Enforcement), 
and we’re trying to make that as 
clear as possible,” Tobias said. 
In the past ﬁ  ve years the poli-
cy has been in place, GPD has no record of any reports to U.S. Im-migration and Customs Enforce-
ment, according to the statement.
Police found Perez-Bravo half 
a mile from the apartment, and 
GPD to review, change policy on handling non-citizens
TWO GROUPS GAVE $100,000 
EACH FOR THE PROGRAM.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
A new partnership between Gainesville 
Police Department and Meridian Behavioral 
Healthcare, a health care provider, will change how police responds to calls involving a men-tal health crisis. 
The program, which launched Monday, will change the way calls are handled by in-
cluding a team consisting of a mental health 
clinician and an ofﬁ  cer trained in crisis inter-vention, Lt. Whitney Stout said at a Tuesday press conference.
 Makenzie Boyer and Ofﬁ  cer Shelley Postle 
will ride together and answer calls that involve emotionally charged situations or mental ill-ness and follow up with patients to ensure they receive mental health resources.
The program has been two years in the 
making and is intended to reduce the number of people with mental illness in the criminal 
justice system, Stout said. Stout said GPD often 
responds calls involving behavioral issues that  have “underlying” mental health issues.
“As police we really do care,” Stout said. 
“We want to help people, and we want to get them to the right services.”
The project is jointly funded by the City 
of Gainesville and Lutheran Services Florida Health Systems, among other organizations. 
Both contributed $100,000 to the program, said 
Meridian president and CEO Maggie Labarta.Boyer and Postle had one word to describe 
their ﬁ  rst day of the program: busy. 
The pair is passionate about serving the sec-
tor of the community that struggles with men-tal illness in a way that wasn’t possible before. 
“Being able to meet people at their point of 
need and giving them the services they might not even know are available is crucial for these people,” Boyer said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgGPD partners with company to answer mental health callsSEE POLICY,  PAGE 5
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
HIGH  81° LOW  48°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
 
‘Finding Eternity in Cyber Land’
Jerald Milanich, a professor 
emeritus in anthropology, will reveal backstories for four books, which recently ascended to e-
book status, 2 p.m. Wednesday 
in Smathers Library, Room 100. The accounts will reference a number of notable people, plac-
es and things, including former 
UF historian Samuel Proctor, for-
mer Florida Gov. Bob Graham, 
frozen peas and Gatorade, Antarctica and Gainesville’s own Windjammer Bar. The presenta-tion is the first in the “Florida and the Caribbean Open Book Series.” 
‘Take Back the Night’
Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s “Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence” will be held from 5:30 to 9 p.m. Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas. Survivors can speak on the na-ture of their sexual assault and recovery, and anyone demon-strating support for survivors is welcome. Free T-shirts or tank 
tops for the first 300 marchers. 
For more information, contact 352-273-4450.
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights WorkshopsThe Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar 
Association to present “Law in 
the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 5:30 to 7 p.m. Thursday at Tower Road Library Branch, located at 3020 SW 75th St. Attorneys will pro-vide one-on-one assistance to those who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in 
applying to have their civil rights 
restored. For more information, visit aclib.us/law.
Live storytelling event
In partnership with Guts & Glory GNV, the Florida Museum of Natural History will offer “When Nature Calls: A Live 
Storytelling Event” from 6 to 9 
p.m. Thursday featuring origi-nal, true first-person storytelling. Attendees must be 18 years or older. For more information or to register, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/when-nature-calls or call 352-273-2062.
Florida Museum plant sale
The Florida Museum of Natural History will host a sale with more than 175 species of difficult-to-find and pollinator-friendly plants 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday, and 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Accent, host, native and nectar plants as well as edible 
plants from Natural Treasures 
Farm & Nursery will be available for purchase, with proceeds ben-efiting the museum’s “Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit. For more in-formation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/spring-plant-sale or call 352-273-2057.
UF Bug Week scavenger hunt
To celebrate UF’s annual Bug Week, the Florida Museum of Natural History will hold a free scavenger hunt from 10 a.m. to noon Saturday. For more infor-mation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/bug-week-scavenger-hunt or call 352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: 
In an article titled "Internet-
famous drag queens connect 
with community" published Monday, The Alligator incor-rectly reported one of the names of the drag queen as "Casa Vina." The correct spelling is "Casavina." The article also previously re-ported the crowd size was about 
80. According to audience mem-
ber check-ins by an organizer, there were about 200 people. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 76
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
UF STUDENTS ATTENDED AT LEAST ONE BASKETBALL GAME THIS SEASON
X
STUDENTS, 
THANK YOU FOR MAKING EXACTECH ARENA AT THE 
STEPHEN C. O’CONNELL CENTER SUCH A GREAT PLACE TO 
PLAY. WE CAN’T THANK YOU ENOUGH FOR SHOWING UP 
NIGHT IN AND NIGHT OUT. 
H
HAVE A GREAT REST OF YOUR SEMESTER, ENJOY THE 
SUMMER AND WE’LL SEE YOU BACK HERE IN NOVEMBER. 
GO GATORS!
HEAD COACH, MIKE WHITE
By Amanda Parrish
 and Vivian Nguyen
Alligator Contributing Writers
Ariana Burga used to study at 
a table by a window on the third 
floor of Marston Science Library almost every day — including 
weekends — to study for Organic 
Chemistry 1, biology and calculus 
2. 
The third floor has always 
been the 20-year-old’s favorite because it’s high enough to have 
a nice view and is quiet enough 
to focus.  
But on March 4, the floor was 
partially closed for renovations 
as furniture was replaced and 
outlets added. The UF biochemis-
try and neuroscience sophomore 
has moved her studies to Library West. She said she was relieved for the third floor’s reopening   
Tuesday so she won’t have to 
fight for spots during finals. 
“It is very important that they 
implemented more tables and 
more seats for us because it’s go-
ing to be impossible to find those 
in a couple weeks,” Burga said.
Valrie Minson, chair of Mar-
ston Science Library, said the 
project started during Winter 
Break and students could still 
use the floor during the first half 
of renovations. It was scheduled to finish early Spring, but elec-tricians ran into delays. It cost about $476,000 for the renova-tions, which covered electrical improvements, furniture, installa-tion and painting. 
“The floor beams weren’t 
where they were supposed to be, so we had to do full X-rays of the floor to find them and work around them,” Minson said.
The third floor is the in-be-
tween of the quiet fifth floor and 
the loud basement, so the new 
furniture will reflect the need for 
both group work and solo study, Minson said. 
Tables with glass dividers, 
similar to those found on the en-
try floor, will give students the 
choice between group and indi-vidual work. The updated floor will also have an elevated “genius 
bar” table, Minson said.
The old six-person tables will 
be replaced by larger 14-person, 
guitar pick-shaped tables, Minson said.
“People working on group 
projects and club members used to take the small tables and push them together to make one mas-sive table,” she said. 
Minson said the first floor, 
known colloquially as the base-ment, received the first set of im-provements in 2014, when study rooms and computers were added as part of a $5.7 million first-floor renovation project. Before then, it had not been updated since the library’s opening in 1987. 
This renovation saw the in-
troduction of group study rooms and the Made@UF room, which provides resources for students to learn how to develop apps. 
“As soon as we did that, use of the first floor shot right up with-out hurting occupancy at other li-braries, so we knew we were fill-ing an unmet need,” Minson said.
The entry level was next on 
the list and received its makeover shortly afterward. Since the first remodeling, she said, the plan has been to move up the building.The third floor, the last of the 
group study areas, made the most sense to proceed with, Minson said. The fourth and fifth floors will be more difficult to accom-plish without disrupting students, but those renovations will be on the agenda soon.
Marston Science Library third-floor renovations nearly complete  
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
FLASKS FOR FUNDS
UF Chemistry Club social chair Jeremiah Martinez, 18, said the group sold painted flasks Tuesday afternoon at the chemistry courtyard to raise funds. The club will donate 20 percent of the money, and will be selling the flasks for the rest of the week.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmHE SPOKE ABOUT 
FUNDING, RESEARCH AND 
HIS GUITAR-PLAYING.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Dr. Francis Collins remembers performing 
Bob Dylan’s “The Times They Are a-Changin’” 
for three U.S. Supreme Court chief justices — at a dinner party not long after the landmark 2015 decision to allow same-sex marriage.  
Invited by U.S. House Rep. Ted Yoho to 
spend the day on campus, Collins, who has worked for more than eight years as director of the National Institutes of Health, spoke for about 45 minutes Monday morning in the Har-rell Medical Education Building, answering questions from David Guzick, UF’s vice presi-dent for health affairs. 
About 200, including UF President Kent 
Fuchs and Yoho, ﬁ  lled the main room, and 250 sat in the lobby to watch a livestream. 
Collins touched on everything from the 
need for more NIH funding to the nationwide opioid crisis to how music and the arts can 
work together, like when he quelled any pos-
sible tension between Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy and Ruth Bader Ginsburg with his guitar playing. 
The head of a $37 billion cutting-edge pub-
lic health agency also told the medical com-munity members how important their work is. 
“We all share this sense of how to protect 
the next generation of investigators,” he said.
Medical student Dr. Justin Rossi went to 
Collins’ event because he completed his doc-toral research in neurology and Parkinson’s disease with NIH grant money.
“These are uncertain times as far as fund-
ing,” he said. “It’s our projects, as students, that would be affected.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Director of National Institutes of Health visits UF
David Hoffman/Alligator
About 400 people went to the Harrell Medical Education Building on Monday morning 
to hear Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the National Insitutes of Health, speak.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE NEW BUILDING IS EXPECTED 
TO COST ABOUT $31 MILLION.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College plans to replace the exist-
ing Center for Innovation and Economic De-
velopment on West University Avenue with a new $31-million building. 
While the new building is still in the concept 
phase of the project and construction won’t be-gin for at least another year, it will have three floors and cover 85,000 square feet, said Dug Jones, the associate vice president of economic development. The building, located at 530 W. University Ave., will house the college’s busi-ness and information technology programs and offer more space to house businesses.
“It’ll be a great asset not only to the college 
and to students, but to the Gainesville business 
community,” he said.
The redevelopment was prompted by in-
sufficient space in the current building, Jones 
said.
Half of the current building, or 5,000 square 
feet, is used for housing businesses. The center has 25 businesses, but only seven have office space while the remaining companies share the commonspace, he said. 
About 90 percent of the new building will 
be used for the college’s business and infor-mation technology programs. The remaining 10 percent will be for the Center for Innova-tion and Economic Development services, said 
Cheryl Calhoun, director of the Blount Center.
The college has about $17 million of the 
$31 million needed for the building, Jones said. 
The project will be funded through a variety of sources including legislative appropriations, private contributions and grants from the U.S. Economic Development Administration. 
Leonardo Gabriel, a 28-year-old Santa Fe 
health science student, hopes the expansion will mean more business owners can receive support from the center like he did when he launched his business, Island Fresco, an or-ganic snow cone shop.
“If I wasn’t incubating with them I don’t 
know if my business would actually get any-where,” he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Santa Fe to replace building on West University Avenue
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are investi-
gating an attempted homicide be-tween a boyfriend and girlfriend that took place on Sunday.
Police responded to Palmetto 
Creek apartment complex, at 2114 NW 55th Blvd., at 9:50 p.m. after receiving calls about gunfire, GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. Police later found shell casings on the sidewalk in front of an apartment, Tobias said. No one was reportedly hit by 
the gunfire.
Police have not released the 
names of the couple.
Shortly after police arrived, a man called police from a BP gas 
station, located about three min-utes away from the complex at 5310 NW 13th St., and said he had been shot, Tobias said. 
At the gas station, police saw 
the man had not been shot. He would not cooperate with police and refused to give any informa-tion about a shooter, Tobias said.Officers saw blood in the man’s 
car. Tobias said it may have been from a head injury the man re-ceived in a fight with his girlfriend. Tobias did not know the state of the injury because he said the man 
would not cooperate with police. 
Police found the man’s girl-
friend at her Palmetto Creek apart-
ment, Tobias said. She also did not cooperate with police, he added.
There were 10 9-mm shell cas-
ings on the sidewalk directly in front of her apartment, Tobias said. 
Neither the man nor his girl-
friend face charges as of press time, 
Tobias said. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
GPD: 10 shots fired in apartment complex, no fatalitieshe was arrested on felony charges of hindering 
communication with law enforcement and false 
imprisonment. He was also charged with a misde-
meanor of simple domestic battery.
Tobias said whether a foreign national’s arrest 
is reported to federal authorities is out of GPD’s control. He said it is handled by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office at the Alachua County Jail. 
About two hours before GPD’s statement, May-
or Lauren Poe wrote in a Facebook post that he was under the impression that GPD did not get 
involved with determining the immigration status 
of Gainesville’s residents.
“This is not who we are,” Poe wrote. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgPOLICY,  from pg. 1Poe commented 
on the issue
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government sena-
tors laid out their plans to ex-
pand free printing and support 
UF’s Disability Resource Center at a Student Senate meeting 
Tuesday night. 
Senate President Danielle 
Grosse (Impact, District A) and 
Senate President Pro Tempore Michael Murphy (Impact, Dis-trict A) announced they’d be 
working on expanding free 
printing across campus, which 
is currently only available in the 
Reitz Union. 
Grosse said she’ll be meeting with UF’s administration soon. 
“It’s important to us and to 
a lot of people,” she said. “We 
want this in as many locations 
as possible, but even one more 
could be a great start.” 
After The Alligator reported 
on the center’s lack of funding, Senators Ben Lima (Inspire, Dis-
trict D) and Zachariah Chou (In-
spire, Murphree) said they want 
to draft a resolution to increase funding.
“We need a concerted effort 
as representatives of this Stu-dent Body to make a statement, 
loud and clear that this top-10 
public institution must be able 
to serve 100 percent of their Stu-dent Body,” Lima said.
During the meeting, Senate 
also unanimously passed two bills and approved extra funding 
for a student organization. 
Senators approved the Live 
Stream for Accountability and Transparency Act, which re-
quires the SG to publicize its 
events. The Supervisor of Elec-
tions will live stream the SG de-
bate and make it available to the public within 48 hours. This act also ensures that Action SG, an 
agency that promotes SG’s ac-
tivities, will live stream the State 
of Campus address and Senate 
meetings. 
Senators also passed the Chairperson Act — a bill that 
changed the word “Chairman” 
to “Chairperson” in a code to be 
more inclusive. The code refers 
to the transfer of UF Supreme 
Court decisions to the Student 
Body president, Student Body treasurer, Senate president and 
now Chairperson of the Senate’s 
Judiciary Committee.
Funding for the Interfaith 
Ambassadors, $509, was ap-proved. Senate also approved  a line item transfer for student 
organization  Gators for ASHA 
of $180.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgStudent senators announce effort to 
expand free printing across UF campusThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
In the age of Amazon and a seemingly end-
less amount of one-touch shopping apps, it’s 
not exactly shocking that many storefronts 
are saying goodbye and shopping malls are struggling to stay relevant.
This month alone, a plethora of nostalgic 
storefronts announced widespread closings. The tween wonderland known as Claire’s — where 
just about every 12-year-old girl got her ears 
pierced in the 2000s — ﬁ  led for bankruptcy, and Toys “R” Us recently announced it will close all 
of its U.S. stores.
But in light of once-prominent retail stores closing, I can’t 
help but wonder what our society would be like without brick-and-mortar shopping.
Malls, department stores and storefronts represent more 
than the material items they sell. No matter how frivolous a trip to the mall may seem, the brick-and-mortar shopping 
experience is a socially important part of our culture.
The shopping mall has long been a symbol of indepen-
dence for adolescents, as it’s often where teens get their ﬁ  rst jobs and spend time with their friends. It’s where friends learn about each other’s personal styles and perhaps where 
young people make some of their ﬁ  rst decisions about how 
to spend or save money. 
It’s where friends, couples and families give and receive 
honest style opinions in dressing rooms with ﬂ  uorescent lighting and converse over soft pretzels. It’s where kids throw pennies into fountains and where impatient siblings 
and spouses sit on benches waiting for their shopping com-
panions to emerge from seas of mannequins and clothing racks.
For some, brick-and-mortar represents therapeutic ac-
tivities like window-shopping and people-watching — ex-periences that aren’t exactly the same as scrolling through a 
website or your Instagram feed.
Whether it’s a bookstore or a mall, I think many brick-
and-mortar stores and shopping centers are like public buses or trains because they are some of the few places in our society where people of all social locations 
come together — whether it’s to work, to buy or 
to browse.
And with society’s shifting norms and techno-
logical advancements, it’s hopeful to know that some cohorts still see the value of brick-and-mor-
tar stores.
Despite the convenience and rise of online 
shopping, millennial women as a whole still deem in-person stores as valuable, according to a recent study about millennial fashion shopping 
habits. Of the 500 women sampled, most said they use web-sites and social media platforms as starting points to inspire their purchases, but 65 percent said they still make their 
ﬁ  nal purchases in-store, according to the study.
In a culture that values convenience over conversation, 
it’s no wonder why the majority of people would trade the in-person shopping experience for the ease of buying a pair 
of shoes or an entire outﬁ  t from the comfort of their bed. Af-ter all, online shopping can be faster and more efﬁ  cient than 
in-person shopping, even if it lacks the social experience.
And while I don’t think the same parent-to-child and 
friend-to-friend conversations about body image, beauty and conﬁ  dence that occur between clothing racks or in 
checkout lines are ever bound to happen over a webpage, perhaps the downfall of physical storefronts will have its 
own set of social beneﬁ  ts. 
In a perfect world, maybe the rise of online shopping 
and downfall of brick-and-mortar stores means people will spend less time shopping and more time seeking opportuni-
ties and experiences that are unrelated to making purchases — like volunteering and community service.
The foggy future of brick-and-mortar retail can’t be ro-
manticized, but the truth is that the four walls of a dressing room will capture many more stories and emotions than an 
online shop’s virtual checkout basket could ever hold.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
focuses on human behavior and sociology.A much needed ode to brick-and-mortar shopping
Most people have one job. 
Maybe it’s being a student, an engineer or a doc-
tor. But no matter what you do, you go to work or 
school with a list of tasks you’re expected to fulﬁ  ll. 
For teachers, it’s not that simple. In minutes, they 
go from educator to doctor, psychologist to athletic coach. Nowadays, they’re also being asked to become protectors.
But as educators are increasingly required to wear more 
hats, their pay decreases. 
According to Axios, the average pay for teachers in Florida 
has decreased $2,000 from 2010 to 2016 both in terms of ac-tual pay and pay adjusted for the cost of living. 
It’s not just Florida. This week, teachers in Oklahoma are 
on strike, protesting lack of pay and increasing class sizes. The strike comes after a successful strike in West Virginia where schools were closed for nearly two weeks when teach-
ers across the state refused to work without higher pay. In the 
end they received a 5 percent pay raise.   
But you won’t see this type of action in Florida. Florida 
teachers are not allowed to go on strike because of collec-tive bargaining and because Florida is a right-to-work state, 
according to NPR. Teachers get to negotiate their contracts 
and working conditions, and in turn they cannot strike — it’s against the Florida Constitution. 
But that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t support better pay for 
Florida teachers. In fact, we need to make sure young people aren’t discouraged from going into the education profession.  
According to a 2017 report released by the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development, the U.S. pays its teachers, on average, 60 percent less than similarly educated 
professionals in other countries. 
The 456-page annual report examined countries like Ar-
gentina, China and Saudi Arabia. Perhaps the most worrying 
part of the ﬁ  ndings is the idea that teaching is becoming “in-
creasingly unattractive for young people.” 
If this is true and the workforce decreases, what will be-
come of the education system in the U.S.? What will hap-
pen when we don’t have enough people to guide our future leaders? Teachers matter, and we should value their place in 
society.
The U.S. has a problem with respecting the educators of 
future generations, and their pay is the start of it. We must 
start recognizing the important role teachers play in helping 
children succeed. 
Nowadays, there is an underlying belief in our society that 
teachers “don’t work much.” This is not true. Teaching is not 
an 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. job. The OECD report explains these pro-fessionals spend an average of 1,005 hours working per year. 
Teachers should get a raise — not just because they need 
it, but because they deserve it. They deserve more than just an appreciation day each May. 
If we really want to show them they make a difference, we 
should give them a paycheck to match — not just a continen-tal breakfast once a year. Teachers deserve 
better
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
The number of students seeking ser-
vices from the Disability Resource Center has more than doubled since 
2013, yet only one learning special-
ist has since been added to the cen-
ter’s staff, according to The Alligator.
Learning specialists serve as consultants 
and primary points of contact for students seeking disability-related accommodations. These specialists meet with students indi-vidually to analyze their unique situations and tailor accommodation plans speciﬁ  c to 
their needs. Further, learning specialists 
serve in a supportive role and are guiding hands for many students who seek services from the DRC as they navigate college.
Currently, learning specialists are re-sponsible for around 600 stu-dents each; and, because of this, students seeking accommoda-tions often have to wait weeks 
at a time before meeting with a 
specialist, often leaving them in limbo regarding resources and services that are imperative for 
their success in college. As a 
“Top 10 Public University” that champions words like diversity and inclu-sivity, this is inexcusable.
The number of learning specialists 
should correlate with the ever-increasing number of students who choose to regis-ter with the DRC. This isn’t something that can be put off or pushed aside — every delay in allocating the necessary funding prevents another cohort of students from adequately ac-cessing necessary resources for 
their academic success in a time-
ly manner.
No student should have to fear being 
unable to arrange a meeting with a learn-ing specialist in time to receive proper ac-commodations. No student should have to worry about being able to utilize the ac-commodations they already qualify for be-
cause of a lack of availability within the 
DRC due to space constraints. No student should be left without timely access to the resources they need for academic success.
To support Gators with a wide-range of 
disabilities and help advocate for the fund-ing concerns within the UF’s Disability Resource Center, contact Student Govern-ment Sen. Keith Saint (Graduate, Inspire) 
at grad08@sg.uﬂ  .edu.
Keith Saint is a Student Government Sena-
tor. (Graduate, Inspire.) WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
DRINK ALCOHOL 
RECENTLY?
www.edgelabresearch.org
352.214.4047
UF study. No medication. 
Must be someone who drinks alcohol regularly & be willing to participate in an in-person session & 2-week period using smartphone technology. Compensation.
The Disability Resource Center has a need for more staff and funding 
Attention women of all ages: We’re 
not so different after all — even when it comes to our views of the 
#MeToo movement. 
As millions of women shared 
their stories of sexual harassment and 
abuse using the hashtag “Me Too,” which 
was created by activist Tarana Burke, dis-
agreements over the movement ensued. The generational divide purported by talk-ing heads on television and furious users on Twitter has women divided into two 
groups based solely on age. 
Women under 35 are told women 35 
and older think we’re too sensitive when 
it comes to sexual harassment and abuse. 
We should learn to deal with the realities 
of the workplace as they did, older women supposedly say. We’re taking it too far, they reportedly reprimand. 
But a March 2018 study revealed older 
women support the efforts of the #MeToo movement as vehemently as younger wom-en do. The study, conducted by Vox and Morning Consult, a nonpartisan technol-
ogy and media company, dispels the myth 
of the great generational divide between women under 35 and women 35 and older. After surveying more than 2,500 women of different ages, races, ethnicities, educational attain-
ments and regions, the results 
showed most women 35 and older don’t think the movement has gone too far. Rather, they 
agree with younger women that 
our society is in need of change. 
When asked, generally 
speaking, if they supported the #MeToo movement, 71 percent of the 
younger group and 68 percent of the older 
group said “yes.” Fifty-eight percent of women under 35 and 52 percent of women 35 and older said the #MeToo movement 
represents their own interests. 
It goes deeper than general support. In 
fact, these similar rates of support across 
generations were probably impacted by the rates of women who say they have been 
sexually harassed. When asked if they have 
been sexually harassed at work, 29 percent of the younger group of women and 33 per-cent of the older group said “yes.” 
There was also broad agreement be-
tween the age groups about what consti-tutes sexual harassment, though younger women and young feminists in general are criticized for having a broader deﬁ  nition of sexual 
harassment than older women. 
Of course, there were differ-
ences between the age groups. 
Women 35 and older were 9 
percent less likely to report sex-
ual harassment at work than the younger group, which could be a sign that workplace culture is 
moving in the right direction for women. 
These ﬁ  ndings are signiﬁ  cant and sadly 
surprising. We’re led to believe all younger women want a better world for women, 
while all older women believe we should 
ﬁ  nd our place to succeed within the patri-archy. This narrative undermines our abili-ties to determine our worldviews based on anything other than years on the planet. More than that, it’s just another example of women being pitted against each other 
when we should be seeing our similarities 
and working together. 
When asked if they were optimis-
tic about the lasting change the #MeToo 
movement could cause, the older group of 
women said “yes” more than the younger women did. Seventy percent of the former group said they think it is likely men will be more conscious of inappropriate be-
havior as a direct result of this movement. 
Less than 60 percent of the younger group said the same.  
Younger women, we have a lot to learn 
from the women who have come before us, who have gotten us to a point where a movement like #MeToo can actually change things. Let’s tune out the false, hateful rhetoric and remember that we are 
all on one team, ﬁ  ghting so the next gen-
eration of women will have a better, more equal world. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column focuses on feminism. 
Studies show women of all ages support the #MeToo movementColumnKeith Saint
opinions@alligator.org
“W e're led to believe all younger women 
want a better world for women, while all 
older women believe we should ind our 
place to succeed within the patriarchy.”
Carly Breit
Columnist“As a 'Top 10 Public University" 
that champions words like 
diversity and inclusivity, this is 
inexcusable.”
Keith Saint
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Bucket List:
A few places graduating seniors should go (Pg. 10)Crankdat Q&A:
The artist talks music and producing at a young age (Pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer
Creator of Over Easy Creative, Les Voss, is 
“big easy”-bound the ﬁ  rst week of May.
But he is not packing his bags and driving 
to New Orleans until after his ﬁ  nal show from 
10 p.m. to 2 a.m. April 14 at High Dive.
Over Easy Creative, a Gainesville produc-
tion company that specializes in electronic mu-sic and art events, will present Levitation Jones and Jon Shuttleworth “Parrotice”, a musical 
exhibition of everything from “underground 
dubstep and future bass” to “hybrid hip-hop 
beats,” according to the event page. Electronic 
production company Lucid Nightlife will also co-present the event.
Pat Lavery, the facility and events manager 
of High Dive, said Voss has wanted to bring Levitation Jones to his venue since they ﬁ  rst met last year.
“So I’m sure this will be a big going-away 
party,” Lavery said.  
The two have been working closely since 
fall 2017, but in that short time Lavery said their collaborations have deﬁ  nitely impacted the local entertainment scene.
High Dive’s “intimate, laid-back setting” 
was a natural ﬁ  t with Over Easy, he said, and now the partnership is not one to be easily re-placed. 
“Over Easy has been producing a couple 
events a month with us, so I hope that some-one else will step up and ﬁ  ll the void in the EDM space in our venue,” he said.
Voss, 25, said he sees leaving Gainesville as 
an opportunity for up-and-coming young art-ists to seize the stage while the clean slate of a new city calls his name.
The start of Voss’ journey happened ﬁ  ve 
years ago by accident.
“There was never an idea of starting a 
whole company out of it,” he said.
But when Voss and his team started pull-ing off regular fests at The Jam, a Gainesville venue that closed in May 2016, the local com-munity was excited for more.
So Voss left school with a year left in his 
event management degree, and Over Easy Events was born.
Before he knew it, the company was doing 
two or three parties a week and promoting big 
events around town.
“But it was tough getting all of that art to-gether and keeping it fresh and different,” he 
said.
It was especially tough because what sets 
the company apart is being more than just an artist on a stage, he said. They are about creat-ing an experience-driven performance.
“We’re more of the vibe curator,” he said.
That’s when the company ofﬁ  cially became 
“Over Easy Creative,” he said. The name repre-
sents a time of refocus for the group.
“Funny enough, I didn’t even come up with 
it,” he said.
Charlie Bilsker, a long-time friend of Voss 
and motivator of the company, had originally thought of the name and gave him the idea for it. 
“He sent me the name and I was like, 
‘Damn, this is awesome,’” he said.
Along the way people have come and gone, 
riding the wake of Over Easy’s unpredictably, from co-founder and ﬁ  nance major Arthur Le-forestier to UF law graduate Max Christiansen and all of the other creative minds who have contributed along the way. But now, Voss said it is essentially a one-man show as he prepares 
to move the company to New Orleans.
Inspired by a last-minute trip to New Or-
leans’ BUKU Music + Art Project, Voss sees 
the future of his company moving West and chasing the setting sun.
“I feel like I’ve kind of done what I can for 
Gainesville, and now it’s time to go and let someone that’s younger give it a shot, too,” he said.Over Easy Creative to leave Gainesville after ﬁ  nal show 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer 
With leather and lipstick galore, High 
Dive is traveling back in time to the Rock-abilly era with the help of Gainesville’s Eclectic Electric.
Rockabilly represents the rock ’n’ roll 
culture of the early 1950s — a time when greasers and pin-up girls reigned supreme and an Elvis Presley record was a must. With the support of Gainesville Harley Davidson, Eclectic Electric is bringing that spirit to High Dive Thursday at 8 p.m. with Rockabilly Rumble.
The event will include live music, food 
vendors, contests and various art installa-
tions. Rockabilly Rumble is open to guests 
18 years old and up. Guests under 21 will pay an additional $3 convenience fee. Tick-ets are available at Ticketﬂ  y.com for $6 in advance and $8 on the day of show.
Eclectic Electric is an art and experi-
ence-centric event and entertainment ser-vice. Creator Tyler Hale and his partner Jake Del Valle created Rockabilly Rumble 
as the ﬁ  rst of many decade-themed events 
to come.
“We really had the desire to do some-
thing that hasn’t been done in a while here,” Del Valle said. “There’s disco parties often. There’s disco parties, there’s other types of grunge rock ‘n’ roll parties that happen, but it’s been a while since anyone has thrown this type of party.”
Del Valle said that while he is respon-
sible for the organization side of the event, 
Hale is the creative mastermind behind 
Rockabilly Rumble. Hale is creating the art and decor for the event — from retro signs to interactive pieces for guests to enjoy.
“Tyler’s ability to create and to have a 
vision for things and then just put it into reality — that’s really important, and his art is going to speak for that time that he’s put into it,” Del Valle said. “I go every day 
and see the stuff he’s working on…. Every 
day it’s looking more beautiful.”
Rockabilly Rumble guests will have 
the opportunity to participate in several events. Harley Davidson will showcase their 2018 line of retro-style bikes. Guests will also have the chance to show off their old-school rides with Rockabilly Rumble’s classic car and vintage motorcycle con-
tests.
Guests are also encouraged to dress for 
the era, as the event will feature audience-
judged best-dressed contests for greaser guys and pin-up girls. Applause from the audience will set off Hale’s homemade “applause-o-meter” to determine the guests with the baddest look of all.
Then, to remember their stellar get-up, 
guests can head over to the Eclectic Electric photo booth and grab some pictures.Besides the contests, Rockabilly Rum-
ble will also feature its own mini “drive-in” theatre where guests can grab a bag of pop-corn and an Arnold Palmer to catch a ’50s 
sci-ﬁ   ﬂ  ick or vintage cartoons. Guests who 
need a little more than popcorn can grab a taco or two from Rockabilly Rumble’s food vendor, Soul Spice.
To slow down and enjoy some quiet 
tunes, guests can step into the Rockabilly Rumble listening booth. There, they can choose from nearly 100 vinyl records.
“It’s good for people who might not 
have played with records before or touched a turntable, so we’re giving them the ex-perience to go back in time and listen to some music the old-fashioned way,” Del Valle said.
In addition to records, Rockabilly Rum-
ble will also feature live performances from a variety of artists. R. P. Allen is a one-man-band coming in from Tallahassee 
along with his cigar box guitar, suitcase 
drums and harmonica. Hale will also be performing a set of his own curated mu-sic. Gainesville DJ Dillon Rose will be the Rockabilly Rumble DJ, performing two unique rock ‘n’ roll sets.
“I really think it’s going to be not only 
a fun event but really something different that Gainesville hasn’t seen in a while,” 
Del Valle said.
High Dive to get nostalgic with Rockabilly Rumble event
Courtesy to The Alligator
The event will feature a Harley Davidson 
showcase, live music and more. 
Photo by Pics From Last Night
With the motto “Hear.See.Feel., ” Over Easy Creative has consistently created holistic music events for the past ﬁ  ve years. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
With a yellow backward hat restraining 
his long, dark hair, his DJ gear in hand and 
a sleepy yet genuine smile on his face, elec-tronic music powerhouse Crankdat takes a seat in Phi Kappa Tau’s president’s room to 
talk music.
The Ohio-based artist has had a whirlwind 
of a year. In early 2017, the former Division 1 
athlete made the decision to drop out of Kent State University and pursue music full time.
Flash forward to 2018 and that decision 
has paid off for Crankdat. He’s pushed out collaborations with artists like T-Pain, Lookas and Jauz (with a collaboration with Marsh-mello on the way). He started his own radio show titled “Gear Up Radio” and performs on 
stages across the globe, doing almost all of it 
before hitting the legal drinking age — he just 
turned 21 one month ago.
While spending just over 12 hours in 
Gainesville to perform at Phi Kappa Tau’s an-nual Oasis event on March 30, I had the op-portunity to chat with Crankdat, known less commonly by his real name, Christian Smith. We talked about juggling school and produc-ing, how he tackles being one of the youngest 
producers out there, progressive house and 
music in general. Find our full Q&A below:
Q: Did you think when you dropped out 
last year that you would’ve come this far in a year’s time?
Christian: I really don’t know. I have this 
thing that I say that has kind of caught on, sort of like just a life motto for me. It’s that you hope for all of it, but you expect none 
of it. I didn’t really expect anything. I just 
knew where my heart was and also where my heart wasn’t… and when opportunity comes knocking, you kind of just have to jump on it no matter where you are, what the situation is. And that’s exactly what happened for me. I just had a lot of stuff that I had built up over time that was ready for me to launch into, and 
I just had to take that leap of faith into the 
music world and just say goodbye to school 
and track.
Q: What advice would you have for some-
one who is contemplating taking that leap of 
faith?C: I feel like a lot of musicians would say, 
“go for it, follow your dreams.” And I think that’s what you should do, and I think that 
holds true to a certain extent, but I think 
there’s also a lot to be said for ﬁ  nding a nice balance in your life for as long as you possibly can.… I would deﬁ  nitely advocate to try to ﬁ  nd it within yourself to work that balancing act and try to do as much as you can and give it all as much as you can at the same time, until you really physically don’t have enough time in your day to feel healthy and do what 
you love. 
Q: You just turned 21, happy late birth-
day! You join a few other rising producers 
that are by far the youngest in the game. How do you feel like your youth has helped you bring a fresh twist to the genre?
C: I think people associate being young 
with being fresh and new to the game and 
having a lot of potential, but I don’t think 
that’s always the case. I think that anybody can have potential, it’s just about how hard you work at it and how much you want to do it, and I guess, to a degree, how talented you are, but mainly just how much you want it.… 
I don’t want to say it’s more of a downfall, 
but it’s also just difﬁ  cult because I’m young. We’re young, whoever else you’re thinking of that’s a younger producer. We are young in age. We don’t know much about life yet, let alone music, let alone dance music, let alone anything. We’re just young all around. So there’s just still so much for us to learn, but that’s also kind of a blessing because there’s 
so much for us to learn, you know, there’s so 
much room for improvement.
Q: In the few years you’ve been making 
music, it’s obvious you can experiment in a lot of different genres and do each one justice. Do you have one that’s your favorite?
C: I don’t know. That’s actually kind of my 
problem is that I really like all the subgenres 
of dance music, and I like to make all the 
subgenres of dance music. I don’t think that there’s too many people doing that. I think a lot of the industry celebrates having a niche, 
and that’s just one thing I can’t really ﬁ  nd my-
self doing is ﬁ  nding one particular sound and 
just staying there and going straight with it 
because my musical taste is way too diverse 
for that. I like way too many different things, 
and I enjoy making way too many different things.
Q: Especially with Miami Music Week and 
Swedish House Maﬁ  a’s reunion, I noticed you shared a little bit about progressive house 
coming back on social media. Do you think 
you’ll make anything of that genre in the com-
ing months? 
C: I would want to ﬁ  nd a way to work 
on that and make it a little bit more modern-
ized.…  In its prime in 2011, 2012, 2013, that 
era, that’s when I got into dance music my-
self, and I wouldn’t want to do just a copy 
and paste of that. I’d want to ﬁ  nd a way to 
take that and bring something new to the ta-
ble. We’ll ﬁ  nd out. 
Q: What can you tell me about your Marsh-
mello collaboration?
C: I’m not really allowed to say much right 
now except for the fact that it exists. I can 
also tell you we’re working hard on it, and 
it will be really good, and we’re both paying 
due diligence in making sure that it will be the 
best possible product that will come from us 
both working on a song together.
Q: In 2018 you’re on EDC Las Vegas’  and 
Sunset Music Festival’s lineups, and you’ve 
got a residency with Hakkasan. How does it 
feel to be back at a college playing for a bunch of college kids?
C: It’s cool! I’m not discriminatory be-
tween the shows. They’re all fun and beauti-ful in their own way. Vegas is totally different from an EDC festival… They have their own way of being really fun and intriguing and also challenging. I like to step up to that chal-
lenge and put on a good show for whatever 
situation I’m in. I like them all the same.
Q: What’s coming next for you?
C: I’m just working my ass off. I just 
wrapped up my Outcast tour… Now I’m spending a lot more time back at home just trying to put as many hours in the studio as I can and just trying to grind out some music 
and get my stuff prepared to take on the rest 
of the year.Q&A: Crankdat talks music, collaborations at Gainesville show
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
At just 21 years old, Crankdat has taken the electronic industry by storm 
since his music began taking off in 2015.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
By T aylor McLamb 
Avenue Writer
There are two types of seniors 
at UF, and you’re either one or 
the other.
There’s the senior who has 
made an effort to let every single person in Gainesville know, not excluding Albert and Alberta, 
who are, in fact, large reptiles, 
the exact date and time of which 
they are graduating. This senior 
has taken their graduation photos 
months in advance, already has a job lined up, and while you want to secretly hate their success, you have to admire their hustle.
Then there is the other se-
nior — the one who is so deeply in denial they can’t even say the word “graduation” without rush-
ing to get a peach milkshake from 
Sweetberries just to momentarily ignore their responsibilities — just me? OK, moving on. This se-nior is just now tearfully coming 
to the realization that they have 
to say goodbye to Gainesville in a few short weeks, and that can be a very hard thing to go through, 
especially with ﬁ  nals. Thankfully, 
I’ve come up with a few out-of-the-box things to see and do that would be perfect for any graduat-ing senior – no matter what type 
you are. 
Devil’s Den Spring
Just a quick 30-minute drive 
out of Gainesville is a gorgeous 
natural underground spring that will make you feel like you’ve just entered the universe of Ju-
rassic Park (without the violent 
dinosaurs of course). While you visit one of North America’s 
most prehistoric sites and swim 
through its crystal clear waters, set at a comfortable 72 degrees year-round, you can enjoy the scenery, which includes animal 
fossils dating back to the Pleisto-
cene Age. 
Don’t be intimidated by the 
name. The website states that 
early settlers coined the name 
“Devil’s Den” due to the steam-like smoke you can see pouring from the cave’s opening on cold, winter mornings. Access to the 
spring is limited to those who are 
planning to snorkel and scuba dive, but there is also a heated swimming pool for those who 
just want to relax. More info at devilsden.com. 
Florida Fun Bikes
 Who would have guessed 
combining alcohol with exercise 
would be a good idea? Well, it turns out this innovative cre-ation is completely genius. I 
mean, when you’re drunk, you 
don’t even realize you’re break-ing a sweat. The masterminds behind this idea, Derrick Robin-
son and his ﬁ  ancée, Amber, are 
Gainesville residents, so while you’re biking through town, you’re supporting a local busi-ness. The bike is a multi-passen-
ger vehicle completely powered 
by your feet on the pedals, which means you’re also helping the en-vironment by being green. 
No need to worry about grab-
bing an Uber while you’re pub-crawling through Gainesville because you’ve got your rad 16-person bike, employed with 
a sober driver to make sure you 
don’t get into any trouble. Who would have thought getting tipsy off of some of Gainesville’s best 
bars located in downtown and Midtown would be so environ-
mentally conscious, safe and re-sponsible? More info at ﬂ  orida-funbikes.com.
University of Florida Bat 
Houses
No student can leave 
Gainesville without checking out the Bat Houses. While it 
may seem unusual, it would be 
senseless not to take advantage of living so close to the world’s largest occupied bat houses and 
being able to see these animals 
so close. If anything, this would be a great conversation starter at grad school or a quirky ﬁ  rst date. This is also the perfect time to see 
them, as the Florida Museum of 
Natural History’s website states, during spring through early sum-mer when days are increasing in 
length.
Paynes Prairie
When walking to and from 
class, constantly surrounded by 
the chaotic blaring of construc-
tion as more buildings are con-
stantly being repaired or added to, it becomes evident that the best parts of Gainesville are the 
ones untouched by humanity. 
This U.S. National Landmark en-compasses a 21,000-acre savan-nah, so it’s deﬁ  nitely not small, and thus, the activities you can 
do are endless. 
The park has eight trails where 
you can either hike, horseback 
ride, bike or stroll. You can spend 
the night at one of the campsites, 
go ﬁ  shing at Lake Wauberg or if you like it so much – you can even get married here! 
It’s sometimes just relaxing 
to take a break from our heavily structured lives and spend a day encompassed by nature. Paynes Prairie is the perfect destination 
to do just this.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
The next three days are jam-packed with 
unique local events. From markets to music to 
food and beer, Gainesville has something for 
everyone.
Apart from our other coverage in this issue, 
below are our picks for things to do in town this weekend.
Midnight Tyrannosaurus at Simon’s
On Thursday from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Flori-
da-based bass music producer Midnight Tyran-nosaurus will be performing at Simon’s. The 
show is presented by Lucid Nightlife and is 
open to those 18 and older. Tickets are avail-able at eventbrite.com for $8 to $20 before fees.
Grandpa’s Cough Medicine Free Show
Jacksonville bluegrass quartet Grandpa’s 
Cough Medicine will perform a free show at 
First Magnitude Brewing Company on Friday 
from 7:30 to 11 p.m. The group will bring an upbeat and self-dubbed “outlaw attitude” to 
create a dynamic night over your favorite lo-
cal brew.
Visionary Arts & Vintage Market
Hosted by Visionary CrossFit and Carrie Martinez Art, Visionary Arts and Vintage Mar-
ket will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sat-
urday around Main Street and Eighth Avenue. The market will host a wide array of vendors 
including artists, makers, creatives and heal-
ers. Parking for the market can be found on Northwest First Street.
The Hails, Flipturn, King Complex and 
Yardij at High Dive
Saturday night local bands Flipturn and The 
Hails join forces with St. Pete’s indie electronic duo King Complex and South Florida’s alter-native rock band Yardij for a night of top-tier 
regional music at High Dive. Doors open at 8, 
and the show will begin at 8:30. Tickets are $5 in advance and $10 at the door. Find tickets at 
highdivegainesville.com.
10 Years of Gainesville Beers at Swamp 
Head Brewery
As one of the founding members of Gaines-
ville’s breweries, Swamp Head Brewery will 
thank the Gainesville community for 10 years 
of business with a special free event Saturday 
from 1 to 11 p.m. The event will feature live music, food trucks, special event merchandise, 
giveaways and even a dunk tank ﬁ  lled to the 
brim with beer.Avenue’s (small) bucket list for all graduating seniors  
The best events to attend this weekend in Gainesville
Courtesy to The Alligator
Florida-based dubstep producer Midnight Tyrannosaurus is one of various 
musicians bringing his talent to Gainesville this weekend. Photo by Hannah Morse
Attendees at Paynes Prairie’s stargazing event check out the night sky a few years ago in January 2015.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.com1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83704-6-18-12-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800    4-13-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. MEASUREMENTS: How much 
is a dram in U.S. measurements?
2. ASTRONOMY: What kind of star 
is our sun?
3. LITERATURE: What children’s 
book features the characters Tigger, 
Eeyore and Piglet?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island nation of Cape Verde located?
5. MATH: What is M divided by L in 
Roman numerals?
6. MOVIES: Who was the lead 
actor in the 1968 movie “Planet of the Apes”?
7. TELEVISION: What 1960s 
show featured POWs by the name of Newkirk, LeBeau and Kinchloe?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What is the 
call sign of the helicopter that carries 
the president?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the name of Bangkok in native 
Thailand?
10. RELIGION: How many candles 
does a Hanukkah menorah have?
Answers
1. One-eighth fluid ounce2. Yellow dwarf3. “Winnie-the-Pooh”4. Off the western coast of north 
Africa
5. XX (1,000 divided by 50)
6. Charlton Heston
7. “Hogan’s Heroes”8. Marine One9. Krungthep10. Nine
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 2, 2018King Features Weekly Service
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Whirlpool brand
6 “M*A*S*H” actor
Jamie
10 Italian smoker
14 Saint Kitts
neighbor
15 Drink with a polar
bear mascot
16 Overflow (with)
17 Civil rights org.18 Alum
19 End of a Basque
ball game?
20 She walked into
Rick’s gin joint
21 Tournament that
awards a green
jacket
23 Springsteen’s __
Band
25 Speech therapy
subject
26 Museum
collection
27 Show of
strength?
29 Montreal
Canadien, to
hockey fans
32 Wolfgang Puck
restaurant chain
35 Litigant
36 Golfer’s target
37 Home of 
21-Across
40 Real estate
measure
41 Quizzes
42 Colgate rival43 “Full Frontal” host
Samantha
44 Website with a
“Craft Supplies &Tools” section
45 Fenway team:
Abbr.
46 Totally at sea48 Actress Redgrave52 Exciting section
of 37-Across,familiarly ... and aconfigurationfound in four aptplaces in thispuzzle
56 Rating unit
57 Tennis score58 Granola grain59 Skinny South
Americancountry
60 Swimming event61 Formerly,
formerly
62 Songwriter
Leonard63 __ Domini
64 Ball belles
65 2014 film set in
Alabama
DOWN
1 Miss Hannigan’s
charge
2 Board, in “room
and board”
3 Sailor’s “Halt!”
4 Central American
nation
5 Egyptian viper6 Argue7 Farm field unit8 Paper order9 Emergency
status
10 Les __-Unis11 Whispering party
game
12 Warm, in a game13 French friends21 Asian New Year22 Joe Torre’s
retired Yankeeuniform number
24 God with a bow27 Musty-smelling28 Grazing grounds30 “What a shame!”31 Karate skill
award
32 Swedish auto33 Unadulterated34 Anna Paquin won
her Oscar for
“The Piano” at it
35 Insolence36 Good luck
symbol
38 Drew on?
39 Tapped symbol
44 PC bailout key
45 “Cheers” setting
47 “You’re __ talk!”
48 Three-piece
pieces49 Chain saw brand50 Western state
capital
51 Toronto’s Rogers
Centre, for one
52 __ mater53 Faucet brand54 Few and far
between
55 Accident
investigation
agcy.
59 Dosage amts.
By David Poole©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/04/1804/04/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 4, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Sound from
Rover
4 Quite anxious
11 Canada’s most
populous prov.
14 Corporate VIP
15 Pudding choice
16 Canada’s least
populous prov.
17 Mess up18 *Sci-fi energy ray
that grabs ships
20 Set of guidelines,
as for gradingpapers
22 Big stretch of
time
23 Pay to play24 Tattle25 Cheer on27 __ Moines
28 Hailed car
30 Sign before
Virgo
31 “Then what
happened?”
33 Sang 29-Down
35 Tattle
38 “Joltin’” DiMaggio
39 Puts in new film40 “Dawg!”41 Columnist
Landers
42 Sees right
through
43 Salt Lake City
athlete
44 Family cat, e.g.46 In medias __47 “Big Brother”
channel
49 Soda can feature52 Yacht spot55 Word of lament
for “poor Yorick”
56 __-pitch softball58 The “U” in
“MVEMJSUN”
59 Small, influential
group ... and ahint to the wordhidden in eachanswer to astarred clue
62 Suffix with ranch63 “Norma __”: Sally
Field film
64 Witty remarks65 ID on a W-9 form66 Concorde, e.g.,
briefly
67 Martyred bishop
of Paris
68 “Ha! Told ya!”DOWN
1 Taiwanese
laptops
2 Syndicated
sitcom, say
3 *Sci-fi classic
featuring Robby
the Robot
4 Top stories
5 Durable wood6 Mental health org.7 Beans go-with8 *Vessels pulling
water-skiers
9 Budget, in
product names
10 Patriotic women’s
org.
11 *Sign outside a
new store
12 “That’s
awesome!”
13 Sometimes 
egg-shapedkitchen gadget
19 Diminish21 Numbered rd.
26 Auto pioneer
28 *Unable to tell red
from green, say
29 Without company31 “How to Get Away
With Murder”actress __ 
Naomi King32 “Smoking or __?”
33 French “his”
34 Tokyo, once
36 Word after op or
pop
37 Foot part
39 “Hud” director
Martin
45 Ultimatum word
47 Tender touch
48 Sports __
49 Socks from the
dryer, hopefully50 Radii 
neighbors
51 Fancy 
neckwear
52 Vitamin prefix
53 Rehab center
staffer
54 Synchronously57 “It’s her __”:
relationshipultimatum
60 NFL playmakers61 Cheat
By Evan Mahnken©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/03/1804/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 3, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  ____ bogey
1.  Green ____5.  Gold ____
2.  Baseball increments 6.  Alcove, recess
3.  Musical 7.  Refuge
4.  Self-____RLETPI
OATOTMEMNRI
CEHIN
IGNSNIN
YLLRCIASMAYUL
SEMTEEANSWERS: 1A-Triple  5A-Miner  6A-Niche  7A-Asylum
1D-Tomato  2D-Innings  3D-Lyrical  4D-Esteem  B-Minneapolis4-4-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The Mississippi River flows 
through this city. 
BONUS
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
Pitcher Kelly Barnhill  and the 
No. 4 Gators softball team will 
play against UCF tonight at 6 in Orlando.No. 8 Gators lacrosse team takes on T emple at home
Returning from injury Saturday against Connecticut, UF attacker Lindsey 
Ronbeck recorded 10 points on six goals and four assists. She'll lead the Florida lacrosse team's offense in today's matchup against T emple at noon at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
Dan Mullen takes delight in the details.
Flashy runs, one-handed touchdown grabs 
and booming tackles don’t do much in terms of exciting Florida’s first-year head coach who expects a consistent commitment to the fun-
damentals.
Friday’s scrimmage at Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium saw a number of highlight-worthy plays, 
but Mullen was far from impressed.
“It was very herky-jerky,” he said. “It 
wasn’t great football to me.”
Mullen said his team lacked consistency on 
both ends of the field.
Consecutive three-and-outs were interrupt-ed by moments of poor defensive execution, allowing for short-lived bursts of offensive production.
With a lot of attention surrounding the 
starting quarterback position, Friday’s scrim-mage was an early look at the development of the potential candidates.
While redshirt sophomores Feleipe Franks 
and Kyle Trask took the majority of snaps, freshman Emory Jones and redshirt freshman Jake Allen also saw some action. Mullen’s im-pression of the position group was lukewarm to say the least.
“They were OK,” Mullen said. “One of the 
things they have to do is… just learn how to act.”Mullen reflects on Friday's 
‘herky-jerky’ scrimmage
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16Our sports editor, 
Dylan Dixon, has spent the past week 
trying to convince 
me of the most ludi-
crous, most asinine thought he has ever had. He believes 
that Loyola-Chicago’s team 
chaplain, Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt, is not worth any of the coverage she received. 
“SiStEr JeAn Is So AnNoYiNg,” he said. 
May the good Sister bless your cold 
heart, my angry sir. We need to keep 
Nicolas Cage away from her, because Sis-ter Jean is a national treasure. 
Dixon and people like him came out 
of the woodwork leading up to the Final Four matchup between Loyola-Chicago and Michigan when she held a press conference on Friday. The room she occupied was 
flooded with reporters and 
photographers all clamoring for a sight and a soundbite from blessed Jean. 
Was she offering valuable 
insight or analysis that was in any way relevant to the 
state of college basketball in general or to Loyola specifically?
If the good Sister will excuse my lan-
guage: Hell no.
What she did offer was one more 
chance for the nation to get acquainted 
with her before she fell off the map once 
Loyola crashed and burned. We should Quit complaining about Sister JeanMorgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan McMullen
Twitter: @MorganMcMuffin
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After sweeping No. 8 Vanderbilt at 
home on Sunday, the No. 1 Gators (26-
5, 7-2 SEC) stayed at McKethan Stadium to face off against Florida Gulf Coast on Tuesday. Florida — coming off a 26-run outburst against the Commodores over the three-game series — continued its dominant ways en route to an 8-4 win over the Eagles (22-6). 
The Gators’ offense churned out an-
other productive evening at the plate, even if it wasn’t from its more well-known sources.
Freshman catcher Brady Smith paced 
the team with three singles in four plate 
appearances and scored twice. Center 
fielder Nick Horvath, who made a leap-ing, home-run-robbing catch in the top of the sixth over the left-center field 
wall, crushed a three-run dinger in the 
bottom of the frame to put the game out 
of reach.
Along with its offense, Florida’s 
pitching remained efficient. Freshman 
right-hander Tommy Mace got the start-
ing nod for the Gators. He gave up one 
earned run and struck out four bat-ters before relinquishing control of the mound to lefty Andrew Baker in the fifth inning. Baker allowed just one hit and struck out three in three innings.
After right-hander Hunter McMullen 
disappointed in his 0.1 innings of work — allowing a pair of runs off three hits — junior Michael Byrne came on in the eighth to close the door on FGCU’s of-fense, recording a clean sheet in 1.2 in-nings. 
With the win over FGCU, Florida 
finished out the past week undefeated. Here is a look at the players who have over- and underperformed in that time frame.
OVER
Jonathan India, 3B: It’s almost too 
predictable by now. India doubled down 
the left-field line in the bottom of the third inning Tuesday night to stretch his hitting streak to 16 games. He’s now more than halfway to breaking the UF all-time record for longest hitting streak currently held by former Gators infielder Tim Olson at 29 games. Over the team’s last four matchups, he has batted .429 with a pair of homers. 
Brady Singer, RHP: Singer domi-
nated from the mound on Friday, earn-ing his sixth win of the year. The junior right-hander threw hard for seven in-nings, tossing over 100 pitches for his third consecutive start. He struck out all three batters in the second inning, just a taste of what was to come in his 11-strikeout performance. In addition to mowing down batters left and right, Singer allowed just two hits in his start. Though he appeared in just one game during the week, his performance set the tone for the Vanderbilt series as a whole.Florida rolls past FGCU behind unlikely contributors
Alligator File Photo
Florida closer Michael Byrne entered UF's 8-4 win against Florida Gulf Coast on Tuesday in the bottom of the eighth inning to finish out the game.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
It’s a quiet morning in the summer of 
2016 as Kelly Barnhill walks the streets of 
Takasaki, Japan.
The black asphalt steams in the distance 
as water spouting out of sprinklers is slowly 
vaporized by the blazing sun.
Red and gold lanterns hang over the 
walkway, exchanging paths between black 
electric power lines.
There’s not a trash can in sight, yet the 
streets are spotless of debris.
Kelly walks in and out of shops that line 
the street by herself. It’s a way for her to 
pass the time before she has to go to softball 
practice for Team USA.
She strolls past a convenience store sell-
ing everything from basic food items to 
household goods. Sights of dumplings and Onigiri rice balls line the streets with differ-
ent restaurants’ menus.
Having visited Japan once before, Kelly 
has a checklist of things she’s look-
ing forward to seeing in her 
second trip to the country. 
She smiles when she 
sees a local man 
walking his tortoise up and down the streets and gets 
excited when she ﬁ  nds two of her favorite Japanese candies — Poki and Hello Panda. 
But then she locates what she has been 
looking for.
From the outside, it looks like a fabric 
shop, but Kelly knows it’s much more than that after spending years studying the coun-
try’s culture.
It’s a store that sells Japanese dress wear, 
speciﬁ  cally kimonos and other accent pieces 
that go along with the traditional style com-monly worn by Japanese women.
She walks inside and strolls around the 
shop, immediately noticing the hues of yel-
low, green, red and blue that add life to the 
dull-colored walls and thin wooden shelves. 
Headless mannequins are fully dressed in 
multi-hundred-dollar kimonos.
She tries on a bluish gray yukata, an in-
formal kimono worn during the summer and 
spring that’s normally made out of cotton 
instead of silk. 
It’s accented with eggplant-colored ﬂ  ow-
ers, but the hues are too dark for Kelly.
A purple yukata then catches her eye. 
Thin lavender bows are printed across the 
fabric, weaving in front of and behind clus-ters of bright pink ﬂ  owers.
It’s the yukata that steals her heart and 
her attention for a culture she could love 
forever. The kind of love that makes you 
homesick for a place you’ve never lived in.
Possessing a love for traveling throughout 
her entire life, Kelly has been to places she 
will always remember thanks to her experi-ences with youth, college and international softball. But Japan is the place she loves the most.
She has traveled there with the 
United States women’s national softball team a total of four times and will be back 
again this summer for the WBSC Women’s 
World Championship.
The All-American pitcher for Florida has 
used her athletic talents to pursue her  pas-
sion, one that takes root and shares memo-
ries the same way her favorite sport does 
— exploring the world once place at a 
time.
Long before Kelly 
stepped foot on Japa-
nese soil for the ﬁ  rst time, she and her father, 
Jeter, frequently went on road trips 
across the United States.
Jeter would try to strike up conversation 
with his daughter, but the movement of the family’s BMW frequently caused her to doze off.
“If any vehicle moves, Kelly instantly 
falls asleep,” Jeter said with a chuckle.
Their trips were often low-key. Jeter 
didn’t enjoy listening to music as much as he 
did talking with Kelly. He scolded her when she pulled out a book — her favorite way to 
pass the time — saying she was missing the natural scenery around her.
Their expeditions were fun by nature, but 
they weren’t on a whim and there was al-ways a destination: national youth softball 
tournaments.
Driving was always the plan, 
rather than ﬂ  ying, because it gave 
them more time to spend togeth-
er. Jeter also wanted Kelly to see 
the United States.
“I didn’t want Kelly to miss out 
on that,” he said.
Jeter would Google search their 
routes ahead of time, look at the places 
they were directed to pass through and plan 
pit stops accordingly.
Together, they saw the rugged-layered 
mountains of the Badlands in South Dakota, the World’s Only Corn Palace just off In-terstate-90 in South Dakota, the ﬁ  rst Jell-O Factory in New York, the slate-white cobble-stones on the front of the Alamo in Texas and even the eruption of Old Faithful in Yel-lowstone National Park.
But surprisingly, their favorite place they 
ever visited was the SPAM Museum — an 
exhibit focused on the production of canned, 
precooked meat products — in Austin, Min-nesota.
What could have easily been a 10-minute 
visit and something that crossed off their 
been-there-done-that list turned into 
a four-hour excursion.
The museum was full of inter-
esting displays, including a bright yellow wall lined with pictures of 
SPAM cans that could measure a 
person’s height.
They’re not sure why they en-
joyed the quirky little museum, but Jeter recalled a possible link as to why it became one of the highlights of their trip.
As a child, Kelly loved going to the re-
naissance fair in her hometown of Marietta, Georgia. She and her family would eat fried turkey legs and macaroni on a stick, as well 
as check out paintings produced by traveling 
artists.But the thing that excited them the most 
was a juggling act.
Every year, a performer would juggle 
three things — a handheld chainsaw, a ma-
chete and, of course, a can of SPAM.
“It was fun being there with her just en-
joying it,” Jeter said.
The sentimental backstory behind Kelly’s 
affection for the SPAM Museum helps illus-
trate what she values in the landmarks she visits. She doesn’t care about the speciﬁ  c features of the attractions themselves, but rather the deeper meaning behind them.
And she still has numerous places she 
hasn’t gotten to see.
Kelly’s bucket list starts with traveling to 
Germany. Jeter was stationed there for ﬁ  ve years while he served in the Army. His inter-est in Germany’s culture sparked her own. 
Her fascination with the country expands 
beyond sightseeing its castles and other pop-ular stops. She wants to experience its lan-guage and history, evident in places like the Berlin Wall Memorial.
However, Kelly said one of the hardest 
things about traveling is ﬁ  nding a way to get there. Things like money, time and method of transportation can get in the way, but soft-ball has given her that opportunity.
The ﬁ  rst time Kelly went to Japan was 
in June 2016 with Team USA for the Japan All-Star Series, a three-game series that takes place in three different venues.
About 31,400 fans packed the Tokyo 
Dome, home to the Yomiuri Giants — a pro-fessional baseball team in Japan — on the night of the ﬁ  rst game. It was the ﬁ  rst soft-ball game held in the Tokyo Dome, ever.
Read the rest of this story online at alliga-
tor.org/sports.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgBarnhill pursues gems beyond the softball diamond
Onigiri rice balls line the streets with differ-
ent restaurants’ menus.
Having visited Japan once before, Kelly 
has a checklist of things she’s look-
ing forward to seeing in her 
second trip to the country. 
She smiles when she 
sees a local man 
walking his 
spring that’s normally made out of cotton 
instead of silk. 
It’s accented with eggplant-colored ﬂ  ow-
ers, but the hues are too dark for Kelly.
A purple yukata then catches her eye. 
Thin lavender bows are printed across the 
fabric, weaving in front of and behind clus-
ters of bright pink ﬂ  owers.
It’s the yukata that steals her heart and 
her attention for a culture she could love 
forever. The kind of love that makes you 
homesick for a place you’ve never lived in.
Possessing a love for traveling throughout 
her entire life, Kelly has been to places she 
will always remember thanks to her experi-
ences with youth, college and international 
softball. But Japan is the place she loves the 
most.
She has traveled there with the 
United States women’s national softball 
team a total of four times and will be back 
again this summer for the WBSC Women’s 
World Championship.
The All-American pitcher for Florida has 
used her athletic talents to pursue her  pas-
sion, one that takes root and shares memo-
ries the same way her favorite sport does 
— exploring the world once place at a 
time.
Long before Kelly 
stepped foot on Japa-
nese soil for the 
ﬁ  rst time, she and her father, 
Jeter, frequently went on road trips 
across the United States.
Jeter would try to strike up conversation 
with his daughter, but the movement of the 
family’s BMW frequently caused her to doze 
off.
“If any vehicle moves, Kelly instantly 
falls asleep,” Jeter said with a chuckle.
Their trips were often low-key. Jeter 
didn’t enjoy listening to music as much as he 
did talking with Kelly. He scolded her when 
she pulled out a book — her favorite way to 
pass the time — saying she was missing the 
natural scenery around her.
Their expeditions were fun by nature, but 
they weren’t on a whim and there was al-
ways a destination: national youth softball 
tournaments.
rather than ﬂ  ying, because it gave 
on that,” he said.
Jeter would Google search their 
routes ahead of time, look at the places 
they were directed to pass through and plan 
pit stops accordingly.
Together, they saw the rugged-layered 
mountains of the Badlands in South Dakota, 
the World’s Only Corn Palace just off In-
terstate-90 in South Dakota, the ﬁ  rst Jell-O 
Factory in New York, the slate-white cobble-
stones on the front of the Alamo in Texas 
and even the eruption of Old Faithful in Yel-
lowstone National Park.
But surprisingly, their favorite place they 
ever visited was the SPAM Museum — an 
exhibit focused on the production of canned, 
precooked meat products — in Austin, Min-
nesota.
What could have easily been a 10-minute 
visit and something that crossed off their 
been-there-done-that list turned into 
a four-hour excursion.
person’s height.
joyed the quirky little museum, but Jeter 
recalled a possible link as to why it became 
one of the highlights of their trip.
As a child, Kelly loved going to the re-
naissance fair in her hometown of Marietta, 
Georgia. She and her family would eat fried 
turkey legs and macaroni on a stick, as well 
as check out paintings produced by traveling 
artists.
Courtesy of Kelly Barnhill
Florida softball player Kelly Barnhill has developed a passion for Japanese culture, 
traveling to the country four times over the past two years on trips with T eam USA.
•   •   •
•   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2018
Franks, who started eight of last sea-
son’s 11 games, threw three interceptions 
and one touchdown, according to unofﬁ  -cial stats recorded by Gainesville Sun re-porter Robbie Andreu. He was outshined 
by Trask, who threw three touchdowns 
and one interception.
Mullen said both players need to avoid 
forcing passes and limit their focus to one snap at a time.
One underclassman who did make a 
strong impression on his coach was run-ning back Adarius Lemons, who at one point in the scrimmage broke free for an 
80-plus-yard touchdown run.
While Mullen acknowledged Lemons 
possesses game-changing explosiveness in 
the backﬁ  eld, he said he was more focused on what caused the defensive breakdown. He also said he wants Lemons to further develop as a contributor off the ball.
“We can maybe have a couple plays 
where we can put the ball in his hands,” 
Mullen said about the running back. “But 
to me, you’re never going to become suc-cessful until you learn how to be an every-down player.”
Despite his list of frustrations, Mullen 
did praise his team’s effort in the scrim-mage. The Gators have bought into the new system and shown an eagerness to improve since the beginning of spring 
practices. Mullen understands that at this 
point in the year, the players’ commitment to learning is most important.
“I think our guys play hard,” Mullen 
said. “If you go hard, we can teach you how to play football.”
 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Trask threw for three 
touchdowns and one interception
Alligator File Photo
Florida running back Adarius Lemons made a strong impression at Florida's ﬁ  rst scrimmage of 
the spring on Friday. At one point, he ran for an 80-plus-yard touchdown.
all be grateful that we even live 
in the same time period as this Earth-bound angel.
“BuT sHe ToOk AwAy At-
TeNtIoN fRoM dEsErViNg PlAyErS,” Dixon whined like a jealous toddler. 
Quick, name a college ath-
lete who actually enjoys talk-ing to the press. I’ll probably be waiting for an answer forever because there really aren’t any. If you’ve ever wondered why 
sports quotes are riddled with 
clichés more so than most oth-er quotes, well, that’d be why. 
Don’t take my word for 
it though. Loyola’s players 
said as much after the hype 
surrounding the good Sister reached peak interest. Redshirt junior guard Clayton Custer said he wanted the world to 
get to know her and hear her 
message. Freshman forward Cameron Krutwig approached the subject from a team per-spective.
“She’s become a huge celeb-
rity, and she’s a great part of this team,” Krutwig said. “A lot of people know our name now 
in college hoops, and her im-
pact has been as great as ours.”
Celebrity is definitely the 
right word for Sister Jean’s rise to stardom. I feel that when 
you get a Twitter shoutout 
from Obama, then yeah, you’ve made it into the lexicon of the average American. 
So complain all you’d like about how it isn’t fair to oth-er players. They’d rather not deal with the press in the first 
place. Protest ad nauseam that 
her words had no effect on the game whatsoever. Words rarely do.
If you’d really like to say that 
her analysis was lacking, well, I can’t really help you with that. I can only shake my head in disbelief that you would will-
ingly dismiss the adorableness 
of a sweet, wheelchair-bound old lady in favor of the expert ramblings of Charles Barkley. 
Morgan McMullen is the on-
line sports editor at The Alliga-
tor. Contact him at mmcmul-len@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14
UNDER
Tommy Mace, RHP: Though 
his performance last night was good 
enough to get himself the win, the freshman right-hander didn’t ex-actly stuff the stat sheet in the last week. He made three appearances for the Gators, pitching a combined 5.1 innings. He gave up nine hits and ﬁ  ve runs (four earned) in that span.Keenan Bell, 1B: Florida’s of-
fense as a whole has been on a tear lately, as evidenced by its 26-run weekend. In the case of Bell, even his lagging numbers aren’t bad in hindsight. The sophomore from Jacksonville went 3-for-13 from the plate with a pair of homers. He’ll look to bounce back after going 1-for-7 in his last two games when the Gators take on Tennessee in Knoxville for a three-game set start-ing this Friday. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Keenan Bell went 1-for-7 
in his last two games