We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018VOLUME 112 ISSUE 57
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barECELEBRATE 
MARDI GRAS  atWITH BEAT 
THE CLOCK!
Starting at 7 pm
$1 Abita Purple Haze pints
$1 Hurricanes on tap
$1 Hand Grenades Shots
prices goes up $1 every hour$4 Beignets and $4 Crawfish Po’ Boys All Day
DJ starts at 7 pm  •  No cover for the 1st 200 guests (21 & up)1728 West University Avenue THIS TUESDAYBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Challenge Party presidential can-
didate Janae Moodie falsely denied 
serving on a 2016 Senate committee focused on online voting during a de-bate Sunday. 
At the first Student Government 
presidential debate hosted by the Black Student Union, Inspire Party presiden-tial candidate Revel Lubin said Moodie and Impact Party presidential candi-date Ian Green served on the Online Voting Ad-Hoc Committee in 2016. The committee was responsible for drafting codes for online voting. Moodie denied 
this in the heat of the moment, but lat-
er said she forgot she had a role. 
Moodie said when she was with Im-
pact Party, she supported online voting but was pressured to behave in a way the party wanted.
“I do remember being committed to 
online voting in the past,” she admit-ted after the debate in an interview. “It 
was a lapse in memory of the heat of 
the moment.” Although Green shook his head at 
the debate after Lubin’s comment, he also served as a member of the com-mittee. In an interview after the event, he said he shook his head in disagree-
ment with Moodie stating she was not 
on the committee herself.
“I’ve never denied being on that 
committee,” Green said. “I’ve never denied that and I’m not denying it now.”
Online voting was one of nearly a 
dozen issues debated at the histori-cal debate in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom, which about 250 students 
attended. This is the first time in UF history there are three black students running for Student Body president. 
At the debate, candidates intro-
duced their party’s platforms. After introductions, BSU president Dwayne Fletcher asked eight moderated ques-tions on topics like retention of black 
students and staff, the SG budget, on-
line voting, Richard Spencer and the Student Body president’s role on the UF Board of Trustees. 
Green said the debate allowed for 
students to have a safe space to voice Student Body presidential candidates partake in debate
Courtesy to The Alligator
Christian Aguilar, Carlos Aguilar, Alex Aguilar and Claudia Aguilar 
pose for a photo on Alex’s 15th birthday. Christina Morales / Alligator Staff
Student Body President candidates Ian Green, Janae Moodie and Revel Lubin answer audience questions at the Black Student Union debate Sunday in the Reitz Union Ballroom. 
A candidate falsely denied serving on a committee
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
AAlex Aguilar still remembers 
how his older brother Christian’s 
eyes gleamed when he first toured 
UF in April 2012.
It was the first glimpse of his 
home for the next four years.
“It was like a kid in a candy 
shop,” Alex said. “He was com-
pletely entranced with this place.”
Despite their two-and-a-half 
year age gap, they started plan-ning their future at UF. A circle 
of friends, hobbies, long car rides. 
The college experience, together.
But that tour was the first and 
last day the brothers had at UF.
Christian’s time at UF was cut 
short when he went missing Fall semester of his freshman year on Sept. 20, 2012, according to Al-
ligator archives. The 18-year-old 
UF biomedical engineering stu-dent’s disappearance launched a nearly monthlong search, which ended when hunters in Levy 
County discovered Christian’s re-
mains, according to Alligator ar-chives. 
Almost two years after Chris-
tian’s disappearance, his friend, Pedro Bravo, was found guilty of the first-degree murder of Christian and sentenced to life 
in prison, according to Alligator 
archives. The state believed the murder was driven by Bravo’s jealousy of Christian, who had be-gun dating Bravo’s ex-girlfriend.Alex said after a week of 
searching, his hope to find Chris-
tian alive had faded, but it didn’t 
make the news that his brother’s remains had been discovered any less devastating.
“It was very emotional,” Alex 
said.
Six years after his brother’s 
murder, Alex, a 21-year-old UF animal science senior, will find 
himself reaching a milestone 
in May he had always pictured Christian achieving first: walk-ing across the stage at UF’s com-
mencement.
Growing up, Alex saw Chris-
tian as a template to follow, he 
said. Watching his older brother ‘I want to finish out what he started’: 
UF student carries on brother’s legacy
SEE DEBATE,  PAGE 4
SEE STUDENT,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
HIGH  79° LOW  64°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Speed dating
The Florida Council for 
Incarcerated Women and Girls in partnership with the River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding 
and the Alachua County Reentry 
Coalition will host a speed dat-ing event at 7 p.m. Tuesday at Leonardo’s 706. There is no cost to stop by, but to participate it’s $10 at the door or $5 during pre-sale. For more information, call or text 352-246-4123.Free lunch, talk about God
Ravi Zacharias International Ministries is visiting UF today until Feb. 16. They’ll host free lunches at the Reitz Union at 
11:45 a.m. and 12:45 p.m., en-
gaging students in topics regard-ing spirituality and God. Talks, given by RZIM team members, address questions such as “Is God sexist?” and “Who is Jesus?” For more information, visit facebook.com/.HungryUF/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 57
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m. Applicants must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
HE WAS ARRESTED ON 
A FELONY CHARGE.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A man ended an argument 
in downtown Gainesville by 
showing a fake badge and say-
ing he was an undercover dep-uty Friday night, Gainesville Police said.
Michael Allen Underwood, 
45, was ar-guing with a 
man about his 
panhandling 
on the cor-ner of South-east Second 
Avenue and 
Southeast  
First Street when he showed the man a badge and said he was an Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputy, according 
to an arrest report. When the man questioned Underwood, he threatened to have him ar-
rested.Underwood raised his hand, 
like he would punch the other 
man, police said.
Responding police ofﬁ  cers 
asked Underwood for the badge 
he ﬂ  ashed, and he showed 
them a black bi-fold wallet with 
two badges inside, according to the report. One star-shaped badge read “Sheriff’s Jr. Deputy League Hillsborough County,” 
and the other shield-shaped 
badge said “City Police.”
Underwood told police he 
showed the other man a badge, told him he was a detective and he could have him arrested and then raised his hand back but 
stopped, according to the re-
port. He denied being a real po-lice ofﬁ  cer when police asked.
Underwood was arrested on 
a felony charge of impersonat-
ing a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer 
and was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $5,000 bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgGPD: Gainesville man 
shows fake badge, 
impersonates police
Underwood
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be ﬁ  lled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m. Applicants must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Brent Smith imagined Wyatt’s 
Coffee as a place for coffee experts 
and amateurs to feel welcomed.
“Picture Central Perk from 
‘Friends,’” Smith said.
The cafe was once located in 
Midtown, but due to parking limi-tations, they decided to relocate downtown, Smith, the retail op-erations director for Hyppo LLC, which owns Wyatt’s, wrote in an email. After 16 weeks of construc-
tion, it held its soft opening Friday 
at 202 SE Second Ave.
Wyatt’s will continue training 
its staff in preparation for its grand opening scheduled Feb. 23, Smith said. While most of the grand opening details are still to be an-nounced, free coffee will be given to those who follow or like the cafe 
on social media.
The cafe will also introduce a 
new line of espresso drinks and 
plans to serve alcoholic drinks in 
the future, Smith said.
Smith said Wyatt’s will serve its 
regular drip-brew coffee, tea and 
their Japanese-method cold-brew 
coffee, which is coffee brewed with hot water then immediately 
chilled in an ice-bath via copper tubing.
Sarah Yoder went to Wyatt’s 
for the second time Sunday and 
sipped on a cold-brew coffee. The 
21-year-old UF nursing senior said 
she works at Pascal’s Coffeehouse, but the two cafes have different ﬂ  avors of drinks. Pascal’s tends to be sweeter and lighter, she said.
“The coffee here is a lot bolder,” 
she said. “It’s for a deeper palette.”Wyatt’s Coﬀ  ee opens downtown
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator
Emily Hart, a 20-year-old UF psychology student, scoops fresh coffee 
grounds from a bag on Sunday afternoon at Wyatt’s Coffee’s new downtown location at 202 SE Second Ave.
Here’s 
what it oﬀ  ers.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
The Student Government Supreme Court 
ruled unanimously that a student code that 
allows students to pass legislation through initiatives is unconstitutional.
In a hearing Thursday night, 19-year-old 
UF political science sophomore Zachary Am-rose appeared before the five-person court to discuss an initiative he hoped would be on the ballot in the next election cycle, which is scheduled for Feb. 20 and 21. Amrose intended to reduce the required amount of signatures required in petitions requesting to place an initiative on the ballot from 1,200 to 500. 
Signatures from two percent of the Stu-
dent Body population are needed to put an initiative that would amend student code. 
“It would’ve allowed students to be in-
volved with their own Student Government 
in an easier way,” he said. 
Justice Chris Boyett said Amrose was at-
tempting to change student law by bypassing 
the student senate.
Boyett said students hold the fundamen-
tal right to seek policy changes. However, they must do it through amendments to the constitution only, and not through petitioned initiatives. 
“It seems like this act is basically trying 
to hijack the legislative authority of the sen-ate,” Boyett said.
The other justices said students may peti-
tion for initiatives to be on ballots in elec-tions, but petitions can’t themselves call for 
changes to law. Justices have yet to release 
the written opinion of the court.
“There’s just a lot of ambiguity as to what 
the word ‘initiative’ means in the constitu-tion,” Justice Carter Wallace said.
Amrose said he thinks students have a 
fundamental right, listed in the constitution, to seek law changes through initiatives. Amrose cited policy codes within the Stu-
dent Government Initiative and Referendum Act about how students may generate initia-tives, which appear as yes or no questions on ballots during elections. The initiative can then become law after receiving a majority of the student vote.
He said this decision could impact other 
student-led initiatives, such as online voting.
“This is an outrage, it is a power grab,” 
he said. “This should be protested, and this is not the end.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgUF Supreme Court vetoes initiative, declares it unconstitutional
excel in school, live selflessly and become 
independent became a roadmap for how Alex wanted to live his life.
“It’s kind of a mix of ‘I want to do this 
for myself,’ but in a way, I’m always moti-vated by him, and I want to finish out what he started,” he said.
Although Christian fell in love with UF 
the minute he set foot on campus, Alex didn’t always have his heart set on attend-ing the university. He thinks the academics and overall appeal of the UF atmosphere 
prompted him to choose it in the end, but 
he knows part of it was the desire to carry on Christian’s legacy.
“If he were here, he’d definitely be say-
ing that he was the reason I came here,” he said.
Despite different personalities, the 
brothers were bonded together by their education, said their father Carlos Aguilar. 
They both enrolled in challenging courses 
at Doral Academy Preparatory School to boost their GPA and excelled in their class-es.“Alexander was always competing, in a 
nice way, with Christian,” he said.
Their friendly competition and Chris-
tian’s position as a role model often pushed Alex to succeed, Carlos said.
“Christian was his model,” he said. 
“Christian was the person that he wanted to gain his respect and his admiration.”
Alyssa D’Bazo, 23, remembers the way 
Alex would stick around Christian in high school. D’Bazo, now a second-year student 
at the University of Miami School of Law, 
met Christian during their freshman year of high school. She remembers him as an introverted, funny and empathetic friend.
He would do anything for the people he 
cared about, D’Bazo said, including stay-ing on the phone with her at night, five hours at a time, she said.
“I admired that about him,” she said. “I 
always told him I was very impressed with how much he put up with me.”
Over the past few years, D’Bazo has 
seen some of Christian’s characteristics 
in Alex, like his sense of humor. She said 
Alex is one of the funniest people she’s ever met.
“You see these little glimpses, and it’s been really comforting,” she said.
 After using his brother as a guide for 
so many years, Alex said adjusting to life without him was difficult. He was lost for a while without the footsteps of his old-er brother to follow. He said he relies on 
memories of his brother to fulfill his legacy.
“If there was, like, anything that I 
learned from him, it’s that if you stay fo-
cused and just work hard on something it’s going to be pretty possible to achieve,” he 
said.
Enduring the tragedy of his brother’s 
death gave Alex a maturity that most of his 
peers don’t have, Carlos said. While he’s 
happy to see his son maturing, he some-
times wishes the circumstances were dif-ferent.
“He’s very mature, grown-up, he knows 
what he wants,” Carlos said. “Sometimes 
it’s good, but sometimes it’s sad for us that 
he didn’t enjoy a few things that he nor-mally would do with his brother.”
From football games to animal research 
opportunities, throughout his four years at UF, Alex wonders what his brother would do and has tried to experience everything his college has to offer.“(Christian) just wanted to see different 
things and experience different things on his own and that’s something I definitely took to heart,” he said.
Alex never let an experience slip 
through his fingers, said his friend Joseph Borrell. While at UF, Alex dove headfirst into animal research. When one opportu-nity ended, he simply began his search for another, Borrell said.
“He always put himself out there,” he 
said. “He’s really hard working.”
Alex is looking ahead to the next chap-
ter of his life after graduation. He wants to 
pursue a career in veterinary medicine and 
recently found out he has been accepted to veterinary school in London, England.
Carlos said he couldn’t be more proud of 
both Alex and Christian. He never doubted 
for a moment his sons would be successful 
and caring people. Alex’s upcoming gradu-ation from UF not only honors his broth-er’s memory but also makes a meaningful 
name for himself, Carlos said.
“God gave me two precious gifts,” he 
said. “We still miss Christian, but we know 
that Alexander is another precious gift that is just becoming more precious every time 
that he grows.”
           
   @jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgtheir concerns. 
“I think the biggest thing we 
differed on was being able to 
make tangible change and not just talk about the ‘what if,’” he said. 
“We all agree there needs to be a 
change, but I displayed how it’s go-ing to be done.” 
During the debate, Moodie said 
the best way to help with retention rates among black students is out-reach. She said UF’s black popu-lation, currently at 6 percent, has been “dwindling.” 
“We have to be strategic in the 
way that we’re reaching different corners of campus,” Moodie said. “Although we want the content to be rich, we actually need to be in-tentional.”
Green said it’s not just about 
outreach, it’s about education. 
“Every student knows that Stu-
dent Government elections are coming up, but it’s about educating them on the issues,” Green said.
Lubin said he’d like to focus on 
UF programs like the College Reach Out Program, which helps students from low-income areas in east Gainesville. 
“My big idea is bridging those 
gaps rather than separating us, al-though we have similar ideas and 
things we want to implement,” he 
said. “We need to raise awareness for these programs that already ex-ist.” 
Nyasha Joseph, a UF anthropol-
ogy senior, took notes in a blue binder on the biggest points of the debate to bring back to her friends. 
Joseph said she was focused on 
what candidate offered the most comprehensive platform. She was impressed with Moodie’s perfor-mance, she said. 
“I think the things I’ll kind of 
harp on would be who did I see passion within and at which points, who came up with the most tan-gible plan and who came in with original ideas that were important to the students,” the 21-year-old said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgThey discussed outreach
He will graduate six years after his brother diedDEBATE,  from pg 1
STUDENT,  from pg. 1Here are some statements The Alligator staff fact-checked during the 
debate. For the full list, visit alligator.org. 
Candidate Janae Moodie said: 
“I did not sit on that committee. ”
This is false. Janae admitted after the debate she did, in fact, sit on the committee 
in Spring 2016. She attributed the false claim to “a lapse in memory. ”
Candidate Ian Green said: 
“It’s been a while since the chair of Florida Student 
Association was from UF. ”
This is true. The most recent instance The Alligator could confirm was 2005, 
when SG President Joe Goldberg was the Florida Student Association chair .
Candidate Revel Lubin said: 
“One in 13 men on college campuses are sexually assaulted, and one in five 
women on college campuses are sexually assaulted. ”
This is partially true. The Alligator found three different sources that state one in 
every 16 men, and one in every five women are sexually assaulted while in college.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF houses a $9 million supercomputer 
that has attracted researchers to UF and 
helped make it a top-10 university.
The computer, called HiPerGator, was 
created in 2013, said Erik Deumens, the di-
rector of UF Research Computing. It is the 
third-fastest U.S. university supercomputer. 
The computer processes information 
using approximately 50,000 cores, which 
is the unit used to measure the amount of 
processes able to be done on a computer, 
Deumens said. Most cell phones and lap-
tops have about four to eight cores.
The name HiPerGator stands for High-
Performance Gator and costs about $2.5 million to run annually, including staff and operational costs, Deumens said. It is funded by UF’s annual research computing budget.
The HiPerGator is located at the UF Data 
Center off Waldo Road but is remotely used by faculty, Deumens said. Researchers can log in and access data from anywhere in the world using their laptops, similar to cloud services.
The computer can be used by about 500 
researchers at any given time, Deumens said. 
The computer helped UF earn a top-10 
spot because of the increased faculty-to-student ratio, Deumens said.
Political scientists have used the com-
puter to predict voting behavior using data 
from polls to determine which candidate is 
likely to win, Deumens said. 
“It is an asset that really helps faculty,” 
Deumens said. “Faculty ﬁ  nd it incredibly valuable to have it.”Stephen Coombes, a UF applied physi-
ology and kinesiology assistant professor, uses the HiPerGator to complete research 
to map pathways in the brain using brain 
imaging collected from humans.
Without the HiPerGator, the research 
would’ve taken years to process, Coombes said. UF is home to the country’s third-fastest  
university supercomputer, worth millions
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF’s HiPerGator, a $9 million supercomputer, was created in 2013. It is the third-
fastest U.S. university supercomputer and costs $2.5 million to run annually. 
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A former Gainesville Regional Airport 
employee was charged with stealing nearly $49,000 from the airport between April 2016 and March 2017, Gainesville Police said.
Paul Adjan, 65, worked as the airport’s 
facilities manager during this time and stole $48,702 from the parking lot payment ma-chines he was responsible for emptying, according to 
an arrest report. He was one of two people who had access to all three keys required to take cash from the machines.
Starting April 2016, Ad-
jan collected money Fridays 
and Mondays, police said. While he did place Friday’s in a safe inside the airport’s ofﬁ  ce, Monday’s money was not accounted for.
Parking machines create a time stamps 
each time cash is pulled. Based on the secu-rity badge swipe-in logs, Adjan was the only employee at the airport each time — even on a vacation day, according to the report.
Adjan told police he did not steal the 
money, according to the report. He could not be reached for comment.He was charged Feb. 5 with grand theft, 
money laundering and aggravated white-collar crime, according to court records. He was arrested Friday and taken to the Alachua County Jail, where he was later released on his own recognizance.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
Former airport employee charged for parking payment theft
Adjan
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Merrillee Malwitz-Jipson has paddled up the 
Santa Fe River into Gilchrist Blue Springs hundreds 
of times, but when she did so Friday, it felt com-pletely different.
“It was absolutely the most unusual experience,” 
she said. 
It was the ﬁ  rst time the Fort White resident had 
seen the spring since the state of Florida made it a public park. Gilchrist Blue Springs State Park, which is about 30 miles away northwest of UF, celebrated its grand opening Friday with a ribbon-cutting cer-emony and free admission.
The park, which had been privately owned and 
operated as Blue Springs Park for 60 years, has six 
natural springs and areas to swim, paddle, hike and 
camp, according to a news release. 
The park will be open from 8 a.m. to sundown 
every day. Admission is $6 per vehicle and $4 for a single-occupant vehicle, according to the website.
Visitors can lay out on about 50 yards of white 
beach-like sand or leap off the platform to the spring.
Malwitz-Jipson said Gilchrist Blue Springs is one 
of her top three favorite springs in Florida. 
“When you go there, you can’t take an ugly pic-
ture,” she said. “Every picture is just as majestic as Florida springs can possibly be.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgNew park opens 
in High SpringsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnMONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinionsBlack students face a lot of pressure from parents
On Wednesday, Jacob Copeland signed 
as UF’s wide receiver, and the video of the process went viral. Like most 
talented high school athletes, Cope-
land had a handful of desirable op-
tions to choose from. His mother stood right by his side through the stressful decision un-
til he made his choice. Upset her son didn’t 
pick the University of Tennessee, she stormed away from the table and out of the view of the camera. The video immediately went viral through UF and the rest of the nation. The public cast shade at his 
mom, calling her selfish and criticizing her motherhood. 
Viewers believed Copeland didn’t deserve to be deserted during such an important time in his life.
Although parents typically stand by their children’s 
sides through the process of choosing a college, their personal goals for their child’s education often sway their judgment. Parents make up their minds about col-lege before their children do. Although the student may have their eyes set on one institution, the parents may 
lock eyes on another and dissuade their children with 
their biased opinions or, in some cases, by force; this is often the case for black teens, especially those who are the first generation of their families to go to college.
Copeland’s situation parallels the struggle black teens 
face as they prepare for college. The college experience can be lonely as a minority and, in addition to their own self criticism and doubt, black students will never face a harder critic than their parents. Black college students 
represent a small portion of campus populations, mak-
ing up less than 10 percent at most universities, exclud-ing historically black colleges and universities. Although our peers encourage us to follow our dreams, black stu-
dents may have to put their personal aspiration on the 
back burner while they attend to the wishes of their par-ents. As simple as it may be to ignore them, parents tighten their grip on their children whenever their plans are ignored. By switching majors, dropping a class or choosing a different Greek 
chapter, black students may bring disappoint-
ment to their parents. This is not because it was a bad decision but because it was not the decision their parents had wanted.
 After months of anticipation, UF ac-
ceptances rolled out Feb. 9th. The results came as good news to many but bad news to a 
greater number. Today’s applicants are not making their college decision alone; their parents have just as much 
of a say, if not more. One student may have dreamed of 
attending a top-tier school in the Northeast but have to stay local due to their parents’ desire for their children to remain close to home, combined with strenuous fi-
nancial circumstances.
At the end of the day, our parents just want the best 
for us. The overused movie line “It’s not my dream, dad, 
it’s yours” compares to the reality black college students face. Parents believe their plan is the most successful 
plan and that it’s disrespectful when their children don’t 
follow suit, but don’t understand the other challenges at hand. Copeland was in tears as he identified his mother to the press as being the one who left. His mother failed 
to understand the decision is for her son to make, re-
gardless of how much time and effort she put into his football career. Black parents often take ownership of decisions they’ve invested ample time into; they forget all of the time and effort is just part of the job. The inde-
pendence of the college experience is perforated by our 
parents’ actions and decisions, taking away the long-awaited freedom so many of us dream about.
Madisyn Jones is a UF accounting sophomore. Her 
column focuses on millenial black culture.Editorial
We learn history — the good and the bad parts of it 
— so we can use that knowledge to improve the future. We can avoid mistakes made by our prede-cessors, and we can build upon the successes they achieved. History allows us to continually advance 
society and steadily make way for a better world. The lessons learned are something we need to cherish and protect.
In elementary, middle and high school, many of us had the 
honor and privilege to hear Holocaust survivors speak about their experiences. They would share harrowing accounts of living in fear and hiding in attics and swamps. They would detail the horrors of ghettos and concentration camps. They would share the utter heartbreak and agony felt when losing a loved one or watching their friends and neighbors get carted 
away, knowing they’ll never be seen again. They would de-
scribe the despair they felt when realizing they may never re-turn to home again — at least not the home they once knew.
These personal accounts became essential components of 
our historical education. Their stories provided something that could not have been learned through a textbook, something that couldn’t have been felt through memorizing dates and names and death tolls. They provided something powerful.
Eva Schloss, a survivor of the Auschwitz concentration 
camp and the stepsister to Holocaust victim Anne Frank, chose to share her story. According to The Washington Post, the 88-year-old is “diving into everything from cutting-edge hologram technology to controversies about Justin Bieber to keep people thinking about the lessons of the Holocaust.”
On her U.S. speaking tour, Schloss has warned her audi-
ences about the dangers of being a bystander. She explains not everyone in Germany was anti-Semitic, nor did they all sup-port Adolf Hitler. Many Germans had good Jewish friends but, 
as Schloss put it, “they took the easy way out.” She leaves her 
audience with an invaluable lesson: to avoid indifference and to speak out when you see injustice being done.
Schloss is just one example of the many Holocaust survi-
vors who speak to audiences and teach history in a way that far exceeds that which can be found on the pages on a book. Unfortunately, as time goes on, the number of survivors who are still alive is diminishing quickly. In January 2017, it was estimated that only 100,000 survivors were still alive in the 
U.S. 
Efforts have been put in place to preserve the life and 
knowledge of the few survivors left. Schloss is part of a new 
project by the Steven Spielberg-founded Shoah Foundation, which has recorded nearly 52,000 interviews with Nazi-era survivors. As published in the Post, the interviews are used to create life-size holograms that are able to answer questions and share stories — something necessary as the number of survivors decreases.
Projects like these offer us a glimmer of hope in terms of 
preservation, but there are also steps we can take personally to ensure these stories stand the test of time.
We need to take the lessons, like the ones Schloss provides 
in her speeches, to heart. We need to live our lives accord-ing to the warnings we’ve received. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to hear from survivors firsthand need to make sure their stories live on and are heard by future gen-erations.
This goes for all parts of history, especially genocides and oth-
er heinous events — not just the Holocaust. The further removed we become from history, the less real it becomes and the less seri-ous we take it. This is what we need to avoid. We have a respon-sibility now more than ever to prioritize historical education. Heed the warnings 
of history
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINTMadisyn Jones
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Up until this past Friday, 
the Alachua County Jail was accepting com-
ments and concerns 
about the way in which 
it operates and manages. Of the few government ofﬁ  cials who 
submitted letters, each one had 
nothing but positive things to say.
However, many inmates in 
the jail do not feel the same way.  They 
are obviously not supposed to like jail. 
They are being punished for committing a crime, and it should be an undesirable place to spend their days. But it should 
be undesirable because an inmate has no 
freedom, is living in a cell and is being told what to do and where to be all the time. It should not be undesirable because they are being treated inhumanely.
Some inmates, including those serving 
their time in the Alachua County Jail, have mental health issues. People with mental health issues have a hard life as it is. It is 
bad enough when outside forces act upon 
you, causing you discomfort and stress. Those with mental health issues deal with all of that, plus the same feelings coming from within. Additionally, some have to 
deal with backlash and consequences of 
others not understanding them or being unable to get the help they need and de-serve.
This is a struggle many people face, but 
many people have friends and family in their corner to advocate for them. Maybe their boss doesn’t understand when they need a personal day off because their anxi-
ety is overwhelming them, but their best 
friend is there for them 24/7 and under-stands if they cancel plans. Maybe their friend doesn’t always understand why it is 
so important they turn around to go back 
for their medication, but their mom does, and she would bring it to them anytime, anywhere. These hypothetical people still have it hard, as does everyone who suffers 
from a mental illness. However, they are 
free. If they don’t like the way someone is treating them, at the very least they have the legal ability to go elsewhere.
Inmates don’t have this option. They can seek solace in fellow in-mates, but jail sometimes isn’t the best environment for this. 
Some are allowed visitation with 
friends or family, but this can be highly ineffective if a person is in a bad place mentally. Additional-
ly, they very well could be in sol-
itary conﬁ  nement. If an inmate is placed in a suicide watch cell, they are alone. They are kept in 
a padded cell, so they can be monitored, 
understandably. But this is inhumane. In 
a person’s absolute darkest hour, shutting someone completely off from everyone and everything in the world other than 
themselves and a jail cell is not the way 
to help them.
People in jail are not lesser than the 
rest of us. Maybe they’ve made mistakes. Maybe they should be held accountable for 
their actions. I do not disagree with the 
idea of the prison system itself. I think people should not be permitted to commit crimes and then be sent back out into the 
world with no consequences. However, I 
ﬁ  rmly believe our prison system is broken.
As I mentioned in an earlier column, 
our criminal justice system focuses more on punishment than on rehabilitation. If 
a person suffers from mental illness, they 
should still be held accountable for their actions. However, when in prison, they should not be treated exactly the same as 
someone without these issues. Withhold-
ing medication prescribed by a psychi-atric professional is inhumane. Tossing someone who mentions having suicidal thoughts into a solitary conﬁ  nement cell is 
not a solution. It is a way to avoid having 
blood on your hands.
So, I ask our own county jail and jails 
across America: What are we doing? These 
are people. We need to be better to each 
other. We can ensure people serve their time while still valuing their mental health and humanity.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focuses on 
mental health.In preparation for writing 
this column, I perused the internet for its most famous, 
most well-liked quotes 
about patience. Patience, I 
have heard time and time again, is a virtue. Good things come 
to those who wait, so we must 
remain strong and persevere as the hands of life’s clock tick on-ward. Stand resolute, stay hope-ful.
If this is how I’m characterizing the 
law-school application process, I must sound pretty dramatic. I admit that. It’s easy to get swept up in the game of num-
bers, to anxiously search the internet 
with super-fun queries like “application status,” “median GPA” and, my favorite and most desperate plea, “When will I hear back???” (That last one is a true win-
ner — you might even ﬁ  nd yourself on an 
online forum guaranteed to give you mild heartburn.)
So what’s an anxious and impatient 
law-school hopeful to do? The answer must lie somewhere between plunging into panic attacks in the middle of the afternoon and achieving nirvana while sitting on a yoga mat for the rest of the 
semester. I, myself, toggle back and forth. 
Day to day, week to week, a soft yet an-noyingly consistent voice in the back of my head murmurs, “What if, what if, 
what if…?”
Hence, this column. I write to offer 
my own experiences applying to profes-
sional programs and waiting to hear back. I write with the hope other people may 
relate and perhaps feel soothed by our 
common patience with waiting — or lack thereof. I write because I am simultane-ously excited, afraid, inspired, ready and 
sentimental when I look at where I am 
and how the world is changing rapidly around me. So let’s take this on together, shall we?
What has helped me most throughout 
this nervous waiting game has been re-membering why I started this process in the ﬁ  rst place. When the nerves kick in, there’s a frighteningly smooth transition from “I’m 
here to pursue my purpose” to 
“I’m lost, and I’m not even sure how I got here.” Remember the scene in the classic series 
“SpongeBob SquarePants” in 
which Squidward tells Sponge-Bob to empty his mind of ev-erything irrelevant to “ﬁ  ne din-
ing,” and SpongeBob panics so hard he 
forgets his own name? Yeah, it’s like that. 
We focus so hard on the minutiae of life, the stressors of any given moment, that we forget the passions that brought us to 
these important, formative experiences 
like deciding what we want to do post-graduation. That’s OK, so long as we ﬁ  nd our way back.
This terrible — yet, I argue, tempo-
rary — switchover is natural when we lose sight of our callings: the problems that plague our minds when we read the news, the solutions we mull over when 
we’re falling asleep at night, the wild 
spark of wonder that comes over us when we see art and listen to music. These are the sorts of emotions and experiences that motivate us to seek out certain careers, 
apply to certain programs and dream a 
little bigger each night.
What’s the upshot of all this? Well, 
here are some of my main takeaways. For 
one, no matter what happens, you can 
ﬁ  nd your way again. You do not have to be deﬁ  ned by a single circumstance, event or decision in your life. You can begin writing your next chapter wherever you 
land. When you tire of waiting, when the 
road looks weary, hang on for the dream. It’s worth waiting for.
Oh, and one more lesson learned: 
There’s a lot of important life messages to be taken from “SpongeBob SquarePants,” if only we have the time to look.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column focuses on 
education.We must value inmates' mental health Waiting to see if you got into a 
graduate program is an artColumn Column
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
Celebrating Black History Month Rock ‘n Soul Style
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Blake Hines (left) dances along to the music at the Black History Month Concert on 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza. His mother, April Hines (right), stumbled across the concert Sunday afternoon and decided to stay to enjoy it. Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Billy Buchanan and his Rock ‘n Soul Revue perform onstage on Bo Diddley Community Plaza following the performance of trumpeter Longineu Parsons on Sunday afternoon.
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Jake Mitchell, 73, dances in the crowd along to the soul, blues and rock classics featured at the Black History Month Concert on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Sunday afternoon. Mitchell is a member of Little Jake & the Soul Searchers, another well-known musical group in this genre.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff  
From left: UF students Cinthya Bazurto, an 18-year-old animal sciences freshman, 
and Laura Uribe, a 20-year-old political science junior, create clay pots on spinning pottery wheels at the UF School of Art + Art History’s Art Bash event Friday night. Uribe said she felt it was important to support the arts.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
From left: Juana Diaz, a 20-year-old UF art junior, assists Chris Patton, a 27-year-old UF computer science graduate student, with making an ink print design labeled “Alagarto Printmaking Guild” at the UF School of Art + Art History’s Art Bash event Friday night. Patton said he was blown away by the quality of the students’ art on display.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
From left: UF students Janelys Camelo, a 19-year-old graphic design sophomore, and Hali Reeves, a 20-year-old graphic design sophomore, look at the “Thick Wit T ea + Mustard” and “Bennett’s T ea + Mustard” displays at the UF School of Art + Art History’s Art Bash event on Friday night. Camelo said she submitted a project for class called “Dragazine, ” which shows “drag” as an art form.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Carin Sankus, a 32-year-old UF art third-year graduate student, lifts a clay piece from a kiln and places it in sawdust, giving it a black color through a smoking process. The overall process is a Western method of Raku firing, which is originally a Japanese family tradition.
Students take on a night of creativity at UF Art Bash10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be not publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
By Kyle Fray
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hurricane Irma left Joshua Lay-
ton homeless for a month after a tree 
fell through the roof of his house. 
“This was one of the worst things 
I had to deal with,” he said. 
So situations like Layton’s don’t 
happen again, the Florida Division 
of Emergency Management granted 
Alachua County a $194,000 grant Feb. 1, said Susan Meadows, a Hur-ricane Loss Mitigation Program co-ordinator for Alachua County. The 
county can use the funds to rein-
force housing structures  so they’ll survive storms like Irma. 
The Hurricane Loss Mitigation 
Program is expected to help more than 35 homes, Meadows said. The deadline to apply on the Alachua County website is March 9.
The program will assist with 
housing needs such as roof cover-age, installation of hurricane straps and hurricane resistant windows, 
Meadows said. 
Distribution of the grant is de-
termined by the applicant’s annual 
household income and the amount of residents in the house, Meadows 
said. 
“We’re trying to get applications 
for those in need,” Meadows said. 
“We want to help as many as we 
can.”
Layton, a 23-year-old UF sociol-
ogy senior, said the tree that fell on 
his house caused multiple holes, landed on the house’s power line 
and broke the main gas line. 
“I don’t believe a county grant 
would have made a difference since 
the majority of the damage was 
caused by this huge tree,” he said. 
“However, there are many others that could beneﬁ  t.” County receives grant to 
prep houses for hurricanes
By Katherine McGuinness
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers discovered a faster way 
to obtain an environmentally friendly sun-
screen ingredient to replace others that may damage marine life.
Yousong Ding, a UF medicinal chemis-
try assistant professor, said he and ﬁ  ve UF researchers focused on cutting down the time it takes to produce shinorine, an eco-friendly ingredient used in sunscreens. The ingredient is a non-toxic and biodegradable amino acid.“We hope to provide a more cost-effec-
tive ‘green’ sunscreen to customers,” the 38-year-old researcher said.
The research is based on the production 
of shinorine in the wild, which is found in red algae, Ding said.
Red algae is common in tidal zones in 
the ocean and grows off the coast of Flor-ida, Ding said. It can take about a year for the red algae to produce shinorine that can be harvested, which is too long to be used commercially.
Shinorine is produced by cyanobacteria, 
a photosynthetic blue-green bacteria, Ding said. Researchers can harvest it on a cellu-lar level in a controlled environment.
For the study, they focused on geneti-
cally engineering the cyanobacteria to pro-duce shinorine in as soon as 13 days, Ding said.
Ding declined to say which environ-
mentally harmful chemicals in sunscreen shinorine could replace.
Craig Downs, the executive director of 
Haereticus Environmental Laboratory in Clifford, Virginia, said he knows of some chemicals in sunscreen that damage the environment.
One of those chemicals is benzophe-
none-3, or oxybenzone, which is used in sunscreen to protect the skin by absorbing ultraviolet light, Downs said.
Downs said aquatic animals can absorb 
oxybenzone through their gills, stomach and skin. The chemical can disrupt the hormone levels in the organisms.
He said he recently heard about Ding’s 
research with shinorine and became inter-ested in the study.
“I think any new ingredient that absorbs 
UV radiation and can be turned into a hu-man-safe and ecologically safe SPF drug is fantastic, exciting and innovative,” he said.
UF researchers ﬁ  nd easier way to make eco-friendly sunscreen
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
SWINGING THE NIGHT AWAY
Amye Francis, 23, a ﬁ  rst-year UF animal science masters student, dances with Gainesville native James Jordan, 27, at the Swinging Speakeasy at Depot Park on Saturday.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Marina Property- Priced to sell!!!
Private waterfront community.With Concierge Boat Service & boathouse slipOnly $139,880Video: www.WaterfrontLifeFL.net877.628.3349 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.    2-9-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any Dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800- 578-1363 
Ext.300N    2-9-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
FOR RENT NEAR SF
HOUSE 4BR/2BA . Very cool house - sum-mer doesn't need A/C. 352-328-1479    2-9-18-2-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or VisaThe Alligator Office2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.orgBy Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FINDPayment by major credit card ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
ATTENTION INDIVIDUALS WITH GRITResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-14-18-10-14
Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORING
PhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/19- 2/22 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-19-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Progressive talk radio is on
WGOT 100.1 FM
along with indie rock, punk, jazz, electronica, 
folk and more. Visit wgot.org     2-9-18-4-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Send (to), as an
inferior place
9 Partner of Paul
and Mary
14 Trite
15 WWII bomber __
Gay
16 Trifling matters
18 Iroquois enemies
19 Editor’s “never
mind”
20 IRS form IDs21 One out on the
lake, e.g.
24 Cookie holder
27 Focal point in a
theater
29 That girl
32 18-wheeler
33 Tablet with Mini
and Pro versions
34 John Paul Jones
was a
commander in it
39 Chevy
subcompact
40 Rowlands of “The
Notebook”
41 Originally named42 May observance
for those whodied in militaryservice
46 Two-__ tissue
47 Troubled state
48 Has a midnight
snack, say
52 __ upon a time ...
53 Kate’s TV
sidekick
54 Statesman born
2/12/1809 whose
surname canprecede thestarts of four longpuzzle answers
59 Señor’s squiggle60 Schemed61 Bottomless
chasm
62 Ones storming
the castle, say
DOWN
1 Lassos2 Activist Medgar3 Russian
Revolution leader
4 Diving seabirds5 Fellows6 Busy __ bee7 Bill with Hamilton
on it
8 NYC summer hrs.
9 Be a nuisance to
10 Goes in11 Promote big-time
12 North Pole worker13 U.K. flying squad17 East, to 48-Down21 “__ there, done
that”
22 “I’ve got this
round”
23 Prickling with
excitement
24 Tokyo’s country
25 Tequila source
26 Color again, as
hair
27 TV forensic
series
28 __ Pan Alley29 Rascal30 Ramshackle
home
31 Hostile force35 In addition36 Kennedy and
Koppel
37 Gray’s subj.38 Dismiss from
work temporarily,with “off”43 Put spots in
magazines
44 Foot’s 12
45 Side squared, for
a square
48 Legendary
Spanish hero
49 “__ like ours /
Could never 
die ... ”: Beatles
50 Flooring
specialist51 Mails
52 Paris airport
53 Kendrick of
“Twilight”
54 One step __ 
time
55 Baby’s spilled
food protector
56 1101, to 
Romans
57 Chaney of horror
58 Bill for mdse.
By Jerry Edelstein©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/12/1802/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 12, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Empathetic
words
11 RSVP part
14 One may run for
a week
15 Townshend of
The Who
16 Revelation
setting
17 Olympus
neighbor
18 Put forth
19 Metro __
20 Grounded
22 Horoscope
heading
23 Wish for
24 Subject for
Linnaeus
27 Relocate in, as
after one’s career
28 Maternally
related
29 “Dead Souls”
novelist
30 “Billions” network,
briefly
31 Fake out
32 __ legend33 Sugar source34 Sugar suffix35 Some
pretenders
36 Membre de la
famille
37 Celebration
honoring a saint
39 Crossed at a
shallow spot
40 Rocky of song41 Munich title
42 Home of
Canada’sParliament
43 Secular
44 Phased-out
refrigerantcompound
47 “__Language”:
1993 comedybest-seller
48 Ecstatic51 Amor counterpart52 Game with
wageringrestrictions
53 Three-part fig.54 Bit of rifle range
debrisDOWN
1 Draft orders
2 “Juno” actor
Michael
3 Fighting group
4 Govt. 
employer of
mathematicians
5 Treatment for
losing one’s
head?
6 Going concern?7 Like a full hold8 Pierce portrayer9 Eastern way
10 Sitcom sidekick
whose wifesometimes callshim by his lastname
11 Bit of bun
flavoring
12 Disappointed
observation
13 In danger of
being ticketed
15 Magnetic?21 First name in
astronautics
22 Stuff23 “The Dance
Class” painter24 Easy Street kin
25 Most bicycles26 Do something27 “Forbidden
Planet” robot
29 Punster’s
reward?
32 Impossible33 Cold reaction
35 Put in a hold
36 Grasping pair
38 Input methods39 Full of pluck41 “Rumor __ ... ”43 Favor one side
over the other
44 Fountain 
choice
45 Drive46 PC key under
Shift
49 Airport in Peru’s
cap.
50 [Head slap]
By Michael Wiesenberg©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/10/1802/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, February 10, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Briefly 
1.  Current unit5.  ____ favors
2.  Layer of clay, soil, etc.6.  ____ light
3.  Devotion7.  Pepsin, for example
4.  Rake over the coalsWLIEAH
MERAPERTPYA
TOPLI
PARHDNA
OLATYYLZYMNEE
AEHTCSANSWERS: 1A-Awhile  5A-Party  6A-Pilot  7A-Enzyme
1D-Ampere  2D-Hardpan  3D-Loyalty  4D-Scathe  B-Himalayas2-12-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ include more than 50 mountains.
BONUS1. When was the last time before 
2015-16 that the New York Mets made 
the playoffs in two consecutive years?
2. Name the last reliever before Tra-
vis Wood of the Chicago Cubs in 2016 
to hit a home run in a playoff game.
3. In 2016, Derek Carr set an Oak-
land Raiders record for most passing 
yards in a game (513). Who had held 
the franchise mark?
4. When was the last time before 
2017 that Rhode Island’s men’s bas-
ketball team won a game in the NCAA 
Tournament?
5. Name the Toronto Maple Leafs’ 
only No. 1 overall NHL draft pick 
before Auston Matthews in 2016.
6. In 1985, Russian Garry Kasparov 
became the youngest winner in the 
history of the world chess champion-
ship. How old was he? 
7. Who gave boxer Sugar Ray Rob-
inson his first pro defeat, in 1943?
Answers
1. It was 1999-2000.
2. Rosy Ryan of the New York 
Giants in the 1924 World Series.
3. Cotton Davidson threw for 427 
yards against Denver in 1964.
4. It was 1998, when the Rams 
reached the Elite Eight.
5. Wendel Clark, in 1985.6. He was 22.7. Jake LaMotta.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 12, 2018King Features Weekly Service15 Services 19 Connections 22 TicketsSenior T aylor T omlinson and 
the Florida women's golf team 
sit in eighth place at 12 over par following Day 1 of the Northop Grumman Regional Challenge.UF men's and women's tennis teams lose on Sunday
The Florida men's tennis team was defeated by Ohio State 5-2 in Columbus, 
Ohio, dropping its record to 4-2, while the Gators women's tennis team fell to Georgia T ech 4-2 at the ITA National T eam Indoor Championships in Mad-ison, Wisconsin, reducing its record to 3-4. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
With 8:19 remaining in the first half, Florida 
held a 7-5 lead over Colorado. Buffaloes attacker Samantha Nemirov sprinted toward the net and released a hard shot in the direction of UF goal-keeper Haley Hicklen. Hicklen reacted quickly, snagging the ball out of the air for a save.
It was one of 14 total saves on the day for 
the junior — a new career high — as the No. 5 Gators dismantled the No. 16 Buffaloes 16-9 for 
their first win of the season on Sunday at Dizney 
Stadium.
Despite being outshot by Colorado 34-28 
and losing in the draw circle 14-13, Florida (1-
0) earned the seven-point victory over CU (1-
1) due in large part to Hicklen’s performance. 
When asked about her career day, she deflected 
credit to the rest of her teammates.
“Props to (the defense),” Hicklen said. “I 
would not be making as many saves as I make if 
it weren’t for them.”
Not to be overshadowed by Hicklen’s perfor-
mance in goal, the Gators’ high-powered offense 
contributed to the win as well. Attacker Lindsey Ronbeck and midfielder Madi Hall led the way 
for Florida with three goals each, followed by 
attacker Shayna Pirreca and midfielder Caroline 
Benitez with two each.
Colorado came out strong defensively, led by 
goalkeeper Sophia Gambitsky with seven saves. However, free-position goals cost the Buffaloes tremendously, as five of the Gators’ 16 goals Hicklen’s career day lifts Florida past Colorado in season opener
Alligator File Photo
Florida goalkeeper Haley Hicklen (29) recorded a career-high 14 saves in UF's season-opening 16-9 win over Colorado on Sunday.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
South Carolina guard Frank Booker 
sprinted toward the basket on a fastbreak 
opportunity midway through the second 
half. With no one in his sight, Booker went 
up for what appeared to be an easy layup, only to have Florida center Kevarrius Hayes come from behind to swat the ball off the 
backboard and into the hands of guard Jalen 
Hudson.
In the Gators men’s basketball team’s 65-
41 win against the Gamecocks on Saturday in Columbia, South Carolina, Hayes’ block 
highlighted a defensive effort that saw UF 
hold South Carolina to its season-low in points.
“It’s a good example of what this team is 
capable of,” Florida coach Mike White said. “We didn’t display having any excuses.”
Florida could have made excuses, as 
White pointed out. The Gamecocks were a bigger team that featured three players 6-foot-10 or taller, while the Gators only have one. 
UF also has an injury-riddled team, as center 
John Egbunu and forwards Isaiah Stokes and Chase Johnson were all inactive.
Instead, Florida focused on crashing the 
boards, taking a 46-24 rebounding advan-tage. UF’s plus-22 rebounding margin was the highest of the season.
“Everybody contributed defensively and 
on the glass,” White said. “We were focused 
on the right stuff.”
Every player that entered the game for 
the Gators recorded at least one rebound or 
block. Guards Egor Koulechov and Chris Chi-
ozza and forward Dontay Bassett notched a Strong defense sets bar for 
Gators against South CarolinaSEE LACROSSE,  PAGE 16
SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 16I can’t speak for everyone, 
but these Winter Olympic games have been hard to keep up with.
For one, Pyeongchang 
is 14 hours ahead of Eastern 
Standard Time. If, for example, 
you wanted to watch women’s figure skating or see how Team USA does in hockey today, you’re probably already out 
of luck. Those events kicked off at 7 a.m. I 
wake up at that time only when my cat walks across my face because his food bowl isn’t full enough.
The other reason is the complete lack of 
hype surrounding this year’s games. Remem-ber 2014 in Sochi, Russia? Storylines were plentiful. A classic American-Russian rivalry was renewed on foreign soil. Olympic Park, 
the housing area for athletes, was rife with Tinder users from all across the 
world looking for a midnight biathlon. Lolo Jones swapped 
her running shoes and media 
scrutiny for a bobsled and even more media scrutiny.
In 2018, however, the Rus-
sians don’t have an “official” team after their doping scandal finally caught the eye of the International Olympic Commit-
tee, so the USA-Russia rivalry just doesn’t feel 
the same. Lolo Jones didn’t make the bobsled 
team. And if there are late-night hookups happening, it hasn’t hit the internet yet.
There’s just nothing interesting.
Well, except curling.
Curling is the gosh-darned jam, y’all. Es-
pecially this year. Why aren't we talking more about 
curling? It's the greatest sport of all time.Morgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan McMullen
Twitter: @MorganMcMuffin
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Just over a minute into the third quarter, 
South Carolina forward A’ja Wilson mirrored 
her teammates’ ball movement across the floor as she shuffled from one side of the paint to the other. Guard Doniyah Cliney received a pass 
and immediately spotted Wilson posting up just 
to the right of the lane. With a lob into Wilson, Florida forward Paulina Hersler abandoned her inside position to take a swipe at the ball.
Hersler missed. Wilson’s layup didn’t.The play gave the Gamecocks a lead they 
wouldn’t give up in a 64-57 win over the Gators on Sunday afternoon in Columbia, South Caro-lina. It was a moment indicative of the kind of day Florida would experience trying to guard the 2017 SEC Player of the Year.
Florida’s defensive scheme emphasized deny-
ing Wilson the ball. In the first half, there were four — sometimes five — Gators defenders sur-rounding her in the paint, daring other Game-
cocks players to beat them instead.
“Is it [ESPN anchor] Kenny Mayne that said, 
‘You can’t stop them, you can only hope to con-
tain them?’” UF coach Cameron Newbauer said. “We wanted to disrupt her, make her uncomfort-able.”
The overwhelming attention she received 
hardly slowed her down. Standing 2 inches taller than both Gators forwards, Wilson used her size 
and athleticism to post up and spin around de-
fenders. She ended the afternoon with a double-double, putting up 22 points while grabbing 11 rebounds. Wilson also served as a deterrent in-side for Florida’s offense, recording three blocks.The Gators (10-15, 2-10 SEC) played a ranked 
opponent for the fifth consecutive game and, once again, kept it close throughout. Florida’s defense didn’t allow South Carolina (20-5, 9-3 SEC) to make a field goal in the second quarter until the 3:25 mark of the period. Over that span, UF built a 10-point lead and appeared to be in 
control.
However, the Gamecocks battled their way 
back to tie the game 30-30 at halftime. Guard 
Delicia Washington led all Gators scorers in the first half, putting up eight points on 3-of-8 shoot-ing.
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu came out 
in the second half red hot. The junior transfer shot 50 percent from the field for eight points 
while grabbing a steal and two rebounds in the 
third quarter. Her two three-pointers in the frame matched her first-half production from beyond the arc. 
Despite Nakkasoglu’s performance from 
three-point range — finishing the day 5 for 8 —her teammates couldn’t capitalize from distance, shooting 4 of 21. 
With his first season coaching in the SEC 
coming to a close, Newbauer said his players have bought into his mentality. 
“Every day is a challenge,” Newbauer said. 
“And our team is taking it that way. In this league, you have to do that.” 
The Gators wrap up a six-game stretch play-
ing against ranked opponents on Thursday at 8 p.m. when they travel to College Station to take on Texas A&M.
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgUF blows double-digit lead against Gamecocks for fifth straight loss
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida women’s basketball coach Cameron Newbauer witnessed his team lose 
its 10th SEC game of the season on Sunday in a 64-57 defeat to South Carolina. “Every day is a challenge, ” he said. “And our team is taking it that way. ”
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Florida put on a batting exposi-
tion on Sunday, defeating UAB 6-0 
and South Florida 14-3 at the USF Softball Complex in Tampa to im-prove its record to 5-0.
Outfielder Jordan Matthews led 
the Gators with six RBIs on the day alongside a four-RBI performance by pitcher Aleshia Ocasio and a pair of three-RBI days by outfield-ers Amanda Lorenz and Jaimie Hoover.
“I think we did a good job 
spraying the ball around the whole 
field,” UF coach Tim Walton said. 
However, UF’s offense got off 
to a quiet start against UAB (1-4).
Blazers pitcher Emily Kachel 
kept the Gators off the bases, al-
lowing no hits and only one walk through the first four innings. 
Left-handed 
pitcher Ka-
tie Chronister 
came out firing as well, striking 
out the side in the first inning and causing three ground balls to quickly 
get out of the second. She saw 
some trouble in the fourth inning 
— giving up three hits — but UF’s defense stood firm behind Chronis-ter. Catcher Janell Wheaton threw out UAB’s lead runner at third base to prevent loading the bases with only one out. 
Wheaton also found Florida’s 
first hit of the game. She knocked a double over the head of center fielder Destini England to lead off the fifth inning, starting a UF rally. 
Designated player Jordan Rob-
erts skied an infield pop up on the next at-bat, but reached on an er-ror as the ball popped out of the glove of the fielding Kachel. 
Kachel hit the next batter — 
shortstop Sophia Reynoso — to load the bases for Matthews. 
The freshman then smacked the 
ball into left field, taking second on a UAB throw to home and driving in the first two runs for Florida in an eventual six-run inning. 
Usual starting pitcher Kelly 
Barnhill closed out the game for the Gators, throwing two hitless innings in relief and striking out three batters in the process.
“(We) gave her some time early 
before the first game today to work on some things,” Walton said about Barnhill after the contest. “They did some video work, and 
(she was) a lot better.”
Ocasio started for Florida in its 
second match of the day against 
USF.
After a quick first inning, the 
senior saw Bulls’ third baseman Samantha Worrell crush a pitch over the left field wall to lead off the second. 
It was the first run given up by 
UF in 2018. However, the Gators came back with a rousing response 
in the top of the third. 
A leadoff single by second base-
man Hannah Adams sparked an 
eight-run inning that featured 13 plate appearances, as well as RBIs from Lorenz, Ocasio, Matthews and Nicole DeWitt and two-RBI base knocks from Reynoso and Hoover.
The Bulls (4-1) began to inch 
their way back with an RBI single from Worrell in the bottom of the third and a solo home run by Am-ber Atkinson in the fourth to make it 8-3. 
But Florida answered again 
with another backbreaking inning in the top of the fifth in which it 
scored six runs.
The frame began with a Hoover 
solo home run to left to make it 
9-3.
Later in the inning with the 
bases loaded, Ocasio fizzed a single up the middle to score two runs and put the game in run-rule territory. Then, Matthews belted 
a deep three-run homer over the 
right-field wall to clear the bases and extend the lead to 11.
“Jordan Matthews is pretty 
good,” Walton said. “That’s all you need to say.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators complete opening weekend 
with wins over UAB and South FloridaGYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Before the No. 5 Gators walked 
onto the mats of the O’Connell Center, 
the team sat down and described its individual goals heading into its meet against No. 9 Alabama on Friday.
After Florida eventually defeated 
the Crimson Tide 197.850 – 197.075, coach Jenny Rowland recalled that some of her gymnasts said they only wanted to be great, but not perfect. 
However, senior Kennedy Baker 
had a different goal in mind. In front of a home crowd of 8,236 people, Baker ended Florida’s sixth meet of the season with a 10.0 on floor, her third perfect score in the event during her career. 
“I was into it,” Baker said. “It felt 
really, really good to get a 10.0 at the end.” 
Baker only competed in the floor 
event Friday night, her first time par-ticipating in only one event since the team’s season opener against West Virginia on Jan. 5 when she recorded a 2.0 on bars. The 11-time All-Ameri-can has made strides since the Gators’ matchup with the Mountaineers and attributes her excitement on the floor to fellow teammate junior Alicia Boren’s routine.
“If she nails her first pass, I’m so lit 
for her whole routine,” she said. “I’m after her, so I can’t disappoint.” 
The score marked Baker’s 14th ca-
reer event title on floor and was the first 10.0 on floor in the SEC this sea-son.
Baker is a role model for her 
younger teammates. Freshman Alyssa Baumann followed Baker’s example on floor, placing third in the event with a score of 9.925. When com-peting, Baumann looks to her older teammates, such as Baker, to push her through some of her nerves before a routine. 
“It’s awesome to be able to cheer 
them on the first two events and then go out there for the last two events and really hit my routines,” Baumann said. “My teammates kept telling me to be confident and they believed in me.”
The team’s veterans continue to 
lead each match for the Gators (5-1, 3-1 SEC). In Friday’s competition against Alabama (3-3, 3-2 SEC), Boren took all-around for the second con-secutive time this season with a score of 39.60. Senior Alex McMurtry also made an impact with two event titles in bars and vault.
“It’s just really exciting to see us 
build on every event, build on every meet,” McMurtry said. “It’s gonna be a fun season.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgBaker, veteran teammates 
remain in mid-season form
Chronister
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
HELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTED
ADVERTISING SALES REP
Position NOW available!
· No Weekends
· Gain Sales Experience· Flexible Work Schedule· Learn Prospecting Skills
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
Applicants must be enrolled in classes atthe University of Florida or Santa Fe Collegewere scored during free-position attempts.
Florida and Colorado traded goals ear-
ly in the game with four total ties in the 
ﬁ  rst half, but scores from Pirreca, Hall and 
freshman midﬁ  elder Shannon Kavanagh helped the Gators earn a three-point lead over the Buffaloes at the half.
After CU opened the second half strong, 
narrowing the Gators’ lead to one, Florida promptly rattled off six straight goals to go up 15-8, sealing the victory in a game that was more competitive than the score 
shows.
Florida also relied heavily on contribu-
tions from its freshmen in the victory, with 
attackers Kassidy Bresnahan and Grace Haus scoring two goals each. Kavanagh, 
another freshman, won eight draw controls 
in addition to scoring a goal and an assist.
“I was so pleased with our freshmen,” 
UF coach Amanda O'Leary said. “They did 
a fantastic job. To see them compete at this 
level… bodes well for the future.”
UF will have ﬁ  ve days off to prepare for 
its next matchup with No. 1 Maryland on 
Saturday. While a convincing victory over a top-20 team in Colorado was certainly the 
start to the season the Gators were looking 
for, their younger players will need to con-
tinue to assimilate to the rest of the team if Florida is going to reach its top-ﬁ  ve po-tential.
But Hicklen said that when UF takes the 
ﬁ  eld, there is no difference between fresh-men and seniors.
“We’re all teammates,” Hicklen said. 
“We’re all out there for the same reason. I have all the conﬁ  dence in the world in every single person on this team.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
 LACROSSE,  from pg. 14Gators defeat-
ed Bufs' 16-9
team-high seven rebounds each, while forward 
Keith Stone led the team with three blocks. 
Florida has had solid defensive performanc-
es from players like Chiozza and Hayes in the past, but Saturday’s matchup with South Caro-lina was one of the few times when everyone contributed to the team’s defensive effort. At 
least up to the standard of its coach. 
“We need that every night,” White said. 
Aside from the boards, the Gators blocked 
10 shots and stole the ball three times. Florida held the Gamecocks to just six points off its 14 
turnovers, three second-chance points and two 
fastbreak points.
Facing smothering defense over the ﬁ  nal 
eight and a half minutes, South Carolina made 
only one of its last 15 shots. The Gators showed 
what they can do when they keep up the pres-sure their coach is looking for, bouncing back against a Gamecocks team that beat them 77-72 on Jan. 24.
But with a defensive performance like this in 
Florida’s repertoire, White knows what to ex-pect from his team moving forward.
“Just play with as much energy as we’ve 
played with all year,” he said. “That’s the stan-dard.” 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org MEN'S B-BALL,  from pg 14UF had 10 blocks against Gamecocks on Saturday
Alligator File Photo
Florida center Kevarrius Hayes recorded ﬁ  ve rebounds and two blocks in the 
Gators' 65-41 win over South Carolina on Saturday.
The mixed-doubles team of siblings Matt 
and Becca Hamilton was reason enough to 
pay attention. For one, the pair competed in 
the ﬁ  rst-ever mixed curling event in Olympic 
history. But after losses to Canada, Switzer-land, Korea and China, the two were elimi-nated from playoff contention. 
Don’t worry though. The men’s team, led 
by Matt Hamilton and his impeccable mus-tache, begins round-robin play Wednesday at 12:30 a.m EST, and the women start their match at 5 p.m. So we all have no excuse 
not to pad NBC’s ratings with some dedicated 
viewing of world-class rock-slidin’.
Curling is the ultimate spectator sport. 
You don’t have to know the terminology or 
the rules or the nuances. I mean, I certainly 
don’t.
In fact, I think that makes it way more fun 
to watch. When you have a premise as sim-ple as, “Get your rock closer to the bullseye 
than the other guys,” you start to make your 
own rules in your head. You formulate your own strategies, your own ideas of where your team’s rocks should be. Heck, I googled it as 
I wrote this column, and apparently “rocks” 
is an acceptable term for the stones they roll.
So bust out the chips and dip around mid-
night. Invite your friends over. Tell them to 
forget about that midterm or that project. It’s 
Olympic curling season. 
Morgan McMullen is the online sports 
editor at the Alligator. Contact him at mmc-
mullen@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14