We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF volleyball ﬁ  nally knows who it’s playing
The Gators will face off against Florida State in the 
ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA T ournament on Thursday. 
Before that, reminisce on three of the regular 
season’s biggest storylines, pg. 15What’s brewing?
Cold brew brand celebrates third anniversary, pg. 8
Gator chomping Thanksgiving munchies
More than 1,000 people shared their Thanksgiving plates with a 
hashtag to raise money for Field and Fork Pantry, pg. 8MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 38
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Saturday’s 41-14 win over Florida State was argu-
ably the most valuable victory of the Gators’ 2018 sea-
son, and there were a handful of players that made it 
possible. Here are Saturday’s Most Valuable Players:
Quarterback Feleipe Franks
It started with a 39-yard deep post to wide receiver 
Van Jefferson that set up Florida’s ﬁ  rst score of the day, 
a ﬁ  eld goal.
And by the end, quarterback Feleipe Franks had 
found seven different receivers for 254 passing yards 
and three touchdowns.
The redshirt sophomore turned a shaky start into 
one of his best games of the season.
Franks’ patience and decision making stood out to 
coach Dan Mullen. 
“I think he did a great job,” Mullen said. “They gave 
us some different looks. He got down in the red zone, 
some different coverages and mixed some things up 
right there. You know, I even though he did a good 
job, there were a couple times we didn’t have anybody 
open and he didn’t force it. He tried to scramble and 
create or extend the play before he threw it away. But, 
you know, he did a good job, he didn’t make mistakes 
and executed well.”
Franks also completed his fourth consecutive game 
without a turnover. And Saturday’s performance 
marked the fourth game this season in which Franks 
has thrown at least three touchdown passes, making 
him the ﬁ  rst Gators quarterback to do so since Tim 
Tebow in 2008.
He also logged his sixth 200-yard passing game to 
put an exclamation point on a year in which he quietly 
put up big numbers for much of the season.Most Valuable Players from Florida’s win over FSU
FLORIDA STATE 14 FLORIDA 41
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida State coach Willie T aggart stops Florida safety Chauncey Gardner-Johnson from planting a UF ﬂ  ag at midﬁ  eld 
following the Gators’ 41-14 win over the Seminoles at Doak Campbell Stadium on Saturday.
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
By Tranelle Maner
Alligator Staff Writer
The last time Jessica Di-
estel saw Garth Brooks was 
when he took the stage at the 
Amway Center in Orlando 
two years ago.  
Now, Diestel, a 32-year-old Gainesville resident, 
said she’ll buy tickets to see 
Brooks again — this time in 
The Swamp. The country mu-
sic artist will give a show in 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium at 7 
p.m. on April 20, according 
to the University Athletic As-Garth to Ben Hill Griﬃ   n 
Stadium: A break in 
25-year concert hiatusA CAMPUS CLEANUP WAS HELD IN TRIB-
UTE OF A WOMAN WHO WAS KILLED IN A 
DOUBLE HOMICIDE NOV . 16. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Children scattered sunﬂ  ower seeds in a garden Sun-
day to remember Leslie Williams.
About 30 parents, students and community mem-
bers came together to clean up Stephen Foster Ele-
mentary School after the killing of Williams, a me-
dia specialist at the school, said Kathy Anderson, the 
president of the elementary school’s Parent Teacher 
Association. 
Williams, 57, and her daughter Paige Williams, 
15, were found dead in their home Nov. 16 from stab 
wounds. Williams’ husband Paul Graves Williams, 61, was arrested after he was accused of killing his wife 
and daughter.
Volunteers planted a garden and repainted the 
black chalkboard in the school’s outdoor classroom, 
Anderson, 34, said. They also raked leaves throughout 
the campus. 
A vigil honoring Williams’ life will be held at 5:30 
p.m. Thursday on the covered courts at Stephen Foster 
Elementary School, Anderson said. The PTA is work-
ing with the school to dedicate a bench for reading in 
Leslie Williams’ memory.
Anderson said Williams was enthusiastic about 
reading and her work with kids. Williams inspired the 
elementary school students to read books even in a 
time of many digital distractions. 
Williams started a morning news broadcast at the 
school, Anderson said. It replaced the traditional morn-Flowers planted to honor woman killed 
SEE GARTH,  PAGE 3 SEE CLEANUP,  PAGE 3Tickets will cost $94.95.
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Distinguished Speaker Luncheon 
with City Manager Anthony 
Lyons
Anthony Lyons, Gainesville City 
Manager, will be speaking from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. at the 
Greater Gainesville Chamber of 
Commerce, at 300 E. University 
Ave., Suite 100. Lyons will pro-
vide an update on city priorities, 
and a Q&A will follow his re-
marks. The 2018 Distinguished 
Speaker Program is spon-
sored by the Douglas Williams 
Executive Health Program.
Sexual Assault Prevention and 
Awareness Fair
Students can come out to the 
Reitz North Lawn from noon to 
3 p.m. to witness a showcase of 
resources and services offered 
by UF and the Gainesville com-
munity. Come interact with the 
organizations present to help 
raise awareness of the issue of 
sexual assault and remove the 
stigma around the topic.
TUESDAY
Visiting Artist Lecture: Adler 
Guerrier
 UF's School of Art + Art History 
is presenting visiting artist Adler 
Guerrier as part of the Fall 2018 
Visiting Artist Lecture Series. 
The Lecture Series is free and 
open to the public. The lecture 
will begin at 6:15 p.m. in Little 
Hall, Room 101. The lectures 
offer the community at large 
an important opportunity for 
dialogue about contemporary 
art and culture in relation to na-
tional and international trends. 
The artist, Guerrier, was born in 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and now 
lives and works in Miami. 
Campus Conversations: Chief 
Diversity Officer Antonio Farias
Students can meet UF’s newly 
appointed chief diversity offi-
cer from 7 to 8:30 p.m. at the 
Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service, at 232 Pugh Hall. It will 
be an opportunity to hear from 
Farias on his vision for equity 
and inclusion at UF. Come pre-
pared with questions.THURSDAY
Consent is Global
Students can join the Consent is 
Global panel from 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m. at 305 J. Wayne Reitz Union 
to shed light on sexual assault in 
different communities. Panelists 
include Maddy Coy, a UF Center 
for Gender, Sexualities, and 
Women’s Studies Research lec-
turer; Debra King, a UF English 
professor; and Karina Vado, a 
UF English professor.
FRIDAY
The 1975 Listening Party
Celebrate the release of 
The 1975’s new album “A 
Brief Inquiry Into Online 
Relationships” from 4 to 6 
p.m. at Hear Again Records, 
at 201 SE First St., Suite 105. 
It is one of 31 official UMusic 
Experience listening parties in 
the country. Attendees will re-
ceive a limited-edition poster 
only available at these official 
listening events (while sup-
plies last). Plus, attendees will 
be able to enter to win a limited 
edition “A Brief Inquiry Into 
Online Relationships” mani-
festo package. Vinyl copies of 
“A Brief Inquiry Into Online 
Relationships” will be avail-
able for purchase at Hear Again 
Records. Note: The 1975 will 
not be in attendance.
Florida Museum to host 20th an-
nual ‘Trashformations’ event
See how Alachua County mid-
dle school, high school and col-
lege students transform “waste” 
into creative works of art from 6 
to 8 p.m. The Florida Museum 
of Natural History will dis-
play winning entries from the 
20th annual Trashformations 
through Monday, Dec. 10. 
Gay Movie Night 
The Pride Community Center, 
at 3131 NW 13th St., is host-
ing Gay Movie Night at 7:30 
p.m. This month the center will 
be showing “Call Me By Your 
Name.” The movie is set dur-
ing the summer of 1983 in Italy, 
and Elio, played by Timothée 
Chalamet, is a 17-year-old who 
spends his days in his family’s 
villa transcribing and playing 
classical music, reading and 
flirting with his friend Marzia. 
One day, Oliver, played by 
Armie Hammer, a charming American scholar, arrives as the 
annual summer intern to help 
Elio’s father, an eminent profes-
sor. Elio and Oliver proceed to 
build a romantic summer rela-
tionship. Gay Movie Night is on 
the last Friday of every month 
and is a free service of the Pride 
Community Center. A $2 dona-
tion is requested to help cover 
the cost of snacks.
MORE
Looking for artists and performers
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting artists, 
artisans and performers for 
SoulMakes, an immersive art 
show and holiday market, from 
1 to 6 p.m. Dec. 9 at Cypress 
& Grove Brewing Company. 
DreamQuilt will be accepting 
performers for the show up to 
Nov. 30. All types of artists are 
welcome, and presenting artists 
are encouraged to do demon-
strations, talk with guests and 
work on projects in the space. 
Participants and guests interact 
in an open, creative environ-
ment blending different forms 
of art, including a collaborative 
canvas and collage workshops. 
Current students may apply to 
show their work for free. To 
sell art or craft items, a booth 
fee of $15 (student rate) ap-
plies. Learn more by emailing 
booking@dreamquilt.org or 
texting 352-872-2620.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit en-
tries before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.HIGH  73° LOW  43°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 38
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingMONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 WANTEDAdvertising Interns
Contact the intern coordinator 
at intern@alligator.orgMust be currently enrolled  
at the University of Florida  
or Santa Fe College5. Hands On Training1. Internship Credit Hours Earn
2. Ability to become a 
    Sales Representative
3. Valuable Team work and  
    client relations learned
4. Build Your Resume
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.netsociation.
“He puts on a fantastic show,” 
said Diestel, a fan of Brooks almost 
all her life.
This concert will be the first in 
the stadium in about 25 years, since 
the Rolling Stones performed as a 
part of the band’s Voodoo Lounge 
Tour, the press release said.
Tickets will go on sale Thursday 
on Ticketmaster and cost $82.35 
each, the press release said. A ser-
vice charge of $7.25 and $5.35 
in taxes will bring the total up to $94.95 with a purchase limit of eight 
tickets per person. Tickets will not 
be sold at the stadium’s box office.
The Gainesville stop is part of the 
Garth Brooks Stadium Tour.
Brooks has won the Country 
Music Association’s award for En-
tertainer of the Year and is famous 
for Billboard-topping songs like 
“Friends in Low Places,” “Two Pina 
Coladas” and “If Tomorrow Never 
Comes.”
Will Pantages, the assistant direc-
tor of communications at the Uni-
versity Athletic Association referred 
media questions to Brooks’ public 
relations agency.Aron Gerson, a representative 
of the agency in charge of Brooks’ 
public relations, Nancy Seltzer and 
Associates Inc., declined to answer 
questions about the venue choice.
Diestel said she is excited for the 
venue to open again for future art-
ists.
“I think the stadium will be a lot 
more enjoyable for the fans,” she 
said. “It’ll be a bit more intimate 
than his other tour stops and will 
allow a chance for everyone to feel 
close to the stage.”
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgGARTH,  from pg. 1Sale to start Thursday on Ticketmaster.
“Two Pina Coladas”
“If T omorrow Never 
Comes”
“The Dance”
“Friends In Low Places”
“Unanswered Prayers”
“Two Of A Kind, Workin’ 
On A Full House”
“The Thunder Rolls”
“Shameless”
“What She’s Doing Now”
“The River”
“That Summer”“Ain’t Going Down (Til The 
Sun Comes Up)”
“American Honky-T onk 
Bar Association”
“T o Make You Feel My 
Love”
“Somewhere Other Than 
The Night”
“She’s Every Woman”
“The Beaches of Chey-
enne”
“Longneck Bottle”
“More Than A Memory”Garth Brooks’ 19 No. 1 Billboard Hits:
He’s also had 36 Top 10 Hits.ing announcements over the 
school’s speaker system in 
favor of a news video that is 
projected on the whiteboards 
in classrooms. 
“She was sunshine,” An-
derson said. “We want for 
her memory to live on.”
As an avid home garden-
er, Katie Andrews, a 51-year-
old volunteer, helped people 
plant milkweed and marigold 
plants to attract butterflies to 
the outdoor classroom. 
Although Andrews said 
she did not know Williams 
personally, both of her sons 
were students at the elemen-
tary school. She learned 
about Williams’ death and 
wanted to help out.    
“I heard that she was 
someone who loved plants 
and just wanted to make the 
school a beautiful place,” An-
drews said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org CLEANUP,  from pg. 1A vigil will be held Thursday.
Gillian Sweeney / Alligator Staff 
Volunteers spread hay after planting marigolds, milkweed and other 
perennials Sunday morning beside an outdoor classroom at Stephen 
Foster Elementary School. They took the day to beautify the campus in 
the wake of media specialist Leslie Williams’ death.
Gillian Sweeney / Alligator Staff 
Volunteers remember Leslie Williams by tending to a garden 
beside an outdoor classroom at Stephen Foster Elementary School. 
Williams worked at the school until she died in a double homicide. 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
By Aynsley Fanizzi 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and faculty can access about 50 emergency kits 
on campus to stop bleeding in 30 seconds. 
The Bleeding Control Kit program added small plastic pack-
ages of bleeding control supplies around campus for students to 
use in case of emergencies like shootings, said Dawson Cowen, 
the Gator Emergency Medical Response Unit assistant director. 
The Gator Emergency Response Unit has been installing the 
ﬁ  rst batch of kits in existing automated external deﬁ  brillators on 
campus since Oct. 15, Cowen said. The kits are already available 
at Marston Science Library, Library West, the Reitz Union and 
the College of Public Health and Health Professions. 
“Our goal is to allow the average person to deploy them, if 
needed, with very minimal training,” Cowen said.
The goal is to install a total of about 140 kits into every on-
campus deﬁ  brillator and in University Police patrol cars by 
Spring, Cowen said. The program costs about $1,200 and was 
funded by Student Government.
The kits include a tourniquet, medical tape, a trauma pres-
sure bandage, protection equipment like gloves and a mask, an 
emergency blanket and an instruction card for how to use the kit 
properly, Cowen said. 
Cowen said he decided to push for the kits on campus in order 
to make UF safer for faculty and students. He used his expertise 
as an emergency medical technician to determine which supplies 
should be included.
Cowen said he and Dr. Benjamin Abo, an emergency phy-
sician, designed the kits to treat external bleeding, including a 
severe gash, gunshot wound or even the loss of a limb. 
The unit will manage the kits and is developing a free training 
program to teach people how to use the devices inside the kits 
properly, Cowen said. 
The group is assembling and installing the kits as the supplies 
come in, said University Police Ofc. Scott Silver.“Our goal is to save someone’s life, should it ever become 
necessary,” Silver said. “Hopefully, it does not.” 
Julia Acker, a 20-year-old UF health education and behavior 
junior and an emergency medical responder, said the kits won’t 
be necessary for students on a day-to-day basis but having them 
handy is extremely beneﬁ  cial. 
With a rise in emergencies like mass shootings, Acker said she 
thinks the kits would help save more lives. 
Although someone who doesn’t follow the kit’s directions 
could do more harm than good, Acker said it is better for students 
to have the kits on campus than to not have them at all. 
“These kits would be of use when there are more bleeds than 
resources,” she said.  
WHAT’S IN A  
BLEED KIT?
TOURNIQUETCARD WITH
INSTRUCTIONSEMERGENCY
BLANKETMEDICAL TAPEPROTECTIVE
EQUIPMENTTRAUMA PRESSURE
BANDAGE
Robert DeLong
Location: High Dive 
Date: Nov. 28
Time: 8:30 p.m.
Tickets: $11.25-$18
Freddy & Francine
Location: Heartwood Soundstage
Date: Nov. 29
Time: 8 p.m.
Tickets: $10-$20
La Dispute
Location: High Dive 
Date: Nov. 29
Time: 8 p.m.
Tickets: $17.50-$20Ballyhoo! with Propaganjah 
Location: High Dive 
Date: Nov. 30
Time: 8:30 p.m.
Tickets: $13-$15
Born Rufﬁ  ans with Little Junior 
Location: The Wooly 
Date: Dec. 1
Time: 9 p.m.
Tickets: $15 
Atmosphere with deM atlas,
The Lioness, DJ Keezy
Location: High Dive 
Date: Dec. 1
Time: 9 p.m.
Tickets: $24-$27Perpetual Groove 
Location: High Dive 
Date: Dec. 2
Time: 9 p.m.
Tickets: $17-$20
Drug Church, Gouge Away
Location: Loosey’s 
Date: Dec. 3
Time: 8 p.m.
Tickets: $10-$12
Drake Bell
Location: High Dive
Date: Dec. 4
Time: 8 p.m.
Tickets: $15-$100The Fritz
Location: High Dive
Date: Dec. 5
Time: 10 p.m.
Tickets: $7.50-$12
Post Animal
Location: High Dive
Date: Dec. 7
Time: 9:30 p.m.
Tickets: $13-$15
Bridget Kelly Band, 
Anthony Gomes
Location: High Dive 
Date: Dec. 9
Time: 5:30 p.m.
Tickets: $5-$20The Walkers
Location: High Dive 
Date: Dec. 12
Time: 8:30 p.m.
Tickets: $6-$8
Skunkape
Location: High Dive 
Date: Dec. 13
Time: 8:30 p.m.
Tickets: $7.50-$12
Not Your Hero
Location: High Dive
Date: Dec. 15
Time: 9 p.m.
Tickets: $6-$10UPCOMING CONCERTS IN GAINESVILLE
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
UPCOMING CONCERTS IN GAINESVILLE
More emergency bleed kits installed on campus
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are investigating after a Gainesville 
man died after jumping off the Interstate 75 overpass Sat-
urday evening, police ofﬁ  cials said.
Walter Philpot, 48, jumped from I-75’s southbound 
lane onto the Archer Road eastbound lane just after 6:30 
p.m., said GPD Lt. Steven Bradford. Witnesses called po-
lice after they saw Philpot climb over the I-75 railing.
The man suffered traumatic injuries from the fall, but 
he was not hit by moving trafﬁ  c, Bradford said. He was 
taken to UF Health Shands Hospital where he was pro-
nounced dead. 
Ofﬁ  cers have notiﬁ  ed the family, but his death has not 
ofﬁ  cially been ruled as a suicide. It is unknown why he 
jumped, Bradford said. No one else was injured.
In his 23 years as an ofﬁ  cer, Bradford said this was the 
ﬁ  rst time he has seen someone jump over that overpass.
In the past, people have jumped over the Southwest 
20th Avenue overpass onto I-75, Bradford said. 
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce redirected trafﬁ  c 
for about an hour and a half that evening, Bradford said. 
Ofﬁ  cers are still investigating the case for further details. 
The 24/7 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-
273-8255.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Man dies after 
jumping from 
I-75 overpassTHE 62-YEAR-OLD DIED IN 
HIS SLEEP LAST SUNDAY.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
As an advertising major in a 
telecommunication classroom, Al-
exandra Olson was inspired by her 
professor to make a switch when 
he talked about the importance of 
telecommunications in culture. 
In Fall 2016, Olson, a freshman 
at the time, took William Renkus’ introduction to telecommunication 
class to broaden her horizons. Ren-
kus was tough but smart, Olson, 
now a 20-year-old UF telecommu-
nication junior, said. 
“He was very sharp and wanted 
things a certain way,” Olson said. 
“He wasn’t afraid to get things 
done.”
Olson was shocked to learn that 
Renkus died at 62 in his sleep last 
Sunday, according to his obituary. 
His cause of death is not conﬁ  rmed 
because family members couldn’t 
be immediately reached for com-ment. 
Renkus earned his bachelor’s 
and master’s degrees from the 
University of Pittsburgh before he 
moved to Gainesville to pursue his 
doctorate degree at UF. Before he 
died, he taught telecommunica-
tion and public speaking classes 
at UF and Santa Fe College. Prior 
to teaching, he worked at a com-
munity cable station in Pittsburgh 
where he utilized his skills in vid-
eography. 
“I didn’t really believe it at ﬁ  rst 
because I’d always see him walk-ing around campus,” Olson said.
Outside of teaching, Renkus 
played recreational tennis, the obit-
uary said. He competed in singles 
and doubles in many United States 
Tennis Association leagues.
Similar to Olson, Caroline Keefe, 
a 20-year-old UF telecommunica-
tion junior, initially came to UF to 
pursue advertising but switched 
during her time with Renkus. Keefe 
said she became enamored with 
the history and depth of telecom-
munication.
“He seemed to really take an interest in what we were talking 
about and the process,” Keefe said. 
“The questions he asked seemed 
deeper and a lot more in-depth.”
Keefe said she was sad his death 
was out of the blue and that he was 
so young. 
“Everyone knows him and ev-
eryone has taken a class with him,” 
Keefe said, “so I think everybody 
will be affected by his absence.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgStudents react to UF telecommunication professor death
Illustration by Jordan BourneMONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
IT’S THE FIRST U.S. PUBLIC 
SCHOOL EVER TO WIN.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Five challenges, several cups of 
coffee and 48 hours later, Michael 
Breen couldn’t believe his eyes. 
Breen, the external coordinator of 
the Gator Theme Park Engineering 
& Design Club, was running on ﬁ  ve 
hours of sleep when his club won at 
the Ryerson Invitational Thrill Design 
Competition, an annual problem-solv-
ing competition, at Universal Studios 
Florida on Nov. 11. 
The team won ﬁ  rst place in two 
out of the ﬁ  ve challenges for overall 
roller coaster design and mechanical 
design, Breen said. The winning stu-
dents will receive ﬁ  rst pick for Univer-
sal Studios engineering internships.
“It was great just hearing all our 
hard work pay off,” he said.
This was the ﬁ  rst time the club 
competed, Breen said. 
The 21-year-old UF mechanical en-
gineering senior has wanted to work in the theme park industry since he 
was a kid, he said. Now, he’s a mem-
ber of a club where he can design 
rides and compete with other schools.
“It’s a good outlet from the stress-
ful engineering courses,” Breen said
The eight-member UF student 
team competed against groups from 
12 universities, including the Univer-
sity of Central Florida, Savannah Col-
lege of Art and Design and the Uni-
versity of Michigan, Breen said. The 
judges did not release the order of the 
runner-up teams. 
During the competition, each team 
was given a prompt of a theme park 
problem to design a creative solution 
for, Breen said. They had 48 hours to 
complete all ﬁ  ve challenges. 
While each student had knowl-
edge in engineering, Breen said they 
all came with diverse backgrounds. 
“They’re the most unique group 
that I’ve worked with on a team as-
signment,” Breen said. “We’re very 
cohesive and played to our strengths 
and contributed to each challenge.” 
The team members did a Gator 
Chomp after each 15-minute presen-
tation, Breen said. Sometimes they would sing Gator ﬁ  ght songs to boost 
their spirits.
The students are not allowed to 
share their submission with the pub-
lic after the competition, but Univer-
sal ofﬁ  cials said they were impressed 
with the group’s creativity, said the 
club’s internal coordinator Suyapa 
Peachey.
The 21-year-old UF aerospace en-
gineering senior said she was shocked 
the club didn’t already exist at UF be-
fore last year. 
The club, which was founded by 
UF senior Grifﬁ  n Schobel in Spring 
2017, provides students who are in-
terested in a career in theme parks 
with educational resources, tours 
with engineering companies and net-
working opportunities, Peachey said. 
The club hopes to expand and host 
a smaller-scale version of the Ryerson 
competition at UF next semester that 
will be open to all majors, she said. 
“We form a bridge between the in-
dustry and students,”  Peachey said.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Engineering club wins ﬁ  rst place in theme park design contest
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
THE VICTIM’S THICK DENIM 
JACKET SAVED HIM. 
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
A thick denim jacket 
saved a man from a but-
terﬂ  y knife wound in 
Midtown early Thursday 
morning, police said. 
Antoine Angrum, 28, 
of Micanopy, is accused 
of lunging at a man and 
his brother as they were 
leaving the bar Balls, at 
1600 W. University Ave., according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report. 
Angrum stabbed him with the 5-inch 
blade in the upper left chest, the report 
said. A witness told police Angrum laughed 
and walked away. 
Angrum does not know the man he 
stabbed, the report said. The knife punctured the man’s jacket 
and went through his shirt, the report said. 
The man was not injured, but he did have a 
small cut and some blood left of his nipple, 
the report said. 
The knife would have severely injured 
him had it not been for his jacket, the re-
port said. 
The man called 911 and told ofﬁ  cers 
who were patrolling the area to stop An-
grum. 
Angrum denied stabbing the man and 
possessing a knife, the report said. 
He is charged with aggravated battery 
and was released from the Alachua County 
Jail that day at about 2 p.m. on a $75,000 
bond. 
Angrum could not immediately be 
reached for comment.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Micanopy man stabs man with 
butterfly knife, police say  
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
An 18-year-old 
Gainesville resident is 
accused of breaking 
into a car in Alachua 
County Saturday morn-
ing, deputies said.
Caleb Daniel Terrell 
is accused of break-
ing into a blue Toyota 
Corolla on the 8800 block of Southwest 
14th Road, according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
A deputy was following up with a 
previous burglary investigation on the 
same street where he found security 
footage of an attempted car burglary, 
the report said. The video showed a man 
wearing glasses, a white T-shirt and dark 
shorts trying to open the front door of the locked car while hiding his face with 
his shirt. 
The man in the video is seen running 
with another man who was arrested as 
part of a different investigation. 
That day, the deputy recognized Ter-
rell from his clothing, the report said. 
The car owners were out of the coun-
try at the time, the report said. Deputies 
spoke with the owners, who said they 
wanted to press charges against Terrell. 
He is charged with burglary and was 
released from the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday afternoon on his own recogni-
zance. 
Terrell could not immediately be 
reached for comment.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org 18-year-old accused of 
trying to break into car
T errell
Angrum
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of burglarizing 
the home of a woman he does 
yard work for was arrested Friday 
night, Gainesville Police said.
Larry Jean Brown, 60, of 
Gainesville, is accused of burglar-
izing a house on the 300 block of 
Northeast 16th Street and stealing $1,400 on Nov. 
8, according to 
an arrest report. 
The home-
owner called 
police after she 
saw Brown 
walk out of her 
front door at 2 
a.m., the report said. She told po-
lice Brown sometimes does yard work for her but does not have 
permission to be inside the house. 
The woman confronted Brown 
and tried to stop him from walk-
ing away, the report said. She told 
police Brown pulled a knife on 
her, and she ran inside the house 
in fear. 
She noticed the kitchen win-
dow was smashed, and the $1,400 
that was in a box underneath the sink was missing, the report said. 
While in custody, Brown ad-
mitted to being inside the house 
without permission, the report 
said. He told police he saw anoth-
er unknown person walk out of 
the house and went inside to visit. 
Brown noticed the window al-
ready broken, the report said. He 
told police the woman punched 
him in the face twice and accused him of breaking into the house, 
the report said.
Brown is charged with drug 
possession, burglarizing a home 
and grand theft. He is being held 
in the Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $10,000 bond. 
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgMan accused of burglarizing home, stealing $1,400
Brown
Courtesy to The Alligator
(From left to right) Matthew Musial, Sierra Simpson, Mark 
Lawrence, Andrea Wright, Justin Lawrence, Kaylyn Ling, Michael 
Breen and Kristofer Robinson hold their ﬁ  rst place overall trophy 
at the Ryerson Invitational Thrill Design Competition at Universal 
Studios Florida.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORUF sits like an educational behemoth in the center of Flor-
ida. We are a massive university, a giant compared to 
most other institutions in the state. We rest on a throne 
of $3.7 billion in total assets. Each year, we take in $1.9 
billion in revenue. We are eighth in the rankings of top 
public schools in the nation and aspire to break into the top five. 
But despite UF’s excellence and reputation at home in the heart of 
Florida, UF also sits in the heart of Alachua County, which is suf-
fering from an education crisis at both the primary and secondary 
levels. White and black students are achieving at radically differ-
ent rates in the classroom, and we owe it to our home county to 
help in any way we can.
The current gap between white and black students with satis-
factory achievement on the Florida Standards Assessment (FSA) 
is 45 percentage points. This should not be the case — black 
students are not 45 percent less intelligent or capable than white 
students. The FSA has both language arts and mathematics com-
ponents. Only 29 percent of black students score high enough 
to be considered satisfactory in language arts, with a level 3 or 
above. Only 30 percent of black students made satisfactory re-
sults on the math portion of the test.
We lament that standardized testing has become synony-
mous with achievement and ability. But the FSA score disparity 
along such clear racial lines is symptomatic of a deeper problem: 
Black students are being failed by their schools. In a report on the 
achievement gap produced in September, Alachua County Public 
Schools identified “a lack of cultural understanding between stu-
dents, their families and teachers” as a suspect.
Demographics of county public school teachers do not line up 
with the rest of the county’s demographics. About 80 percent of 
Alachua County teachers identify as white, 11 percent identify 
as black, and 6 percent identify as Hispanic. The population of 
Alachua County is less white at 70 percent, more black at almost 
21 percent and more Hispanic at almost 10 percent, per the U.S. 
Census Bureau.
We are hopeful the county’s school district will do all that it 
can to close this gap. The school district has set goals for raising 
test scores and hiring educators to more closely mirror the demo-
graphics of the county. We are also grateful for the opportunity to 
help. As part of the plan, UF will help Alachua County hire, retain 
and provide support for new educators.
But UF can do more. And we must.
UF aspires to be a shining city on a hill where students of all 
kinds live, study and work in harmony and peace. But what good 
is the promise of greatness and diversity if we cannot bring that 
same promise to the community we call home? UF certainly has 
a long way to go before our demographics fit the state. Only 7 
percent of UF students are black despite black people comprising 
16 percent of Florida’s population. But Alachua County and UF 
are suffering from a similar sickness that hurts black students. 
We cannot pretend to be a pre-eminent university while such a 
glaring problem stares us straight in the face.
By helping Alachua County increase the graduation rate for 
black students, UF can make sure more black students have the 
opportunity to be accepted into UF. UF students can take initia-
tive and work with the Bridges Minority Outreach Program to 
bring diverse students to our campus and encourage them to ap-
ply. Those who wish to sink their hands directly into the work of 
equity and of giving every Alachua County student a fair shot at 
higher education can volunteer directly with schools. A volunteer 
application is on the school district’s website.
Without this work, UF can never be the light of the world. We 
will stay shrouded by inequity.UF must do the most to 
fix Alachua County’s 
student achievement gap
Anxiety is smothering freshman retention rates
I recently read in The New York Times that 30 
percent of college freshmen do not return for 
their sophomore year. Thirty percent. Think 
about that. That’s nearly a third of all fresh-
men. And I don’t even blame them. College is 
extraordinarily stressful. 
In high school, I convinced myself that college 
would cure my mental illnesses. I would no longer 
have seven classes per day, hours of homework 
each night and I could sleep in past 5 a.m. Finally! 
Plenty of rest and a wide-open schedule. My stress 
would vanish, right? Wrong. So, so wrong.
Getting to college is like being in the audience of The 
Oprah Winfrey Show, except instead of a car, everyone in 
the audience gets crippling anxiety as their prize. You get 
anxiety! And you get anxiety! You all get crippling anxiety! 
Oprah, we didn’t ask for this. We just wanted a good time. 
Geez. 
According to Dr. Robert Leahy of Psychology Today, the 
average teenager in 2008 had the same level of anxiety as the 
average psychiatric patient of the ‘50s. Keep in mind, that 
statistic was from 10 years ago. I guess we’re now worse off 
than psychological patients from the middle of the 20th cen-
tury. These levels of stress are absurd, and just about every 
aspect of college fuels this anxiety.
And it isn’t just anxiety that plagues college students. 
We’re riddled with a litany of mental health issues. In fact, I 
can’t think of one friend of mine who hasn’t struggled with 
some form of mental illness, be it anxiety, depression, ob-
sessive compulsive disorder, bipolar disorder, et-cetera. If 
you’re not internally suffering, are you even a young adult?
In college, most activities require some level of competi-
tion. College itself is harder to get into than when our par-
ents were applying, and the average high schooler today 
takes far more Advanced Placement classes than our parents 
ever took, partially because most AP classes didn’t exist in 
the ‘80s, and partially because college admissions require so much of us. Many college activities such as 
clubs, organizations and jobs require applications, 
which is understandable, but being denied from 
everything you apply to your first semester fresh-
man year can be disheartening. 
College, as great as it is, can be a bit disap-
pointing. We grow up with the notion that these 
are supposed to be our glory days, whether from 
movies, songs or our parents excitedly ushering us 
off to their alma maters. I naively expected to have 
plenty of friends, be an active member of nearly 
every club and to have my future set in stone. Spoiler alert: 
None of that happened. In fact, I spent nearly my entire first 
semester in my dorm, in my bed, in the dark, alone. I had 
not yet met anyone or branched out. I had been denied from 
organizations and most definitely did not have my future set 
in stone (still don’t). I figured for sure I was the only one who 
felt this way. People around me seemed so happy to be here; 
why was I depressed?
One thing I can definitively say is that people’s presenta-
tions on social media are an utter farce. People are only going 
to post things that make their life appear exciting, so avoid 
social media at all costs. I would also venture to say that 
most everyone has no idea what they want to study or even 
what they want to be when they grow up, so don’t put so 
much pressure on yourself to find out. 
College freshmen are thrown into a new environment 
with unfamiliar people with the expectation that this is sup-
posed to be the greatest time of our life. While it certainly 
can be a great time, this is a lot of pressure, and when we 
don’t meet the mark, we blame ourselves, inciting a cycle of 
depression. In some ways, I’m surprised it’s only 30 percent 
of freshmen who don’t return. What’s most important is to 
be open and earnest — remind one another that we’re not 
alone in our suffering. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her col-
umn appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
It is a well-known fact that our food here 
in the U.S. is pumped full of additives such 
as coloring agents and preservatives. Most 
Americans believe that these additives are 
needed to keep food from spoiling too fast. 
Many Americans, however, lack the knowl-
edge of how harmful these additives can 
be. In fact, many additives considered safe 
in the U.S. are actually banned in other na-
tions because of their toxicity. I am writing 
to you today in order to raise public aware-
ness of this expanding problem that the U.S. 
faces. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
is in charge of regulating and approving the 
chemicals that are allowed to be in our food. I 
believe it is the FDA’s responsibility to further investigate the chemicals that it has approved 
in the past.
To begin, it is important to note that many 
companies use additives simply to make their 
product look more appealing. The additives in 
these products serve no function other than 
to complement their texture, color and even 
aroma in certain cases. Coloring agents such 
as Red 40 and Yellow 6 are readily used in 
the U.S. but are banned in nations such as the 
United Kingdom, Austria and Norway. Many 
coloring agents have been linked to cell de-
terioration, attention deﬁ  cit hyperactivity dis-
order and even cancer. Another additive that 
has been shown to cause damage to the hu-
man body is potassium bromate. Potassium bromate is used to make the manufacturing 
process for baked goods simpler; it not only 
aids in the baking process by minimizing the 
baking time of the product, but it also makes 
the process a lot cheaper. Potassium bromate 
has been banned as an additive in Brazil, Chi-
na and Canada because it has been shown to 
increase the risk of cancer, kidney disorders 
and neurological problems. The most shock-
ing additive used in the United States was 
found in chicken meat in 2015 studies by the 
FDA and goes by the common name of ar-
senic. Arsenic is widely known as a poison, 
yet the FDA, before 2015, allowed it to be in 
chicken feed as a form of pest control.
The FDA is responsible for regulating what is allowed in our food, yet it allows so many 
toxic and harmful chemicals to be added sim-
ply to make the product more desirable. The 
FDA believes that the chemicals it approves 
add some beneﬁ  t to the product. However, it 
is important to understand the difference be-
tween a want and a necessity. It is much more 
important to have safe food than to have ap-
pealing food; for this reason, I call on the FDA 
to make stricter guidelines on food additives. 
I call on the students here at UF to inform 
themselves on the food they are consuming.
Adriana Gonzalez is a UF cell science and 
microbiology senior.
Yes, I’m doing this. I’m add-
ing to the long list of ar-
ticles and columns railing 
against Hollywood’s ob-
session with remakes and 
reboots. But unlike those other 
articles, I don’t think remakes, re-
boots and adaptations should end 
completely. In fact, there may be a 
place for them in the movie scene. 
But they need to be done right. You may ask, 
how does one do a good remake, reboot or 
adaptation? The most important factor is 
not staying exactly true to the original but 
keeping the original’s spirit while adding a 
new twist. Let’s use a spectrum ranging from 
“Teen Titans Go!” to “Beauty and the Beast” 
to illustrate this. 
Loosely based on 2003’s “Teen Titans,” 
originally an action-comedy-drama show, 
“Teen Titans Go!” is a Cartoon Network ani-
mated show about the comedic high jinks of 
the super powered squad known as the Teen 
Titans. While the new show may have enough 
jokes and wackiness to entertain children, 
many older children and adults who grew up 
with the original feel disrespected by the re-
make’s handling of the main characters. De-
spite having the same characters, setting and 
voice actors, “Teen Titans Go!” bears only 
superficial resemblance to the original. 
On the opposite end of the spectrum is 
the live-action remake of “Beauty and the 
Beast.” While some changes were made to 
the animated classic, the live-action version 
was largely true to the original with the same 
plot and way of telling the story. And that’s 
the problem. It covered the exact same ma-
terial as the original, the live-action remake 
had no reason to exist, and you can get near-
ly the same experience watching the original 
as the live-action version.
With that said, I’d like to make some sug-
gestions in place of the current remake of-
ferings:
A “Teen Titans Go!”-style “Guardians 
of the Galaxy” cartoon. “Teen Titans Go!” 
re-imagines the famous Teen Titans as a 
group of goofballs who get into wacky and 
immature high jinks. However, while the 
original “Teen Titans” used comedy quite 
often, the characters were never the knuck-
leheads the new version makes them out to 
be, leading to mischaracterization, as char-
acters’ personalities either change dramati-
cally or blend into each other as the plot 
demands. So instead of trying and failing to take serious and competent heroes 
in a comedic direction, use charac-
ters who are already comedic goof-
balls: the protagonists of Marvel’s 
“Guardians of the Galaxy.” In the 
right hands, a Guardians of the Gal-
axy cartoon could show the wacky 
antics of these unique characters 
as they bounce off each other and 
learn to get along, all while fight-
ing evil across the universe. Throw in some 
fast action and colorful animation to keep the 
kids’ attention, and you have gold.
“The Lion King” from the perspective 
of Scar. Disney’s “Beauty and the Beast” 
live-action movie was visually stunning, but 
narratively, the live-action remake hit many 
of the same notes as the original with few 
substantial additions. To avoid the “Lion 
King” live-action remake falling into the 
same trap, re-imagine it from the perspective 
of the fearsome villain Scar. While the origi-
nal “The Lion King” is regarded as a family 
classic with a few dark moments, a Scar-cen-
tered movie can lean fully into the darkness, 
examining the psychology behind Scar’s mo-
tivations and resentment. If you have any 
doubts left, Disney already re-imagined “The 
Lion King” from the perspective of comedic 
sidekicks Timon and Pumbaa in “The Lion 
King 1½,” so this wouldn’t be new ground.
The verdict on Illumination Animation’s 
2018 production “The Grinch” has been 
mixed, with some saying the adaptation 
isn’t necessary due to the lack of meaningful 
changes and the fact that the classic Dr. Seuss 
tale was already adapted in 2000’s “How the 
Grinch Stole Christmas.” Instead of retread-
ing old ground, let’s do a Christmas clas-
sic with almost no adaptations: “Frosty 
the Snowman.” First brought to life in a 
1969 animated special, Frosty hasn’t been 
touched since a 2005 direct-to-video sequel, 
and there has yet to be a major studio adap-
tation or remake. With only the original and 
its sequels to go off of, the possibilities are 
nearly endless, and I think audiences would 
be glad to see an old classic given new life.
These are just some ideas, of course, and 
there are loads more than this. But if any 
Hollywood producer is reading this and de-
cides to do one of these ideas, give me a call!
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Hollywood, you can do remakes, 
but please do them rightColumn
The greatest artists of 
our generation started 
without any follow-
ers, only an idea and 
people who began to 
believe in them — now it’s 
your turn to become the be-
lievers for a new crop of in-
novators.
Living in a college town, 
we have the unique oppor-
tunity to be around people 
who are just beginning to ﬁ  nd their 
passions. We all have goals that far ex-
ceed most people’s expectations, and 
that’s what makes supporting our com-
munity important. As a community of 
young adults, we have to support our 
local artists, musicians and scholars. 
I recently started listening to ﬂ  ip-
turn, a ﬂ  agship band of student-run 
Gainesville record company Swamp 
Records. The band plays in Gainesville 
all the time, and I’ve been invited to go 
to multiple shows, but I’ve never gone. 
I’d never wanted to spend money on a 
band I hadn’t listened to. 
Over the past week, I took the 
plunge and dove into ﬂ  ipturn’s Spotify 
page, and since then, I haven’t strayed 
far from its music. I realized I should’ve 
been supporting it for a while now — 
not just because I like its music, but 
because it's a local band, sponsored by 
a local, student-run company. 
Students are putting in hours and 
hours of work to create something 
they’re passionate about, and we often 
take that for granted. We tend to be 
stuck in our own world, focusing on 
clubs and projects to better our own 
careers, which is understandable. But 
sometimes it’s worth taking the time to 
appreciate the work of what someone 
else has created. People who invest 
time into projects they’re passionate 
about are often working on projects 
made to better our own lives, and 
we’re wasting their work if we don’t 
appreciate them.
Supporting local artists is the only 
way people will become success-
ful. Everyone thrives on an audience; 
whether you’re a biology major or a 
musician, audiences are essential to 
get a message across. Biology majors 
have research they’ve slaved over, and it needs to be read to make 
an impact on the world. Mu-
sicians need an audience to 
hear the messages they’ve 
written into their melodies. 
Messages and lessons are 
put into nearly everything 
people create, and the only 
way for people to learn is to 
pay attention. 
Our community of twen-
ty-somethings is constantly 
creating and innovating to not only 
express things they believe in but to 
create a change in the world. There are 
a million voices that are all trying to 
say something through some sort of 
medium, and every once in a while it’s 
worth stopping to listen. 
Gainesville is full of life and art, 
you just have to be willing to look for 
it. Every semester, new artists and in-
novators are creating projects they’ve 
poured their souls into. Everyone starts 
out small, but it’s the people who have 
taken the time to support them who al-
low a person or group to grow. 
We are a town of young people who 
have the power to change lives and 
not just through our own projects. We 
can change lives by simply listening to 
a local band or going to an art show. 
You have the ability to start conversa-
tions about someone’s art, which start 
a whole chain of new conversations. 
Spreading messages is how people will 
become successful, and it’s so eas-
ily done. A simple Snapchat or short 
tweet, and all of your followers know 
about an artist they’d never heard of.  
Engaging with others and our com-
munity is the way for people to be-
come successful, but it’s also a way for 
you to become successful. Chances are 
if you are interacting and supporting 
someone, they’ll do the same for you. 
It’s a two-way street, built on support 
and communication. Don’t let some-
one’s work go to waste. Go out and lis-
ten to the messages that people are vy-
ing for you to hear, and maybe they’ll 
do the same for you.
Michaela Mulligan is a UF journal-
ism sophomore. Her column normally 
appears on Wednesdays.Want more like Petty? Root for 
your hometown-hero artistsColumn
Michaela
Mulligan
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgAdam’s Rib Co. 
Bakery Mill & Deli
Big Island Bowls
Hurricane BTW
Daily Green
Emiliano’s Cafe
Flow SpaceGigi’s Cupcakes
Grill Fresh
Leonardo’s 706
Lucky’s Supermarket
MidiCi The Neapolitan 
Pizza Company
Original American Kitchen 
(OAK)Sweet Buns
Sweet Dreams
The Gator Store
Uppercrust
Vale Food Co. 
Ward’s Supermarket8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
Julia Mitchem / Alligator Contributor
Jose Nieves, 27, who graduated from the Culinary Institute of America in New 
York, and Miguel Cardona, 26, who graduated from the UF School of Architecture, 
started a bottled cold brew business in 2015 called brio! 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Reagan Hollan, a 21-year-old UF health science senior, (right) and John David Hooker, an Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences development officer, (left) tweeted photos of their Thanksgiving meals with #GatorPlate 
to raise money for Field and Fork Pantry.
PEOPLE USED 
#GATORPLATE 
TO TAG THEIR 
THANKSGIVING POSTS.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
UF community members 
filled their Twitter time-
lines with pictures of turkey, 
mashed potatoes and pump-
kin pie to raise money for the 
Field and Fork Pantry. 
People could post a picture 
of their Thanksgiving plate us-
ing the hashtag #GatorPlate 
and share it on Twitter or Ins-
tagram, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. For every post, 
UF President Kent Fuchs vol-
unteered to donate $1 of his 
own money to the Field and 
Fork Pantry.
Students from the College 
of Journalism and Commu-
nications’ Advanced Social 
Media class came up with the 
idea, Orlando said. The class 
asked Fuchs if he’d give a dol-lar per post, and he said yes. 
“The overall sentiment 
is that Gator Nation is very 
thankful to have a president 
who cares,” Orlando said. 
Fuchs offered to donate 
up to $10,000, but the exact 
amount is unknown as of Sun-
day night, Orlando said. Based 
on photos, the final bill adds 
up to about $1,075, he said. 
The hashtag was used 773 
times on Twitter and 302 times 
on Instagram, Orlando said. 
The total number of tweets 
and retweets was 1,486.
Michele Kuhn, a 22-year-
old UF alumna, made sure 
her plate of mac and cheese 
and creamed corn wasn’t too 
messy for her photo. She said 
she hopes the hashtag will 
help people learn more about 
the pantry.  
“It was a great event that I 
hope becomes a UF tradition,” 
she said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.org#GatorPlate: UF President Kent Fuchs to donate about $1K   
THE BOTTLED COLD BREW 
BRAND HAS MORE THAN 60 
PARTNERS IN GAINESVILLE.
By Julia Mitchem
Alligator Contributing Writer
Third-grader Miguel Cardona was sitting in 
class when the shy, puppy-eyed Jose Nieves 
walked in without knowing a word of English. 
But language wasn’t a barrier for them as 
the two bonded over their mutual start in a 
new country. 
Cardona is from Colombia and Nieves is 
from Puerto Rico. About 1,000 miles apart, the 
friends immigrated to Ocala where they met. 
Now, nearly 20 years later, they’re business 
partners for brio! Cold Brew, a bottled cold 
brew coffee company that has more than 60 
partners in Gainesville, including Lucky’s Mar-
ket, Hurricane BTW, Grill Fresh, Leonardo’s 
706 and more.
Nieves got his start with coffee when his 
grandmother made coffee in a Moka pot every 
day. Nieves sipped on coffee as he grew up.
However, he said he didn’t become a true 
caffeine fiend until he went to school at the 
Culinary Institute of America in New York. 
While living in New York, Nieves worked 
at Starbucks for a few months and began to ap-
preciate coffee as an ingredient and as a busi-
ness. He said he wanted to make a career out 
of it and learned everything he could through 
YouTube videos, working for a coffee roaster 
and going to coffee tastings.
Cardona started to appreciate coffee while 
growing up in Colombia. He said it was a large 
part of his childhood and culture. But he said 
he found a new passion for coffee because of 
the long nights he spent studying at the UF 
School of Architecture.
Although Nieves and Cardona went through 
different phases in their lives, they both al-
ways wanted to start a business together. They 
didn’t know what they wanted to do for a long 
time, but they knew they wanted to build an 
empire together. After graduating from UF in 2015, Cardona 
said he felt like he was in limbo. Nieves came 
up with an idea to start a cold brew company 
named brio! while in New York, and Cardona 
convinced Nieves to move down to Gainesville 
for the culture and affordable rent. 
But Nieves was hesitant at first. For the first 
few weeks, Nieves left his suitcases in the cor-
ner of his room just in case things in Florida 
didn’t work out.
While at home, Cardona finalized the came 
up the logo for the cold brew bottles. He im-
mediately called Nieves at his job in the Drag-
onfly Sushi & Sake Company in downtown 
Gainesville to break the news. 
“We finally felt on the right track,” Cardona 
said. 
Over a two-year span, Nieves and Car-
dona invested more than $15,000 together. 
They started with only one batch of coffee per 
month when they began Dec. 1, 2015. Three 
years later, they’ve tripled in volume.
The brand, brio!, is unique because it’s a 
single-origin coffee that sources from the jun-
gles of Cañon de las Hermosas in Colombia, 
according to the company’s website. It takes 
21 days for the coffee beans to be harvested 
and then created into a hand-bottled cold 
brew coffee on store shelves. Harvesting cof-
fee beans from a roaster in Colombia ensures a 
fresh harvest all year.
“Our catchphrase is ‘wake up, the world 
needs you,’” Cardona said. “It’s a self-empow-
ered idea. We want this coffee to be a boost for 
people to get up and do whatever it is they’re 
aspiring to do.”
The company name came from Nieves’ fa-
ther, who said it often while growing up on a 
horse farm in Ocala. As the oldest male in his 
family besides his dad, Nieves said he had a lot 
of responsibility and had to support his family. 
“My dad always said whenever you work, 
you work with brio,” Nieves said. “You work 
like you mean it — with purpose, with energy, 
like you care. It’s a word I always took with 
me.”brio! Cold Brew reaches third business anniversary 
HERE’S SOME PLACES IN GAINESVILLE WHERE YOU CAN FIND BRIO! COLD BREW:MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police Chief Tony 
Jones promoted 29 new members 
to the Gainesville Police Depart-
ment on Nov. 13.
This is the largest number of 
promotions the agency has seen 
in recent years, said GPD spokes-
person Lt. Jorge Campos. The po-
sitions included nine corporals, 
11 sergeants, four lieutenants and 
four civilian members who work 
in technical positions.
“This is a new and exciting 
time for the agency,” Campos 
said. “We have new supervisors 
put into new positions that will 
learn the nuances of their posi-
tions and effect change.” 
The agency has seen several 
people come and go, Campos 
said. At least 14 ofﬁ  cers have 
retired over the past couple of 
years, and the agency has been 
hiring more members since 2015.
In the past ﬁ  ve years, GPD 
has hired 116 ofﬁ  cers and lost 
128 sworn ofﬁ  cers to retirement, 
resignations, terminations and transfers to other agencies, for-
mer GPD spokesperson Ofc. Ben 
Tobias told The Alligator in Sep-
tember. 
New members go through 
background checks and an exten-
sive selection process, Campos 
said. Applicants must undergo 
oral interviews and take written 
exams.
Lisa Scott, 33, was one of the 
11 promoted to sergeant. She’s 
worked for GPD for almost seven 
years, she said. She will ﬁ  nish her 
duties as accreditation manager 
before assuming her new position 
next year.
While the tests were nerve-
wracking, Scott said she felt hon-
ored to be accepted. At the cer-
emony, Scott’s parents, extended 
family and her GPD family were 
there to support her. 
“We’re all excited to be the fu-
ture of the agency, and it’s nice to 
travel up the ranks,” Scott said. 
“It’s just a proud moment for all 
of us.”
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgGainesville Police chief 
promotes 29 membersBy Alexandria Ng
Alligator Contributing Writer
One UF student was tired of re-
lying on the data UF and Student 
Government gave to him.  
Nathan Morse, a 21-year-old 
UF statistics and political science 
senior, created the Student Re-
search Institute, a new student or-
ganization, this Fall to serve as a 
watchdog for SG and UF ofﬁ  cials. 
After using random sample 
surveys representative of UF’s 
population to gather student 
opinions, the data will hopefully 
inform decision making, said 
Morse, a former UF Student Sen-
ate minority party leader. 
Despite Morse’s assertion, 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email that the data the 
university used is objective. 
“Any data we collect about 
the university for use in policy-
making decisions is objective and 
nonpartisan,” Orlando said. “I 
can’t recall a time when a deci-
sion about keeping the university 
open or closing it was ever based 
on student opinion.”
The student-run think tank has 
grown to 30 members and has 
started several projects, including 
surveying students from different 
colleges to get a picture of cultural 
and mental health needs, study-
ing gentriﬁ  cation in Gainesville 
and conducting general surveys 
on campus issues, Morse said. 
Organization members won’t 
accept money from SG, Morse 
said. What little funding the insti-tute needs will come from mem-
ber donations. 
In the future, Morse wants the 
organization to be a source of un-
biased data analyses and campus 
investigations. 
Such investigations could in-
clude cases like when white na-
tionalist Richard Spencer came 
to speak at UF in October 2017. 
Morse believes students should 
have been polled for opinions on 
campus safety and whether or not 
classes should have been can-
celed.
“We could’ve caused some 
real change since it was such a 
sensitive topic,” he said.
The organization will have a 
peer review board of students and 
professors that will overlook the 
research to ensure accuracy and 
fairness. Morse said the data will 
be unaffected by personal party 
afﬁ  liations. 
“Most data analyses now are 
highly politicized,” Morse said. 
“The people analyzing the data 
usually have a stake in it.”
Student member Ash Vyas, a 
19-year-old UF computer engi-
neering sophomore who has no 
party afﬁ  liation, said he sees the 
beneﬁ  t of collecting independent 
data to incite change.
“We’re helping add credibility 
to our data and ﬁ  ndings by being 
nonpartisan,” Vyas said. “Both 
parties should be in support of 
this because it can help all plat-
forms and shed some light on 
things both parties are trying to 
advance.”New student-run think 
tank started for SG, UF 
accountability10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $804/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Designated drivers are the greatestGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    12-
3-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no 
responsibility for injury or loss arising 
from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who 
responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-1413 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!FINANCIALLY SET FOR LIFE!
Never Be Broke Again.  Discover Why it 
Works.  So shocking I had to look 
www.followthetrendworld.com    11-26-18-
4-20
LOSE ONE DRESS SIZE
IN 7 DAYS.
GO TO WEBSITE NOW-
https://1644089.site123.me/      12-5-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Pam Amick Klawitter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/26/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, November 26, 2018
ACROSS
1 Identical
5 “Mountain” soft 
drinks
9 Burn the midnight 
oil at college
13 Urgent request
14 Forgo the church 
ceremony
16 Lo-cal
17 Concern after 
heavy rain
19 Inflated ones 
often clash
20 Kinda
21 Airport near Tel 
Aviv
22 Isn’t feeling up 
to par
23 Like G-rated 
movies
27 Natural soother
28 Salon jobs
29 Singer Jimmy or 
actor James
32 Litter member or 
user
34 Sewn 
connections
38 Bruins legend
39 Shore dinner
42 “Not happenin’”
43 Pace for Paganini
45 Noon on a 
garden dial
46 Like Godiva
47 Choir voice
50 Tool for a duel
52 American 
Revolution leader
58 Woman’s name 
often spelled 
without its “e”
59 Progressive 
spokeswoman
60 Airport concern
62 Multi-platinum 
Diamond
63 Very loud, 
musically ... its 
symbol hints 
at four puzzle 
answers
66 Boarding site
67 Cosmologist Carl
68 Chicago 
commuter 
system, familiarly
69 Snow 
conveyance
70 Earns after taxes
71 Doomed
DOWN
1 Sun protection 
nos.
2 __ a sudden3 Stiller’s partner
4 __ Kodak
5 Bit of OED info
6 Building add-on
7 Literary Virginia
8 Clues for a 
bloodhound
9 Detox diet
10 Unbending
11 Coral island
12 Having lots of 
loose ends
15 Vedder of Pearl 
Jam
18 Flag down, as 
a cab
24 Focuses of 
activity
25 Passing words?
26 Website for 
handmade art
29 Morse code unit
30 Palindromic 
“before”
31 Drew Brees’ 
asset
33 Texter’s 
gratitude
35 Gasteyer of 
“SNL”
36 Draw graffiti on, 
say
37 Noted seashell 
seller
39 Decide not to 
call, in poker40 Feudal holding
41 Seacrest 
morning  
co-host
44 Like some den 
walls
46 Directives
48 Spats
49 Borrowed, as a 
library book
51 Predicted takeoff 
hrs.
52 Dracula’s 
canines53 Tatum or Ryan
54 Bring together
55 New York’s 
Ausable Chasm, 
e.g.
56 Yale founder 
Yale
57 Budget noodle 
dish
61 Egg-white 
omelet’s lack
64 Bit of body ink
65 Shoo-__: easy 
winners
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/20/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 20, 2018
ACROSS
1 Worked off 
nervous energy, 
say
6 Grounded fast jet
9 Like imitators
14 Maine town on 
the Penobscot
15 Letter after sigma
16 Food from 
heaven
17 Traditional Easter 
dinner
19 “... better __ 
worse”: wedding 
vow words
20 Wedding rental
21 “Not bad, not 
great”
22 Cuts anew
23 “In your dreams!”
25 Steinway seat, 
perhaps
27 Biological 
mapping 
subjects
29 By the seashore
30 Garden tool
31 Scientist Wernher 
__ Braun
32 Undercover 
agent
33 Ohio’s has wheat 
and arrows
38 Transmission 
type: Abbr.
41 Line on many a 
receipt
42 Hold (onto)
46 Take advance 
orders for
49 Colder than cold
51 Boating safety 
feature
53 Former couples
54 Curly-horned 
goats
55 Mama’s mama
57 Vietnam New 
Year
58 Renaissance fair 
garment
59 Glancing blow 
on the road, 
and a hint to the 
puzzle’s circles
61 Still soft, as 
concrete
62 Sci-fi vehicle
63 Golf targets
64 Jury members
65 Wooden pin
66 Wide-mouthed 
pitchersDOWN
1 Canoe carrying
2 Turned on
3 Cajolery
4 Running trio?
5 Colon 
components
6 Equilibrium
7 Polynesian island 
nation
8 “Rub-a-dub-dub” 
vessel
9 Microscopic 
organism
10 Analyzes 
grammatically
11 Babies
12 Mt. Hood hood?
13 How scolding 
words may be 
spoken
18 Leisurely gait
22 ABC exec 
Arledge
24 Enemies
26 Cpls. and sgts.
28 Muscular 2017 
“Dancing With 
the Stars” 
competitor
31 Distress
34 Book of maps
35 Gymnast’s 
powder36 Vatican vestment
37 Lounge (around)
38 Call it quits
39 Chicago 
newspaper
40 The “D” of 
“NORAD”
43 Silk or cashmere
44 Climbing vine
45 Snack cake 
maker with the 
Nasdaq symbol 
TWNK47 More appealing
48 Spits out, as a 
DVD
49 Old salt
50 __ Reader: 
eclectic digest
52 Chef’s cutter
56 Tennis great 
Arthur
59 “How’s it 
hangin’?”
60 __ factor: 
impressive quality
1.  Heritage 
1.  Military unit5.  ____ opening 
2.  Kelsey ____6.  Large home
3.  Showy solo passage 7.  Fanciful 
4.  PowerGCLEYA
INOELGNDRGA
AMORN
EMRRGAM
DAZANCEMRDEYA
GYNEERANSWERS: 1A-Legacy  5A-Grand  6A-Manor  7A-Dreamy
1D-Legion  2D-Grammer  3D-Cadenza  4D-Energy  B-Normandy11-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This region makes up about 
5 percent of France.
BONUS1. In 2015, Alex Rodriguez became 
the fourth major-league player to hit 
a home run as a teenager and as a 
40-year-old. Name two of the other 
three to do it.
2. Name four of the six starting 
pitchers that the Pittsburgh Pirates 
used to win the 1971 World Series.
3. How many people have coached 
the Notre Dame football team for at 
least six seasons?
4. Five centers have averaged at 
least 12 points, 11 rebounds and five 
assists per game for an NBA season. 
Name four of them.
5. How many NHL All-Star Games 
has Pittsburgh Penguins star Sidney 
Crosby played in?
6. Who holds the record for most 
stages won in cycling’s Tour de 
France?
7. In 2015, Lydia Ko became the 
youngest player (18 years, 4 months) 
in women’s golf to win an LPGA 
major. Who had been the youngest?
Answers
1. Ty Cobb, Gary Sheffield and 
Rusty Staub.
2. Dock Ellis, Bob Johnson, Steve 
Blass, Luke Walker, Nelson Briles 
and Bob Moose.
3. Seven — Knute Rockne (13 sea-
sons), Lou Holtz (11), Frank Leahy 
(11), Ara Parseghian (11), Elmer 
Layden (seven), Dan Devine (six) and 
Brian Kelly (entering his seventh sea -
son).
4. Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem 
Abdul-Jabbar, Joakim Noah, Bill 
Russell and Bill Walton.
5. One, in 2007.
6. Belgium’s Eddy Merckx, with 34.
7. Morgan Pressel was 18 years, 10 
months old when she won a major in 
2007.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 22, 2016 King Features Weekly Service20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesUF defensive lineman Jachai Polite 
was named the Walter Camp 
National Defensive Player of the 
Week. He recorded six tackles, 2.5 
sacks and forced a fumble in Florida’s 
win against FSU.Gators volleyball finds out NCAA tourney opponents
Florida will face Florida State in the first round of the tournament on Thurs-
day. The winner of that game will face the winner of No. 13 seed UCF and 
Florida Gulf Coast on Friday, pg. 15Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Morgan Meets the Eye / Column
“I don’t want to say the 
wrong thing, but…”
That’s how UF safety 
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson 
started off his postgame 
press conference following 
a 41-14 drubbing of Florida 
State. Those were his first 
public words after trying to 
plant a flag square in the 
middle of the Seminole logo at midfield 
of Doak Campbell Stadium. Those are the 
words we all use when we’re about to 
spill some tea. 
Gardner-Johnson had spent the previ-
ous four hours trolling FSU in different 
ways. On one play, he pointed toward 
the opposing sideline and motioned at the 
Seminole formation. He was trying to tell 
FSU coach Willie Taggart his team was 
missing a player.
“I’m like, ‘How y’all think y’all can 
come beat us, but y’all not prepared?’” he 
said. 
It was a masterclass in gamesmanship. 
It was Michael Jordan telling Dikembe 
Mutombo, “This one’s for you,” before 
sinking a free throw with his eyes closed. It was Cam Newton shout-
ing out to Clay Matthews, 
“You’ve been watching film 
too, huh? That’s cool, watch 
this,” then throwing a touch-
down pass in front of him. 
Gardner-Johnson’s an-
tics carried on as he reached 
midfield after the game, gi-
ant flag in hand with the in-
tention of claiming that spit of land in the 
name of UF. If not for several factors, he 
would’ve gotten away with it.
For one, Taggart had his fist wrapped 
around the flagpole, impeding Gardner-
Johnson’s quest as the safety smiled back 
at him. There was the swarm of FSU 
coaches and players surrounding the logo. 
And then there’s UF coach Dan Mul-
len. He’s usually a fun guy. He has given 
a press conference with a victory cigar 
after wrapping up a 5-7 season at Missis-
sippi State. 
Not Saturday. He left his on-field inter-
view with ESPN to insist Gardner-John-
son and his teammates go celebrate with Free Chauncey Gardner-Johnson
Morgan McMullen
Twitter: @MorganMcMuffin“I know it’s tough to play quarterback at 
the University of Florida,” Mullen said, “and 
everybody’s got pretty high standards. But first 
year in this system, as a sophomore, he’s put 
up some pretty good numbers this year.”
Co-MVPs: wide receivers Trevon Grimes 
and Van Jefferson
The success of the Gators’ offense against 
the Seminoles was underscored by the perfor-
mances of the two transfer wideouts. Sopho-
more Trevon Grimes and Jefferson combined 
for nine catches and 210 of the Gators’ yards 
through the air.   
Grimes replaced the injured Tyrie Cleve-
land, who suffered a broken collarbone in the 
first quarter, and led Florida’s receivers with a 
career-high 118 yards.
Jefferson had a touchdown catch in the 
third quarter when he shook an FSU defensive 
back to the ground to get wide open for the 
score.
“When they called the play I knew I had it. I 
was going to score,” Jefferson said. “It was me 
and the safety one-on-one. I was supposed to 
bend in but he was too far inside so I just dou-
ble moved him and went over the top of him.”
Grimes and Jefferson were a part of all five 
of the Gators’ passing plays of 20-plus yards: 
Jefferson’s 39-yard catch in the first quarter, a 
54-yard Grimes reception in the second quarter 
(the longest reception of his career), a 22-yard 
touchdown reception by Grimes in the third, a 
38-yard touchdown catch by Jefferson in the third and a 20-yard reception by Grimes in the 
fourth.
Co-MVPs: defensive ends Jachai Polite 
and Jabari Zuniga
Florida got a near perfect performance out 
of a defense that has gotten exposed at dif-
ferent points in the season. And few on that side of the ball made a bigger impact than the 
dynamic pass rushing tandem in Jachai Polite 
and Jabari Zuniga. 
Polite entered the contest ranked third in 
the FBS in forced fumbles, and he needed just 
two-and-a-half quarters on Saturday to log an-
other one. 
The junior swiped the ball out of the hands of FSU quarterback Deondre Francois midway 
through the third quarter to set up the Grimes 
touchdown on the very next play.
“That’s a man against boys,” safety Chaunc-
ey Gardner-Johnson said of Polite. “Jachai, a 
lot of people see Jachai as just a one-down guy. 
But today you can see Jachai affected the quar-
terback and the runners in different ways just 
by being there.”
Polite and Zuniga were largely the reason 
Florida was able to succeed in containing the 
dangerous FSU tailback, Cam Akers, and keep 
the pressure on Francois throughout the game.
Francois was sacked five times by the 
Gators’ defense, and Polite and Zuniga ac-
counted for 3.5 of those.
Honorable Mentions:
Left tackle Martez Ivey
The left tackle played a huge role in the 
run blocking and had a critical block in which 
he whirled an FSU defensive lineman to the 
ground to open a lane for tailback Lamical 
Perine. It led to a 74-yard touchdown run.
Running backs Lamical Perine and Jor-
dan Scarlett
The backfield duo combined for 217 of Flor-
ida 282 rushing yards, and they led the Gators 
to their fifth game of 200-plus rushing yards 
this year.
Alanis Thames is a staff writer at 
The Alligator. Follow her on Twitter @
alanisthames and contact her at athames@
alligator.org.FOOTBALL,  from pg 1Grimes, Jefferson combine for 210 yards and two TDs
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Feleipe Franks threw for 254 yards and three touchdowns Saturday.
 MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Florida’s Thanksgiving week jaunt down to 
the Caribbean didn’t quite go as expected.
The Gators had their fair share of opportuni-
ties to down Oklahoma in the first round of the 
Battle 4 Atlantis tournament, but missed free 
throws and rebounding deficiencies cost the team 
a tough 65-60 loss.
They bounced back against a porous Stanford 
defense to the tune of a 72-49 win, but in the 
third game against Butler, a disastrous second 
half of shooting — in which UF only hit eight of 
its 28 shots — ensured Florida would drop its sec-
ond winnable game of the tournament.
Now the Gators (3-3) return to Gainesville sit-
ting at .500 and lacking a signature win. Tues-
day’s game against North Florida (2-4) won’t 
provide them with a chance to beat a tourna-
ment-quality team, but it will give UF something 
it desperately needs — a breather.
Coach Mike White called Florida’s rigorous 
non-conference schedule “ridiculous” before the 
season started, and it’s easy to see why. All three 
of the Gators’ losses have come against teams 
that could reasonably find themselves in the Big Dance come March.
Playing three games in three days clearly took 
a toll on the team, especially considering the in-
experience coming off the bench. A few days off 
before a much easier matchup could be exactly 
what UF needs.
Each time White’s squad has been punched 
in the mouth this season, whether it was from 
an FSU defense that looked a step faster than the 
Gators all night or from a stellar scorer like OU’s 
Christian James, it has faltered. 
Florida has one more chance to get things 
right against UNF before the meat of the non-
conference schedule begins, and getting things 
right starts with the offense.
Lengthy scoring droughts have plagued the 
Gators throughout White’s tenure, often coming 
at the most inopportune times. It cost UF several 
games a year ago, and it might have cost Florida 
a big win against the Butler Bulldogs on Friday.
The Ospreys out of the Atlantic Sun have re-
gressed since their first NCAA tournament ap-
pearance in 2015. Coach Matthew Driscoll’s pro-
gram made it to the NIT in 2016, but has had 
losing records the last two years.
This meeting will mark the second year in a UNF provides tune-up game for UF
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
VOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The 2018 regular season was predictably 
unpredictable for a year where the Florida 
volleyball team replaced four graduating All-
Americans who led it to a 2017 NCAA Cham-
pionship appearance with six freshmen and 
a transfer.
Florida ﬁ  nished with a 24-6 record and 
will travel Thursday to Orlando to play its in-
state rival, Florida State, in the ﬁ  rst round of 
the NCAA Tournament. The winner of that 
match will play the winner of No. 13 seed 
UCF and Florida Gulf Coast on Friday.
Let’s look at some of the highlights of the 
regular season:
Revenge over Nebraska
Instead of easing her young team into a 
soft schedule, Florida coach Mary Wise opt-
ed to throw it into the ﬁ  re and see where it 
stood to begin the 2018 campaign.
The Gators opened their season on Aug. 
24 against the team who beat them in the 
National Championship eight months prior: 
then-No 2 Nebraska. 
Wise was not shy with her new weap-
ons and unveiled the Gatorade High School 
Player of the Year: outside hitter Thayer Hall.
Hall exploded in her debut, crushing 20 
kills on 60 swings while she dug six balls on 
defense. The freshman’s performance lifted 
Florida over Nebraska in the emotional, four-
set revenge match.
Hall put the country on notice with her 
performance and set the tone for what her 
inaugural season would look like.Fourteen straight
Wise made it clear early that her team 
needed to peak during conference play when 
it was most important. 
When doubt began to creep in after a dev-
astating loss to unranked Northern Arizona 
on Sept. 7, the UF coach remained optimistic.
“Everything is so brand new with this 
team,” Wise said after the loss. “There are so 
many positives to celebrate, but we realize 
we are a work in progress. The theme of this 
year is growth.”The team remained conﬁ  dent behind its 
coach and began to peak during conference 
play as Wise had hoped. 
The Gators rattled off 14-consecutive wins 
that was capped off by a 17-kill performance 
by North Carolina transfer Holly Carlton in a 
four-set victory over Ole Miss. 
The win arguably marked the high point 
of a season where UF won 15 SEC matches.
Sigh of relief
The Gators ﬁ  nished the season just like they started it: with a win. The team wel-
comed South Carolina to the O’Connell Cen-
ter on Friday and honored its seniors on Se-
nior Night with a sweep over the Gamecocks. 
Sophomore outside hitter Paige Hammons 
led the way with 13 kills on 34 swings. She 
was helped by junior middle blocker Rachael 
Kramer, who had eight kills and ﬁ  ve blocks. 
But the biggest storyline of the match was 
Hall, who returned to the starting lineup af-
ter she missed the previous seven matches 
with an undisclosed injury. UF fans, coaches 
and players all breathed a sigh of relief as 
they watched Hall return to play for the ﬁ  rst 
time since Oct. 21 against Missouri. 
The 6-foot-3 freshman played sparingly 
in all three sets and logged six kills and a 
couple of digs. 
It is unknown if Hall will be 100 percent 
for the match against Florida State, but fans 
can feel a little more optimistic that she can 
permanently return after her mysterious ab-
sence from the court.
The sweep over South Carolina marked 
the 28th-straight season under Wise where 
the team ﬁ  nished with at least 24 wins. 
Hammons, Kramer and middle blocker 
Taelor Kellum each earned a spot on the All-
SEC Team while Hall was named to the SEC 
All-Freshman Team after she averaged 2.97 
kills per set and 1.93 digs per set during the 
season. 
Follow Dylan Rudolph on Twitter at @
dyrudolph and contact him at drudolph@al-
ligator.org.Looking back: Florida’s regular-season highlights
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Freshman Thayer Hall leads the Gators with 2.97 kills per set this season.
O’B-Wan Kenobi / Column
The Florida Gators basketball team has gotten off 
to an...ah...interesting start. Probably not the one it 
was hoping for.
The team is 3-3 as it currently stands, and it has 
some very glaring issues. Let’s take a dive into some 
of those issues and play “fact or ﬁ  ction.”
Claim: Florida will continue its shooting 
struggles
The Gators are shooting 44.1 percent from the 
ﬂ  oor and 31.9 percent from three. For a team that’s 
heaving an average of 22.5 three-pointers per game, 31.9 per-
cent isn’t ideal.
There are games where the team shows out — like against 
Stanford, where it shot 46.7 percent from deep — but much of 
the time, it hasn’t shot well.
Here’s the thing: UF is getting open shots. Not every look, 
but if it hits half of its open looks, Florida is probably looking 
at closer to 40 percent as opposed to 30.
And if it can average 40 percent from three, it would prob-
ably be looking at 5-1 as opposed to 3-3.
Will the Gators eventually ﬁ  nd its stroke? Probably. They’re 
going to be a streaky team. There are going to be lots of days 
where they just aren’t there. But there are going to be some fun 
ones to watch, too.
Verdict: Mild Fiction
Claim: Rebounding will be a storyline deeper in the 
season
UF got absolutely embarrassed by Oklahoma in the Battle 4 
Atlantis Tournament on Wednesday. Sure, it only lost 65-60, 
but the obvious reason was due to the lack of rebounding from 
the Gators.
The Sooners grabbed 48 boards in the contest. Florida 
pulled in 34.At some level, the lack of size from Florida is 
going to be a problem. When its tallest player (that 
consistently plays) is only 6-foot-9 and he’s going 
up against guys who are seven-plus feet tall, he’s 
inevitably going to miss a few.
But when their opponents’ wing players are 
crashing the glass with intent, the Gators sit back 
and allow it to happen.
Against teams like La Salle or Charleston South-
ern, they can get away with it. But when they run 
into an Oklahoma, it’s going to be a huge problem, 
and one that doesn’t look like it’s going to be ﬁ  xed soon.
Verdict: Fact
Claim: Florida should be worried about missing the 
NCAA Tournament
Another interesting one. It’s pretty early to hit the panic but-
ton, but coach Mike White’s hand should be hovering over it.
Florida is a team that has very clear deﬁ  ciencies, the big-
gest being its lack of a shot. The team looks devoid of energy 
when senior guards KeVaughn Allen and Jalen Hudson are on 
the court.
When freshman guard Noah Locke and sophomore guard 
Deaundrae Ballard are inserted instead of the two seniors, the 
Gators ﬁ  nd life.
Ballard is shooting 55.8 percent from the ﬁ  eld and 42.1 per-
cent from three — both the team’s best from players with at 
least 16 attempts — while Locke is at 39.3 percent from three.
For measure, Hudson is at 19 percent from three and Allen 
sits at 23.8 percent from deep.
That shouldn’t be happening, especially when Hudson is 
an NBA prospect.
White needs to ﬁ  nd a way to get his seniors to buy into his 
system and program. Right now, they look like they don’t want 
to be out there.Verdict: Fact
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer. Follow him on Twitter  
@THEChrisOB and contact him at cobrien@alligator.org.Playing ‘Fact or Fiction’ with UF basketball
Chris O'Brien
Twitter: @THEChrisOB
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Freshman guard Andrew Nembhard is second on the 
team in three-point shooting percentage (.467).
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2018
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsUF fans and “show some class.”
Mullen was entirely wrong. Gard-
ner-Johnson should’ve slammed that 
ﬂ  ag into the ground with all the pent-
up rage ﬁ  ve years of losing to your ri-
val will allow. Mullen is a fun coach 
with a fun offense to watch, but his 
priorities were out of whack on this 
call. 
I get that there’s a “culture change” 
going on within UF’s locker room. I 
get that Gardner-Johnson’s actions 
probably aren’t the image a head 
coach wants to be connected with, es-
pecially when it’s all happening in the 
background of your interview. 
He should’ve let it happen anyway. 
This game is all about that, and so am 
I. Patrick Henry once said, “Give me 
Baker Mayﬁ  eld trying to plant an Okla-
homa ﬂ  ag in Ohio State’s turf ﬁ  eld, or 
give me death.” Or something like 
that. 
Of course FSU coaches and players 
would feel differently.
“That’s disrespectful,” Taggart said 
afterward. “Especially right while we 
were standing right there.” 
Excuse me? That’s exactly why 
Gardner-Johnson should’ve done it. 
Everything about this rivalry is disre-
spectful. Besides, think of the children!
“It kind of hurt me,” Gardner-John-
son said, “because I really couldn’t 
plant it at midﬁ  eld. Every year, every 
time they beat us at our home ﬁ  eld, 
they’ve always got the gator head.”
Fair is fair. 
Morgan McMullen is the sports 
editor at The Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @MorganMcMufﬁ  n and con-
tact him at mmcmullen@alligator.org
 COLUMN,  from pg 14
row that UNF will travel to UF. The 
Gators won last year’s game 108-68.
Senior guard Jalen Hudson 
scored 12 points off the bench in 
that game. The Virginia Tech trans-
fer asserted himself as a trustworthy 
shooter early last season with per-
formances like he had against the 
Ospreys. Now, he is entrenched as the vocal leader of his team.
However, sometimes even the 
leaders need a wake-up call. White 
chose to start true freshman guard 
Noah Locke over Hudson against 
Stanford and Butler. Locke demon-
strated some of his sharpshooting 
acumen in the Bahamas, scoring 
16 points total in his two starts and 
shooting 4-for-11 from behind the 
arc.
Hudson, meanwhile, has strug-gled to ﬁ  nd the court all year. His 
18.2 minutes per game are the 
lowest of any Florida starter. The 
Gators’ go-to scorer is only averag-
ing seven points per contest.
UNF’s defense should be exploit-
able for the Gators. The Ospreys are 
giving up 78 points a game, includ-
ing allowances of 87 and 89 points 
in losses to Penn State and Wright 
State, respectively. If Hudson is go-
ing to ﬁ  nd his stroke before confer-ence play, it has to happen against 
North Florida.
Things don’t get any easier for 
the Gators in the month of Decem-
ber. They take on West Virginia at 
Madison Square Garden on Dec. 4 
and No. 11 Michigan State at home 
on Dec. 8.
Given the erratic and experimen-
tal rotations White has employed so 
far, as well as the fact that three true 
freshmen are contributing signiﬁ  -cantly, Florida is a team that should 
improve with time.
But if it doesn’t improve quickly, 
it could squander all of its oppor-
tunities for quality non-conference 
wins. And if the Gators go winless 
against tournament-caliber oppo-
nents, they just may play them-
selves out of March Madness before 
they can hit their stride.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Guard Noah Locke started two games in the Bahamas and scored 16 pointsSTAFF REPORT
UCF
This would’ve been the most 
desireable matchup for the Gators 
a week ago. It would’ve been a 
chance for UF to lay claim to the 
best team in the state. It would’ve 
given the Knights their toughest 
opponent since a disheartened Au-
burn team on New Year’s Day. 
“I would love to play them,” UF 
linebacker David Reese said. “Own 
the state, you know? It’s an oppor-
tunity we don’t get every year, but since that opportunity might be 
ahead of us, we’re excited for it.”
That all fell by the wayside as 
the second-best Hawaiian quarter-
back in the nation fell victim to a 
gruesome knee injury in his team’s 
38-10 win over South Florida. Now 
if Florida draws UCF in a bowl 
game, it’ll feel a little more empty. 
At least it will for the fans. 
The Knights would still bring 
the nation’s longest winning streak 
and the No. 7 scoring offense into the matchup. 
— Morgan McMullen
Washington State
Florida and Washington State 
have never met on the gridiron, 
which would make this an intrigu-
ing New Year’s Six matchup. 
The Cougars (10-2) don’t usu-
ally come to mind when you think 
about teams with rich college 
football tradition, but Mike Leach 
created a winning culture at this 
program and his 2018 team is one 
of the best in WSU history. 
WSU won eight games or more 
in each of the last four seasons 
and has been bowl eligible in ﬁ  ve 
of the last six campaigns under 
Leach. 
Senior quarterback Gardner 
Minshew leads the Pac-12 in 
passing and it’s not even close. 
He’s got over a 1,200 yards more 
(4,477 total) than the next most 
accomplished passer (Stanford’s 
K.J. Costello, 3,198) and 36 touch-
downs to only nine interceptions. 
The all-out attack of Min-
shew and the WSU passing game 
against Florida’s 13th-ranked 
passing defense would make for 
some fantastic football. 
— Mark Stine
Michigan
Michigan’s 39-62 loss to Ohio 
State on Saturday shook the ta-ble a bit. The Wolverines (10-2) 
dropped four spots to No. 7 in the 
latest AP Poll, and they’ll probably 
fall just as far in the next College 
Football Playoff rankings. That 
means they’re out of the playoff 
but still in for a New Year’s Six 
bowl game. 
And it’s not out of question 
that a matchup with the No. 11 
Florida Gators could be in their fu-
ture. If so, it’ll be the second time 
in the last four seasons that the 
two teams meet in a bowl game. 
Michigan stomped Florida 41-7 
in the 2016 Citrus Bowl, which 
was Jim Harbaugh’s ﬁ  rst season 
as the Wolverines’ head coach.
Harbaugh’s squad has been 
one of the best in the nation this 
year highlighted by a defense that 
sits atop the rankings in all of col-
lege football.
But there’s no denying that the 
Florida defense has been a tough 
challenge for opponents this year 
behind its 13th-ranked pass de-
fense.
The talent on both sides could 
provide one of the more evenly 
matched contests between these 
two teams in their history (the 
Gators have lost all four meetings, 
two by at least 16 points).
And for all the “defense wins 
championships” extremists out 
there, there’s no better matchup.
— Alanis ThamesWho are possible bowl opponents for Florida?
AP File Photo
UF could face running back Adrian Killins and UCF in a bowl game.
