We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
What is ... UF for $500, Alex?
A UF student will be on “Jepodary!” next week , pg. 4
Sharing cultures
UF students taught others how to wear hijabs, pg. 9No. 2 Gators to clash with No. 1 Oklahoma
Freshman gymnast Trinity Thomas and Florida 
will try to break the Sooners’ 30-meet home 
win streak, pg. 14FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 53
FEATURE FRIDAY
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Vincent T ate, 51, receives a haircut Tuesday from Edward Young, 64, at the Clean Cut Barber Shop on 
Northwest Fifth Avenue. T ate moved from Alabama to Gainesville for a fresh start. He has worked for 
the Alachua County School Board for 25 years.
By Josephine Fuller and Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writers
Edward Young’s razor hummed as he shaved 
around a man’s ears and began to share stories about 
his 64 years on Fifth Avenue.
He recounted eating at his parents’ soul food res-
taurant called Mom’s Kitchen and shining shoes in 
the neighborhood all while his hand steadily trans-
formed one of his regulars’ bushy beard into a well-
groomed mustache. 
Posters with Bible verses that ask customers to be 
thankful hang on the walls. Out the windows, a fence 
divides an empty lot with bright green grass from the rest of Fifth Avenue and its pink, decades-old houses.
Pleasant Street Historic District was designated 
as a U.S. historic district by the National Register of 
Historic Places on April 20, 1989, and was the ﬁ  rst 
African American neighborhood added to the national 
registry in Florida, said Kathleen Pagan, the senior 
planner and staff liaison at Alachua County Historical 
Commission. 
Historic districts are neighborhoods that contain 
several buildings with a unique historic value. There 
are four other historic districts in Gainesville, includ-
ing Northeast Residential, Southeast Residential, 
University Heights - North and University Heights - ‘The true natives of Fifth Avenue’: 
Preserving the culture of Pleasant 
Street Historic District
A look at Gainesville’s oldest 
black residential area
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8ADMISSIONS WILL 
BE ANNOUNCED 
NEXT FRIDAY
By Brittney Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 42,000 high school stu-
dents applied to UF this year, 
breaking last year’s record of 
about 41,000 applicants.
Anthony Nasnas, a 17-year-
old senior at Lake Brantley High 
School in central Florida, hopes 
his SAT score of 1410 and GPA of 
4.5 will get him admitted.
“The school is now one of the 
top 10 public universities,” he 
said. “It will be at an even higher 
standard by the time I graduate.”
For those who will receive 
news of their acceptances on Feb. 
8, academic proﬁ  les are similar 
to that of last year’s incoming 
class, which had an average GPA of 4.4 and SAT scores of 1364, 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email. About 14,800 
students will be admitted, similar 
to last year.
The admissions ofﬁ  ce doesn’t 
look only at grades and test 
scores to determine entry but also 
whether students take difﬁ  cult 
courses and demonstrate leader-
ship qualities, Orlando said.
In Fall 2017, UF received 
more than 34,000 applications 
and admitted 13,214 applicants. 
Last Fall, the university received 
40,849 applications and admitted 
14,866 applicants.
Every year the bar for admis-
sions goes up, but it’s nice to see 
fresh faces on campus, UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs said.
“There’s a sense of renewal, 
and all of us that work here – fac-
ulty and staff – look forward to 
each time a new entering class ar-
rives,” Fuchs said.UF 2023 applicant pool 
breaks previous record
HE IS COMING 
TO UF ON FEB. 27
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
21 Savage wants 50 hot 
wings. They must be extra 
crispy.
A pack of condoms, ﬂ  avored 
Backwoods and medium Hanes 
boxers were listed on his con-
tract to perform at UF on Feb. 
27, but all were crossed out in 
red ink, according to his con-
tract with UF.
The 26-year-old rapper is be-
ing paid $110,000 to perform an 
hour-long set at the O’Connell 
Center to celebrate Black His-
tory Month.
“His favorite shows are university  
shows,” said 
Justin Wil-
liams, 21 Sav-
age’s co-man-
ager. “He can’t 
wait to see you 
guys.”
What else 
is included in his contract? Here 
are three things to know about 
21 Savage’s contract and up-
coming performance:
1) There will be a meet 
and greet.
The invite-only meet and 
greet will only have time for 
groups of ﬁ  ve or more people 
to take pictures with the artist, 
said Andrew Kelly, the chair-
man of Student Government Three things to know 
about 21 Savage’s 
performance contract
21 Savage
SEE 21 SAVAGE,  PAGE 3
No. 2 Gators to clash with No. 1 Oklahoma
Freshman gymnast Trinity Thomas and Florida 
will try to break the Sooners’ 30-meet home 
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS 
SUNDAY
Vietnamese Traditional and 
Cultural New Year
Tu Vi�n A Nan Temple, at 
2120 SE 15th St., will host the 
Vietnamese New Year festi-
val from 9 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Attendees can enjoy popular 
Vietnamese games and a veg-
etarian food sale through the 
duration of the festival. Funds 
from the vegetarian sale will 
go toward a 23-foot granite 
Birth of Buddha statue. At 1 
p.m., a traditional rice cake 
wrapping contest will be held. 
The first place winner will get 
$200, second place will get 
$100 and third place will get 
$50. At 3 p.m., there will be 
musical performances, a drag-
on dance and fireworks.
VSO Tet 2019: It’s a pretty PIG 
deal
The Vietnamese Student 
Organization will host an an-
nual lunar new year show to 
mark Vietnam’s most impor-
tant national holiday. This year 
is the year of the pig, accord-
ing to the Vietnamese zodiac. 
Doors for the event open at 6 
p.m. and the show will start at 
7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. The show will feature 
several skits, singers, danc-
ers performing traditional and 
modern dances and a modeling 
show. There will also be free 
food and raffle prizes.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
African American Read-In
Attendees, including commu-
nity leaders, will read passag-
es, poems and stories by black 
authors.
When: 2-4 p.m. on Feb. 24 
Where: Alachua Branch, locat-
ed at 14913 NW 140 St. 
Black History Through the Arts
Attendees can celebrate black 
history with musical and dance 
performances, poetry read-
ings and lectures. The keynote 
speaker will be John Gay, the 
past president of the Orlando 
chapter of the Tuskegee Airmen. 
When: 3-4 p.m. on Feb. 17
Where: Archer Branch, located 
at 13266 SW State Road 45
Tasty History
Children ages 5-11 can cele-
brate Black History Month and 
the invention of the potato chip.
When: 3-4 p.m. on Feb. 19
Where: Cone Park Branch, lo-
cated at 2801 E. University Ave.African American Read-In
Attendees can discover 
books and stories by African 
Americans. Refreshments will 
be provided.
When: 2-3:15 p.m. on Feb. 16
Where: Hawthorne Branch, lo-
cated at 6640 SE 221 St. 
Reclaiming Kin: Once Lost, Now 
Found
Karen Kirman, the Haile 
Homestead president and 
church historian, and Tatanya 
Peterson will discuss their ge-
nealogy research on Peterson’s 
family, which dates back to a 
plantation in Alachua County.
When: 2-3 p.m. on Feb. 9
Where: Headquarters Branch lo-
cated at 401 E. University Ave.
Black Women of Distinction: 
Making History in Alachua 
County
From 3-6 p.m. on Sunday at 
Actors’ Warehouse, Inc., lo-
cated at 619 NE 1st St., black 
female leaders in Alachua 
County will be honored with a 
reception and awards presen-
tation following the produc-
tion of “The Colored Door at 
the Train Depot.” Kim Barton, 
the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections, Gainesville City 
Commissioners Gail Johnson 
and Gigi Simmons and 
Evelyn Mickle, the first African 
American graduate from the UF 
College of Nursing will be hon-
ored. Tickets are $25 and can 
be purchased at www.actor-
swarehouse.org.
Race, History and Political 
Participation in America
UF professors Paul Ortiz and 
Sharon Austin will discuss 
their books on race, history 
and politics at 6 p.m. Feb. 13 
in the Pugh Hall Ocora. A book 
sale will follow the public talk.
Their recently released publi-
cations “The Caribbeanization 
of Black Politics: Race, Group 
Consciousness, and Political 
Participation in America” and 
“An African American and 
Latinx History of the United 
States,” examine the impact, 
struggles and development of 
minority politics in America.
MORE
Inspired by Cuba!
This exhibit explores the ways 
in which Cuba has been immor-
talized in ceramic pieces. The 
pieces start from the mid-18th 
century. The exhibition will 
run until April 5 in Room 100 
in Smathers Library. There are 
two possible classifications for 
the pieces. The first includes images and symbols of the is-
land or its people or with ref-
erences to named places, offi-
cial institutions or commercial 
establishments. The second 
includes items with the name 
of Cuba, variations of it or of 
Havana, as a brand that appeals 
to consumers.
Words on Canvas: the Harn 
Museum’s Spring 2019 writ-
ing competition
The Words on Canvas annual 
writing competition is open 
to all UF and Santa Fe College 
students who find inspiration 
in art. Writers will choose one 
of 28 pieces of art and submit 
a poem or prose piece inspired 
by it. Winners will be featured 
in the Harn Museum’s Words 
on Canvas booklet and will get 
prizes from the Harn’s gift shop. 
All works must be submitted by 
11:59 p.m. on Sunday, Feb. 24. 
Winning submissions will be 
announced by email on March 
27. Further details on the com-
petition including rules, guide-
lines and the featured artworks 
can be found here: http://
harn.ufl.edu/woc-submission. 
Questions or concerns can be 
emailed to wordsoncanvas@
harn.ufl.edu.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Correction:
In an article titled “Student 
Senators look to rename student 
union” that ran in Wednesday’s 
edition, the effort to rename the 
Reitz Union is a referendum. The 
Alligator reported differently.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  68° LOW  58°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org . 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Sabrina Conza, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Hope Hatchcock,
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn Jones,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Graham Marsh, Blake Trauschke VOLUME 113 ISSUE 53FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
1. UF graduate within the last 5 years with expertise 
in one of the following areas:  web development, 
coding, search engine optimization, digital advertising 
and marketing, nonprofit fundraising and grant writing. 
2. Working professional with expertise in one of the 
following areas: web development, coding, search 
engine optimization, digital advertising and marketing, 
nonprofit fundraising and grant writing.
3. Non-student, community member at large.
Applications for these positions are available at the new Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 
a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Thursday, February 14. Candidates 
located outside of the Gainesville area can receive an application by 
emailing Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.org.
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that 
time to read information regarding the application process. Part of the 
application consists of short essays in response to specific questions. 
Applications must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, February 
15 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday, February 22 at 11 
a.m. Applicants must meet the above qualifications.  
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employerand
announces the opening of the following positions:
All are unpaid members of the Board of Directors
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.More training. More opportunities. 
More success. 
That’s ALDI. We’re one of the nation’s leading grocery stores because of our 
commitment to more. More value for our customers. More stores opening every year. 
And more opportunity for our people. People like you. As a District Manager, you’ll 
manage millions in revenue as you oversee your district and inspire your teams. 
You’ll be more than a leader. More than a coach. You’ll help shape our direction and 
work with your teams to deliver the service our customers expect. We also believe 
in rewarding our employees with more. Our District Manager positions start with 
an $80K salary plus a $5K signing bonus and increase to $110K in five years. We also 
provide our District Managers with a fully expensed AUDI A3 and three weeks of 
vacation time during their first full year of employment. If you’re looking for more, you 
just found it.
Learn more: careers.aldi.usWE MEAN IT .WHEN WE SAY WELCOMETO MORE ,THE STRONGEST TORNADO 
IN 80 YEARS INJURED 
ALMOST 200 PEOPLE
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Adriana Padron was scrolling through 
Facebook during her Monday morning 
bus commute when she saw something 
horrendous on her timeline.
The Cuban native and a 19-year-old UF 
nutritional sciences sophomore saw the 
devastation of one the strongest tornadoes 
in her country’s history.
The photos of roads ﬁ  lled with debris 
and colonial homes torn to shreds inspired 
her to help the people of Havana, she said. 
The Category F3 tornado struck the 
capital Sunday night and injured almost 
200 people, according to The Associated 
Press.
On Thursday evening, the Cuban 
American Student Association collected more than 35 boxes and bags of canned 
food, clothes, toiletries and medical sup-
plies in the Marston Science Library for 
those affected by the tornado, said Daniel-
la Roselló, the vice president of the Cuban 
American Student Association.
“Helping the people of Cuba is like 
helping my own family,” said Roselló, a 
20-year-old UF political science and eco-
nomics sophomore.
The organization is partnering with 
Montes de Oca Travel, a travel agency 
that charters ﬂ  ights to Cuba, to get the 
items to the people, Padron said. She said 
the organization has committed to ﬁ  lming 
the exchange of materials to make sure 
the people in need actually receive the 
donations. 
“I always see it happening to other 
countries, but I never thought some-
thing so close could happen to me,” Pa-
dron said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgCuban students collect items 
for those aﬀ  ected by tornado
Productions and a 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance 
senior. 
“The majority of invitations will go to-
wards the SG Productions staff as a reward 
for all their hard work,” he said.
2) More than a page of the contract 
was dedicated toward 21 Savage’s rider, 
which is a list of items requested for his 
dressing room.
The list included, but was not limited 
to, about nine different types of entrees, in-
cluding a shrimp cocktail platter and chick-
en tenders to feed 25, six types of snacks, 
nine types of drinks, 12 white hand towels, 
12 white body towels (fresh, not laundered) 
and women’s powder/scented Secret de-
odorant, according to the contract. 
Artists often request food and miscel-
laneous items, Kelly said. If these require-
ments are not met, SG Productions is in 
breach of contract and the show could be 
canceled. These items aren’t included in the 
$110,000.
Williams doesn’t directly handle the 
items ordered for the dressing room. He said if a performer had the choice to feed 
himself with whatever he wanted to feel 
prepared, he should take it.
“It all comes in handy for being comfort-
able for a show,” Williams said.
Isabella Roman-Secor, an 18-year-old UF 
management freshman who is planning on 
buying tickets, said it seems like 21 Savage 
is taking advantage of the university.
“Do you really need that much stuff?” 
Roman-Secor said. 
3) Condoms, cigars, cigarillos, under-
wear and hibachi platters were crossed 
out.
The items crossed out included a 12-
pack of large Trojan Magnum condoms, six 
packs of Backwoods in varying ﬂ  avors, six 
packs of Swisher Sweets in varying ﬂ  avors, 
a pack of medium Hanes Boxers and six 
Benihana hibachi meals with shrimp, lob-
ster tails and strawberry lemonade.
Per UF policy, alcohol and tobacco prod-
uct requests are never ﬁ  lled, Kelly said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org21 SAVAGE,  from pg. 1He requested Trojan condoms4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019By Marlowe Starling
Alligator Staff Writer
The lights come up. Six categories 
appear in a grid on the blue screen. 
And, finally, the well-known jingle 
begins to play. 
For Jade Ryan, this was not on a television screen — this was a reality. 
Ryan, a 25-year-old UF English 
senior, will appear on an episode of 
“Jeopardy!,” a trivia television show, 
at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. 
“I’ve been joking for years, like, all 
I want is to do is be on Jeopardy,” 
Ryan said. “I have to do something with all this random knowledge.”
Ryan decided to apply to be on the 
game show because she’s watched 
it since she was a child. The first 
step in the application process was a 
50-question online trivia test, where 
participants had 20 to 30 seconds to 
answer a question, Ryan said. 
Months later, Ryan received a call 
from producers inviting her to the 
show for filming on Dec. 5, conve-
niently around the same time as UF 
finals week. 
“I just told my professors, look, I 
have a really good reason for not be-
ing there the last week of class, and 
they were all really awesome about 
it,” Ryan said. 
Ryan said she studied by watching 
previous episodes of the show and 
practicing old questions.
She flew to Los Angeles where 
“Jeopardy!” producers taped five 
shows, Ryan said.
“I was shaking,” Ryan said. “I was 
just trying to be calm because it’s my 
one shot to do this.”
Ryan was not allowed to disclose 
whether or not she won.
Dan Ryan, Jade Ryan’s dad, said 
watching his daughter on the taping 
of “Jeopardy!” was surreal. He said 
he is proud of Ryan’s accomplish-
ments and looks forward to her to 
starting graduate school.
@StarlingMarlowe
mstarling@alligator.orgUF student to appear on ‘Jeopardy!’ 
The episode will air Tuesday
THE MONEY WAS TAKEN FROM REFUNDS 
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Deputies arrested a Circle K employ-
ee Tuesday who was accused of stealing 
$1,385.17 in refunds throughout a three-
week period. 
At 9:50 a.m., a manager at the store, at 
9260 NW 39th Ave., told deputies she discov-
ered Tracey Ann Filinuk, 49, of Gainesville 
was making fraudulent refunds, according 
to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Office arrest 
report.
The manager said Filinuk made the transactions when she 
had access to the cash register, the report said.
Deputies were shown video surveillance and several reports 
of the transactions, the report said. The refunds were made 
from Jan. 9 to Jan. 28.
Filinuk admitted to deputies she made the fraudulent re-
turns and used the money for personal use, the report said. The 
money from the returns was loaded onto prepaid debit cards.
She was charged with fraudulently obtaining property un-
der $20,000, the report said.
Filinuk could not be reached and the manager declined to 
comment on the employee’s actions.
She was released from the Alachua County Jail Wednesday 
on her own recognizance.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgCircle K employee 
accused of stealing 
$1,300 from store
Filinuk
ATTENDEES WERE GIVEN 
ADVICE AND HELPFUL 
RESOURCES
By Alyssa Varas
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lisa Tin feels people look down on 
her when she says she’s a first-gener-
ation student, so doesn’t tell anyone.
Tin, a 20-year-old UF Chinese Amer-
ican food science sophomore, was one 
of four panelists in a discussion on 
what it means to be a first-generation 
Asian American or Latinx college stu-
dent during a discussion panel to an 
audience of 60 Thursday night. The 
event was hosted by the UF Hispanic 
Student Association and the Asian 
American Student Union.
Other panelists included Giancarlo 
Siu, an 18-year-old Nicaraguan ac-
counting freshman; Kelly Nguyen, a 
Vietnamese health science freshman; 
Stefan Sanguyo, a 21-year-old Filipino 
criminology senior; and Adrian Cruz, 
a 21-year-old UF Cuban industrial and 
systems engineering junior. 
Stephanie Beltran, the organizer of 
the event for Hispanic Student Associa-
tion and moderator, said Asian Ameri-
cans and Latinx students face similar 
challenges as first-generation students and people of color. The goal of the 
panel was to give resources to these 
students, including a micro grant of-
fered by the UF Office of Student Finan-
cial Affairs, which is about $2,500 for 
students struggling to pay their bills. 
“I hope people can identify and 
learn from the panelists who share their 
same culture,” Beltran, an 18-year-old 
UF accounting sophomore, said.
The panelists answered questions 
about parents’ expectations, how they 
navigate through college and what re-
sources they use at UF to feel more at 
home. 
“Broward Tutoring Center was the 
first place I went to,” Cruz said. “I 
couldn’t afford Study Edge, and the 
one-on-one tutoring helped with my 
anxiety.”
Cruz said he felt culture shock when 
arriving to UF. He grew up in Hialeah, 
Florida, a Hispanic city in Miami-Dade 
County, and said he found himself 
speaking loudly and saying “dale” to 
students who didn’t understand his 
culture. 
Cruz plans on creating a first-gen-
eration preview day, for students and 
parents to have an orientation guided 
by first-generation Cicerones. 
“They can see how successful they 
can become,” Cruz said.First-generation students 
speak about their UF experienceCourtesy to The Alligator
Alex Trebek stands next to 25-year-old UF English senior Jade Ryan. 
Ryan is on an episode of “Jeopardy!” that will air Tuesday. 
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville and Alachua County com-
missions decided to update the public safety 
radio system Thursday night.
The commissions voted unanimously in a 
joint meeting to upgrade the Alachua County 
public safety radio system. 
The system is used for first responders to 
communicate, said Harold Theus, the Alachua 
County interim fire chief. Those responders 
are from the Gainesville Police Department, 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, University 
Police Department, Gainesville Fire Rescue 
and Alachua County Fire Rescue.
Despite software updates last year, the cur-
rent system still experiences coverage gaps in 
rural areas of the county and in large build-
ings, including all schools, Theus said. This 
makes it diffcult for first responders to com-
municate with each other in emergencies. 
In August, Federal Engineering, a com-
munications consulting company, concluded 
a study about the efficiency of the system, 
Theus said. It presented two options: update 
the current system run by Gainesville Region-
al Utilities or create a new standalone county 
system. The commissions decided to go with 
the first option. They explored funding op-
tions, such as a sales tax. A one-year 1-cent 
sales tax would raise about $44 million, said 
Gainesville Fire Chief Jeff Lane. The cost to 
upgrade the system, including periodic up-
dates, is estimated at $32 million.
Later in the meeting, the commissions also 
discusssed the idea of building an 80,000 to 120,000 square foot event center in Gainesville 
for almost three hours before the city decided 
unanimously and the county voted 4-1, with 
Mike Byerly in dissent, to have staff look more 
into it. 
“We have a long way to go in this process,” 
City Commissioner Harvey Ward said.
A 3,000-person multipurpose stadium, mu-
sic venue, indoor track and 1,000-car parking 
lot were some of the amenities discussed for 
the proposed project.
The commissioners heard a presentation 
from Victus Advisors, a Utah-based consult-
ing company, which evaluated three locations 
for the new center: the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Multipurpose Center, the Koppers site and the 
North Waldo site. 
Lynne Palmer, a 12-year UF event planner, 
said with UF’s growth there is a lot of pres-
sure to hold large events and there just isn’t 
enough space in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room. However, she doesn’t believe the pro-
posed locations are large enough.
“With the scope of the project, the loca-
tions presented can’t support that,” Palmer 
said.
Part of the city commission’s decision was 
to hold events to discuss the idea of having an 
event center further with residents.
“We’re a growing community. We’re not 
a sleepy college town anymore,” Ward said. 
“We are trying to get a good place for the 
whole community.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity and county will update 
emergency radio systemFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
Join A Nan Temple 
for the Festival of TET
Vietnamese Traditional &  
Cultural New Y ear
Music, Games,  
Rice Cake Wrapping Contests
Vegetarian Food Sale Fundraiser
for Birth Buddha Statue
Sunday, February 3, 2019
9:00am – 8:30pm.
2120 SE 15th St.  Gainesville, FL
By Abraham Hunt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Having a healthy body weight 
is not enough to avoid cardiovas-
cular disease, according to a new 
study conducted by UF research-
ers.
A study posted online in The 
American Journal of Cardiol-
ogy in early January found that 
30 percent of healthy, normal-
weight adults aged 40-79 with a 
body mass index of 18.5-29.9 kg 
per m2 in the U.S. who partake in 
less than 150 minutes of physical 
activity per week have the same risk of heart attack or stroke as 
those who are overweight, said 
Arch Mainous III, the department 
chair of the UF College of Public 
Health & Health Professions and 
lead investigator of the study.
The full study is expected to be 
in print later this year, Mainous 
said.
Four other researchers and 
Mainous gathered data from a 
survey by the National Center 
for Health Statistics focusing on 
adults who did not have any pre-
vious diagnosis of coronary heart 
disease, stroke or heart attack, 
Mainous said. 
The group of adults in the cat-egory who exercise less than the 
recommended levels had higher 
levels of belly fat, shortness of 
breath upon exertion and un-
healthy waist circumference in 
comparison to those who exer-
cise at the recommended amount, 
Mainous said.
“You may be at risk,” Mainous 
said. “It is not inevitable. You can 
stop it.”
The research can be translated 
into risk scores as described by 
the American College of Cardiol-
ogy and the American Heart As-
sociation, which is the calculated 
risk of having a heart attack or 
stroke within the next decade, Mainous said.
Age, sex, race, blood pres-
sure, various types of cholesterol 
levels, a family history of diabe-
tes, smoking history and types of 
medications or treatments a per-
son is on are all components to 
calculate a risk score, Mainous 
said. Scores over 7.5 percent are 
considered high-risk.
Adding a mile to walk in the 
morning or taking the stairs are 
quick ﬁ  xes a person can do to 
lead a more active lifestyle, said 
Lisa Merlo, UF College of Medi-
cine’s director of wellness pro-
grams. UF students and faculty 
who have made simple changes like these have felt better men-
tally and physically, Merlo said.
“Faculty and students at the 
university are at the same risk 
because of the workload upon 
them,” Merlo said. 
Staying ﬁ  t is a top priority 
for Conner Dowd, a 21-year-old 
UF applied physiology and kin-
esthesiology senior. He wants to 
remain active, so he can become 
a Marine Corps ofﬁ  cer and live a 
long life.
“Whenever I have kids, I want 
to be able to play with them,” 
Dowd said. “Fitness now, protect 
health for later.” Being in a healthy weight range doesn’t prevent heart problemsBy Christina Moutter
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ninety-three photos of Venezuelans marching 
and crying covered the wall in the Santa Fe Fine 
Arts Hall Wednesday evening.
Gainesville’s Venezuelan community came to-
gether for three hours for “When the Media is Silent, 
Let the Street Speak,” an event featuring photogra-
phy and a panel discussion focused on Venezuela. 
“A lot of the student population isn’t aware of 
what’s going on, so I thought it was time to spread 
the knowledge,” said Chantel Hover, a 27-year-old 
Santa Fe College international relations sophomore 
and president of the Santa Fe College Global Soci-
ety, a club for international issues and awareness 
that helped organize the event.
More than 60 people came to the free event, 
which held an hour-long panel discussion on the 
history of politics in Venezuela, the danger of the 
street protests in Caracas and nationwide food 
shortages.
Panelists included Brian Fincheltub, the secre-
tary general for the municipality of Sucre for Prim-
ero Justicia, one of the primary political parties of 
Venezuela; Daniel Nuñez, the president of the Ven-
ezuelan Student Association at UF; and Vilma Fuen-
tes, the assistant vice president for academic affairs 
at Santa Fe.
The photos displayed at the event were by An-
dres Avellaneda, a 22-year-old Venezuelan photog-rapher.  
“It’s dangerous being out there in the protests, 
but he cares so much about his art and what he 
does,” Hover said. 
Avellaneda hopes to come to the U.S. and is try-
ing to raise money for an artist’s visa, said Melis-
sa Manso, a 19-year-old Sante Fe political science 
sophomore who helped organize the event. The 
application for the visa costs $325, which doesn’t 
include other paperwork fees. 
Attendees could have purchased his work 
for suggested donations such as $10 or $15, said 
Manso. Sixty percent of the donations will go to-
ward funding Avellaneda’s visa, while the other 40 
percent will go to the clubs that hosted the event, 
Manso said. 
The event cost just under $1,000 and generated 
more than $350 in donations, Manso said. It was 
put on using Student Government funds.
“We did lose proﬁ  t,” Manso said. “But it was the 
biggest event that we were planning for the semes-
ter, so it was worth it for us.”
Camila Castillo, a 17-year-old Santa Fe architec-
ture freshman who came to the U.S. from Venezu-
ela a month ago, said events like these allow for 
a deeper connection in Gainesville’s Venezuelan 
community.
“We’re running from our country and are look-
ing for better opportunities,” Castillo said.Sante Fe College raises money for Venezuelan photographer’s visa
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Georgia Bianchi, 41, and her children Eva Bailey, 9, and Christopher 
Bailey, 4, look at photos Wednesday by Venezuelan photographer 
Andres Avellaneda on display in the Santa Fe College Fine Arts Hall. 
The gallery was arranged by various Santa Fe clubs to raise funding 
for Avellaneda’s U.S. visa application fees.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
UF Student Body President Ian Green 
welcomes students back for Spring semester
What’s up, Gator Nation?
I want to welcome everyone back 
to the new semester. I hope you all 
had a safe and restful break. I am 
writing today to give you all an up-
date about what your Student Government has 
been up to this month.
Last week, the Accent Speakers Bureau 
brought John Kasich, former Ohio governor 
and former Republican presidential candidate, 
to campus. Kasich spoke in the University Au-
ditorium on Jan. 23 to a sold-out crowd. Kasich talked 
about how we can each make a difference in our world.
One line that spoke to me was, “If you can’t make a 
big difference, make a small difference in a big way.” 
We should always strive to go greater, both on campus 
and outside of Gainesville.
Earlier that day, several members of my administra-
tion and the Student Senate traveled to Tallahassee to 
lobby on behalf of UF for multiple higher education top-
ics. In Tallahassee, we spoke with members of the Gator 
Caucus on topics such as bonding Capital Improvement 
Trust Fund money (think money for non-academic, stu-
dent life buildings), textbook affordability, state loan 
forgiveness, a ﬁ  xed in-state tuition, more money for 
mental health resources and several other topics. We 
received a lot of positive feedback from our state leg-
islators, and I am looking forward to seeing positive 
changes in the future.Be sure to mark your calendars next 
month as SG Productions is bringing 21 Sav-
age to Gainesville! SG Productions Chair An-
drew Kelly and his entire team are working 
hard to put on an incredible concert on Feb. 
27 in the O’Connell Center. This concert is 
also a partnership with the Black Student 
Union to celebrate Black History Month on 
campus. It’s going to be an incredible per-
formance, and I cannot wait to see you all 
there.
As I am sure many of you know, Career Showcase is 
just around the corner on Feb. 5 and 6 in the O’Connell 
Center. The SG Copy and Graphics Center will be pro-
viding students with 25 free copies of their resumes for 
the big day. Students can also receive free resume cri-
tiques from the Career Connections Center, located on 
the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union, leading up to Career 
Showcase.
Don’t forget that the next election cycle for SG is 
less than a month away! Be sure to follow the SG Face-
book page in the coming weeks for locations, times and 
other information you will need to know when deciding 
where to vote. I encourage all students to make their 
voices heard and vote in the upcoming elections.
I’m wishing you all a great rest of your semester. 
Until next time and as always… Go Gators!
Ian Green is the UF Student Body president. His 
column appears monthly.You wake up and immediately check the weather, sup-
pressing a groan when you see it’s 38 degrees outside for the 
third day in a row. On the bright side, it gives you a reason 
to break out your Gator beanie that’s been collecting dust in 
the back of your closet.
So before braving the cold, you bundle up in your coat 
and boots, shoving your beanie as far down your head as you 
can without blinding yourself. You pull your jacket tighter 
against your body and make your trek through the frigid air 
toward Publix. You’ve been craving a bowl of steaming hot 
soup since the second you crawled out from underneath your 
pile of covers.
The relative warmth of Publix’s air hits your face and you 
breathe a sigh of relief. You’ve made it. You make your way 
through the aisles stopping at everything that catches your 
eye. You know you don’t need that extra box of Cheez-It 
crackers, but you can’t stop yourself from grabbing hold of 
the family-sized box.
Once you’ve ﬁ  nally made it through the snack aisle, you 
ﬁ  nd your way over to the soup section. You marvel at your 
choices, taking a look at the deals of the day. You instantly 
grab one of the cans, unable to pass up the incredible deal: 
buy one can of soup and get a free can of…
Darts and Laurels
It’s the ﬁ  rst week of the semester that we get to hand out 
a laurel to the U.S. government for ending the govern-
ment shutdown. Well, temporarily, that is. President Don-
ald Trump signed a deal last week that would reopen the 
government for three weeks. With the bill passed, a series 
of government agencies opened for the ﬁ  rst time in the new 
year. Another government shutdown is possible depending on 
the events of Feb. 15, where Republicans and Democrats will 
have to come to a ﬁ  nal agreement on Trump’s border security 
policy.
A dart goes to Apple for failing to quickly address an issue 
with its FaceTime function that allows a caller to eavesdrop 
on the recipient through audio and, in some cases, through 
video, before the recipient even picks up the phone. Grant 
Thompson, a 14-year-old boy from Arizona, discovered 
the glitch while playing Fortnite with a friend. Thompson’s 
mother saw the security threat and went through multiple 
outlets to tell Apple about the glitch. 9to5Mac reported on the 
glitch earlier this week, prompting Apple to ﬁ  nally address 
the glitch and temporarily suspend the group chat function, 
which was thought to be the cause of the blatant security 
breach.
In other, more positive, tech news, Twitter and Facebook 
are getting a laurel this week for deleting hundreds of tweets 
ﬂ  agged as having malevolent intentions linked to Iranian and 
Russian accounts. The accounts were thought to be meddling 
in U.S. and U.K. politics. Both social media outlets have been 
criticized before for not taking down users for inappropri-
ate content. Social media needs a better way of weeding out 
potentially harmful users, and this is a step in the right direc-
tion.
Closer to home, Cady Casellas gets a laurel for creating 
the ﬁ  rst Spanish-only speaking radio show in Gainesville. 
The radio show, “Chisme Con Cady,” which translates to 
“Gossip with Cady,” will appeal to Gainesville’s Hispanic and 
Latinx population. The show airs from 7-9 p.m. every Friday 
on the radio channel 95.3 FM, online and on the GHQ app. 
The radio show is encouraging a more inclusive Gainesville 
that can celebrate multiple cultures. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Ian Green
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I’ll out myself before anyone thinks 
they can discredit me: I have fake Air-
Pods. 
But I do have an issue with the 
way we treat the authenticity of cop-
ied products. There is a struggle to de-
ﬁ  ne what makes things genuine and what 
makes them a copy. As it gets easier for 
everyone to duplicate the general markers 
of what makes something genuine, it will 
become more difﬁ  cult to determine the au-
thenticity of things or products. In the case 
of products, it’s becoming more frequent to 
see frauds steal the most well-known and 
valued brands, like AirPods, for the sake 
of proﬁ  t
My family took a big trip to Spain sev-
eral years back. In every plaza, there was 
a street vendor selling Gucci handbags, 
Burberry scarves and Yves Saint Laurent 
purses. To the casual eye the deals may seem legitimate, but take it to 
any fashion fanatic. They’ll 
list off every missed stitch and 
pattern discrepancy. My mom 
bought a handbag and continues 
to sport, mostly for the novelty 
factor of it being a fake.
The idea of mimicry being the 
sincerest form of ﬂ  attery seems 
to take a complete turnaround 
when it comes to fashion. When 
someone steals a pattern or logo, they’re 
asking for lawyers to come knocking on 
their door. It most certainly is not a com-
pliment, it is a crime.
Patents in the US are meant to make 
sure inventors are credited and paid for the 
things they produced, but what happens 
when you can 3D print the replacement 
piece for a record player? Does the inven-
tor give up on being paid if his creation can be replicated by anyone who has 
some spare cash and access to 
the internet and a printing cen-
ter?
Stealing ideas creates inno-
vation sometimes. When Mark 
Zuckerberg wanted to ﬁ  gure out 
a new way of communication, 
he didn’t go about reinvent-
ing the entire internet, he used 
what had been done before and 
built on top of it. Apple took touch screen 
technology from George Samuel Hurst, the 
phone from Alexander Graham Bell and 
the massive connectivity of the internet 
to make the ﬁ  rst iPhone. Now companies 
like Samsung are trying to improve on the 
iPhone through bendable screens, but they 
may never have worked on this idea if the 
iPhone hadn’t come ﬁ  rst.
Obviously stealing is wrong but the bal-ance between morals and results is con-
stantly in ﬂ  ux. Music has beneﬁ  ted from 
replication. Tape recorders once let home 
bands record and re-record their songs. 
Soon, punk and rock scenes were ﬁ  lled 
with talent that started out with only a tape 
recorder. Musicians can get copies of au-
dio recording software and post their own 
songs on the internet and become viral. 
I challenge anyone who reads this to 
think of their favorite product. How would 
you take that same product or idea and 
make it better? What would you take from 
your daily life and copy, but with a twist? 
Maybe it's Artiﬁ  cial Intelligence Radio Sta-
tions? Or AirPods with built-in tracking? 
The world is yours to copy and rebuild.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism 
sophomore. His column appears on Fri-
days.Fake AirPods are just another example of a lack of authenticity today Column
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org
If you had mistaken me for 
a college athlete when I 
was in high school, I would 
have been ﬂ  attered. But 
when I started my freshman 
year at UF in 2015, I quickly re-
alized the hidden meaning be-
hind the question: “What posi-
tion do you play?”
It’s been almost 5 years since 
I’ve participated in any orga-
nized sports, none of which were football 
or basketball. As a teenager, I swam com-
petitively for my high school and travel 
teams. As any swimmer can tell you, there 
are some things you can never shed: the 
broad shoulders and the big legs. Com-
bined with a darker skin tone and 6-foot-2 
height, and people around campus assume 
you’re a bona ﬁ  de running back or point 
guard.
Now, you might be thinking, “What’s 
the problem with that? It must be cool for 
people to think you’re a Division I ath-
lete.” Let me be clear: It is not cool.
Essentially, that question implies that 
because you’re a large male with a darker 
skin tone the only contribution you can 
offer is your athletic talent. While that 
assumption is offensive, I don’t necessar-
ily fault people for making it. I fault the 
university for admitting a slim number of 
black students who don’t play sports. In 
August, the Tampa Bay Times published 
a story about UF’s shortcomings in black 
representation on campus. Claire McNeill, 
the author of the story, spoke with a re-
searcher from the University of Southern 
California’s Race and Equity Center. The 
researcher had found that, while black 
men make up just over 2.2 percent of UF 
undergraduates, they comprise 78 percent 
of football and basketball rosters.When you look at it in that 
context, how could you be mad 
at people for assuming you play 
ball? Simply put, there isn’t a 
proper representation of black 
men and women on campus. 
With nearly 17 percent of Flor-
ida’s population being African 
American, I don’t think it’s too 
much to ask for more than 2.2 
percent to be represented at its 
premier university. On the other hand, the 
state is about 77 percent white, and about 
57 percent of enrolled students at UF are 
white. That’s the type of representation I 
hope for black men and women here in 
the future.
 It’s not just the student body that lacks 
representation. In my four years here, 
I’ve only had two black professors, both 
of whom were recent hires with no prior 
relationship to the school. When most of 
your teachers don’t look like you, there’s a 
sense that this place isn’t meant for you. I 
would even encourage black students who 
are considering coming to UF to keep in 
mind the demographics and what to ex-
pect.
People are going to look at you on cam-
pus like you don’t belong. They’re going 
to assume you’re a transfer student from 
Santa Fe. You might even go your entire 
time at UF having never had a teacher 
who looks like you. However, I think that 
should only motivate us to become an 
even louder voice on campus. We have re-
alized UF has a problem with diversity and 
it's our responsibility to hold it account-
able. The only way to change the status 
quo is to challenge it.
Elijah Rawls is a UF journalism senior. 
His column appears on FridaysAsking what position I play is wrongColumn
The topic of scholar-
ships is often tied to 
large-scale economic 
problems and all of 
that complicated, seri-
ous mess. But this discussion 
of scholarships will not be at-
tempting to slip Marx and En-
gels into your ideology like a 
sugar cube into a cup of tea.
I am studying abroad in Paris this sum-
mer, an expense that will run me about 
$10,000 after all the nights at the Pari-
sian equivalent of Midtown and the sub-
sequent mornings where baguettes will 
act as a hangover cure. That’s on top of 
tuition and housing. I don’t want to just 
complain about money though. If I wasn’t 
comfortable falling into a bit of debt and 
working to pay it off over the next year, 
I wouldn’t be going. No, I would simply 
like to reap the beneﬁ  ts of the life-altering 
experience of study abroad without hav-
ing to toil over steakburgers for a semes-
ter to ﬁ  nance it; not out of necessity, but 
out of a very logical sense of “why would 
I pay if there’s another way.” Luckily for 
me, and for any of you in my position, 
there is another way: scholarships.
Scholarships are one of the few re-
sources left on our planet, other than per-
haps solar and wind energy that seems 
to be renewable. Seriously, the mountain 
of available scholarships is a staggering 
sight. However, it has a unique property 
that renders it invisible among the chain 
of education-ﬁ  nancing summits that sur-
round it unless you actively seek it out. 
Once you do, you realize there are schol-
arships about New Year’s resolutions, 
textbook websites, a plethora of safe driv-
er ones, a handful of major-speciﬁ  c ones 
and probably one relating to that impossi-
bly edgy niche that you’re thinking about. 
Yes, you. Look it up if you don’t believe 
me.
This doesn’t even scratch the surface 
of the money you can rake in by search-
ing for scholarships. A huge and often 
under-tapped well of ﬁ  nancial assistance 
can be found right at home, in our very own swamp. UF offers schol-
arships based on need and 
merit, so even if you don’t 
qualify for direct ﬁ  nancial aid 
you can still be considered to 
have your education partially 
subsidized. These scholar-
ships can be broad, with re-
quirements that put almost no 
limitations on the applicant 
pool, or very narrow, focusing in on spe-
ciﬁ  c students within speciﬁ  c majors.
These opportunities can be very com-
petitive, so applying is not a guaranteed 
check. Many times the applicant pool is 
not as large as one might believe it to be 
based on the generosity of the offer. It 
helps to remember this: Our school wants 
us to succeed, so when it extends a help-
ing hand, odds are reaching out for it 
won’t hurt.
The main takeaway from my pretty 
exhaustive search for scholarships this 
semester is that the opportunities ex-
ist in truly astonishing numbers. Be it at 
our own school, outside it or both, ﬁ  nd-
ing money and scholarships is within the 
grasp of anyone willing to look. While 
there is no guarantee of success with any 
one of them or really any at all, it stands 
to reason that if one were to apply to 
enough with their full intellectual capa-
bility behind their submission, the stars 
would align in at least a few instances.
Of course, it is entirely possible that 
none of the scholarships go your way. I 
would rather try every option I have to 
generate some income before accepting 
defeat by a costly study abroad program 
and the manual labor that seems to be 
the last resort method of ﬁ  nancing it. As 
a parting thought, I’ll leave you all with 
a quote from Tim Heidecker that I think 
really sums up the sentiment of this piece. 
When it comes to scholarships, “It’s free 
real estate."
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English 
freshman. His column normally appears 
on Mondays.Scholarships aren't as rare as you thinkColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
 Elijah Rawls
opinions@alligator.org
“With nearly 17 percent of Florida’s population 
being African American, I don’t think it’s too much 
to ask for more than 2.2 percent to be represented at 
its premier university."South.
The neighborhood lies in the heart of 
Main Street, Northwest Eighth Avenue, 
Northwest Second Avenue and Northwest 
Sixth Street. Red-bricked churches and small 
wooden-framed houses more than 100 years 
old are some of the 271 buildings in the dis-
trict, according to the National Park Service. 
Two hundred fifty-nine of those build-
ings were marked historic on the National 
Register in 1989, but in the first 14 years, 40 
of those buildings were demolished and sev-
eral more have followed in that path since. 
Suzanne Rumsey, 51, who moved to the 
neighborhood in 2013, said she is worried 
that soon less than 60 percent of the original 
buildings will be left standing, causing the 
neighborhood to lose its historical designa-
tion. 
Historically protected buildings are be-
ing bought by private and out-of-state par-
ties and are ignored until they’re deemed a 
safety hazard by the city and must be de-
molished, Rumsey said. 
In December, Rumsey and nine other 
neighborhood residents appealed the city’s 
decision to approve a building development 
they felt did not meet the criteria to be ap-
proved. 
Blackwater Investments, LLC, a develop-
ment firm based in Birmingham, Alabama, 
submitted a plan for Pleasant Street Luxury 
Condos, which will be built at 422 NW Third 
Ave., which includes three buildings with 
two units in each. 
Neighbors were concerned the plan 
would cause overcrowded parking because 
it does not have enough land for the project. 
The city sided with Blackwater Investments, 
LLC.
“Unfortunately, our city has no way to 
protect, even though it’s nationally regis-
tered, developers have ways of wiggling 
their ways in,” Rumsey said.
Young, the barber, has worked at Clean 
Cut Barber Shop, at 430 NW Fifth Ave., since 1993. He has groomed UF football coaches, 
governors and relatives. He feels like no one 
is interested in preserving the town.
“If this wasn’t historically protected, I 
wouldn’t be here today in this shop,” Young 
said. “Them houses wouldn’t be protected. 
This community, the streets, the home, the 
businesses, which some are already de-
stroyed and gone.”
Properties in the area meant to preserve 
the district’s history and culture have in-
stead been used by Gainesville’s educational 
institutions and their students, Young said. 
A historic train station at 401 NW Sixth 
St. was supposed to be a cultural museum 
to display artifacts and historical photos of 
the area. But it became one of the buildings for the Santa Fe College Blount Center, at 
its downtown campus, and the museum was 
put in the historical home of A. Quinn Jones. 
“We’re proud of the students,” Young 
said. “But they’re depriving the black com-
munity out of entrepreneurship.” 
Young said the people who are supposed 
to be representing the area, such as District 
1 Commissioner Gigi Simmons, are afraid to 
speak out. 
Simmons could not be reached for com-
ment. 
“Literally, they have stolen from this 
community. They need to give back what 
they have taken,” Young said. “We gonna 
get real commissioners. So far, them folks 
up there have done a bum job.”
City Commissioner 
David Arreola said the 
commission recently de-
cided how to allocate 
the efforts of Community 
Redevelopment Agency, 
which helps underserved 
regions attract private in-
vestment funds, to differ-
ent areas of the city. 
“We want to see CRA 
money go to Pleasant 
Street for sure,” he said. 
“Most importantly, we 
want to make sure we 
are following the advice 
of our advisory board 
since they are made up of 
residents from the area.”
The houses next door 
to Rumsey’s are owned 
by a private buyer who 
lives in California. Rum-
sey said the owner pre-
dominantly rents the 
houses to students in 
the area. This cuts into 
the tight-knit relation-
ship neighbors have with 
each other as new people 
move in and out con-
stantly, she said. 
Though Rumsey said she hasn’t lived in the area for long, she 
wants to see her community protected. 
“I don’t think we have anyone watching 
out for us from the city, and they should be 
fighting tooth and nail to save this area,” 
Rumsey said. 
Dotty Faibisy, chair of the Pleasant Street 
Neighborhood Association and a 20-year 
Pleasant Street resident, thinks hiring a his-
toric preservationist, a city employee who 
manages the preservation of historic land-
marks, could help ensure the neighborhood 
stays above the crucial 60 percent to main-
tain its designation. 
The job position exists but is vacant. 
Mayor Lauren Poe said the city planning 
board does have a person dedicated to fo-
cusing on historic preservation in the mean-
time. 
While Faibisy said she doesn’t like to 
think negatively, she is concerned about 
how the city is taking care of the neighbor-
hood. 
“I’m one of the people who tend to the 
neighborhood, and I do what I can to take 
care of it,” she said.  
“The commission has been consistently 
invested in the neighborhood, from building 
homes to revitalizing business,” Poe said. 
“We are investing money in infrastructure 
to bring it into modern standards, and we 
are investing to ensure businesses continue 
to grow there.”
Young put down his electric clippers and 
wiped sweet-smelling aftershave onto the 
face of his client. 
He greeted the next guest, and without 
skipping a beat, asked him what haircut 
he’d like. With a sigh, Young gave his last 
request for the future of Pleasant Street. 
“Respect the community and people who 
were born and raised here,” Young said. “The 
natives; the true natives of Fifth Avenue.” 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.org
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1Forty historic buildings have been demolished in the area 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
Jordan Bourne / Alligator Staff
The Pleasant Street Historic District is the red area in the map, which lies between Main Street and Northwest Sixth Street. The blue 
area is University Heights - North; the green is Northeast Residential Historic District, the yellow is the Southeast Residential Historic 
District; and brown is University Heights - South.
 Chris King  / Alligator Staff
The historic Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Depot has become part of the Santa Fe College downtown campus.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
ABOUT 100 PEOPLE ATTENDED STATE 
OF THE CITY ADDRESS 
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville city leaders are marking the city’s 
150th anniversary with new goals for the com-
ing year at the annual State of the City address on 
Wednesday afternoon. 
About 100 people attended the address held at 
the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, at 
811 N. Main St. 
Mayor Lauren Poe, Interim City Manager Debo-
rah Bowie and Gainesville Regional Utilities Gen-
eral Manager Ed Bielarski all spoke on how an 
increase in business licenses and progress toward 
100 percent renewable energy were some targets 
for the city.
There were musical performances from Chuck 
Levy, Inslee and Brent Baldwin; husband and wife 
Jason and Sarah Hedges; and the Dragon Chorus 
from Expressions Learning Arts Academy, a public 
charter school in Gainesville, after each speech to 
celebrate the city’s anniversary. 
Poe opened the address by welcoming city offi-
cials, employees and residents to the museum and 
introducing the first speaker, Deborah Bowie, the 
city’s interim city manager.
Bowie said the city invested more than $300,000 
in the past fiscal year to support affordable hous-
ing, public services and community development 
initiatives. 
“Gainesville is a unique and opportune place, yet there are persistent boundaries to opportunity 
in certain areas of our community,” Bowie said.
She acknowledged the lack of affordable hous-
ing and said city officials will continue to work to 
find solutions. 
She also talked about Gainesville’s growth in 
technology and business. Bowie said the city is-
sued 423 business licenses in 2018, compared to 
232 in 2013, which is a more than 80 percent in-
crease.
Ed Bielarski from GRU said that 20 years ago, 
he utilities company had no renewable energy. 
Today, he said, it averages at 30 percent in any 
given month, while the state falls behind at only at 
4 percent. He said GRU the most advanced utility 
in Florida when it comes to reaching 100 percent 
renewable energy. 
Bielarski said the city will reach that goal by 
2045.
Poe discussed the city’s framework which he 
said consists of four main principles: fostering 
greater equity, supporting a strong economy, plan-
ning for a better future and becoming a community 
model. 
He said city projects such as having a park 
within a 10-minute walk of every home, moving 
toward a living wage for all city employees and a 
community paramedic program to help reduce 911 
calls demonstrate those principles. 
“We know that by working together, the state 
of the city is strong, and with your help, it will 
only go stronger,” Poe said. 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity officials discuss affordable housing, renewable energy 
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
Four UF students stood on the 
Plaza of the Americas Wednesday 
to carefully wrap pink, blue and 
purple scarves around the heads 
of others. 
They welcomed about 300 stu-
dents to try on or take home one 
of 100 scarves and ask questions 
about hijabs, a head covering 
worn in public by some Muslim 
women, for Islam on Campus’ Hi-
jab-A-Thon, said Wafaa Ateyah, 
a 21-year-old UF psychology and 
women’s studies senior and the 
director of Islam Appreciation 
Month. 
The event was in honor of 
World Hijab Day and Islam Ap-
preciation Month, which takes 
place in February. 
Ateyah has worn the hijab for 
10 years and said she considers it 
a part of her identity.
“The hijab encompasses more 
than just the physical,” Ateyah 
said. “The hijab is about the way 
I carry myself, my manners and 
the way I speak to people.”
The event is held annually, so 
most of the items carry over from 
year to year. Costs came out to 
about $1,500, Ateyah said. This 
is the second official “Hijab-A-
Thon,” although variations of the 
event have been held before.
The two-part event this year 
featured a booth during the day 
and guest speaker Isra Chaker, a Syrian American civil rights activ-
ist, at the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room in the evening, Ateyah said.
This year’s theme was identity, 
with the slogan, “Who Am I? Re-
claim, rediscover, refine.” About 
75 scarves were kept during the 
hijab wrapping demonstration, 
and the rest were given out at 
the nighttime event, Ateyah said. 
At the evening event, 10 people 
hung personal letters on a wall discussing how the feel about the 
hijab.
Chaker spoke to about 50 peo-
ple about what the hijab means 
to her and how today’s political 
and social climate has shaped her 
experiences with it, Ateyah said. 
There’s a lot of misunderstand-
ing about what the hijab truly is 
and what it means to those who 
wear it every day, Ateyah said. 
“The hijab has given me cour-
age and strength, and it has al-
lowed me to represent my faith 
and values in everything I do,” 
Ateyah said.
For the rest of Islam Apprecia-
tion Month, Islam on Campus will 
host about 12 other events, At-
eyah said. Next week on Plaza of 
the Americas, the group will host 
an “Islam Fair” to educate people 
on Islam by answering questions 
and by having Islamic trivia and 
other faith-focused games.
Catherine Migliore, a 20-year-
old UF nursing sophomore, who 
is not Muslim, was able to take 
home a hijab. She said wearing 
the scarf was a brand new experi-
ence for her. 
“In my own life, I don’t per-
sonally know any girls who wear 
hijabs on a daily basis,” Migliore 
said. “This day opened my eyes 
to a culture I didn’t know much 
about before.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF students give out hijabs, showcase cultural identity Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe speaks to about 100 attendees 
Wednesday during the 2019 State of the City address at the Cade 
Museum for Creativity and Invention in downtown Gainesville. “As 
we begin to celebrate our city’s 150th anniversary, we commit to 
learning from our past in order to foster a greater future for ourselves 
and our posterity, ” Poe said. The event also included speeches from 
Deborah Bowie, the interim city manager and Ed Bielarski, the 
general manager of Gainesville Regional Utilities.
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Isra Chaker, an Islamic activist and advisor for the refugee aware-
ness campaign at Oxfam America, addresses the crowd in the 
Reitz Grand Ballroom Wednesday night at the “Hijab-A-Thon Af-
ter Hours” event hosted by UF’s Islam on Campus. The event was 
founded to promote the meaning of the hijab and what it means to 
those who wear it everyday. When she explained why she chose to 
wear her hijab after the events of Sept. 11, Chaker said, “I believed 
in the hijab. I saw the beauty in it. ” 
TRIANGLE WRAP HIJAB:
 ◊Using the fabric, fold the 
top right corner over to the 
bottom left corner, making 
a triangle shape. 
 ◊Place the scarf over your 
head with the widest part 
of the triangle falling at the 
top of your forehead and 
the two corners hanging 
over your shoulders. 
 ◊Pinch the edges of the scarf 
under your chin and pin 
together. 
 ◊Cross the left side to the 
right and the right side to 
the left while hanging the 
tails over your shoulders. 
 ◊Pin the scarf tails behind 
your head, then hang the 
corner of the scarf over the 
pinned part.
 ◊Modify to proper fit.10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N      2-1-1-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-131For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      2-1-1-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
 Make an extra or full-time income from your 
photography. With just a camera, turn your 
hubby into a profitable business. 
Go to: http://photographyoppurtunity.club      
2-6-19-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
The Village at Gainesville Career Fair
February 6, 2019 from 10am - 2pm
8000 NW 27th Blvd, Gainesville Fl 32606      
2-6-19-3-14
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attem -
ted to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-
4903 2-08-7-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/01/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/01/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, February 1, 2019
ACROSS
1 They may be 
scraped off in 
bars
6 Hamlet’s “A little 
more than kin, 
and less than 
kind,” e.g.
11 Cut short
14 Atlas box
15 Got a lode of
16 Half a pair
17 Up-tempo music 
lover’s aversion?
20 Tune
21 Pond fish
22 Sticks in
23 Meeting 
organizers
27 Belg. neighbor
29 Oil-yielding Asian 
tree
30 Large garlic 
relative?
36 Striped animal
38 South side?
39 Time to mark
40 Employed
41 Negative prefix
42 Amazon business
44 Disney Store 
collectible
45 Weakling’s lack
47 Performed well 
enough
48 Classical dance 
minus the lifting, 
throwing, and 
such?
51 Sign of 
elimination
52 Wise __
53 Matured
55 Siamese, 
nowadays
58 One seen on 
most 46-Down
61 Bar valve
62 Genetic 
determinants 
of Southern 
linguistic 
variations?
68 Vietnamese soup
69 Irritant
70 Drudges
71 Polish off
72 Good thing to 
have
73 Totally 
committed, and a 
hint to four puzzle 
answers
DOWN
1 It’s petty but 
misleading2 Brahms’ 
“Variations 
__ Theme of 
Paganini”
3 Comm. system 
with hand 
motions
4 Mixtures
5 Serious
6 “Moi?”
7 Set, as the sun
8 Collection of 
spies?
9 Make happy
10 Email suffix
11 Investor’s 
alternative
12 Like most 
’80s-’90s 
commercial music
13 Winged collectors
18 Uninteresting
19 Countess’ 
spouse, perhaps
23 Storage areas
24 Old U.K. coin 
worth 21 shillings
25 Swallow up
26 Lighthouse output
28 Facilitated
31 Unhappy 
utterance
32 Everyone, to 
some believers
33 Oppressively 
heavy34 Colorful songbird
35 Rapped
37 Hasidic teacher
43 Quahog’s 
quarters
46 58-Across homes
49 Oscar winner 
Jannings
50 Puente of 
mambo fame
54 Noodles
55 Class
56 “Yeah, that’s 
funny”57 Tons
59 Tram loads
60 Masterminded, as 
a complex plan
63 Many an IRS 
employee
64 Made the 
acquaintance of
65 Thickness 
measure
66 __ Gold, Alan 
Cumming’s “The 
Good Wife” role
67 U.S. ID
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/31/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/31/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 31, 2019
ACROSS
1 Word that 
appears four 
times in a 1963 
film title
4 Roof tiles
10 Deadens, as a 
piano string
15 Media agcy.
16 Roadster in 
the Henry Ford 
Museum
17 How sardines are 
packed
18 Mythical bird
19 With 63-Across, 
ending lines 
of a poem by 
72-Across
21 Hydrocarbon 
group
23 1995-2006 New 
York governor 
George
24 Alice Sebold 
novel, with “The”
27 The W in kWh
31 Athlete’s peak 
performance
32 Wines and dines
34 Thrill
36 Credits list
39 Place for 
spectacles
40 __ Navy: discount 
retailer
41 Harmful spells, in 
the Potterverse
44 Gen-__
45 Like universal 
blood donors
47 Nantes notion
48 Drill parts
49 Symbolized
52 Roof features
54 WWI battle river
55 Really cool place?
60 “Indubitably!”
62 Hot pot spot
63 See 19-Across
68 __ Van Winkle
69 Tolkien 
ringbearer
70 Tell
71 Sheep’s call
72 Poet who used 
the starts of 
24-, 41- and 
55-Across to 
describe the 
woods
73 Old-Timers’ Day 
VIP
74 Unspecified 
amountDOWN
1 Diego Rivera 
creation
2 Speed skater 
Ohno
3 “Mary Poppins” 
and “Mary 
Poppins Returns” 
actor
4 Component of 
the “at” sign
5 Chaney of  
horror
6 Toss in
7 Beat
8 Cuban boy in 
2000 headlines
9 One curing meat
10 Saucer, e.g.
11 Like many 
’60s-’70s 
protests
12 __ juice
13 Trough guy
14 Road sign 
caution
20 Move gently
22 Safecracker
25 Initial disco hit?
26 Smokey, for one
28 1964 Anthony 
Quinn role
29 Religious belief
30 Dynasts of old 
Russia33 What H, O or N 
may represent
34 Pirate riches
35 Choir group
37 __ lift
38 Tiny bit
41 Lair
42 Great Barrier __
43 Hot streak
46 Stretches
48 Sweet root
50 Actress Falco
51 Itch
53 Evening star56 Southend-on-
Sea’s county
57 Focus group 
surveys
58 Water brand
59 Give back
61 Harness race 
pace
63 Fave pal
64 Be in the  
wrong
65 Egg __ yung
66 “Mangia!”
67 Zeta follower
1.  ____ plan
1.  Made up for5.  Encircle 
2.  Type of newspaper6.  Mythical hunter
3.  Plan, sketch7.  Stick
4.  Wince, cowerTNOCAI
NOADETBIROT
NOORI
ITAODBL
IETUONLREEDAH
GRENCIANSWERS: 1A-Action  5A-Orbit  6A-Orion  7A-Adhere
1D-Atoned  2D-Tabloid  3D-Outline  4D-Cringe  B-Indian Ocean2-1-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The deepest point in the ____ ____ 
is Sunda Trench, at 25,344 feet deep.BONUS16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida sprinter and jumper Grant 
Holloway was named SEC Men's 
Co-Runner of the Week on Tuesday 
following his performance at the 
Razorback Invitational in Arkansas.Three Gators tabbed to Player of the Year Watch List
Outfielder Amanda Lorenz, pitcher Kelly Barnhill and catcher Kendyl Lin-
daman were added to the 2019 USA Softball Collegiate Player of the Year 
Watch List on Wednesday. GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
It’s a paradox as old as time: What 
happens when the unstoppable force 
meets the immovable object? For the 
centuries the phrase has existed, it has 
never had an answer.
Not until tonight.
The No. 2 Gators gymnastics squad 
will take on the No. 1 team in the na-
tion, the Oklahoma Sooners, tonight 
at the Lloyd Noble Center in Norman, 
Oklahoma. UF defeated Oklahoma 
when it came to the O’Connell Center 
last year, and the Sooners will look for 
revenge as they host Florida on their 
home mat.
Here’s what to watch out for in 
the two teams’ fourth meeting in 371 
days.
 
Sooner or Later
The last time the Sooners hosted 
UF in 2015, they put on a clinic.
They ended the meet with an over-
all score of 198.500. They placed high-
er than a 49.500 in every event, and 
two of their gymnasts scored perfect 
10s. 
It’s that success that Oklahoma 
will try to replicate as it defends its 30-
meet win streak at home, a streak that 
started in 2014.
To paraphrase wrestling legend Ric Flair, you have to beat the best to be 
the best, and Oklahoma has proved 
unequivocally this season that it’s well 
deserving of the title.
So far, it’s the only team this sea-
son to eclipse the 198 mark, scoring 
a 198.050 against Arkansas. On top of 
that, Oklahoma also holds the other 
two scores that round out 2019’s top 
three.
Gymnasts to watch out for include 
the Sooners’ not-so-secret weapon on 
bars, senior Nicole Lehrmann. She has 
scored a 9.9 or higher on 39 of her 50 
career bar routines, including a run 
last year where she achieved the feat 
in 14 consecutive meets. Others to 
watch in the red and cream include 
Maggie Nichols, who scored a perfect 
10 on the vault in Oklahoma’s first 
meet of the season, and freshman Ol-
ivia Trautman, who hasn’t dipped be-
low 9.925 on any of her floor routines 
this season.
 
Stormin’ Norman
Earlier this season, the Gators shat-
tered LSU’s 35-meet home winning 
streak in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. To-
night, they’ll try and end Oklahoma’s 
30-meet home winning streak, and 
though the team had the upper hand 
in last year’s meet, coach Jenny Row-
land hasn’t been reminiscing.Clash of the Titans: No. 2 Gators face off with No. 1 Oklahoma
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Trinity Thomas earned SEC Gymnast of the Week for her performance against 
Kentucky. She scored a 9.975 on the bars against the Wildcats.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
There was a moment where it was up to 
redshirt freshman forward Isaiah Stokes to 
guard the paint.
Center Kevarrius Hayes had to be pulled 
due to foul trouble and forward Dontay Bassett 
was being checked on by a trainer. It was just 
Stokes, at that moment, trying to keep Ole Miss 
from finishing at the rim.
The same Stokes who coach Mike White 
said had a hard time doing line drills at practice 
just a couple weeks ago at a media opportunity.
Stokes played well, despite some early slip-
ups like a turnover on his first possession. He 
provided five solid minutes in the second half 
that the Florida men’s basketball team desper-
ately needed.
“He’s shown more of an effort, more urgen-
cy in practice,” White said. “You guys can feel 
it, you guys can tell.”
Stokes was there to bail the Gators out this time, but his presence showed a major problem 
in their defensive scheme.
Florida is suffering from a lack of size on 
defense since forward Keith Stone’s season-
ending injury against Georgia on Jan. 19.
It only has five players on its roster listed 
at 6-foot-8 or taller: center Gorjok Gak, Stone, 
Bassett, Hayes and Stokes.
The Gators announced that Gak was red-
shirting this season, and Stone has officially 
been ruled out the rest of the year. That leaves 
Hayes, Bassett and Stokes as the only players 
left with the size needed to guard the paint.
Bassett is a sophomore who received a little 
bit of playing time last season, while Stokes 
didn’t see the court at all last year while rehab-
bing from a torn ACL. 
Take those two away and that leaves Hayes, 
a forward-turned-center, left to play the five.
Stone wasn’t having a good season offen-
sively — 6.1 points per game, 0.6 assists per 
game and 19.2 minutes per game — but he was Florida feeling negative 
effects of Stone's injury The Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
Maybe Roger Goodell 
is delusional.
Maybe he’s a 
liar. Maybe he’s just 
unaware. 
Or, maybe, the NFL Com-
missioner simply doesn’t care 
about how displeased the play-
ers, fans, media and everyone 
else is with how he runs his 
league.
The latter seems the most befitting an-
swer. And why should he care? He’s paid 
more than $30 million a year to do what 
league owners say, not to keep the public 
“happy.”
But there’s a difference between being 
apathetic toward public perception and fab-
ricating some rosy image of the NFL.
Goodell made his annual State of the 
League Address on Wednesday and dis-
cussed some of the NFL’s prominent issues 
of the 2018-19 season. Among those men-tioned was the controversial 
missed pass interference call 
during the Saints-Rams NFC 
Championship game and the 
Colin Kaepernick collusion 
case.
Then he added a statement 
that was, to say the least, ut-
terly perplexing.
“I think this season has 
demonstrated that there’s never 
been a better time to be a part of the NFL,” 
Goodell said. “As a fan, as a player, as a 
team and as a partner.”
There is absolutely no way this season 
could have demonstrated that.
Let’s think about it. 
“As a fan.”
The fans who can expect to pay any-
where from $4,600 to $16,000 for a ticket to 
this year’s Super Bowl? That’s compared to 
an average of $1,800 ten years ago and $530 Goodell, stop painting the 
NFL as one, big, happy family
Alanis Thames
Twitter: @alanisthamesSEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The Gators walked into 
the Thompson-Boling Arena 
in Knoxville, Tennessee, 
without one of the most 
important elements in the 
game of basketball: height. 
The team was down its start-
ing 6-foot-1 forward, Kristina 
Moore, after she injured her 
arm Sunday against Arkan-
sas, and her absence was 
evident from the first whistle 
to the last.
Towering Tennessee 
players glided with ease to 
the rim as the undersized 
Florida team hopelessly tried 
to stop them. 
The Volunteers led the 
whole way in Thursday’s 
matchup to hand the Gators 
women’s basketball team its 
fourth-straight loss, 67-50. 
Tennessee (14-7, 3-5 SEC) 
used its size to bully UF in 
the paint early, and it result-
ed in run after run with easy 
shots close to the basket. 
UT jumped on the Gators’ 
weak interior defense in the 
first quarter with aggres-
siveness and pressure in the 
paint to go on a 19-4 run with 
6-foot-3 Cheridene Green 
and 6-foot-2 Rennia Davis 
leading the way. The duo combined 
for 12 points in the opening quarter 
and 34 points as well as 20 rebounds 
(10 each) by the end of the game.
UT players passed fluidly around 
the press to get open shots. 
The Volunteers also used the 
height advantage to haul in endless 
rebounds over the undersized Gators. 
Green grabbed six of Tennessee’s 11 
offensive boards, and UT converted 
those to 13 second-chance points. UF 
grabbed 10 offensive rebounds itself but only scored four second-chance 
points.
Tennessee went into the break 
with a 12-point lead by shooting 52 
percent from the field and out-re-
bounding Florida 23-12.
Florida’s defense tightened up in 
the second half, though, and began to 
contest more shots. Tennessee scored 
just 13 points in the third quarter, one 
of the lowest of the season for the 
high-powered offense that came into 
the contest averaging 77.4 points per 
game. But the UF offense did 
not take advantage of the 
UT drought, failing to outdo 
Tennessee’s 13-point third 
quarter with just nine of its 
own. 
Guards Danielle Rainey 
and Delicia Washington 
found no rhythm all game, 
combining for a dread-
ful 0 for 15 from the field. 
Washington, who returned 
to the lineup after missing 
Sunday’s game with a con-
cussion, looked rusty and 
could not handle the con-
stant defensive pressure set 
by the Volunteers. Coach 
Cam Newbauer noted af-
ter the game that he had to 
have more out of those two 
guards if they were going to 
compete in games moving 
forward. 
“Shots just didn’t go 
down. We had some really 
good looks, but nothing was 
falling,” he said. “We got the 
looks, but (Tennessee) hit 
their shots.”
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu 
was one of the few positives 
for Florida. The redshirt se-
nior scored a team-high 18 
points, most of them com-
ing from strong drives to the 
paint with lots of contact. 
Her teammates will need 
to shoot much better and fight for 
more rebounds if they want to end the 
losing streak on Sunday against No. 
19 Kentucky in Lexington. 
“We knew (rebounding) was go-
ing to be a problem,” Newbauer said. 
“We wanted everyone to get in there 
and scrap, but it just didn’t work out. 
But we need to keep scrapping and 
keep fighting because we got another 
game on Sunday.”
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org.Florida drops to Tennessee in 
Knoxville for fourth straight loss
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu dropped a team-
high 18 points in UF’s 67-50 loss to T ennessee on 
Thursday in Knoxville.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The doubles tandem of freshman Sam Riffice and sopho-
more Oliver Crawford walked into the USTA National Campus 
in Lake Nona, Florida, fresh off a couple of wins at the ITA 
Kickoff event where it dropped just one point.
It carried that momentum into its 6-1 drubbing of UCF’s 
Mikhail Sokolovskiy and Alan Rubio on Thursday. Senior Mc-
Clain Kessler and sophomore Duarte Vale won by the same 
margin, setting the tone against the Knights as UF won 6-1.
The Gators swept the doubles point and dominated singles 
play with wins from Riffice, sophomores Andy Andrade and  
Johannes Ingildsen to clinch the overall victory. 
Riffice and Crawford did not quite replicate their domi-
nance from last weekend, but they still quickly dispatched of 
Sokolovskiy and Rubio, allowing only eight of the match’s 34 
points. A similar story played out on Court 3 as Kessler and 
Vale ran away with a 6-1 victory to secure the doubles point 
for the Gators. 
Riffice ended his day with an exclamation point after a 
dominant 6-0, 6-0 victory against Rubio in singles play. The 
freshman limited his opponent to just 19 points across the two 
sets. 
The Gators got their second win of the day on Court 2 when 
Andrade emerged victorious against UCF freshman Juan Pablo 
Grassi Mazzuchi to the tune of a 6-1, 6-2 win. 
Ingildsen had to fight more than his other teammates, but 
he received a well-earned, 6-4, 7-5 win against Trey Hilder-
brand. 
Vale and freshman Lukas Greif also won their singles 
matches, but sophomore Oliver Crawford’s loss prevented the 
Gators from sweeping the Knights. This was the Gators’ 19th-
straight win against UCF, who has never defeated UF in men’s 
tennis. 
The men’s tennis team continues its spring season on Satur-
day against cross-state rival Florida State in Lake Nona.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgRiffice leads Gators 
in rout of Knights
Alligator File Photo
UF men’s tennis player Johannes Ingildsen won his match 
against UCF’s Trey Hilderbrand 6-4, 7-5 on Friday night.
Alligator Sports Meme of the Week
By River Wells16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!“Dwelling on the past is something I’d like to say I’m 
not a big fan of,” Rowland said. “Last year, that was a dif-
ferent team."
Rowland has preached about “being normal” and treat-
ing every meet and routine just like any other. Despite the 
pressure that comes with a heavyweight bout like this one, 
Rowland’s gymnasts appear to be following her advice.
“We’re just gonna go in and treat it like a normal meet,” 
senior Amanda Cheney said. “Not paying attention to No. 
1 vs. No 2.”
It’ll likely take all the ﬁ  repower the team has to best the 
Sooners, something Florida isn’t lacking in. 
Freshman Trinity Thomas improved her score each 
week as the team’s all-arounder and notched an impres-
sive 9.975 on the bars against Kentucky. The team also has 
its senior leader in Alicia Boren, who had a 9.950 on bars 
and 9.925 on the ﬂ  oor last week.
Though UF  ﬁ  elded some impressive scores in its ﬁ  rst 
three weeks of competition, sophomore Megan Skaggs ex-
plained that to beat the Sooners, it isn’t about being ﬂ  ashy 
or spectacular on the mat.
“We know that we have to hit and we have to do well,” 
Skaggs said. “But we don’t have to do anything special. 
I think it’s great we’ve really come to understanding that 
this year.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Starts at 7:45 p.m.
an important asset on defense. His size 
prevented mismatches and eased the 
pressure for Hayes on the inside.
Florida’s answer to Stone’s injury 
has been to start freshman forward 
Keyontae Johnson at the four, who has 
the height of a guard at 6-foot-5. 
The Gators can get away with the 
lack of size when they play Kentucky 
on Saturday. The Wildcats don’t boast 
a big starting lineup, but they do have 
two players at least 6-foot-10 in for-
wards Nick Richards and EJ Mont-
gomery. The majority of their scoring 
will most likely come from outside the 
paint.
Against other teams, however, the 
Gators will need Hayes, Johnson and 
the rest of their “bigs” to be a big pres-
ence under the basket.
“(Kentucky is) very difﬁ  cult to de-
fend,” White said. “They run good 
stuff, they can beat you a lot of different 
ways offensively.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 14Stone was averaging 6.1 points per game
15 years ago.
These are the same fans who are 
now begging the league to reconsid-
er the way it handles instant replay 
after far too many “refs are only hu-
man” excuse-laced missed calls this 
season.
New Orleans Saints diehards and 
players may still want a word with 
you, Mr. Goodell.
“As a player.”
Surely he can’t be referring to the 
players who still don’t have guar-
anteed contracts. Or the ones who 
have ﬁ  led thousands of concussion-related lawsuits against the league 
because they’ve either sustained 
long-term injuries or they’re tired 
of watching their peers and former 
teammates die.
Carolina Panthers safety Eric Reid 
might be a player who would dis-
agree, after he read a note posted to 
his locker on Dec. 17 requesting that 
he proceed to the facility drug testing 
area. Reid took what he said was his 
seventh “random” test since signing 
with the team on Sept. 27.
I would mention Kaepernick’s 
opinion about being a part of the NFL 
this past season, but he doesn’t have 
one. Because he didn’t get a chance 
to play. And he probably won’t ever 
again get a chance to play.“As a team.”
This can’t be right. It was just two 
weeks ago that referees ROBBED the 
Saints of a trip to the Super Bowl 
with that egregious no call.
Seven head coaches were ﬁ  red 
by the end of the season, and ﬁ  ve of 
them were African-American.
The Kansas City Chiefs released 
running back Kareem Hunt within 
days of a video surfacing of him 
kicking and shoving a woman at a 
Cleveland hotel, an incident that oc-
curred 10 months before the team 
and the league took “noble” action.
Then there’s the Pittsburgh Steel-
ers versus Le’Veon Bell and Antonio 
Brown.
And who knows what happened to teams like the Packers, the Jag-
uars and the Falcons, none of whom 
ended the regular season with an 
above-.500 record.
“As a partner. “
Like the broadcasters who get 
paid regardless of what NFL contro-
versies arise? The owners who make 
billions off the backs of players who 
risk their health every Sunday to 
keep more money in their pockets 
than they’d ever spend in a lifetime?
Oh wait, never mind, that part 
sounds right. 
The NFL is more proﬁ  table than 
ever and will make upward of tens of 
millions of tax-free dollars from this 
year’s Super Bowl between the New 
England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams.
One thing about Goodell’s ad-
dress was true, though. The league 
isn’t the same dumpster ﬁ  re it was 
during the 2017 season, with the an-
them-kneeling backlash, the Trump 
versus NFL players debacle and the 
decreased ratings.
But this is nowhere near a great 
time for the National Football 
League, at least not image-wise.
Perhaps Goodell should’ve gone 
with “at least it ain’t last year” in his 
address.
That statement would have been 
much more accurate.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF forward Keith Stone tore the ACL in his left knee against Georgia on Jan. 19.
