We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FORMER UF RA RELEASED 
FROM JAIL A SECOND TIME
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: This is part one of a 
series investigating sexual violence on 
campus.
After Ian Milaski, a 21-year-old UF 
economics senior, was ﬁ  rst released from 
jail, the public labeled him as the next 
Brock Turner — a “high-achieving” stu-
dent accused of sexual violence fueled by 
alcohol.
Reports of other sexual assault and 
battery cases started to surface: one oc-
curring in Jennings Hall, another at Raw-
lings Hall and one involving a former UF 
football player. The conversations about 
sexual violence and protective measures 
against rape, such as blue lights missing 
on Fraternity Row, are at the forefront of 
UF students’ minds.
Since 2015, 83 individual case num-
bers involving sexual battery are listed 
on University Police incident logs under 
UPD and Campus Security Authority. 
Of those, three cases led to arrests 
while 67 are still among ongoing inves-
tigations, according to the incident logs. 
Ten of those case numbers ended in 
complaint withdrawals, one case number 
referred to another agency, one exceeded 
the statute of limitations and another 
ended up being unfounded.
Sexual battery, commonly known as 
rape, means “oral, anal, or vaginal pen-
etration by, or union with, the sexual 
organ of another or the anal or vaginal 
penetration of another by any other ob-
ject,” Florida Statute reads. 
Sexual battery and assault are coming 
to light now in public discourse, but the 
issues are not new, said Michelle Jacobs, 
a UF law professor.
“Men drinking alcohol and behaving 
inappropriately is seen as two different 
lenses in society,” Jacobs said. “Women 
see it as assaultive and men see it as 
‘boys being boys’ — even in their 20s 
and 30s.”
This week, Milaski was arrested after surrendering to a warrant and was re-
leased for a second time.
Milaski was in the Alachua County 
Jail after the State Attorney’s ofﬁ  ce sent 
a warrant for his arrest, which added 
new charges such as attempted sexual 
battery, kidnapping and burglary to Mi-
laski’s original case, according to court 
records. 
His lawyer, Ron Kozlowski, told The 
Alligator he voluntarily turned himself in. 
Kozlowski declined to comment on  
neither the case nor on Milaski’s behalf.
Milaski was ﬁ  rst arrested Aug. 28 on 
charges of battery and false imprison-
ment after a female student accused him 
of repeatedly asking her to have sex, 
grabbing her and trying to put his ﬁ  nger 
in her vagina, according to a UPD arrest 
report.
After his ﬁ  rst arrest, Kozlowski wrote 
Milaski was a “high-achieving” student 
who couldn’t afford to pay his $125,000 
bond. Judge Mark Moseley, who is no 
longer on the case, agreed and released 
Milaski without having to pay the bond. 
After Milaski’s second arrest, his law-
yer wrote another motion to reduce the 
bond, saying his client can’t afford to pay 
$200,000 as an undergraduate student at 
UF, according to court records. But Mi-
laski managed to be released later that 
day for the same amount.
Kozlowski wrote his client is an “out-
standing student” who isn’t a ﬂ  ight risk, 
according to court records. He further 
wrote Milaski is eager to clear his name 
in court because it’s “likely the only way 
to attend law school; No law school will 
ever accept a fugitive.”
He wrote the case “unfortunately re-
ceived national attention,” which could 
threaten the integrity of the legal process, 
according to court records.
Rape, particularly in a college setting, 
can be difﬁ  cult to report as a victim due 
to varying cultural reasons, Jacobs said. 
During college, people are shaping 
their identities and independence. Being 
linked to such an event can cause fear 
of social isolation — particularly if a per-
petrator is in a position of power or well 
,
UF library digitizes Alligator archives
The process of uploading all Alligator papers has  ﬁ  nished, pg 5
Bite Squad set ablaze
Employ accused of setting building on ﬁ  re, pg 3Women’s hoops looks forward 
The Gators met with media for the ﬁ  rst time 
Wednesday to discuss the new season, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news-FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 16
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_news-
ELECTION
WILL INSPIRE’S HISTORIC 
WIN BE DISQUALIFIED?
By Chasity Maynard  
Alligator Staff Writer
Facing violations, Inspire 
Party clung to its newly won 
seats in UF Student Govern-
ment Senate at the Elections 
Commission meeting Thurs-
day evening, its future posi-
tions challenged.  
The SG Elections Com-
mission mentioned 19 vio-
lations against Gator Party. 
The meeting will continue 
Monday to discuss viola-
tions against Inspire and 
determine the fate of the 
minority party which won Wednesday night’s election 
with 26 Senate seats, while 
Gator won 24. 
It was the ﬁ  rst time In-
spire won the majority of 
open seats in an election 
since its establishment in 
2017. 
But, Inspire faced threats 
of disqualiﬁ  cation Wednesday 
after it was accused of violat-
ing election rules by sending a 
Listserv email to students en-
couraging them to vote in the 
Fall SG elections. Inspire Pres-
ident Zachary Amrose said UF 
ofﬁ  cials cleared Inspire of any 
violation.  
The SG Supreme Court 
will decide whether Inspire will be disqualiﬁ  ed from 
Fall elections, Amrose said. 
The date for the hearing 
has not been set. Inspire 
campaign manager Ashley 
Grabowski said if Inspire 
is disqualiﬁ  ed, it could lose 
their Senate seats won in 
the election. 
The Election Commission 
punished Gator for its viola-
tions with a $5 ﬁ  ne each.
Although the Elections 
Commission didn’t get to 
discuss the Inspire viola-
tions at Thursday’s meet-
ing, Grabowski came to the 
party’s defense.
She repeatedly said Gator SG campaign violations discussed
SEE MEETING,  PAGE 3SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 3Sexual battery on campus
Sam Thomas /Alligator Staff
Inspire President Zachary Amrose celebrates Wednesday night as the results of the Fall 
SG Senate race are announced. Inspire won the majority of seats in the election with 26 
seats while Gator Party won 24. Read the story on page 4 .
“Nights like this are just reminders 
of the fact that it’s possible. ”FEATURE FRIDAYT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  69°
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
Correction: Gainesville police 
did not release Reed from jail, 
they booked and charged him. 
The Alachua County courts 
system bonded him out of jail. 
The Alligator previously reported 
otherwise.
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Boss up: Beauties in Business 
Brunch
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Ballroom
What: Hello Beautiful is 
hosting its annual women’s 
empowerment brunch. The 
brunch will include a panel 
of five women sharing their 
journeys through life and the 
development of their brands 
and businesses. Tickets to 
register are available now at 
hellobeautifulempo.wixsite.com/
mysite/events-1/bossed-up-
beauties-in-business-1
Hearoes for Hearing Benefit 
Concert
When: Sunday, 5 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: High Dive
What: Hearoes for Hearing pres-
ents its second annual benefit 
concert. The concert proceeds 
will benefit the cochlear implant 
patients at the UF Health Speech 
and Hearing Center. There will 
be raffles donated from local 
business sponsors. Soup to Nuts 
Food Truck will be available for 
purchasing refreshments. Tickets 
will be sold on Ticketfly through 
the High Dive website for $10, 
and can be purchased the day of 
for $15.  
October
Gator Growl
When: Oct. 4, 6 p.m.
Where: Flavet Field
 Woodlawn Dr,
What: Gator Growl is a 
historic UF event to celebrate 
homecoming. The event includes 
live performances, food truck vendors and comedy skits. This 
year's performers are country 
artist Chase Rice and country 
group LANCO. Tickets start 
at $25 for general admission 
and $50 for pit access and 
can be purchased online via 
Ticketmaster. 
Butterfly Fest 
When: Oct. 12, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, 3215 Hull Rd
What: Explore the lives of bats, 
bees, birds and butterflies at 
the 14th annual ButterflyFest. 
Learn about butterfly 
gardening, native pollinators, 
conservation, backyard wildlife 
and more during this free event. 
Experience butterfly releases and 
come dressed in your favorite 
pollinator attire for the pollinator 
parade. Visit the #ButterflyFest 
webpage for more information 
and a full schedule of events, 
www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
butterflyfest. 
Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Oct. 18-20, 9 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 200 SE 
Depot Ave.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests  can upgrade 
their experience with the Petty 
For The People Packages to 
receive additional merchandise 
and support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine. 
2019 Fall Art Show 
Submissions
When: Submissions displayed 
Oct. 19-20
Where: Alachua County Library, 
401 E University Ave. in Meeting 
Room A
What: The Alachua County Library District invites teen 
artists ages 12 to 15 to submit 
works for the 2019 Fall Art Show 
through Oct. 11. Works will be 
judged by professionals including 
staff members from UF’s College 
of the Arts and the Harn Museum 
of Art on Oct. 18. Winners will 
be announced on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at the Headquarters Branch. 
Submissions can be made at any 
Alachua County Library District 
Branch. Prizes will be awarded 
for first through third place. For 
more details or to schedule an 
interview, please contact Rachel 
Cook at 352-334-3909. 
Friends of the Library Alachua 
County Library District
When: Oct. 19-23, 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m.
Where: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County, 430 N Main St.
What: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County is hosting the 
Friends of the Library Sale. In 
addition to books, the sale will 
include art, comic books, manga, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records and 
more. Most items are priced 
between 25 cents and $4. On, 
Tuesday, everything will be 
marked half-off and Wednesday 
everything will be 10 cents. All 
proceeds support the Alachua 
County Library District and area 
literacy projects. Sale hours are 
Saturday, Oct. 19  from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. and noon to 6 p.m. 
Sunday through Wednesday. 
GCM Food Fest
When: Oct. 24, 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Where: Celebration Pointe
What: The 6th GCM Food Fest 
is coming to Gainesville. Enjoy 
great food from over 50 of 
Gainesville's best restaurants all 
in one location. GCM has teamed 
up with Celebration Pointe to 
host what they hope will be the 
biggest and best festival yet.  
Celebration Pointe Avenue, in 
front of the Nike store and the 
Tommy Hilfiger store, will be 
closed and filled with music, 
food, beer, wine and kids' 
activities. Admission to the 2019 
GCM Food Festival is free. To 
ensure the festival is accessible 
to all audiences, meal/drink 
tickets will be sold a la carte 
for only $2 each. Download the 
Gift Certificates and More app 
and receive one free meal/drink 
ticket. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 16
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019    KICKOFF,KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
HE HAS A $200,000 BOND 
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Bite Squad employee was ac-
cused Tuesday of setting his work-
place on ﬁ  re.
Joseph Allen Prettyman, 43, of 
Clay County, was charged with set-
ting the food delivery services’ of-
ﬁ  ce building, at 4113 NW 6th St., 
on ﬁ  re at about 6 a.m. on Sept. 19, according to a 
Gainesville Po-
lice arrest report.
Prettyman  
worked as a 
driver for Bite 
Squad and was 
one of only four 
people who had 
access to the door code to enter the 
building, the report said.
Security camera footage from 
the building shows a man with Prettyman’s “walk and stature” 
walking into the ofﬁ  ce while it was 
closed, police said. Once inside, 
the man on camera stole about 20 
Samsung tablets before pouring an 
unknown liquid onto the walls and 
ﬂ  oor.
Shortly after the man poured 
the liquid, the footage shows a 
ﬂ  ash of ﬁ  re igniting, according to 
the report. The blaze increased in 
size, causing the carpet to burst 
into ﬂ  ames.Fireﬁ  ghters from Gainesville 
Fire Rescue arrived to put out the 
ﬁ  re, but found no one inside after 
searching the building, police said. 
There was severe damage to the 
inside of the Bite Squad building, 
according to the report. It is un-
clear whether this will affect Bite 
Squads’ delivery. 
The Bite Squad manager, who 
has known Prettyman for several 
years, watched the footage and 
identiﬁ  ed Prettyman as the man in the video, the report said.
Prettyman told police he was 
was in the building several times 
the morning of the ﬁ  re but denied 
igniting the ﬂ  ames.
Prettyman was charged with 
arson, burglary of a dwelling and 
grand theft. He is being held in the 
Alachua County Jail on a $200,000 
bond. 
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgBite Squad employee charged with setting business on ﬁ  re
representatives violated 
campaign regulations they 
were aware of and should 
be punished with a public 
apology.
Grabowski submitted 
videos to the election com-
mission which she said 
displayed Gator violating 
codes by leaving campaign 
tables unattended. Pearson 
said party representatives 
were nearby or shifts were 
changing at the time of the 
videos. The commission 
conﬁ  rmed Gator Party vio-
lated these codes.
Branden Pearson spoke 
for Gator Party, repeatedly 
acknowledging that Gator 
Party violated rules. 
After Grabowski’s open-
ing statements during Gator 
Party’s opening statements, 
Pearson repeatedly re-
quested to move onto the 
“punishment phase.” He 
requested Gator pay a $5 
nominal ﬁ  ne for all con-
ﬁ  rmed violations.
Grabowski emphasized the importance of Gator 
apologizing publicly be-
cause she said the ﬁ  ne 
would not hold Gator to the 
same standards that other 
student government organi-
zations are held to by the 
Department of Student Ac-
tivities and Involvement. 
Impact, the former ma-
jority party, appointed 
the people in the current 
elections commission. 
Grabowski said the com-
mission handled Inspire 
unfairly, contrasting the 
severity of disqualiﬁ  cation 
for Inspire and $5 ﬁ  nes for 
Gator. 
“They’re applying dif-
ferent standards of proof, 
they’re applying different 
standards of evidence,” 
Grabowski said. 
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgMEETING,  from pg. 1Next meeting Monday
well liked on campus, Jacobs said. It’s common the per-
petrator is someone the victim is familiar with — and if 
anything — trusts.
“It’s not the stranger in the grass waiting for you,” Ja-
cobs said. “It’s the person picking you up to save you from 
the stranger in the grass that can be the most dangerous.” 
Students who chose not to ﬁ  le police charges can report 
sexual assault to the university through Title IX, which pro-
hibits “the discrimination on the basis of sex in any edu-
cational program or activity that receives federal funding.”
Milaski is still a UF student as of Wednesday evening, 
said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
“Many high achievers are still dangerous to the com-
munity,” Jacobs said.
Milaski admitted to grabbing the female student by the 
wrist and asking to sleep with her, according to an arrest 
report. He was then charged with battery and false impris-
onment at the time. 
Jacobs said it’s not uncommon for the state attorney’s 
ofﬁ  ce to add or drop charges as new evidence emerges dur-
ing the discovery period of a case.
Bond is evaluated by whether or not a defendant is a 
ﬂ  ight risk or danger to society if released from jail, she said. 
In her opinion, being a great student doesn’t indicate any-
thing about either concern. 
When those accused begin their legal defense, it is not 
uncommon for their lawyer to use their standing in the 
community and their academics, Jacobs said. Kozlowski 
wouldn’t be doing his job if he didn’t motion to reduce 
Milaski’s bond. 
On the ﬁ  rst arrest, Milaski’s lawyer wrote that remain-
ing in jail prevented his client from ﬁ  nishing his school 
assignments on time and assisting his parents for Hurri-
cane Dorian preparations in South Florida. He also added 
Milaski’s work as a teacher’s assistant managing about 40 
other assistants, an honor society member and an overall good student.
“What the lawyer did is what lawyers do, I don’t fault 
the lawyer for that,” Jacobs said. “I do think the judge used 
an inappropriate standard.”
It’s an instance catching people’s attention but isn’t the 
ﬁ  rst of its kind, Jacobs said. A white male of presentable 
demeanor who is able to afford a decent lawyer, is in turn 
coddled by a sympathetic judge. A common scenario that 
continues to plague victims’ rights in the legal system.
In the second motion, Milaski’s lawyer wrote his client 
wants “nothing to do” with the victim from here on out.
The female student in Milaski’s case did not respond to 
The Alligator further than conﬁ  rming she was a UF sopho-
more. A Facebook account under the same name wrote a 
post describing the the instance: a resident assistant grab-
bing her and trying to have sex with her.
“I do not want this incident to be swept under the rug! 
I will continue to ﬁ  ght this and I will continue to ﬁ  ght him 
until the very end,” the post said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1‘Many high achievers are still danger ous...’
Support hotlines:
• National Sexual Assault Hotline: 1-800-
656-4673
• Alachua County Victim Services And 
Rape Crisis Center: 352-264-6760
• National Suicide Prevention Lifeline:
1-800-273-8255Prettyman
4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019   KICKOFF
Boys & Girls 
ages 8 to 18
OPEN HOUSE
SATURDAY
September 28, 2019
10 am - 1 pm
food, games, & Prizes
VFW POST 2811
1150 NE Waldo RD
Gainesville
FREE Relationship Workshops
Come join our FREE, FUN relationship strengthening workshops where trained 
instructors will teach effective and proven skills to increase positive communica -
tion, manage stress, set financial goals, deal with differences, and maintain a hap -
py and healthy friendship bond. Pre-registration is REQUIRED.
Workshops are held once a week for 5 weeks in the evenings at University of Flor-
ida, McCarty Hall B (1676 McCarty Dr.), 3rd Floor, Room 3096, Gainesville, FL 32611. 
Option 1: Weds. Oct. 2, Oct. 9, Oct. 16, Oct. 23, Oct. 30 from 6:15pm - 8:45pm
Option 2: Thurs. Oct. 3, Oct. 10, Oct. 17, Oct. 24, Oct. 31 from 6:00pm - 8:30pm
A FREE light MEAL will be served at each class and you may also be eligible for 
GIFT CARDS. PARKING is FREE. To register, visit www.smartcouples.org/classes
or contact Jaime Haynes at j.haynes@ufl.edu/352-273-3539 or Stephanie Nor -
man at snorman06@ufl.edu/352-273-3499.
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human Services, Administration 
for Children and Families, Grant: #90FM0079. These services are available to all eligible Persons, regardless of 
race, gender, age, disability or religion. 
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
By Emma McAvoy, 
Ana Escalante  
Alligator Staff Writers
Hidden among orange and blue 
T-shirts, Colin Solomon gripped 
onto his friends, sobbing tears of 
joy. 
After writing UF Student Gov-
ernment legislation for two se-
mesters, Solomon, now ﬁ  rst term 
senator-elect of Keys Residential 
Complex, was one of 26 Inspire 
Party candidates who won SG Sen-
ate seats Wednesday night. 
This is the ﬁ  rst time Inspire, 
which has historically been the 
minority party since its Fall 2017 
inception, won the majority of 
seats in an election. Inspire won 
52 percent of open Senate seats 
while the newcomer, Gator Party, 
won 48 percent — securing the 
last 24 seats.
SG Supervisor of Elections 
Stephanie Siler said 9,907 students voted on Tuesday and Wednesday 
— 1,519 more votes than the Fall 
2018 elections. There were 45 In-
spire, 50 Gator and ﬁ  ve Indepen-
dent candidates grappling for 50 
open Senate seats. 
During the Summer, Solomon 
was set to ﬁ  ll Mackintosh Joachim 
District D Senate position. But 
Solomon was left without a seat 
after the majority party-led sum-
mer replacement committee ap-
pointed new senators. However, 
the odds were surprisingly in his 
favor Wednesday night.
“I was certain I was going to 
lose,” he said. “I was crying before 
the results were even announced. 
And then she said, ‘Keys: Inspire,’ 
and I’ve literally never felt happier 
in my life.”
The race was a contentious 
one, with the installation of blue 
light emergency phones on Frater-
nity Row being at the forefront of 
student voters’ minds. 
Inspire’s ﬁ  rst platform point addresses the lack of lights. The 
platform was released before a 
protest attended by more than 200 
demonstrators in support of hav-
ing these emergency lights on Fra-
ternity Row. 
Ashley Grabowski, Inspire’s 
campaign manager and former 
senator, originally drafted the bill 
for blue light installation on Fra-
ternity Drive. She lost her Sen-
ate seat this Summer after Senate 
President Libby Shaw declared her 
“constructively absent” to justify 
Grabowski’s forced resignation. 
“Sometimes it seems like 
there’s nothing we can do,” 
Grabowski said. “But nights like 
this are just reminders of the fact 
that it’s possible and the fact that 
there’s this many people that care 
enough to overcome that much, 
and it’s amazing.”  
Despite adding a sexual assault 
prevention point, Gator Party did 
not include blue light installation 
on its platform.Gator spokesperson Wynton 
White said he feels great about the 
results of Wednesday night’s elec-
tion, despite not winning the ma-
jority of open Senate seats.
“We didn’t win every seat we 
would’ve liked to,” White said. 
“But that’s not going to stop us 
from carrying out our vision and 
being the best Gators we can be.”  
White said Gator will be bipar-
tisan with its approach to future 
policies.
“We are very happy to work on 
the other side of the aisle,” White 
said. “And we don’t want to have 
a party divide us. The one thing 
that we have in common is being 
Gators.” 
When asked about how he felt 
about Inspire’s win, Gator treasur-
er Richard Doan paused to reﬂ  ect 
on the question. 
“I know Inspire, much like 
Gator Party, has put in a lot of 
work in the last month,” Doan 
said. “They put in the work just 
like we did. At the end of the day, 
it’s the students that vote... and they vote for their voices to be 
heard.” 
Doan said he’s happy for every-
one who won. 
“Every single person who pur-
sues Student Government ﬁ  ghts 
for a cause,” Doan said. “I think 
it’s important to remember that 
we all ﬁ  ght for the same thing, 
which is promoting the voice of 
the Student Body.” 
Despite the resounding posi-
tivity, Inspire’s win did not come 
without some controversy. The 
party was accused of campaign 
violations, inciting the Elections 
Commission to hold a meeting 
Wednesday night for deliberation. 
At Tuesday night’s Senate 
meeting senators will vote on the 
Senate pro-tempore and Senate 
president.
Read Meeting on page 1 for 
Thursday night’s Election Commis-
sion meeting coverage.
emcavoy@alligator.org
aescalante@alligator.orgInspire wins first majority victory in SG Senate elections
Inspire Party won 26 seats; Gator Party won 24
Sam Thomas /Alligator Staff
Three members of Gator Party watch Wednesday night as the results of the election are read.
Sam Thomas /Alligator Staff
Brianne Seaberg, a 19-year-old Inspire Party member, cries tears 
of joy as the election results are announced. Seaberg said she had 
been working for Inspire and campaigning nonstop over Summer 
and during the school year. “I’m like emotional right now, ” Seaberg 
said. “All our hard work paid off. ”
KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
EVERY ISSUE OF PAPER
 AVAILABLE ONLINE
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
You can now read the words of 
UF student journalists dating back 
to 1912.
Starting Thursday, every copy 
of The Independent Florida Alliga-
tor will be online after UF’s George 
A. Smathers Libraries digitized the 
paper’s archives. All editions of 
The Alligator from 1912 to present 
day can be found at ufdc.uﬂ  .edu/
alligator.
The project to digitally archive 
every Alligator newspaper began in September 2017. It was funded 
by an endowment to create and ac-
quire materials for the library, said 
Patrick Reakes, senior associate 
dean for scholarly resources and 
services and project director. The 
digitation cost $40,000. 
To access the newspapers be-
fore, people had to sort through 
bound paper folios or rolls of ﬁ  lm, 
he said. Looking for speciﬁ  c papers 
could take hours. 
“What we wanted was wide 
open access, it’s freely available to 
anyone anywhere,” Reakes said. 
He said old copies of The Alliga-
tor are thought to be the most re-
quested title at the library. Project 
coordinator Melissa Jerome agreed. “Most people, of course, as-
sume that everything is digitized,” 
Jerome said. “It’s always been, I 
would say, a dream of the library 
to try and get that digitized.” 
In 2005, the libraries began 
working with the newspaper’s staff 
to digitize papers from that point 
on, Jerome said.
But it left those looking for edi-
tions prior to 2005 out of luck. 
A researcher from UCLA once 
ﬂ  ew to Gainesville just to look at 
older copies of The  Alligator, Je-
rome said. By digitizing the papers, 
students, researchers and alumni 
will have easy access to it.
Jerome and a team of two stu-
dent assistants looked through ev-ery newspaper reel.
The team began by collecting 
all the microﬁ  lm, which are scaled 
down reproductions of documents, 
from 1912 to 2004, making it in-
accessible to the public. Each reel 
of microﬁ  lm contained about 500 
to 1,000 pages, totalling about 
140,000 pages. Jerome and the stu-
dent assistants collected data from 
each page and did quality review 
checks. 
“All the content we digitize is 
text searchable, which is some-
thing the former editors of The Al-
ligator were super thrilled about,” 
Jerome said.
Amanda Rosa, the editor-in-
chief of The Alligator and a 21-year-old UF journalism senior, was a 
sophomore during her ﬁ  rst semes-
ter at the paper when the project 
started. She said the digitization of 
the papers will be a great resource 
to it’s staff for archival work.
Journalism is the ﬁ  rst draft of 
history, and this project allows his-
tory to be easily accessed, she said. 
“You’re able to essentially go 
back in time and read exactly what 
students in 1924 were thinking,” 
Rosa said. “It’s like time traveling 
without moving.”
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgUF Libraries complete Alligator digitization project
ABOUT 450 PEOPLE WATCHED 
NICOLE BYER’S PERFORMANCE
By Marlena Carrillo
Alligator Staff Writer
Comedian and TV host Nicole Byer came 
to the Reitz Union Wednesday night ready 
to ruin Disney movies for her audience.
Byer, known for hosting the Netﬂ  ix bak-
ing show “Nailed It!” and her podcast “Why 
Won’t You Date Me?,” had the crowd roar-
ing when she stepped on stage. 
Though the stand-up event was changed 
from its original date of Aug. 21, the perfor-
mance at the Reitz Grand Ballroom was a 
full house with about 450 audience mem-
bers. She was paid $15,000 from student 
activities fees. 
Byer introduced herself with her usual 
ﬂ  air, commenting on her day in Gainesville.
“What is there to do here?” she told the audience. “I’ve already seen eight people 
drive on the median. You guys are f*****g 
wild.”
Byer, 33, performed an hour-long set 
sharing stories about traveling and hosting 
“Nailed It!” The Netﬂ  ix host and comedian 
didn’t shy away from dropping a couple of f-
bombs. The raunchier the jokes, the louder 
the laughs.
Byer’s story topics ranged from unfortu-
nate hookups to absurd pop culture refer-
ences.
“Stay with me here,” Byer said before 
equating the Wizarding World of Harry Pot-
ter to the Ku Klux Klan, where she compared 
“muggleborns” to black people and endear-
ingly referred to the author as “J.K.K.K.K. 
Rowling.”
Later she began a segment where she in-
vited the crowd to share bad dating stories.
After listening to another audience mem-
ber recount a bad Tinder experience, where the date had Trump stickers covering his 
wall, Katie Usrey, an 18-year-old UF classi-
cal studies freshman, realized she had gone 
on a date with the same person.
“I had so much fun,” Usrey said after the 
show. “I was not expecting to have audi-
ence participation, but that story [I shared] 
was too good.” 
The Reitz Programming Board wanted 
Byer to perform because students are inter-
ested in hearing from her, said Tori Chin, 
the board’s vice president of external affairs.
Chin said the performance seemed to be 
a hit among the audience.
“People were laughing really hard,” Chin 
said. “It’s nice to see people enjoying them-
selves, and that’s why we do what we do.”
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.org‘You guys are f*****g wild:’ Netﬂ  ix host performs at Reitz 
Samantha Harrison/ Alligator Staff
Nicole Byer performs Wednesday night. 
EditorialFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The weather is still unbearable. You feel a gentle 
breeze here and there, but Mother Nature lied about 
the fall season — or at least we did something to 
mess it up. Either way, it’s hot, you’re sweaty and 
the walk from the Reitz Union to Library West isn’t 
making things easier. 
Once you make it to Marston Library, you could escape 
from the heat. The harsh sunlight is blocked by the tall 
buildings, and you feel the familiar comfort of the French 
Fries looming over you. You’ve made it this far, you can 
make it the rest of the way. 
But alas, you forgot you had to pass through Turlington 
Plaza and it’s noon — during election season. Dun dun dun!
Breathing heavy, you ﬁ  nally build up enough courage 
to plow through the crowd. You’ve practiced enough “no 
thank you’s” and “I’m not interested” to consider yourself a 
pro. Head down. Headphones in. Speed walk. 
Right as you’re about to escape the last overly-eager 
freshman, someone stops you in your tracks. Before you 
get the chance to swat them away, they shove a paper in 
your face. 
 But it wasn’t a campaign ﬂ  ier. It was…
Darts and Laurels
It’s sad to say this, but the ﬁ  rst dart has to go to the 
New York Times for indirectly (his name was not stated) 
identifying a whistleblower. A CIA agent was responsible 
for uncovering that Trump was trying to get foreign aid to 
help him get re-elected, and worse of all, the fact that the 
White House was trying to cover it up. This of course, is a 
highly dangerous thing to do, seeing that Trump recently 
mentioned how he would like to treat the whistleblower.
The lead lawyer for the CIA agent clearly said it would be 
dangerous for any information regarding the whistleblow-
er’s identity to be released — and of course the New York 
Times released it anyway. 
At least now people upset with the Times can enjoy a 
discount at the Washington Post. 
Meanwhile, something good is ﬁ  nally happening to the 
Amazon... the company, at least. We’re giving it a laurel
for planning on integrating Samuel L. Jackson’s voice into 
Alexa. In fact, you might see it on here again if he says some 
good quotes. Who needs Netﬂ  ix when you can have Alexa 
recite Pulp Fiction, at least the important parts anyway. 
This may come as a surprise, but McDonald’s is getting 
a laurel this week. The company recently introduced plant 
based burgers to its menu, and although the rest of their 
items mostly consists of unhealthy and environmentally un-
conscious food, it’s nice to see that they’re at least trying. 
Keep in mind that it’s still a fast food company, so you 
might not get the greatest quality burger. But at least they’re 
trying, right?
On the other hand, the fact that the Juul CEO is being 
replaced by an executive from a tobacco company is not a 
surprise at all. It’s being taken over by a cigarette giant that 
apparently already owns 35 percent of the company. A dart
goes to Juul for killing our lungs and then hiring someone 
who can do it even better. 
The ﬁ  nal laurel goes to Jonathan Van Ness for his brav-
ery. He recently told the public that he has been living with 
HIV for several years now. It’s a harsh stigma that plagues 
the LGBTQ+ community (especially gay men), even today. 
He deserves to be recognized for breaking through it.  
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORAs exam season peaks its head around 
the corner, I think it’s important to 
talk about ways to maintain a healthy 
mental state while going through the 
rigors of midterms and ﬁ  nals. I’m 
not sure about everyone else, but for me the 
ﬁ  rst thing to go during times of stress is al-
ways food. During a packed day, it just feels 
so inconvenient to have to cook or go out. 
Although, I think anyone can tell that this is 
a bad habit to keep. Food is the fuel that your 
body will use when you study and eventually rock those 
exams, so it’s important to be mindful of what you use. 
Here, I’ll recommend some foods that have helped me 
stay sharp during tests.
First off, let me tell you about my favorite fruit: ki-
wis. I have no idea how to eat these things. In trying to 
do so, I’ve caused myself so much pain. The skin has 
these little hairs that stick to your tongue and cause 
all kinds of irritation. But I promise the struggle is so 
worth it. It’s one of the most nutritious fruits that you 
can ﬁ  nd. It beats oranges, apples, bananas, strawber-
ries and blueberries by far. Despite this, it’s way less 
popular. Why? I have no clue. Treat yourself this exam 
season, and get yourself a kiwi. 
Another great food that I’ve been having way too 
much of is ﬁ  sh, especially salmon. The way I’ve been 
preparing it is fairly standard; I just use salt and pep-
per and serve it with a side of brown rice and roasted 
asparagus. Now, believe me when I say that I am an ab-
solutely awful chef. Growing up in a Latinx household 
meant that food was just something that appeared be-
fore me whenever I visited my grandma. So, when I say 
I am able to prepare salmon decently well, you can too. As this is the busiest time of the se-
mester, some foods you can take with you 
on-the-go are: blueberries, prunes, pecans, 
peanut butter on toast, avocado on toast and 
other lightweight fruits and veggies. However, 
my favorite out of all these snacks are nuts. 
Walnuts, pistachios, almonds, hazelnuts or 
cashews — there’s a type for everyone. Plus, 
they are super healthy while remaining easy 
snacks at any point in the day. 
Having said all this, it’s important to think 
of your diet as a whole instead of single ingredients. 
Variety is one of the key factors that makes a good 
diet. But, as we spend all our time studying, I know 
that tracking nutrient intake to make sure we’re eating 
healthily just feels like a waste of time. 
Luckily, you can let your phone do the work for you 
instead.  There’s plenty of great apps that can help you 
track your meals and tell you if you’re meeting recom-
mended daily values, including Lifesum, MyFitnessPal 
and Fooducate. 
I know what it’s like to prioritize grades over self-
care, but just as we are there for our friends and loved 
ones, we need to be there for ourselves. For more in-
formation and for help acquiring foods, check out the 
Field and Fork Pantry and the Nutrition Services team 
on campus.
Matthew Diaz is the Hispanic Caucus Leader in 
Student Government.How to have less stress about food Column
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
When did it
352-376-4090 | bodytechtattoo.com
Bodytech_tattoo
Bodytech_piercingsStart for you?
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
Download the FREE
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
On October 2, 
at 8 a.m., ﬁ  n-
gers across 
Gainesville  
will be furi-
ously ﬂ  ying across 
keyboards in a mad 
dash to secure funding 
for student organiza-
tions. Budget requests 
for operations, events 
and travel will open at 
that exact moment. Let the Hun-
ger Games begin!
I want to offer my advice. 
Not as a person who has ever 
used Docutraq before (because I 
haven’t), but as a person who is 
competitive. Some of these tips 
will be helpful, some will not. 
You can decide.
When it comes to getting fund-
ing, I think planning ahead is a 
great idea. Thinking about throw-
ing some really important events 
or going on some really important 
trips? I would have a draft ready 
with all the information you 
need. Look through the templates 
available on the UF Student Gov-
ernment website to see what the 
form will look like and make sure 
to prioritize which requests you’ll 
want to submit ﬁ  rst.
Thinking of going a step fur-
ther? Go into your internet brows-
er’s autoﬁ  ll settings and change 
your own information into infor-
mation that matches your student 
organization’s. Work smarter, not 
harder, folks.
Worried about getting every-
thing in on time? Consider getting 
together with your fellow organi-
zation ofﬁ  cers for an early morn-
ing board meeting. Work? Skip it. 
Class? Skip it. Sleeping? You bet-
ter wake up — or your organiza-
tion isn’t getting money.
Reserve a study room in Mar-
ston Science Library or Library 
West. Meet in the Reitz Union 
food court. Find an empty class-
room. It will be worth it if ofﬁ  -
cers are in the same space so they 
can ask each other questions. The moment the clock 
strikes 8 a.m., mul-
tiple ofﬁ  cers should be 
working on different 
requests.
Unfortunately,  
things are still ﬁ  rst 
come, ﬁ  rst serve. The 
only way to get money 
is to be fast.
Want to be faster? 
Consider buying a 
100-foot ethernet cord and stick 
ing it straight into the SG Finan-
cialOfﬁ  ce’s ports so your budget 
requests get to the head honchos 
milliseconds faster than everyone 
else’s. 
Won’t be able to sit down at 
a computer and you’re stuck us-
ing your phone? Find the nearest 
cell phone tower and stand re-
ally close to it. While you’re do-
ing that, try your best to make 
sure the event your organization 
has held for the last 20 years gets 
more than 20 bucks for food. 
Maybe this is a good excuse 
to get an iPhone 11 Pro Max so 
you have a faster phone to submit 
requests with. I won’t judge you.
Oh, and did I say to plan ahead 
already? Well, plan even further 
ahead if your organization plans 
on doing anything during the 
summer up until June 30. To my 
understanding, these “Spring” 
budget requests cover activities 
that will take place up until the 
end of the ﬁ  scal year. So, if any-
one has any travel plans to the 
Bahamas on SG’s dime in early 
June, please take note.
Alright, I’m done with my ex-
tremely useful advice. To each 
and every student organization 
out there, I wish you the best of 
luck and the highest of internet 
speeds in the process of getting 
funding this semester. 
May the odds be ever in your 
favor.
Zachariah Chou is a UF 
political science senior and serves 
as the Murphree Area Senator.Useful (and useless) tips for 
student organization fundingColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019    ALLIGATOR   8 
By  Eric Tucker, Michael 
Balsamo and Zeke Miller
Associated Press
The White House and the Justice 
Department learned about a CIA officer’s 
concerns about President Donald Trump 
around the same time the individual 
filed a whistleblower complaint that is 
now at the center of an impeachment 
inquiry, according to a U.S. official and 
another person familiar with the matter.
The intelligence official initially filed 
a complaint about Trump’s dealings with 
Ukraine with the CIA, which then alerted 
the White House and Justice. On Aug. 
12, the intelligence official raised another 
flag — this time with the intelligence 
community’s inspector general, a 
process that granted the individual more 
legal protections.
During that time, the inspector 
general’s complaint — which centered 
on Trump’s dealings with Ukraine — 
remained private. But information about 
the whistleblower was already making 
its way through the administration: on 
Aug. 14, White House counsel John 
Eisenberg and a CIA official alerted the 
head of DOJ’s national security division 
about the original complaint to the CIA.
John Demers, who leads the national 
security division, went to the White 
House the next day to review materials 
associated with the call. He then alerted 
people within the Justice Department, 
but it was unclear specifically who he 
told.
In the following weeks, Demers 
had discussions with other Justice 
Department officials about how to 
handle the CIA complaint, according to 
the person familiar with the matter. It 
was during that period that the Justice 
Department also received a notification 
from the intelligence community’s 
inspector general about a whistleblower complaint.
The timeline raises questions about 
how the White House and the Justice 
Department handled the complaint. 
The administration initially blocked 
Congress from viewing the complaint, 
citing presidential privilege, and only 
released a redacted version of the 
report to lawmakers this week after the 
impeachment inquiry had begun.
The House intelligence committee 
released the complaint on Thursday. 
The nine-page letter details a July 25 
phone call in which Trump presses 
Ukraine’s leader to help investigate 
baseless corruption accusations against 
Democratic rival Joe Biden. The 
complaint also alleges that the White 
House sought to “lock down” details 
of the call by moving it onto a secure, 
classified computer system.
The complaint also details extensive 
interactions between Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s personal attorney, and 
Ukrainian officials.
The person familiar with the 
matter, as well as another person with 
knowledge of the case, confirmed that 
the whistleblower was a CIA officer.
The Associated Press is publishing 
information about the whistleblower’s 
background because the person’s 
credibility is central to the impeachment 
inquiry into the president. The New York 
Times first reported that the individual 
was a CIA officer.
The U.S. official and the two people 
familiar with the matter spoke to AP on 
condition of anonymity because they 
were not authorized to speak publicly.
The whistleblower’s attorney, 
Mark Zaid, said publishing details 
about the individual places the person 
in a dangerous situation, personally 
and professionally. The CIA referred 
questions to the inspector general.How DOJ learned about whistleblower
FIVE FINALISTS 
INTERVIEWED 
THIS WEEK
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer
Out of 55 applicants, 
only five remain in the 
search for a new Gainesville 
city manager. 
City commissioners will 
discuss and possibly select 
one of the remaining can-
didates at a special meet-
ing Friday at 2 p.m. in the 
City Hall Auditorium. The 
five finalists include Harry 
Black, Lee Feldman, Anne 
Fritz, Janice Jackson and 
Howard Lazarus. 
The city manager runs 
day-to-day operations of the 
city, and is also known as 
“the CEO of the city,” said 
City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos. Interviews 
for the final five were con-
ducted Wednesday and 
Thursday, and included a 
panel-style interview and a 
one-on-one interview with 
commissioners. 
“I think we have some 
great candidates, and I look 
forward to discussing with 
the commission [today] on 
a selection,” Hayes-Santos 
said. 
The anticipated cost for 
the city manager search is 
$32,000, according to public 
records. The amount, which 
is funded through unallo-cated general fund balance, 
accounts for search fees and 
candidate travel, meals and 
more. 
Former Gainesville City 
Manager Anthony Lyons re-
signed from his position in 
December 2018 after receiv-
ing public backlash about 
the high turnover in city 
employment, according to 
Alligator archives. 
City commissioners then 
chose Deborah Bowie as in-
terim city manager in Janu-
ary. She still holds the posi-
tion.
In addition to the formal 
interviews for city manag-
er, the five candidates also 
mingled with local residents 
and city officials Wednes-
day evening during a meet-
and-greet in the GRU multi-
purpose room.
Gainesville resident Co-
swell Depeiza, 69, attended 
the gathering to look for a 
candidate who has a con-
nection to a smaller city like 
Gainesville. He said the city 
manager position is crucial, 
especially when addressing 
Gainesville’s homeless situ-
ation.   
“We need somebody in 
here that knows some way 
how to put a harness on it,” 
Depeiza said.  
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org Who will be the 
next city manager?
AP Photo / Pablo Martinez Monsivais
Chairman Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., right, questions Acting Director 
of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire before the House Intelligence 
Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Sept. 26, 2019. With 
Schiff are Ranking Member Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., left, and Rep. John 
Ratcliffe, R-T exas, center. 
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
DEEP DOCKABLE WATERFRONT 
ACREAGE GULF ACCESS-ONLY $69,900. 
WAY UNDER MARKET! CONVENIENT 
TO TAMPA AREA ON FLORIDA’S 
NATURE COAST. GREAT FISHING AND 
SCALLOPING. EXCELLENT FINANCING. 
GULFATLANTICLANDSALES.COM,  
BROKER 1-888-423-0944      9-27-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6DSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
● YAMAHA P350  Turntable, cartridge & new 
stylus $100; ● YAMAHA 3-way NS8 speak-
ers $150; ● KLH 4-way 9915 speakers $150. 
OBO Call 724-816-6244    9-27-19-4-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church 
need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, 
windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews 
and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com        9-27-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  ____ movie
1.  Current unit 5.  Liquefy 
2.  ____ warning 6.  Separated
3.  Run7.  New
4.  Cylinder, turbineOCANIT
EMAERPREPEU
TAAPR
TAROODN
AETOEPRNRMDOE
SNOPTIANSWERS: 1A-Action  5A-Puree  6A-Apart  7A-Modern
1D-Ampere  2D-Tornado  3D-Operate  4D-Piston  B-Puerto Rico9-27-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All R ights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
BONUSCLUE: This island was originally 
named San Juan Bautista.
SOLUTION ON PAGE 10 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Experienced horse person for weekend 
feeding and cleaning of barn. Must have own 
transportation, farm in NW Marion County. 
Call (352) 591-2121 to arrange an interview.    
10-7-19-8-14
HELP WANTED: 
Provide care for my daughter. Must assist 
with oral hygiene. Mon - Fri, 9:30 - 2:30. 5 
hrs per day. Must have car. Please call 352-
339-2798    9-30-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15DDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
SHARED NANNY in a family home. I have 2 
full time spots available. Providing exceptional 
& loving care for children of busy profession-
als. Bilingual. Small groups. FT or PT. Over 25 
yrs exp. FHdaycare.com 352-213-5375    10-
2-19-5-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      9-27-
1-15
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/27/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/27/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 27, 2019
ACROSS
1 Doing something
5 Infatuated,  
old-style
9 “The Goldbergs” 
actor George
14 Corner
15 First-rate
16 Hardly in the dark
17 Really terrible 
wine?
20 Master’s 
degree seeker’s 
assignment
21 Evaluate
22 Hosp. area for 
critical cases
24 Truck unit
25 PreCheck org.
26 Focus word in a 
Scripps logo
27 Dad jokes?
30 Extensive periods
31 “See ya”
32 Pork cuts
34 Beethoven wrote 
just one
35 Academic growth
36 Indian silk region
40 Trumpet sound
42 Mrs. King on 
“Scarecrow and 
Mrs. King”
43 HUD financing gp.
46 Hardware store 
window feature?
48 Tanning line
49 Mag. listing
50 Some PCs
51 Kitty alternative
52 Pertaining to a 
heart chamber
54 Facial feature 
named after an 
animal
56 Power nap?
60 Location
61 Innocent, for one
62 Keypad 
predecessor, in 
some cases
63 Rent-a-car choice
64 Cabs and the like
65 Multinational 
range
DOWN
1 A/C measure
2 Caterer’s item3 35 to 5, say
4 Slangy assent
5 “Teen Angel” or 
“Leader of the 
Pack”
6 Sounds from the 
pasture
7 Holiday places
8 English cuppa
9 Spicy  
condiment
10 Farm moms
11 Summerhouse
12 Out of bed
13 They can make 
things clearer
18 __ scan: ID 
method
19 Soprani 
opposites
22 __ facto
23 Farm home
25 Helen’s home
28 Kazantzakis title 
hero
29 Fabled mischief-
makers
30 Montaigne work
33 Yoga class 
greeting
35 Greek rainbow 
goddess37 Charlatan’s 
curative
38 “__ pinch ... ”: 
recipe direction
39 Labyrinthine
41 Disorient
42 Andean animals
43 Dad’s dad
44 Italian  
Christmas
45 Many
47 Contacted, in a 
way49 Gobbled up
53 Ancient  
Peruvian
54 Wind warning 
indicated by two 
red flags
55 Icelandic poetic 
work
57 “Morning Edition” 
airer
58 Nuke
59 Little League 
leaders?
By David Poole
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, September 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Indian food 
option
5 “4x2=8” rapper 
from Korea
8 Blood 
component
14 Et __: and others
15 Troy, N.Y., 
school
16 Trojan War hero
17 Delivery method
19 Duke’s Mike 
Krzyzewski, 
familiarly
20 Fall
21 Boats and gravy 
boats
22 Stockpiled
24 Tigers, on 
scoreboards
25 “Miracle on Ice” 
winners: Abbr.
28 Pours carelessly
29 Start of el año
31 Quick bite
33 Chef’s collection
35 Siri device
37 Pointed facial 
features
41 Morris 
Buttermaker’s 
“bad news” team
43 Big name in 
smooth jazz
44 Spray can output
46 Like some U.S. 
mail
47 African antelope
50 Binge
52 Montgomery of 
jazz
53 Part of UCLA
54 Due
56 Easy marks
59 __ del Fuego
62 Angular abode
63 Complex 
containing 
thiamine and 
niacin
65 Close tightly
66 Half of eleven?
67 Spots at the 
prom?
68 Discount phrase
69 Farm sci.
70 Mower holder
DOWN
1 Brit’s raincoat
2 Rick’s love in 
“Casablanca”
3 In __ of
4 Decrees5 1996 Richard 
Gere/Edward 
Norton thriller
6 Spot buyer
7 Half a cosmic 
whole
8 Walked 
nervously
9 Some summer 
babies
10 Santa __: dry 
winds
11 Withdraw 
formally
12 “Resurrection 
Symphony” 
composer
13 Invites for
18 Antacid brand
21 Italian scooter
23 Long-running 
Mad feature 
suggested by this 
puzzle’s circled 
letters
25 Yard, say
26 Junior-to-be
27 Tennis immortal
29 “The 
Neverending 
Story” author
30 Acronymically 
named boy band
32 White House 
architect James34 Rug rat
36 More than want
38 Had down cold
39 Thornfield Hall 
governess
40 Capt.’s 
subordinates
42 Bouquet for a 
señorita
45 On the soapbox
47 West Texas city
48 Preppy shoe
49 Celestial
51 Zeno’s home54 Coterie members, 
in slang
55 “Aunt __ Cope 
Book”
57 Black Friday event
58 Controversial 
radio host
60 Like chocolate 
cheesecake
61 Actress 
Hathaway
63 Intl. news 
broadcaster
64 Rest area?
09/26/19
1. Pitcher Freddy Peralta set a Mil-
waukee Brewers rookie record in 2018 
for most strikeouts in a game (13). 
Name two of the four pitchers who had 
held the franchise mark of 12.
2. In 2004, Arizona’s Randy John-
son became the oldest major-league 
pitcher to throw a perfect game. How 
old was he?
3. The all-time leader for touchdown 
receptions in the NFL playoffs is Jerry 
Rice, with 22. Name either of the two 
players tied for No. 2.
4. Who was the last men’s college 
basketball player before Murray 
State’s Ja Morant in 2019 to notch a 
triple-double in an NCAA Tourna-
ment game?
5. The Carolina Hurricanes have 
reached the NHL Stanley Cup play-
offs six times since 1998. How many 
of those times did they advance to at 
least the conference finals?
6. Alex Morgan tied a Women’s 
World Cup soccer single-game record 
in 2019 with five goals in a game. 
Who else holds the mark?
7. Name either of the two fighters 
George Foreman defeated between 
winning the heavyweight boxing 
titles from Joe Frazier in January 1973 
and losing them to Muhammad Ali in 
October 1974.
Answers
1. Teddy Higuera (1985), Juan 
Nieves (1986), Cal Eldred (1992) and 
Steve Woodard (1997).
2. He was 40 years old.
3. Rob Gronkowski and John Stall-
worth, with 12 each.
4. Draymond Green of Michigan 
State, in 2012 (24 points, 12 rebounds, 
10 assists).
5. Four times.
6. Michelle Akers, who did it in 
1991.
7. Jose Roman and Ken Norton.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 23, 2019King Features Weekly Service
Wednesday
SOLUTION BELOWKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019    ALLIGATOR   10 Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsForward Dontay Bassett was 
named chair of the SEC Men's 
Basketball Leadership Council. 
He was chosen by fellow 
SEC basketball players in the 
council.
Former Gators inducted into UF-UGA Hall of Fame
Former Florida defensive lineman Brad Culpepper (1988-1991) and line-
backer Brandon Spikes (2006-2009) were chosen as new members of the 
Florida-Georgia Hall of Fame. They are now part of a group of 100 former 
players to receive that honor.WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
SOCCERBy Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s 
basketball team held its pre-
season media day Thursday, 
and coach Cam Newbauer 
and the players got to share 
their thoughts on the offsea-
son and the season to come. 
They spoke a lot on improve-
ment from last season and 
had a new-found confidence. 
Here are three areas the team 
addressed for the upcoming 
season: 
 
Familiar scorers
The end of the 2018-19 
season meant the departure 
of leading scorers Funda Na-
kkasoglu and Delicia Wash-
ington. Newbauer was tasked 
to find players to make up for 
the 27.1 points per game, 9.4 
rebounds per game and 54 to-
tal steals that left with the dy-
namic guard duo. 
While the team has a lot of 
new faces, Newbauer expects 
to turn to veterans to jump-
start the team early in the sea-son, and guards Kiara Smith 
and Danielle Rainey fit the bill. 
The two players flourished 
last season, especially Rainey, 
who became a microwave off 
the bench with 8.2 points per 
game and 28 three-pointers. 
Her most noticeable area of 
improvement will need to be 
her accuracy, as she made just 
25 percent of her threes and 31 
percent from the field.
Smith, who started all but 
one game as the team’s point 
guard, also said she was excit-
ed for the opportunity to open 
up her scoring game.
“I’m just trying to be over-
all better,” she said. “Definite-
ly want to have a more aggres-
sive mindset on offense, but I 
still want to be that pass-first 
point guard.”
 
New faces
Last season, the Gators 
walked onto the court for their 
opening game with just two 
returning players from the 
year before. In 2019, the team 
has a lot of veterans but still 
not many upperclassmen. Eight of the 12 players on 
the roster are underclassmen 
heading into the season, four 
of them freshmen.
Newbauer said he was 
eager to see his new recruit-
ing class that included guards 
Lavender Briggs — who aver-
aged 32.2 points (a state re-
cord) and 12.5 rebounds per 
game in her senior year at Pro-
vo High School in Utah — and 
Tampa native Brylee Bartram, 
who broke the national high 
school record for both boys 
and girls for three-pointers 
made in a career with 533 at 
Seffner Christian Academy. 
“My game definitely fits 
(Newbauer’s) coaching style,” 
Bartram said. “He definitely 
believes in taking your shots. 
Taking threes has always been 
a big part of his coaching ca-
reer, and I’m definitely excited 
to be a part of that.”
 
More size
One glaring issue for Flori-
da was prominent by the end 
of its eight-win season last 
year: its lack of size. The team relied on 6-foot-
2 forward Zada Williams and 
6-foot-1 guard Kristina Moore 
to command the low post, 
a difficult task made harder 
when Moore broke her arm 20 
games into the season. 
But Newbauer and the staff 
have attempted to address that 
area during the offseason. 
Newcomers in 6-foot-4 
freshman Faith Dut and 6-foot-
5 Texas A&M transfer Emer 
Nichols, as well as the return-
ing Moore, should add more 
physicality to a team that des-
perately needed it.
“Our first three years 
haven’t felt this good,” New-
bauer said. “Our first three 
years, we were so new. Now 
we have a lot of players that 
are talented and who’ve 
played significant time and 
minutes. I’m excited for what 
will come.”
 
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer 
Florida’s soccer team was held 
scoreless in last season’s meeting 
against Missouri.
But UF’s offense rebounded 
from its poor attacking display this 
time around in a 3-2 victory over 
the Tigers on Thursday night at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
“It just says we learned a lot 
from last year,” junior forward 
Deanne Rose said. “We’re not tak-
ing any steps back, and we’re using 
every game that we lost last year as 
motivation to win them this year.”
The left side of Missouri’s (6-3-
1, 0-1-1 SEC) defense struggled to 
contain redshirt junior defender Kit 
Loferski, who used her breakaway 
speed to create scoring opportuni-
ties for the Gators (6-4, 2-0 SEC)
That was evident in the 16th 
minute when Loferski scur-
ried down the right sideline and 
whipped in a dangerous cross that 
nearly connected with the foot of 
senior forward Vanessa Kara.Kara, however, found the back 
of the net two minutes later, as 
senior midfielder Sammie Betters 
squared the ball across the box for 
an easy tap-in. After failing to score 
in the first six games of the season, 
Kara has registered six goals in her 
last four appearances.
Florida nearly doubled its lead 
in the 36th minute on a ferocious 
volley from Rose that hit the side 
netting. Rose eventually gave her 
team a two-goal cushion in the 
53rd minute, sprinting past Mis-
souri’s back line and firing a shot 
over the goalkeeper.
The 5-foot-5 forward, who has 
been dealing with a nagging ham-
string injury over the past month, 
had not scored since Aug. 25 when 
she recorded a goal in a 2-0 victory 
over then-No. 18 South Florida. 
Tigers forward Macy Trujillo cut 
into Florida’s lead in the 66th min-
ute with a rocket from the edge of 
the box that was out of reach for 
UF goalkeeper Susi Espinoza. But 
redshirt junior midfielder Parker 
Roberts found the back of the net just 10 minutes later to put the 
Gators up 3-1.
Missouri made things interest-
ing in the 82nd minute, when for-
ward Sarah Luebbert converted a 
penalty kick to make it a 3-2 game. 
Espinoza guessed correctly but the 
ball was too high for her to come 
up with the save.
Florida’s defense held firm in 
the closing minutes of the game 
and stymied the Tigers’ comeback 
attempt to give the Gators their 
fourth-consecutive win.
“I think that’s SEC teams. They 
never give up, and I think we 
learned a lesson tonight,” Rose 
said after UF’s second victory in 
SEC play. “We came away with 
the W, but it came a little bit too 
close.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFirst impressions of UF women’s basketball team
Florida holds off Missouri for second victory in SEC playAlligator File Photo
Guard Danielle Rainey averaged 8.2 points per game 
off the bench last season and made 28 three-pointers.
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Forward Vanessa Kara scored the first goal against the Tigers 
Thursday night. It was her sixth goal in the last four matches.
KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019    ALLIGATOR   12
(352)745-7798
www.CitySliceFL.com
3117 SW 34th Street11 am – 10 pm
Monday - Saturday
Closed Sunday
2 LARGE CHEESE PIZZASCHEESE
SLICEALL ITALIAN DINNERS
(ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS: $3)ADDITIONAL 
TOPPINGS:85¢BUY ONE/GET ONE $15$1 1/2 OFF
(Offer valid for dine-in or take-out) (Offer valid for dine-in or take-out) (Offer valid for dine-in or take-out)
Italian Dinners  •  Hot Subs 
Baked Pasta  •  Gourmet Salads
Be a part of something BIG
GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsVOLLEYBALL
SWIMMINGBy Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer 
The Gators volleyball team 
begins SEC play this weekend at 
home with two matches in three 
days. It will face Auburn at 7 p.m. 
on Friday and Georgia at 1 p.m. 
on Sunday. Here’s what to know 
about Florida’s next two oppo-
nents:
Auburn
It ﬁ  nished last season’s confer-
ence slate with a dismal 5-13 re-
cord and was voted as the second-
worst team in the SEC Preseason 
Coaches’ Poll. They had a lot of 
youth last season, and that re-
mains the same this year. 
Of the six players that have 
played the most sets for Auburn, 
only outside hitter Enija Bidzane is 
a senior, one of two on the team. 
The youth of this team will be 
tasked with the monumental task 
of beating Florida, something that 
they have done just once in 44 
attempts against UF coach Mary 
Wise. The 43rd defeat came last 
season when UF won 3-1 on the 
road. Florida outside hitter Paige 
Hammons tallied a career-high 17 
kills in that match. Auburn has gotten off to a de-
cent start with a 6-5 record and a 
few wins over Power-5 opponents, 
including TCU, Michigan State and 
Miami. However, it has also lost 
to smaller schools like Tennessee 
State and New Mexico State. 
Defensively, the Tigers are sol-
id, as they have limited their op-
ponents to a .174 hitting percent-
age. Junior Payton White does a 
lot of the legwork, averaging 4.2 
digs per set.
The offense, however, has been 
toothless. The team is hitting .171, 
the worst in the conference. Bid-
zane leads the squad in kills per 
set with 2.86, but even she’s only 
hitting .191 this season. That cre-
ates a difﬁ  cult matchup against a 
Florida team with plenty of weap-
ons at its disposal. 
Georgia
The Bulldogs currently sit at 
8-3 and are on a ﬁ  ve-match win-
ning streak ahead of a weekend 
road trip that ends in Gainesville 
on Sunday.
Coach Tom Black is in his third 
season in Athens trying to turn 
around a program that, before his 
arrival, hadn’t recorded a winning 
season in conference play since 2004. Georgia ﬁ  nished over .500 
overall in his ﬁ  rst two years as 
coach, something it hadn’t done 
since 2007-08. 
Similar to Auburn, the Bulldogs 
are a young team, rostering only 
one senior, setter Meghan Dono-
van. 
Unlike Auburn, however, Geor-
gia boasts a much better offense, 
ranking 93rd in the country in hit-
ting percentage (.246). 
Outside hitters Rachel Ritchie 
and Kacie Evans have both 
eclipsed the 100-kill mark this sea-
son, and Ritchie leads the team in 
kills per set (3.23). This also cre-
ates an interesting matchup with 
Florida outside hitters Thayer Hall 
(3.68 kills per set) and Holly Carl-
ton (2.44). 
Georgia’s weaknesses lie more 
on the defensive side. The Bull-
dogs allow opponents to hit .206, 
the second-worst in the SEC. Geor-
gia is also dead-last in the confer-
ence in blocks per set (1.74). 
Against Florida’s offense, 
which ranks third in the confer-
ence in hitting percentage, the 
Bulldogs will need to tighten up 
defensively. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer 
The UF swimming and div-
ing season is here. From now un-
til March 28, both the men’s and 
women’s squads will glide through 
the water in the attempt to improve 
upon the success of last season. 
The women’s squad had it’s 
best season since 2011 during the 
2018-2019 campaign. It ﬁ  nished 
second in the SEC and eighth in 
the NCAA rankings under ﬁ  rst-year 
coach Jeff Poppell, who took over for coach Gregg Troy after serving 
two years as an assistant coach.
The men were lead by another 
ﬁ  rst-year coach in Anthony Nesty. 
A 22-year member of UF’s coach-
ing staff, Nesty was given control 
of the men’s team after Troy’s re-
tirement following the 2017-2018 
season. The team continued its 
recent dominance by securing a 
seventh-consecutive SEC title and 
ﬁ  nishing sixth in the NCAA Cham-
pionships.
Here’s a look at both teams as 
they begin the 2019-20 season.Women’s Squad
The women began their season 
on Thursday against FIU in a dual-
meet.
It’s the ﬁ  rst time the teams have 
competed against one another.
They will then travel to compete 
against the University of Miami on 
Friday and meet the men to com-
pete against FAU on Saturday.
Coach Poppell has high hopes 
for his athletes, and believes the 
team has a great core of leadership. 
He said the senior leadership on this year’s team is the best he’s 
been around at UF.
Men’s Squad
The men begin their season on 
Friday in UF’s ﬁ  rst-ever tri-meet 
against Nova Southeastern Univer-
sity and Indian River State College. 
Then they will travel to meet 
the women in Boca Raton, Florida, 
to face FAU on Saturday.
Coach Nesty stressed these 
meets are all about fundamentals 
and not swimming times to start 
the season.“In the pool, we focus more on 
technical things,” he said. “The fo-
cus is on preparing these guys to 
do things correctly, and once we 
have that down we can kinda get 
into a regular routine.”
Because of this philosophy, and 
because the Gators are playing in 
out-of-conference matchups, every 
member of the team will be in the 
water. 
doshea@alligator.org
@dylanoshea24Gators take on pair of SEC foes at home this weekend
UF swimming and diving teams begin seasonsSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Outside hitter Thayer Hall leads UF with 140 kills on the year.
Staff Report
We may still have Rocky Top 
stuck in our heads after hearing it 
way too many times for a 31-point 
Florida win, and some Gators fans 
may still be recovering from early 
morning drinking (seriously, who 
schedules a noon football game?), 
but we all survived Week 4.
Aside from Washington State, of 
course. The Cougs allowed one of 
the greatest comebacks in college 
football history against a winless 
UCLA team. Despite trailing by 32 
in the third quarter and allowing 9 
touchdowns from WSU quarterback 
Anthony Gordon, the Bruins took 
the game 67-63 — all while most of 
America was sound asleep.
God, I love this sport.
College football fans will have to 
hope for more weirdness like that 
this weekend, as the slate of games 
is kind of bleak.
But before we get into all that, 
football writers Sam Campisano and 
Kyle Wood give their predictions for 
a west coast showdown between 
No. 21 USC at No. 17 Washington.
USC will win because…
I’ll be completely honest here: 
I’m not exactly a Pac-12 expert. 
I tend to stray away from bad 
football, something the conference 
has been specializing in lately. The 
games also usually happen way 
past my bedtime and on channels 
I don’t have — more factors not in 
its favor. 
Still, I’ve always been conﬁ  dent 
in Trojans. 
USC also has a good-looking 
quarterback with a story made for 
Hollywood. 
Redshirt junior Matt Fink — 
USC’s third string before the season 
— burst onto the scene last week 
by leading his team to a 30-23 win 
at No. 10 Utah in his ﬁ  rst career 
start. 
Fink went 21 for 30 with 351 
yards and three touchdowns 
against the Utes. He has all the 
intangibles of a USC quarterback 
who will light up college football 
then tank in the NFL.
I know one when I see one. I’m 
a Jets fan.
USC 31, Washington 28. All 
aboard the Fink train. 
— Sam Campisano
Washington (-10.5) will win 
because…USC can’t buy a win. Get it. 
USC. Buy. Money. Bribe? Just 
kidding, sort of. The football 
team, not the rowing team, 
or whatever, has been good. 
But Washington has been 
better. Huskies quarterback 
Jacob Eason will move the ball 
through the air against a Trojans 
secondary that includes Gators 
great Chris Steele. Eason already 
has more than 1,000 passing 
yards this season and the UW 
has a dynamic rushing attack 
as well, led by Salvan Ahmed, 
Richard Newton and Sean 
McGrew, all of which have more 
than 200 yards on the ground.
Unfortunately, this 3:30 
p.m. kick doesn’t qualify for 
the infamous Pac-12 after dark 
designation, so I will not be 
watching Washington roll in 
this one. Anyway, Washington 
better relish its time playing 
conference foes from California 
while it can, before the NCAA 
puts the nix on the Golden State 
and thus preserves the pristine 
image of amateurism.
— Kyle Wood
Now onto the picks… 
Leading us off in the top 
spot at 22-9 is Kyle “Massive 
Antonio Brown Fan” Wood, 
who not only liked the troubled 
receiver’s clapback tweet toward 
Eric Weddle, but also still has him 
on his fantasy team. Was Kyle 
colluding with AB to resurrect his 
reputation and get him back on the 
ﬁ  eld? It’s impossible to say, but 
yes. Either way, it’s #problematic.
In second place at 21-10 is Tyler 
“Unicorn Sports Editor” Nettuno. 
The infamous Facebook algorithm 
recommended Tyler buy a shirt 
suggesting he’s a dancing rainbow 
unicorn sports editor, rather than a 
boring, normal horse sports editor. 
Sometimes these ads go off your 
search history. If you really want 
the shirt, maybe we can make it 
happen for your birthday.
In third at 20-11 is Mark “Can 
Throw A Football Over Them 
Mountains” Long, who got to 
meet the real Uncle Rico when he 
showed up at the Jaguars’ practice 
on Thursday. Honestly, Mark, this 
section isn’t even a roast. We’re 
just jealous. Now, were you able 
to watch him throw a football a quarter mile?
In fourth (for now) at 19-12 is 
Nick “Still Hasn’t Sent His Picks” 
De La Torre, who, as this is being 
typed Thursday night, still hasn’t 
sent his picks to Tyler. Will Nick 
get them in on time? If you see a 
fat “N/A” for all of his picks, you’ll 
know he didn’t.
In ﬁ  fth at 18-13 is Edgar 
“Trapped In A Wind Tunnel” 
Thompson, who voiced his 
frustrations about the UF 
communications staff’s lack of 
ability to keep the press box breeze 
in check. In Edgar’s defense, it was 
pretty windy. Don’t worry, man. 
I’m sure whichever lucky fan found 
your game notes across the stadium 
will take good care of them.
In a two-way tie for sixth at 16-
15 is Sam “Go Play In Trafﬁ  c” 
Campisano, who was told by 
a fan on Twitter that, in lieu of 
continuing his promising career in 
journalism, he should walk into a 
busy road. Geez, Sam. Some people 
really don’t take kindly to criticism of Dan Mullen. But maybe JoMo 
has a point. If you hate the Gators 
so much, why don’t you just go to 
FSU?
Graham “Doesn’t Know 
What Dylan Looks Like” Hall
joins Sam in sixth. Graham texted 
Tyler saying he didn’t see Dylan 
at women’s basketball media day 
Thursday. He was there, Graham. 
Literally the whole time. It’s ﬁ  ne, 
it’s not like he’s in the press box 
every Saturday or anything.
We have another tie for eighth 
at 14-17. Up ﬁ  rst is Dylan “Can 
We Re-sign Aguayo?” Rudolph, 
who watched his Bucs lose on 
a missed game-winning 34-yard 
ﬁ  eld goal in the ofﬁ  ce Sunday. We 
know inconsistent kicking must be 
frustrating, Dylan. Maybe it’s time 
to take a kicker in the ﬁ  rst round 
instead? But hey, at least you still 
have the Rays.
Also in eighth is Zach “Reply 
All at 1 a.m.” Goodall, who 
decided his picks for this week 
were so good that he needed to share them with the group. In the 
middle of the night. It’s ﬁ  ne, Zach. 
It didn’t bother me. Just try to be a 
little more considerate of Edgar and 
Mark’s 9 p.m. bedtimes.
We have two pickers tied 
for last at 13-18. First is Brian 
“Agreed With Sam’s Column” 
Fox, who seemed to be one of a 
select few people on the internet 
that concurred with Sam’s 
condemnation of a two-quarterback 
system. Our advice: Stand down, 
Brian. Emory Jones slander doesn’t 
ﬂ  y in the Twitter streets.
And ﬁ  nally, not alone in last 
place for the ﬁ  rst time this season 
is Mari “Abandoned The Sports 
Section” Faiello. Mari selﬁ  shly 
decided to represent the J School at 
the Mock College Football Playoff 
Selection in Texas. Knowing full 
well that Thursdays before home 
games are the busiest it gets here at 
alligatorSports. SMH, Mari. SMH.KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR
Kyle (22-9) Tyler (21-10) Mark (20-11)
TOW @ UF (-35.5) UF UF UF
TAMU @ ARK (+23.5) TAMU TAMU ARK
CLEM @ UNC (+27.5) CLEM CLEM CLEM
UVA @ ND (-12.5) ND ND ND
USC @ WASH (-10.5) WASH USC USC
MISS ST @ AUB (-10.5) AUB AUB AUB
OSU @ NU (+17.5) OSU OSU OSU
MISS @ BAMA (-37.5) BAMA BAMA BAMA
Nick (19-12) Edgar (18-13) Graham (16-15)
TOW @ UF (-35.5) UF UF TOW
TAMU @ ARK (+23.5) TAMU TAMU TAMU
CLEM @ UNC (+27.5) CLEM CLEM UNC
UVA @ ND (-12.5) ND UVA ND
USC @ WASH (-10.5) USC USC USC
MISS ST @ AUB (-10.5) AUB MISS ST AUB
OSU @ NU (+17.5) OSU OSU OSU
MISS @ BAMA (-37.5) MISS BAMA BAMA
Sam (16-15) Dylan (14-17) Zach (14-17)
TOW @ UF (-35.5) UF TOW UF
TAMU @ ARK (+23.5) TAMU TAMU TAMU
CLEM @ UNC (+27.5) CLEM CLEM CLEM
UVA @ ND (-12.5) ND UVA UVA
USC @ WASH (-10.5) USC WASH WASH
MISS ST @ AUB (-10.5) AUB AUB AUB
OSU @ NU (+17.5) OSU OSU OSU
MISS @ BAMA (-37.5) BAMA MISS BAMA
Brian (13-18) Mari (13-18)
TOW @ UF (-35.5) TOW UF
TAMU @ ARK (+23.5) TAMU TAMU
CLEM @ UNC (+27.5) CLEM CLEM
UVA @ ND (-12.5) UVA UVA
USC @ WASH (-10.5) WASH USC
MISS ST @ AUB (-10.5) MISS ST AUB
OSU @ NU (+17.5) OSU OSU
MISS @ BAMA (-37.5) BAMA BAMA‘Expert’ picks for the weekPICKS: Week 5
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 4 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SECN / 850 AM
KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   
BEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
18 & UP
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
1718 West University AvenueWells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJFUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
 FRIDAY & SATURDAY
1728 West University Avenue
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
GO
GATORS!
LIVE DJ
9 pm - Close
CROSS COUNTRYTENNIS
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Today will be an unconventional day for 
the Florida cross country team. The team will 
split into two separate groups — one will com-
pete at the Virginia Invitational and the other 
will head to Orlando to take part in the UCF 
Knights Invitational.
UVA
The UVA Invitational will begin in Charlot-
tesville, Virginia, at 9:30 a.m. with 18 different 
programs competing.
Florida is sending its 16 best distance run-
ners to Charlottesville while the rest of the team will compete at UCF. UVA will have more 
ranked teams competing and Florida will need 
its best runners to compete there, according to 
assistant coach Chris Solinsky.
This will mark the ﬁ  rst time that the wom-
en’s team will have its top three runners com-
pete in the same meet this season. Sophomore 
Imogen Barrett will return after recovering 
from getting her molars removed and then suf-
fering from a sickness. Redshirt senior Elisa-
beth Bergh will also return from illness. Both 
runners admitted that they will not be 100 per-
cent come Friday but will still compete.
Senior Jessica Pascoe, the reigning SEC 
Women’s Runner of the Year, will join Barrett 
and Bergh for the ﬁ  rst time this season. Barrett and Bergh did not compete when Pascoe made 
her season debut at the Mountain Dew Invita-
tional two weeks ago where she dominated the 
competition and led the team to a victory.
“It’s going to be exciting,” she said. “We’ve 
got a little bit of an idea of where the team’s 
at but adding those two… we’re going to get a 
real idea of how strong we can be this year.”
UCF
Eleven Gators (ﬁ  ve women and six men) 
will run at the UCF Invitational, which begins 
at 6 p.m.
Originally, Solinsky had only scheduled the 
UCF Invitational for Friday, but once it became 
apparent that the Gators were poised to have a breakout year, Solinsky decided to split the 
team and attend the UVA meet as well. He be-
lieves that it presents a great opportunity for 
some of his runners who aren’t showcased as 
much.
“I think the UCF meet is just as important as 
the UVA meet. Maybe even a little bit more,” 
Solinsky said. “It provides opportunities for 
people to prove to themselves, to their team-
mates and to me why they deserve to be on the 
travel trips later.”
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.org By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Twenty.
That’s how many different top-50 
ITA/USTA tennis programs the Florida 
men’s and women’s teams will face 
this weekend in their respective tour-
naments combined.
The men will travel to Athens, Geor-
gia, to compete in the Southern Inter-
collegiate Championships, while the 
women will stay closer to home, com-
peting in the USTA Fall Ranked Spot-
light in Lake Nona, Florida. 
The Gators men’s tennis team has a 
challenging road ahead with 11 of the 
12 teams competing in the SIC ranked 
inside the top 50. The competition will 
be steep with the likes of No. 1 Texas, No. 2 Wake Forest, No. 15 Illinois and 
No. 21 Georgia against the seven trav-
eling Gators. Duarte Vale and Blaise 
Bicknell return to action after claiming 
the doubles title in Florida’s ﬁ  rst tour-
nament this season, while Oliver Craw-
ford and Sam Rifﬁ  ce get the weekend 
off after making Florida two-for-two 
this fall when they took the doubles 
crown in last week’s Texas Tamale Co. 
Houston Cup. This tournament will 
serve as the second team event of the 
season with play starting as early as Fri-
day morning.
The women’s team will see similar 
— and arguably slightly more difﬁ  cult 
— competition. The USTA tournament 
will feature nine squads ranked within 
the top 25, showcasing some of the top 
talent in women’s collegiate tennis. Mc-Cartney Kessler, Victoria Emma, Marlee 
Zein and freshman Layne Sleeth will 
represent Florida in the 32-players sin-
gle draw and the 16-team doubles com-
petition. Kessler and Emma will pair up 
as the No. 6 ranked doubles tandem, 
while Zein and Sleeth will make their 
ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial appearance as a pair. 
Kessler kicked things off for Florida 
tennis last weekend with a 5-1 singles 
performance in Texas, while Emma had 
to withdraw from the tournament due 
to injury. Both duos will hit the courts 
bright and early Friday morning at 9, 
followed immediately by singles play.
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.org
Florida set to compete at Virginia and UCF meets todayFlorida tennis faces top-notch talent this weekend
Alligator File Photo
Marlee Zein will compete in doubles with Layne Sleeth.
INSIDE
Previewing the matchup between Florida and T owson.
Should the Gators air the ball out more?
ONLINE
Check out the GatorBites podcast on SoundCloud
Follow @alligatorSports for live updates during Saturday’s game.
Towson 
Tune UpTowson 
Tune UpKICK OFF
Editor Tyler Nettuno   Photo for Cover Illustration Samantha Harrison
Alligator, Friday, September 27, 2019
I’ve written in the 
past about how 
important it is for 
Florida to estab-
lish its running 
game. That’s what 
good football teams 
do, right? They have 
balanced offenses and 
play calling and they 
get it done on the 
ground and in the air. They’re 
multifaceted and can beat you in 
a variety of ways.
Personally, I’ve always been a 
pass-first kind of guy. In Madden, 
I throw the ball probably 98 per-
cent of the time. Running the ball 
is like eating your vegetables. It’s 
boring, but you kind of have to 
do it, right? That’s how you have 
a balanced diet, err, play calling.
Well what if you just ate the 
bare minimum amount of vegeta-
bles? Instead of force feeding veg-
etables — or let’s just say two-
yard carries by Lamical Perine 
between the tackles — you ate 
more snacks. Let’s say, purely for 
argument’s sake, the snacks are 
Kyle Trask hitting Van Jefferson 
for 15 yards over the middle of 
the field.
Snacks are inherently good. So 
are first downs. And efficient of-
fense.
I ran the numbers (I actually 
just read the game notes this 
week, shoutout Zach Dirlam), 
and I’ve had a change of heart.
I used to be in favor of a bal-
anced diet. But I now think 
the Gators offense needs more 
snacks.
Dan Mullen: unleash Kyle 
Trask, embrace the pass and 
abandon the run.
There were two things that al-
lowed me to make a connection 
between the Gators and Wash-
ington State’s famous air raid of-
fense run by Mike Leach. One: 
Mullen was asked whether his 
team should run Leach’s offense 
and he didn’t seem entirely op-
posed to the idea.
“I talked to Brian, we talked to 
that, because we knew we had a 
veteran receiver corps,” he said. 
“Did we need to maybe go visit 
them in the offense? We didn’t, 
but maybe to study that stuff a 
little bit more and just open it up.
“Get it to your best players, 
put them in position to make 
plays.”
Two: a tidbit in this week’s 
game notes that mentioned Flori-
da and Washington State are the 
only two teams in the country 
with five receivers with five or 
more catches and more than 100 
receiving yards.That’s the makeup 
of a dynamic, deep 
passing attack. 
Florida ranks 27th 
in the country in 
passing offense de-
spite running the ball 
on more than half of 
its plays. Of the 26 
teams ranked ahead 
of UF in passing of-
fense, only five teams (Okla-
homa, Iowa State, Troy, South-
ern Miss and Notre Dame) have 
thrown the ball less than Florida.
Feleipe Franks was already 
off to the best start of his ca-
reer when he went down with 
a season-ending injury. He was 
eighth nationally in completion 
percentage and 20th in passing 
efficiency when he went down. 
Trask is even better at slinging 
the ball around the field to a lit-
any of receivers. And here’s the 
best part: he sees the middle of 
the field too.
Through four games last sea-
son, UF had 778 passing yards on 
99 attempts. That’s good for 7.8 
yards per attempt. Keep in mind 
Florida played two FCS teams 
during this span in 2018.
In the first four games this 
season, Florida has 1,179 passing 
yards on 127 attempts. That’s an 
increase to 9.3 yards per attempt 
against three Power 5 teams. 
Trask is averaging 10 yards per 
attempt this season. He almost 
had a 300-yard passing game in 
his first career start. If he weren’t 
pulled for Emory Jones in the 
fourth quarter it would’ve hap-
pened.
The Gators haven’t had an 
individual 300-yard passer in 41 
games since Luke Del Rio ac-
complished that feat against Ken-
tucky in 2016. You have to go 
back even further to find the last 
time UF had an individual with 
consecutive 300-yard passing 
games. Tim Tebow did it in 2007. 
That was 149 games ago.
Think of the record books, 
Dan. Think of the snacks.
Quarterback protection has 
been great; run blocking hasn’t. 
There’s no justification to contin-
ue to force feed a running back 
room in which no back listed on 
the depth chart with more than 
one rush is averaging better than 
3.8 yards per carry.
I’ve seen the light. Now I want 
to see Trask throw the ball 40 
times against Towson.The case for the air attackKyle’s Files FOOTBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer 
Four games in and the No. 9 
Gators remain an enigma. Close 
calls and injuries have ham-
pered the team through the sea-
son thus far, but it remains in 
playoff contention, though the 
schedule gets no easier.
Florida will potentially face 
three top-10 teams — Auburn, 
LSU and Georgia — in four 
games. 
But ﬁ  rst, the Gators face FCS 
opponent Towson on Saturday 
at 4 p.m. which will essential-
ly act as a dress rehearsal be-
fore the meat of their schedule 
is upon them. They will need 
to see top play from the entire 
team.
Defensively, there is little to 
worry about. 
The Florida defense is tied 
for ﬁ  rst in the nation in sacks 
(20), 10th in the nation in scor-
ing defense (44 points allowed) 
and 23rd in total defense (285.3 
yards allowed per game). 
Though the defense has been 
hobbled with injuries, most no-
tably cornerback C.J. Hender-
son’s knee injury suffered in 
the home opener against UT-
Martin, it has played well with 
second and third string players 
in. It should have a suitable 
test against a Towson offense 
led by Tom Flacco, brother of 
Denver Broncos quarterback Joe Flacco, who’s already eclipsed 
1,000 yards and six touchdowns 
through four games. 
“If we can get healthy, we 
possibly could be an elite de-
fense,” Mullen said to the media 
on Monday. “We’ve had just so 
many injuries that we’ve had 
to deal with, but our guys have 
come up, and the next guy up 
comes to play.”
On the offensive side of the 
ball, there are more question 
marks. 
Junior quarterback Kyle 
Trask will need to continue his 
upward trajectory if his team 
is to do the same. The once-
backup quarterback ﬁ  lled in 
for starter Feleipe Franks in the 
fourth quarter against Kentucky 
on Sept. 14 after he went down 
with an ankle injury. Since then, 
he has completed 29 of his 41 
passes for 419 yards, including 
a 293-yard performance against 
Tennessee last week and three 
total touchdowns. 
One target Trask has relied 
on is sure-handed tight end, 
Kyle Pitts. Against the Volun-
teers with Trask, the sophomore 
had four receptions for 62 yards 
and a touchdown. 
“He is a very athletic tight 
end, and he is very physical, 
big body, and gets open,” Trask 
said. “He has probably one of 
the best hands I have ever seen, 
too.”
Trask will assuredly look to Pitts as one of his favorite tar-
gets against Towson and be-
yond, but the pass game won’t 
work without a reliable run 
game to press the defense up. 
While Florida has triumphed 
in every game this season, the 
lackluster ground attack has 
been a root cause for a lot of its 
struggles on offense. 
The Gators average 136.8 
yards per game on the ground, 
good for 91st in the country. 
The run game will surely be an 
area of focus for Florida against 
a Towson team ranked No. 10 
in the FCS.
Offensive line coach John 
Hevesy, whose unit will be a fo-
cal point as the team tries to es-
tablish that run, said with all the 
upsets already this season, the 
team can’t look too far ahead 
and expect good results. 
“You’d be kind of stupid to 
look past a week when you see 
what goes on in college football 
right now every week,” he said. 
“So, to me, if you sit there and 
think you’ve reached the pinna-
cle of what you’re doing, it’s a 
quick trip to the outhouse from 
the penthouse.”
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgTowson game a chance to grow
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Tight end Kyle Pitts had the most productive game of his UF career against T ennessee last week. 
He caught four passes for 62 yards against the Volunteers, including a touchdown.
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org