We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
’Chicken of the trees’
Iguana meat may become the newest kitchen staple, pg 3
Santa Fe president candidate proﬁ  les
Get to know the seven ﬁ  nalists in the Santa Fe president race,, 
pg 5Previewing the Florida-Miami 
game
Several position battles will be key when the 
Gators open their 2019 season, pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 3
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
ALL SEVEN CANDIDATES SAY 
STUDENTS SHOULD COME FIRST
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
New academic programs, business partnerships and 
equality efforts are all things Santa Fe College could see 
in the coming years with a new president set to take over 
in February 2020. 
When current Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser an-
nounced his retirement in January, 62 education profes-
sionals from coast to coast applied to ﬁ  ll his shoes. The 
college narrowed the search down to seven semiﬁ  nalists 
on Aug. 19. 
The seven were hand-picked by the college’s 18-per-
son Presidential Search Committee, which was made 
up of faculty, local business leaders, Board of Trustees members and a student representative. 
The semiﬁ  nalists all have higher education experi-
ence and emphasized an eagerness to join one of the 
country’s top community colleges. 
The committee will choose a round of ﬁ  nalists after 
interviews on Sept. 4 and 6. The new president will then 
be selected later this Fall.   
Despite their different academic backgrounds, all 
semiﬁ  nalists stress that students should be a top priority, 
along with improved programs that track the job mar-
ket’s needs. The Alligator spoke to the candidates about 
their values and goals for the college.
Read the semi-ﬁ  nalist proﬁ  les on page 5.
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgSanta Fe presidential semi-ﬁ  nalists 
talk platforms, programs and peopleA MEMORIAL WILL BE 
HELD IN GAINESVILLE 
ON SUNDAY
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Caroline Turner took up oil 
painting at six years old. She 
painted a rabbit so immaculate, it 
looked lifelike.
Caroline Turner continued to 
draw life into the world around 
her throughout her 23 years. She 
would’ve turned 24 in September.
The imaginative young girl 
from Hollywood, Florida, who 
loved trips to Disney, fashion and 
playing with Barbies, grew into 
an artistic woman studying psy-
chology at UF with dreams of be-
ing an international lawyer, said 
Tamara Sessa, Caroline Turner’s 
mother.
“She had a great love of life,” 
Sessa said.
Caroline Turner, who died by 
suicide on July 8, always rooted 
for the underdog and lifted the 
spirits of those around her, in-
cluding her mother and sister, 
who lived in Virginia while she 
was at school in Gainesville. Car-
oline Turner’s memorial will be 
held at Trinity United Methodist 
Church, at 4000 NW 53rd Ave., 
on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
“She was a pleasure as a 
young girl up until she became a 
young, young adult,” Sessa said.
Sessa will receive an honor-
ary diploma from UF in Caroline 
Turner’s honor, who had a pas-
sion for learning. She was vale-
dictorian of her high school class 
after having difﬁ  culties through-
out her educational career, main-
ly due to mental health problems, 
said her sister Marina Turner. 
“She came a long way in many 
ways, and I felt that I needed her 
degree,” Sessa said. 
Caroline Turner was ﬁ  ve years 
older than her sister, to whom 
she was like a second mother, 
Sessa said. Caroline Turner was 
protective and thoughtful. She 
drove from Gainesville to Virginia in late April to be there for the 
birth of her nephew and help take 
care of the baby.
“She was a beautiful person 
inside and outside,” Sessa said. 
“She just had a goodness and a 
good soul. She was a kind, good 
person.”
Sessa plans to work for mental 
health awareness in honor of her 
daughter’s legacy. 
“Marina and I want to focus on 
mental illness awareness and to 
talk about it,” Sessa said. “I don’t 
think enough people are comfort-
able with talking about it.”
Marina Turner looked up to 
her sister’s genuine nature and 
ambition. Through advocacy, 
Marina Turner wants to use her 
sister’s story to make people real-
ize that taking their life is not the 
solution.
“She had a really long bat-
tle with mental illness and she 
wasn’t really reaching out for help 
when she was feeling depressed,” 
Marina Turner said. “She wasn’t 
really asking for help when she 
needed it, and I think that’s really 
important for people.” 
Universities nationwide, in-
cluding UF, have seen an increase 
in the mental health needs of col-
lege students, said Ernesto Esco-
to, the UF Counseling & Wellness 
Center director.
“They are certainly not alone 
in this,” Escoto said. “We know 
that roughly one third of students 
on college campuses are strug-
gling with any number of mental 
health concerns at any given time 
during their college years.”
Resources offered by UF in-
clude the Counseling & Wellness 
Center, U Matter We Care and 
GatorWell. Utilization rates of 
counseling centers have gone up 
steadily at UF and nationally, he 
said. 
“Seek out help, reach out to 
someone, whether that’s a friend, 
family member, faculty and staff, 
resources that would be available 
on campus,” he said.  Remembering Caroline Turner
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Zeta T au Alpha sisters Alexa Fannon and Peyton Bishop wait for their pledges to arrive Thursday during 
Bid Day. The sorority had a western theme and many of the members wore boots and hats to match the 
decorations.
BID DAY
THE EVENT WILL 
BE ON AUG. 30 AT 
THE UNIVERSITY 
AUDITORIUM
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Black Student 
Assembly committee an-
nounced the ofﬁ  cial date 
of its assembly following 
recent changes to the dis-
bursement of UF Student 
Government money. 
UF Black Student 
Union, along with many 
other student organiza-tions, faced challenges af-
ter budget changes were 
made affecting allocations 
to sub-organizations fol-
lowing the Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom lawsuit. 
The annual welcoming 
assembly will be Aug. 30 
at the University Auditori-
um. The event will open at 
6 p.m. and the doors will 
close at 7:05 p.m.
Assembly direc-
tor Ashayla Blakely an-
nounced the date and 
location on social media 
Wednesday. 
BSU president Ash-
ley Garner said BSA was 
covered by BSU’s opera-tional budget, which al-
lows events to be funded 
up to $5,000. Additionally, 
BSU was able to raise $607 
through donations.
“The University Audi-
torium was very gracious 
to work with us, knowing 
about the funding,” Gar-
ner said.
The University Audito-
rium seats about 800, Gar-
ner said. About 1,100 stu-
dents attended last year’s 
Black Student Assembly.  
Morgan Powell, a 
19-year-old UF commu-
nications sciences and 
disorders sophomore, will 
be attending the Black Stu-dent Assembly this year 
for the second time. She 
was concerned about the 
funding of the event, but 
hopes people still come to 
the welcome assembly.
“It’s a nice, warm en-
vironment for people to 
come and have fun,” Pow-
ell said. “I love to dress up 
and see the talent in the 
black community.”
Read the full story on-
line at alligator.org. 
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgBlack Student Assembly secures location 
SEE OBITUARY,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  92° LOW  72°
WHAT'S HAPPENING
THIS WEEK
21 Blue Featuring Longineu 
Parsons And Ted Shumate
When: Today, 8 to 11 p.m.
Where: Heartwood Soundstage
What: Heartwood Soundstage is 
hosting the CD release event for 
21 BLUE featuring Longineu Par-
sons and Ted Shumate. Tickets 
are $15 for North Central Florida 
Blues Society members, $17 for 
students and $20 for all others. 
Pascal's Night of Music | Corey 
Kilgannon with Hallow Bones
When: Saturday, 8 p.m. 
Where: Pascal's Coffee at the Chris-
tian Study Center
What: Pascal's Coffeehouse at the 
Christian Study Center is dedicated 
to celebrating good work, well 
done. We are so pleased to an-
nounce that Corey Kilgannon will 
be performing at Pascal's as well as 
fellow artist, Hallow Bones. There 
will be a limited bar menu for cof-
fee and dessert. 
First International Food Truck 
Rally
When: Sunday, 3 to 8:30 p.m
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
CompanyWhat: First Magnitude Brewery 
and MA Entertainment partnered 
to bring the First International 
Food Truck Rally on Sunday. The 
rally will include dishes from 
different international cuisine as 
well as performances from live 
artists including Iris, la Dama del 
Mambo, Bill Fote Trio and DJ 
Music. 
Student Services Relocates to 
Smathers Library
When: M-F, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: 100 Smathers Library
What: Student services for admis-
sions, registrar, student financial 
affairs and the bursar will be relo-
cated from Criser/Peabody Halls 
to 100 Smathers Library. This one 
location for these services has 
been designed for students’ con-
venience during fall peak time.
NEXT WEEK
Art Walk with Baer and the 
Lady and In Bed By Ten
When: Aug. 30, 6 to 9 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company
What: Gainesville Art Walk at 
First Magnitude is back. Check 
out great local artists while enjoy-
ing a refreshing beverage and 
the live music. Art Walk is rain 
or shine, we'll either be in the beer garden or the warehouse. If 
you are interested in joining our 
artist line-up please reach out to 
Jenna@fmbrewing.com!
SEPTEMBER
Fall Student Government 
Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25 
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Fall SG Elections will be 
held Sept. 24 and 25 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at locations 
across campus. 
Absentee ballots requests, due 
by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should be 
submitted online at www.sg.ufl.
edu/elections. These elections 
will determine the 50 senators 
who represent the students living 
on and off campus. 
Party registration will run Aug. 22 
at 9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as fol-
lows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3.
Boss up: Beauties in Business 
Brunch
When: Sept. 28, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where: SL8 gallery
What: Hello Beautiful is hosted its 
annual women’s empowerment 
brunch. The brunch will include 
a panelists of five women sharing 
their journeys through life and 
development of their brands and 
businesses. Tickets to register 
are available now at hellobeauti-
fulempo.wixsite.com; prices range 
from $15 for early bird registrants 
to $20 for after. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 3
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Sam ThomasEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgLokelah Blanc, avenue@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Iguanas ran wild in South Flor-
ida this summer, so much so that 
the state’s Fish & Wildlife Commis-
sion urged residents to kill them.
Two UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences professors 
came up with a solution to get rid 
of the dead iguanas: eat them. 
Professors William Kern and 
Frank Mazzotti believe people can 
be more environmentally efﬁ  cient 
by eating iguana meat, rather than 
throwing the carcass away after 
killing it.
Iguana meat is a delicacy in 
Central and South American cul-
tures, Kern said. Most of the meat 
comes from the legs and panels of 
muscle on either side of the spine. 
He calls it a very mild ﬂ  avor.
“It reminds me of alligator ribs,” 
Kern said. “It’s very gamey. The 
closest thing would be turtle meat.”The meat can be incorporated 
into recipes in various ways. A 
large iguana can feed 10 people 
if made into a soup, Kern said. In 
addition to using the meat of the 
iguana, fertilized eggs can be eaten 
as well.
“Some people just clean them 
and put them on the grill,” Kern 
said. “As you pull the vertebrae 
apart, you can eat the meat off.”
However, food safety is a con-
cern when handling iguana meat. 
Kern said most of the bacteria is 
found in the gut of the animal. 
Proper disinfection and cooking 
methods minimize the risk of infec-
tion to nearly nothing.
“As long as you’re really care-
ful with how you dress the meat, 
the danger of things like salmonella 
and E. coli is going to be much less 
likely,” Kern said.
Brenda Marty-Jimenez, a UF 
Family and Consumer Sciences ex-tension agent in Broward County, 
also emphasized the importance of 
food safety when it comes to han-
dling any reptile meat. 
Another concern holding people 
back from trying iguana is how for-
eign the food may appear to the tra-
ditional American palette, she said.
“If you open up your mind a 
little bit and season and cook them 
properly, it can be a really delicious 
protein alternative,” Marty-Jimenez 
said.
Since the 1970s, iguanas have 
been a problem as an invasive 
species in South Florida. In 2010, 
the iguana population reached its 
highest point at 500,000 to a mil-
lion, Kern said. However, cold tem-
peratures then caused the popula-
tion size to drop suddenly. In the 
past 10 years, rising temperatures 
have allowed iguanas to thrive 
and breed, returning their numbers 
to 2010 peak levels and proving a 
threat to the natural ecosystem.
Most are brought from countries 
like Venezuela and Brazil to be sold as pets only to later be released into 
the ecosystem. Iguanas don’t have 
any natural predators in South Flor-
ida, so they throw the natural habi-
tat off balance by eating too many 
insects and animals.
“That little baby iguana that 
a child brings home from the pet 
store, that’s gonna be around for a 
long time,” Kern said. “When peo-
ple ﬁ  nally decide, ‘Well, the kids 
have gone to college and we don’t 
want to take care of this thing any-
more,’ the problem starts.” 
Under Florida law, iguanas are 
considered a non-native species 
and are allowed to be hunted hu-
manely. 
People who want to eat igua-
nas have to hunt them or get them 
near the Everglades. Even though 
iguana nuggets won’t be in local 
supermarkets anytime soon, Kern 
still makes do. He said he makes a 
mean iguana curry. 
“It’s very well suited to things 
like curries and gumbos,” Kern 
said. “The best way I’ve done is to 
make a curry with lots of vegeta-
bles. That spreads the meat out.”
@aescalante22
a.escalante@uﬂ  .edu’Chicken of the trees’: Eating iguana meat 
can help curb invasive species problems
‘It reminds me of alligator ribs.’Brenda Marty-Jimenez’s recipe for iguana 
tacos and burritos, adapted from Brittney 
Peters receipe in the July 29, 2018, Sun 
Sentinel.
Iguana T acos/Burritos 
Ingredients: 
Iguana meat (cooked and cut into small pieces) 
Onion 
Chives 
Avocado
Lime 
Chili-lime seasoning
Curry or taco seasoning 
Sour cream 
Salsa 
Flour tortillas 
Directions: 
1. Wash the iguana meat thoroughly after 
removing the skin, organs and entrails, so that just 
the meat and cartilage remain. 
2. Put the iguana meat in boiling water. Add onions 
to the water for ﬂ  avor. Let cook for at least an hour 
or longer, until tender. 
3. Remove the tender meat from the cartilage. 
Cut into small pieces, separating the white and 
dark meat, then season with whichever type of 
seasoning you enjoy in tacos/burritos. 
4. Season the white meat with chili-lime seasoning, 
curry or any other type of taco-type spice. 
5. Chop onions and chives, avocado, limes and 
other desired toppings. 
6. Mix the onions and chives in with the meat. Then, 
sauté the mixture on medium-high heat until it is 
soft. 
7. Place the meat in the center of a ﬂ  our tortilla 
with avocado, sour cream, salsa and other toppings. 
8. Wrap and enjoy. 
Reference: Sun Sentinel; Adapted from Brittany Peters 
recipe—July 2018
Margaret Dotson /Alligator Staff
T J Comer, an 18-year-old UF wildlife ecology freshman, plays wheelchair basketball 
Thursday evening as part of the Inclusivity project at RecSports. Every other semester, 
wheelchair basketball is offered as a sport for UF students to compete in. Students 
who aren’t handicapped are encouraged to join to raise awareness for disabilities and 
to understand people who have disabilities. “It’s a lot harder than I thought it would be, ” 
Comer said. “But eventually I got used to it. ” He said he was planning on joining intramural 
basketball and ﬂ  ag football but is now considering joining wheelchair basketball. 
RecStravaganza
Margaret Dotson /Alligator Staff
Chris Hackbardt, an 18-year-old UF aerospace engineering freshman, gets a free 
RecSports T-shirt from Haley Stark, a RecSports staff member. Hackbardt said he was 
trying to go to as many events as possible and stopped by the community partners table 
before receiving his shirt. RecSports gave out free shirts to any student who spoke with 
a community partner and learned about the available resources on campus. 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019
HIS BOND IS $50,000
By Priya Dames
Metro News Assistant
A Jacksonville man was accused of steal-
ing a purse six months after he was accused 
of stealing two rings, including a woman’s 
wedding ring, at a local Holiday Inn. 
Kenneth Bernard Woodridge, 51, was ac-
cused of entering a woman’s hotel room at the Holiday Inn after she left the room for 
breakfast in February. 
She put a do not disturb sign on her ho-
tel door knob and left her diamond wedding 
ring on top of the dresser along with several 
other rings, according to the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s office arrest report. The wedding 
ring was worth at least $10,000 while the 
other rings were worth $5,000. 
A sworn complaint was submitted on 
Feb. 18. Video footage shows Woodridge entering the woman’s hotel room while she 
was away, according to records.
On Aug. 20, Woodridge was arrested after 
being accused of entering a different wom-
an’s car and taking her purse at a Circle K in 
Lacrosse. The woman was parked at a gas 
pump when the incident happened, accord-
ing to the arrest report. 
Surveillance footage shows Woodridge 
exiting the store, entering the victim’s car 
and then leaving in the car he came in, re-cords show. 
Woodridge was charged with two counts 
of burglary and two counts of grand theft. 
Woodridge is being held in the Alachua 
County Jail with a $50,000 bond. 
@priya_dames
pdames@ufl,edu
THE NEW SYSTEM HAS 
324 PRIVATE LOCKERS 
FOR ABOUT 
800 LAW STUDENTS
By Emma McAvoy
Alligator Staff Writer
Kaley Thomas, a UF law student 
living off loans, choked back tears 
when she discovered all of her text-
books were stolen from her locker in 
2017.
With no reimbursements from 
administration, the now 25-year-
old student didn’t know where she 
would find $1,000 for new books.
Several lockers belonging to law students were broken into in 2017 
and 2018, Thomas said. The break-
ins were one of the reasons why the 
UF Levin College of Law decided to 
replace its old locker system that 
used padlocks with locks that use 
key fobs this Fall. The new lockers 
were part of a $1.8 million renova-
tion in Bruton-Geer Hall. 
While this new system is meant 
to help students secure belongings, 
some students say it presents chal-
lenges. The 2019-2020 Student Lock-
er and Key Fob Agreement, which 
the administration sent to students, 
states that if students want a lock-
er, they must participate in the Fall 
“locker dive” on Wednesday — two 
days after law classes start.Students must be in front of a 
locker at 8 a.m. Wednesday to claim 
it, which conflicts with some class-
es, said Allie Osterman-Burgess, a 
21-year-old UF law student. 
“We aren’t allowed to get them 
until next week after classes start, 
and that’s really annoying for people 
who don’t have cars,” Osterman-
Burgess said. 
In spite of the complications, she 
appreciates the new lockers. 
Additionally, some students are 
worried there aren’t enough for ev-
eryone. The student population, 
about 800, is more than double the 
324 private lockers, said Kelli Mur-
ray, the assistant dean for the law school’s Administrative Affairs.  
“Admittedly, we did that based 
off of what we believed the right 
number was,” Murray said. “That’s 
why we specifically allocated day 
lockers in case someone has a lot 
of books for a heavy class load that 
day.” 
There are a total of 40 “day lock-
ers,” which are rented per day, for 
students who won’t get a private 
locker for the year to use, Murray 
said. 
“I think what’s important is this 
building was a building that was pri-
marily used for purposes other than 
students before renovations,” Mur-
ray said. “We completely renovated the building for the students.”  
Curran Butcher, a 25-year-old UF 
law student, said he doesn’t like the 
new system because he doesn’t have 
a place to store his textbooks during 
the start of classes. He relies on lock-
ers because he bikes to school. 
Butcher said the new process was 
tedious because obtaining a key fob 
doesn’t guarantee a locker.   
“Law school is stressful enough,” 
Butcher said. “I shouldn’t have to 
worry about where my books are go-
ing to be.” 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgJacksonville man charged with stealing purse and wedding rings
Law students unlock problems at the start of semester Despite the internal challenges she was 
facing, Caroline Turner brought life to those 
around her, including her best friend, 
Deania Mazotti, 19. Caroline Turner and Mazotti met as co-workers at McAlister’s 
Deli and became best friends the day they 
met.
Mazotti said Caroline Turner added joy 
to her life for two years.
“Caroline was always the person to tell everyone, ‘It’ll get better,’ and ‘Don’t 
stress about a lot,’ but I don’t think people 
realize that she was actually feeling that 
way more than anyone,” Mazotti said. 
“She was just indescribable as a person.”
Caroline Turner set her goals high, and 
always achieved them, Marina Turner 
said.
“She was a really, really kind hearted person,” she said. “She was one of those 
rare genuine people that always put oth-
er people before herself, and that’s what 
eventually led to her doing this, because 
she just kept giving away pieces of her-
self.”
National suicide hotline: 1-800-273-
8255.
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgOBITUARY,  from pg. 1‘Beautiful person inside and out’FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff WriterMegan McGlone contributed to this report.Who wants to be Santa Fe College’s president? Meet the semiﬁ  nalists
Carmen Simone
Carmen Simone, the vice president and dean of the University of 
South Dakota Community College, said she wants to streamline what 
Santa Fe is already doing well instead of jumping into something new. 
“I’ve been a leader in higher education for 25 years now, and I’m 
wise enough to know that you can’t bring new ideas and just impose 
them on an institution,” Simone said. “Those new ideas really need to 
come from a shared vision and collective teamwork.” 
Simone said her vision for Santa Fe is to protect the college’s in-
tegrity, transparency and active communication. She wants to support 
Santa Fe’s Student Government and be available enough for students 
to feel comfortable approaching her anytime.
“We cannot possibly know how to serve our students without in-
teracting with them,” she said. “I know that the students will tell us what they need for success 
if we just take the time to listen.”Bryan Reece
Bryan Reece, the former president of Norco College in California, 
said he believes Santa Fe could become an educational trendsetter.
“They have success rates where 60, 70 percent of their students 
are graduating, and a lot of colleges throughout the country have 
15, 20, 25 percent of their students graduating,” Reece said. “There’s 
some kind of expertise going on at Santa Fe College that we need to 
be conscious of and then give it away to all these other colleges that 
are struggling.” 
Part of that expertise is the college’s dedication to student and 
community success, Reece said. He wants to continue these values 
by developing support systems for students from foster care, students 
of color and former veterans. 
“Santa Fe College is unambiguously committed to student success,” Reece said. “I’m excited 
about working with people who have that same kind of approach.” Kevin Pollock 
Kevin Pollock is the former president 
of Montgomery County Community Col-
lege in Pennsylvania. He’s worked at 
six different institutions over his career, 
which is why he values adaptability, he 
said.
He said a lot of Santa Fe’s current 
practices work well, especially the col-
lege’s commitment to diversity, equality 
and inclusion. He said he could create  
‘success models,’ which he worked on at 
Montgomery, by establishing a 24/7 tutoring service.
“I just think that it’s a wonderful opportunity,” Pollock said. 
“When a school, an institution such as Santa Fe College comes 
up, it’s one that you really look at seriously.”Beverly Moore-Garcia 
Beverly Moore-Garcia is the for-
mer president of Miami Dade Col-
lege’s Kendall and West campuses, 
and said one of her main focuses is 
promoting entrepreneurship. 
She said many students will be 
self-employed or working in small 
businesses at some point. Learning 
entrepreneurship can be especially 
valuable in Gainesville because of 
the ‘Opportunity Zone,’ which gives 
corporations tax reductions and investment beneﬁ  ts, she said. 
Moore-Garcia also said she plans to help students prepare 
for how technology will change their careers. 
“We’re now looking at needing to train students for whole 
industries that aren’t yet created,” she said. Andrew Bowne   
Andrew Bowne, the senior vice president and chief operating ofﬁ  -
cer at Ivy Tech Community College in Indiana, said collecting student 
data is near the top of his wish list for Santa Fe.
He wants to know how students perform in the workplace after 
graduation, how they do after transferring to other colleges and if 
they’re satisﬁ  ed with their preparation for the world, he said. 
Bowne also participated in the Aspen Presidential Fellowship for 
Community College Excellence, a year-long professional development 
program, from 2017 to 2018. He said it helped him understand the 
importance of creating an atmosphere of equality, not only at Santa 
Fe, but in the surrounding community as well. 
“We don’t exist without students and we don’t exist without stu-
dents doing well,” Bowne said. “It’s not just about being an open access institution, it’s ensuring 
that students who come to Santa Fe College, that all students have an equal expectation of success.” Edward T. Bonahue 
Edward Bonahue is the provost and vice president for academic 
affairs at Santa Fe College. Although he thinks Santa Fe is doing well, 
he said it could be reaching greater heights for the community.
Bonahue said he wants to understand how students — especially 
disadvantaged ones — experience classrooms, advising and ﬁ  nancial 
aid so he can support them until graduation.
Santa Fe serves Alachua and Bradford counties, and both areas 
have persistent gaps in income and employment rates between white 
residents and minority groups, according to the 2018 ALICE Report. 
Bonahue considers this as a call to action to make higher educa-
tion more accessible to people from all backgrounds to encourage 
business and economic development in these counties.
“One of the things that has to be new is a renewed focus on serving the entire community,” 
Bonahue said. “We can support students through whatever they’re going through.”  
Paul Broadie II
Paul Broadie II, the current presi-
dent of Housatonic Community Col-
lege and Gateway Community Col-
lege, both in Connecticut, said he 
cares more about quality than quan-
tity. 
Broadie said his past experience 
with campus expansion and equality 
initiatives makes him a good candi-
date to lead Santa Fe’s current en-
deavors. 
“[Santa Fe] very closely matched what I’m interested in, and 
I’ll say what that is: adding value to the lives of students and en-
riching communities,” Broadie said. “That is something that I’ve 
worked my entire 28-year career in higher education to provide.”
EditorialFRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.It’s 3:07 a.m. You’ve been binge watching “Diagnosis” 
on Netﬂ  ix and are convinced that you, too, have a 
rare, bafﬂ  ing medical condition that requires a crowd-
sourced diagnosis. You reach over to your backpack 
and pull out a notebook, ignoring the debris that spills 
out onto the ﬂ  oor. 
You grab a pen and start listing all your symptoms: 1) 
trouble falling asleep; 2) drowsiness in the morning. You 
pause to sip from your XL Polar Pop and then continue: 
3) weight gain; 4) bloating. Another sip, and you grab the 
bag of Hot Fries next to your pillow. You pour the last few 
crumbs in your mouth and frown. That was supposed to be 
your breakfast. 
You shrug, and decide to Google your symptoms. You 
type your list into your iPhone and the top result is from 
WebMD. You click on it and start reading possible diagnoses. 
The ﬁ  rst is cancer. The second is... 
Darts and Laurels
Whatever you do this week, do it with as much dedication, 
energy and excellence as Amber Galloway Gallego puts into 
her job as a sign language interpreter. Twista is arguably 
the fastest rapper on Earth, but Gallego had no problem 
keeping up with him. A laurel goes to her for her work 
ethic and the incredible job she did supporting the inclusion 
and accessibility of Twista’s concert.
In other music news, Billie Eilish’s song “Bad Guy” 
knocked Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road” from the No. 1 
Billboard spot. A laurel goes to her for her phenomenal 
song and for the distinction of being the ﬁ  rst artist born 
after Y2K to get the No. 1 spot. We would give her a dart for 
accomplishing so much at 17 and dampening the glory of 
our own crowning achievement at that age, namely winning 
a blue ribbon in the local bake off, but we aren’t that petty.
Someone who isn’t above being petty is President Donald 
Trump. A laurel goes to Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen 
of Denmark for earning membership to the growing club 
of “nasty women” who refuse to kowtow to Trump. When 
she refused Trump’s offer to buy the very not-for-sale 
Greenland, Trump canceled his trip to Denmark and labeled 
the prime minister “nasty,” his favorite epithet for any 
woman that doesn’t indulge him.
We’d give Trump a dart for the diplomatic mess he’s 
made, but if we gave him a dart for every reprehensible 
deed there wouldn’t be room in the paper for anything else. 
In a Tweet on Wednesday, Trump quoted Wayne Allyn 
Root’s claim that Jewish Israelis love Trump as if he were 
“the King of Israel” and “the second coming of God.” Trump 
expressed gratitude and pleasure for the “very nice words.” 
All we have to say to that is “not our god.”
Finally, a dart goes to all the students arriving on the 
streets of Gainesville this week. Some of you never paid 
attention in Drivers Ed and it shows. Drivers, you have to 
stop and let pedestrians cross the street at crosswalks. Using 
your turn signal is the law, not merely a suggestion. You 
must yield to cars already in a roundabout before entering. 
Do not run stop signs. At four-way stops, it’s ﬁ  rst-come, 
ﬁ  rst-served. If you’re driving in the Butler Plaza shopping 
center and don’t wait for your turn at the four-way stop 
next to Pier 1 Imports, don’t ﬂ  ip us off for honking the horn. 
You could have killed us. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.When campaigning on campus, you get 
the chance to talk to a lot of people. 
Many students are excited to get in-
volved, to learn more and vote. Others, 
not so much. Some laugh at you and 
actively delight in their indifference.
We all have busy lives, academic obligations 
and all sorts of stressors that come up over the 
course of the semester. It’s also true that while 
some of us are privileged enough to devote count-
less hours in the pursuit of votes and volunteer-
ing, most people are not able to or have no desire to. 
But there’s no excuse to not pay attention to current 
events; speak out when a government’s action bothers you; 
or cast a ballot on or before Election Day — especially when 
doing so is easier than ever.
For example, let’s take a look at the Student Government 
elections that occur over two days every September and Feb-
ruary. This Fall’s elections are on Sept. 24 and 25. The 50 sen-
ators elected each semester allocate more than $22,000,000 
in student fees, which comes out to about $2,000 per student 
over eight semesters at UF. This money has endless potential 
to make students safer, healthier and happier.
Yet, in the Spring 2019 Student Government election, only 
10,708 students voted. UF’s Fall 2018 enrollment was 56,079 
students. That means about 80 percent of students did not 
vote.
Should remote online voting be an option, as it is at count-
less institutions across the state and country? Yes. Should 
elections be advertised better by SG? Yes.
These realities need to change but they aren’t excuses 
to not make your voice heard, especially when voting only 
takes a few minutes and there’s ample opportunity to do so.
Local, state and federal elections are no different. For years, UF students who wanted to vote 
early in these races had to venture to the Supervi-
sor of Elections ofﬁ  ce on Main Street or another 
location around town. Now, thanks to the work 
of a group of student activists, we are able to cast 
our votes in the Reitz Union well before Election 
Day. Vote-by-mail has also become more acces-
sible with the advent of prepaid postage.
A democracy like ours requires participation in 
order for accurate representation to exist. When 
eligible citizens decline to show up to the polls 
or public meetings, elected ofﬁ  cials have little incentive to 
advocate on their behalf. 
But still, there is a pervasive culture among college stu-
dents, including at UF, which says civic engagement is for 
older people or that it is not necessary until homeownership 
or full-time employment. The idea that any student is “too 
cool” to vote, volunteer for a campaign or run for ofﬁ  ce is 
toxic and leads to a dangerous lack of representation of the 
student population. 
Government and politics are personal. They affect every 
one of us, our neighbors and our classmates. The results of 
elections have tangible effects on the services we receive, 
the resources that are available to us and the livelihoods of 
so many.
The next time someone on campus asks if you have a 
plan to vote, take a moment to consider why they are out 
in the heat or rain, for hours on end devoting their time to 
conversing with random passersby.
The answer is simple: because it matters. 
Ben Lima is a UF political science senior.No, political apathy is not cool
Ben Lima
opinions@alligator.org
Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORFRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
Florida State University has a circus. UF 
has our Student Government with better 
clowns.
Wondering how SG ran out of money 
for the Fall? This is the story of how your 
student leaders earned their red rubber noses.
Once upon a time, there was a student group 
named Young Americans for Freedom (YAF). A 
relatively new group, YAF hadn’t been granted 
consistent yearly funding and had to rely on SG 
to approve requests for money on a case-by-
case basis.
YAF requested to bring in a speaker, which 
costs a decent chunk of change. The Senate Al-
locations committee denied the request and then 
two senators authored a ﬁ  nancial rules revision 
that barred student organizations from funding 
speakers through the Allocations committee. 
That wasn’t exactly very nice of the senators, 
so YAF sued and reached a $66,000 settlement with UF that stipulated the Student Government 
had to replace their system of funding organiza-
tions.
Starting in the spring, the Senate tossed to-
gether an “800 Codes Revision Ad-Hoc” com-
mittee and started revamping the way organi-
zations are ﬁ  nanced. There were some very 
unpopular changes made to the overall amount 
of funding for events student organizations 
could receive, as well as the maximum amount 
that could be spent on an event. Perhaps the 
most substantial change came in the loosening 
of requirements to fulﬁ  ll for student organiza-
tions seeking funding and the institution of a 
ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-serve policy for evaluating fund-
ing requests. Concerns about funding availabil-
ity were brushed aside.
The changes turned the struggle to get SG 
funding into a free-for-all. Student Government 
could have increased the overall amount of money available to student organizations so we 
wouldn’t run out, but they didn’t. My guess is 
that they would rather spend your student fees 
on their pet projects and promotional T-shirts.
A lot of people didn’t know about the chang-
es to the funding process, how to get funding for 
their student groups or how quickly the money 
was running out. We ran out of money for the 
Fall semester weeks before the Fall semester 
even started and Student Government only 
has itself to blame. Organizations that received 
thousands of dollars a year ago are getting abso-
lutely nothing this year. Many large scale events 
that have been going on for years are at risk; 
the defunded welcome assemblies are just the 
beginning. 
The current Student Government adminis-
tration has been notably silent about possible 
solutions and what it is doing. I, in the mean-
time, have drafted up a reserves transfer of $800,000 dollars to provide temporary relief to 
student organizations. Student Government has 
a “reserves” account with millions of dollars 
sloshing about meant to be used for “one time” 
causes. If you would like to support this poten-
tial solution or have any questions, please email 
me at zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
So, what became of the two Senators who 
got us into this mess and destroyed everything 
we knew and loved? You would expect that 
such a gnarly screw up wouldn’t be great for 
their political careers, but one went on to be-
come the senior class president (not elected, 
since SG doesn’t really care for democracy) and 
the other is now the Senate Pro tempore (sec-
ond in Senate command). It’s expected that she 
will move up to the position of Senate President 
in the Fall and run for Student Body President 
in the spring. Career advancement is funny like 
that... but anything is possible in the circus.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
senior and serves as the Murphree Area UF Student Government mismanaged your money
Column
And there’s nothing wrong with you if you 
don’t feel that way. I’ve been in a similar 
place too, like I’d somehow duped the 
admissions committee into letting me 
past the gate. It can be so easy to fall into 
that spiral of self-doubt, that feeling of being out-
of-place among “better qualiﬁ  ed” classmates. I get 
where that comes from, and if you feel that way, I 
can’t emphasize enough how wrong you are.
There’s no one model of a college student that 
everyone should aspire to. With so many varied 
backgrounds and life experiences, it’s impossible 
for one path to be universal. Instead, I suggest using your time 
and energy to ﬁ  nd what’s the right ﬁ  t for you by tapping into 
organizations and opportunities that are entirely unique to 
yourself. UF has some great resources to ﬁ  nd your place on 
campus, like Gator Connect or the Involvement Team, which 
are dedicated to helping you ﬁ  nd relevant opportunities. 
    Now, an important note here is that any route you take 
will take time to grow accustomed to. I used all these resourc-
es, and it still took me about two years to really feel “settled” 
anywhere. That may not be the case for you, but if it is I want 
to assure you that it’s totally normal. There’s not a point when 
it’ll be too late to ﬁ  nd your groove, so take your time with it! 
College should be a home and you have time to grow into it. 
    It’s OK if you don’t love college right now. It can seem 
absolutely dizzying, being as free form and large as it is. Class-
es might end up being difﬁ  cult and that’s OK. Do the best that 
you can, that’s all anyone can expect from you. Don’t feel afraid to talk to your professors about what worries you or 
to ask extra questions after class. In fact, I encourage you to 
do so. I can’t overstate how useful it has been for me to have 
a teacher to lean on for advice and support. For 
you, that individual might even be another stu-
dent, because we’ve all been through it. 
If you brace yourself and spend time de-
stressing, you’ll pull through. In the end, you’re 
doing this for yourself and your future, so focus 
on you. Don’t let things bring you down, take 
care of yourself like you take care of someone you 
love. If you don’t feel like you have a strong sup-
port system, ﬁ  nd one in an organization, through 
counseling, in friends or anywhere else. Get ex-
cited to ﬁ  nd your place. Learn wherever you can 
and love what you do. 
    Congratulations on making it through the ﬁ  rst week of 
the semester. That might not seem like a whole lot but you’ve 
already leaped past one of the biggest barriers you’ll face. That 
adjustment or re-adjustment period can be frightening, and 
rightfully so. Be there for yourself and if you’re able, be there 
for someone else in your life. We’re all on the same journey.  
You belong because college is exactly the place to learn 
about yourself. Your path might take you away from univer-
sity or let you stay in it for a while more (I’m looking at you, 
fellow pre-law students). Just take it day by day and you’ll 
do great. 
Matthew Diaz is the Vice President of the Volunteers 
for International Student Affairs.You Belong in College
Somehow,  
it’s already 
my sixth 
ﬁ  rst day of 
school here 
at UF, my second 
ﬁ  rst day of law 
school, and I have 
no idea what I’m 
supposed to write 
about. My editor 
kindly suggested I write some-
thing using my experience from 
these four years of undergradu-
ate and one year of law school 
to help new UF undergradu-
ate students be successful. As 
I have zero experience being 
a “successful” undergraduate 
student, (no seriously, I was 
the worst. Just ask my stressed-
out parents how excited they 
were when they got my degree 
in the mail), I thought I’d share 
a few things that got me over 
the ﬁ  nish line during the many 
times I thought I wasn’t going 
to graduate. 
Set yourself up for suc-
cess. Do some introspection 
and be honest with yourself 
about your dedication to your 
studies and your major. If you 
are taking Calc 1 and Chem 1 
because you are a dedicated 
student who developed good 
study habits in high school 
and are sure you want to go 
into a ﬁ  eld that requires those 
weed-out classes, that’s great. 
I’m happy you’ve got yourself 
together; I deﬁ  nitely didn’t. Ev-
eryone else, here’s the tea: drop 
it ASAP. Only once have I seen 
someone substantially reinvent 
themselves academically, and 
that was in law school - not un-
dergraduate. Most people I’ve 
known can only make moder-
ate changes to themselves over 
time. “But Preston,” you insist, 
“I’m different and will be a bet-
ter student than I was in high 
school. I’ll work diligently to do 
my Chem & Calc homework.” 
OK, I believe you. Just in case, 
though, make sure you know 
how to drop that class, or bet-
ter yet, how to withdraw from 
the semester all together. You’ll 
probably need it. Weed-out 
classes have left behind thou-
sands of victims (students) over 
the years who would have had signiﬁ  cantly better 
GPAs if they had 
just realized one se-
mester earlier that 
they didn’t actu-
ally want to be an 
engineer or admit-
ted a little bit soon-
er that pre-med 
wasn’t their thing. 
You shouldn’t push 
yourself so far that you need to 
do poorly in a class to ﬁ  gure out 
that that major isn’t for you. 
Take some time to reﬂ  ect, and 
ﬁ  gure it out before you fail. 
Get in front of your prob-
lems. This is a skill that I actual-
ly got better at as the years have 
gone on. If you have something 
going on in your life that has 
gotten in the way of your stud-
ies, email your professor and let 
them know. Professors are peo-
ple, too. It’s also much better if 
this isn’t the ﬁ  rst time you’ve 
interacted with your professor. 
Although it isn’t true in all cas-
es, as I once heard it put, “It’s a 
lot harder for your professor to 
fail you if they know you.” Get-
ting in front of your problems 
also includes knowing what 
campus resources are available 
when you need help. U Mat-
ter, We Care; the Counseling & 
Wellness Center; the Disability 
Resource Center; the Broward 
Teaching Center; and the Ofﬁ  ce 
of the Ombuds are waiting for 
you when you have a problem. 
However, like most things in 
life, an ounce of prevention is 
worth a pound of cure. Email-
ing your professor right be-
fore the exam to tell them you 
haven’t understood anything all 
semester is a great way to end 
up with a failing grade. 
Overall, investing more time 
during the drop/add period into 
ﬁ  guring out what you actually 
want to take this semester will 
beneﬁ  t you a lot more than 
drinking the Claw and trying to 
sneak into the bars in Mid. But 
who am I to judge? My fridge 
currently contains more White 
Claw than I care to admit.
Preston Jones is a UF second 
year law student.Spilling the tea on undergraduate successColumn
Legislators love to hate tobacco. 
In recent years, politicians at every level 
of government from the Federal Food and 
Drug Administration to the Alachua County 
Commission have reignited their hatred for 
the plant and set their sights on a new policy goal: 
the elimination of teen vaping, a trend repeatedly 
dubbed an “epidemic.” Is the increasing number 
of young people chemically dependent on nico-
tine alarming? Absolutely, but the measures pro-
posed to counter this trend are often troubling in 
their own right, as is the case with a new Alachua County 
ordinance.
In January, Alachua County legislators passed a bill that 
would outlaw the sale — but not possession — of tobacco 
products to those under 21, require licensing to sell tobacco 
products and prohibit licensed tobacco retailers from operat-
ing within 1,000 feet of a public school. The ordinance takes 
effect in October. A similar bill was passed earlier this year 
by the Florida Senate but was never taken up by the House.
Despite not smoking or vaping myself, I am vehemently 
opposed to the new law on principle. The county has decided 
that it should stand between a legal adult and a business and 
prevent them from engaging in a voluntary transaction involv-
ing nicotine for the sake of “the children” and public health.
I’m a staunch Libertarian. Any time government considers 
doing basically anything, I’m not fond of it. But nanny state 
measures like the Alachua County ordinance are antithetical 
to the American ideal that dangerous freedom is preferable 
to peaceful tyranny, and out of line with the county’s pro-gressive ethos of respecting personal autonomy. 
Some would describe branding the new measure 
as tyrannical as being a bit extreme, and per-
haps it is. But where do we draw the line when 
it comes to infringing on the freedoms of legal 
adults and social engineering via legislation? Why 
stop at nicotine? Why not set a limit on soda sizes 
as was done in New York City or place sin taxes 
on soda like in Philadelphia? What if we subsi-
dized gym memberships to encourage people to 
adopt a healthier lifestyle? How about we regulate 
the marketing of video games to minors now that the World 
Health Organization recognizes video game addiction as a 
psychiatric disorder? Alachua, the same county that allows its 
sheriffs to issue citations for cannabis possession rather than 
make arrest, is going out of its way to make sure adults can’t 
legally purchase nicotine within its jurisdiction. The county’s 
approach to public health is not only wrongheaded, it’s wildly 
inconsistent.
The new tobacco law is another example of a legislature 
trying to outlaw something that’s already illegal. Minors al-
ready couldn’t legally possess nicotine prior to the law, but 
they got ahold of it anyway through either unscrupulous store 
employees or peers that were of age.
Despite this, the county has chosen to punish everyone 
rather than hold the people actually responsible accountable.
Cameron White is a UF computer science senior.Combating youth vaping at the cost of adult freedomsColumn
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.org
Preston Jones
opinions@alligator.org
Cameron White
opinions@alligator.org1/1 Condo @ Campus Edge $84,900
Walk to UF, UF Health, VA and Vet School; 
1st Floor, Granite Counters, Crown Molding; 
Washer & Dryer included; Community Pool 
& Fitness Center; STOP paying rent!!
Call Kelly Robert, Pepine Realty 352-222-1744
9-4-19-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
MATTRESSES!
TWIN SETS $69 FULL$99
QUEEN$149 KING$199.
352-376-0953              8-23-19-5-6
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10
FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     8-28-
19-5-10Live & Online Public Auction
Thursday, Sept 5, 2019 at 10:00 A.M.
5595 S University Dr., Davie, Florida 33328
Large Qty. of Assets from Multiple 
Companies including Surveillance Video 
Equipment, CCTV equipment, Video 
Recorders, Installation Cabling, Over 50+/- 
Pallets of Artwork/Prints, Home Furniture 
and Home Accessories, Vehicle, Computers, 
Monitors, Office Equipment, Office Supplies, 
School Supplies, Racking and much more!
Details at: www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Wed, Sept 4th from 10AM-3PM
and day of sale 9-10 AM.
15%-18% BP.
Lirio, Inc. d/b/a IP Doral ABC Case No.
2019-018037-CA-01
Summit Financial Corp Receivership Case 
No. CACE19009531
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit to 
bid. (800) 840-BIDS | (954) 252-2887
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin        8-23-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-4-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Learn how to make extra money each week 
doing surveys as a student. Thousands Of 
Paid Surveys Listed Each Month! Find out 
more: collegeclubs.club     8-30-19-4-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
1 BR 1 mi E of mall in nice teacher’s 
house. Shared bath $550 inclusive.
Prefer female. 352.514.5249    8-23-3-1
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    8-28-10-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       12-4-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-4-19-43-5
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
RECS OI LS AD DT O
AM OI BR UT MO URN
TI ME PI ECE ABBAS
ARES O RE V APE
ST RIDE PIAN IS T
WC HAND Y ALA
AZ O ON EL ASP EN
CA MI LL EP ISSA RR O
KR EME SA LA OA T
EA R AL CO TT S
GE TT HE PI CTUR E
EG O DI M RA STA
AR NI E EP IC EN TE R
RE ELS REDO GE NE
ST RE P SLAP ED NA
08/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, August 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Irrigation need
5 ’90s trade pact
10 “Go no further!”
14 Heart
15 “... __ player, / 
That struts and 
frets his hour 
upon the stage”: 
Macbeth
16 Lake near Carson 
City
17 Gratitude for a 
well-played role?
20 Papal messenger
21 On the other side 
of: Abbr.
22 Enzyme suffix
23 Unscrupulous
25 Youthful maiden 
of myth
27 Crackin’, peelin’ 
and fadin’?
31 Clean, as greens
32 Newton honorific
33 LGBT History Mo.
34 ’60s campus gp.
35 Start growing
37 Hem partner
40 Asian language
42 Hammer site
43 Kofi Annan’s 
birthplace
45 Couples 
therapist?
49 Like Macbeth in 
“Macbeth”
50 Jumpy
51 Jeff Lynne rock 
gp.
52 HP product
53 Hit
55 Extreme example 
of layering for 
cold weather?
60 Discrete things
61 Poetry Muse
62 Fruit with fuzz
63 First name in 
Latin bands
64 “Holy cow!”
65 Venerable 
college that owns 
a river island
DOWN
1 Angel dust, 
briefly
2 Investment 
option, briefly
3 Misappropriates
4 Nonresident 
doctors
5 Controversial 
combat material6 Cal. entry
7 Golf alert
8 Golf club part
9 Understood by 
few
10 Seuss title top
11 “Aloha __”: 
Hawaiian  
“Good evening” 
that sounds  
like a repeated 
fish
12 Ease
13 Principle
16 Lighting area?
18 Patterned 
mineral
19 Lidocaine brand 
endorsed by 
Shaq
23 Car loan nos.
24 Hotel employee
26 Mil. rank
28 Comcast, e.g.: 
Abbr.
29 Warning sound
30 Wide-ranging
35 “You’re not the 
only one!”
36 Ocean State sch.
37 Like some 
homemade 
sweaters
38 Rare blood type, 
briefly39 Word with hard 
or soft
40 Lucy of 
“Elementary”
41 Bygone  
HBO series 
about a sports 
agent
43 Generate
44 Southern 
cornmeal fare
45 “Ecce homo” 
speaker
46 Makes up (for)47 Scottish 
archipelago
48 Ancient statuary 
fragments
49 Unenthusiastic
53 Cinch
54 Parisian bean?
56 “That’s quite 
enough”
57 “Do it, __ will!”
58 What a V-sign 
probably means 
in a restaurant
59 Envy, say
By Winston Emmons
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, August 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 Suggestions, 
informally
5 Many 40-Across 
works
9 Supplement
14 Monsieur’s mine
15 Champagne 
designation
16 React to a loss
17 *Watch
19 Palestinian leader 
Mahmoud
20 Childish 
comeback
21 Increase, with 
“up”
23 Simian
24 *Jazzman Fats 
Waller, style-wise
29 “St. Louis Blues” 
composer
31 Huntsville’s 
home: Abbr.
32 Nitrogen-based 
dye
33 Turow book set at 
Harvard
36 Quaking tree
40 *“Boulevard 
Montmartre” 
series painter
44 Krispy __
45 Room in una 
casa
46 __ bran
47 Corn unit
49 Sisters on whom 
“Little Women” 
was loosely 
based
52 *Understand
57 It may be inflated
58 Not bright
59 Dreadlocks 
wearer
62 Golfer with an 
“army”
65 Quake’s origin, 
and a feature of 
the answers to 
starred clues
68 Walks  
unsteadily
69 Make over
70 “Star Trek” 
creator 
Roddenberry
71 Sore throat 
cause
72 Word with dash 
or happy
73 Novelist FerberDOWN
1 Female rodent, 
to Fernando
2 Arab chieftain
3 Returns
4 Afternoon break
5 Kimono sash
6 Anger
7 “Filthy” moolah
8 Expensive
9 Physicians’ gp.
10 Bio info
11 City with the 
world’s tallest 
building
12 Snares
13 Kickoff
18 Dirty work?
22 By way of
25 Object of much 
reverence
26 Newton  
fractions
27 Rueful word
28 Voyager org.
29 Eccentric
30 Überauthority
34 “Learn about the 
UV Index” org.
35 Pastel shade
37 Voiced one’s 
opposition
38 Logician’s “E”
39 Forget-me-__41 “How __ Your 
Mother”
42 “Troublemaker: 
Surviving 
Hollywood and 
Scientology” 
memoirist Remini
43 Brine has a lot 
of it
48 Signal to stop
50 Virologist’s goal
51 Creamsicle flavor
52 Gets ready, with 
“up”53 Long-billed 
wader
54 Copier cartridge
55 Places to tie up
56 Drive
60 Miss. neighbor
61 Plane 
measurement
63 Martinique, par 
exemple
64 Clairvoyant’s 
claim
66 Journalist Tarbell
67 Steal, in slang
08/21/19
SOLUTION ON PAGE 9Trivia Test AnswersSports Quiz AnswersFRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-4-19-43-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      8-23-
1-15
Time to sell your Glow Worm? Your Garbage 
Pail Kids? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. 
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may 
be the cause. $30 billion set aside for as-
bestos victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or 
email cancerFL@breakinginjurynews.com      
8-23-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Did you know? Modern brunch was first pro-
posed in 1895 as a post-hangover meal.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
“The liberty of the press is essential to the 
security of the state.” – John AdamsDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    12-4-19-43-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
Facility in Alachua looking for student to 
maintain grounds, tractor work, light con-
struction, handyman repairs. 4-6 hr wk. $17/
hr. Flexible schedule.
Send summary of experience and contact 
info to biopressadmin@gmail.com.     8-30-
19-7-14
Got what it takes? Seeking FT & PT Sales 
Staff. Friendly, honest and motivated athletic 
minded people welcome. Must have regular 
availability at least 20 hr/wk and 1 weekend 
day. Apply in person 1504 NW 13 St Lloyd 
Clarke Sports. 1 mile N of UF on 13 st.    
8-26-19-4-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-7-19-
21-14
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-1413 Wanted 16 Health Services 22 Tickets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
1. Entering 2019, who were the only 
two pitchers in the past 100 years to 
allow one hit and no walks with at 
least nine strikeouts in their major-
league debut?
2. Who of these onetime Los Ange-
les Dodgers teammates pitched more 
major-league innings for their career: 
Tommy John or Don Sutton?
3. When was the last time before the
2017 season that New Mexico State’s 
football team won a bowl game?
4. Name the last season before 2018-
19 in which the Milwaukee Bucks 
advanced to at least the second round 
of the NBA playoffs.
5. How many consecutive years has
the U.S. team won the IIHF Ice Hock-
ey Women’s World Championship?
6. In 2019, skier Mikaela Shiffrin
became the third woman to win four 
discipline titles in a single year. Name 
either of the other two to do it.
7. Who was the last golfer before
Brooks Koepka in 2019 (PGA Cham-
pionship) to have at least a seven-shot 
lead at the halfway point of a men’s 
golf major?
Answers
1. Cincinnati’s Johnny Cueto (2008) 
and Pittsburgh’s Nick Kingham 
(2018).
2. Don Sutton tallied 5,282 innings
over 23 seasons, while Tommy John 
pitched 4,710 innings over 26 seasons.
3. It was 1960.
4. It was 2000-01, when the Bucks
reached the Eastern Conference Finals.
5. Five consecutive years.
6. Lindsey V onn (2010, 2012) and
Tina Maze (2013). 
7. Henry Cotton had a nine-stroke
lead after 36 holes of the 1934 British 
Open. 
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
August 19, 2019King Features Weekly Service1. Entering 2019, who were the only 
two pitchers in the past 100 years to 
allow one hit and no walks with at 
least nine strikeouts in their major-
league debut?
2. Who of these onetime Los Ange-
les Dodgers teammates pitched more 
major-league innings for their career: 
Tommy John or Don Sutton?
3. When was the last time before the
2017 season that New Mexico State’s 
football team won a bowl game?
4. Name the last season before 2018-
19 in which the Milwaukee Bucks 
advanced to at least the second round 
of the NBA playoffs.
5. How many consecutive years has
the U.S. team won the IIHF Ice Hock-
ey Women’s World Championship?
6. In 2019, skier Mikaela Shiffrin
became the third woman to win four 
discipline titles in a single year. Name 
either of the other two to do it.
7. Who was the last golfer before
Brooks Koepka in 2019 (PGA Cham-
pionship) to have at least a seven-shot 
lead at the halfway point of a men’s 
golf major?
Answers
1. Cincinnati’s Johnny Cueto (2008) 
and Pittsburgh’s Nick Kingham 
(2018).
2. Don Sutton tallied 5,282 innings
over 23 seasons, while Tommy John 
pitched 4,710 innings over 26 seasons.
3. It was 1960.
4. It was 2000-01, when the Bucks
reached the Eastern Conference Finals.
5. Five consecutive years.
6. Lindsey V onn (2010, 2012) and
Tina Maze (2013). 
7. Henry Cotton had a nine-stroke
lead after 36 holes of the 1934 British 
Open. 
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
August 19, 2019King Features Weekly Service1. GEOGRAPHY: On which conti-
nent would you find the Cape of 
Good Hope?
2. LITERA TURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Beloved”?
3. ANATOMY : Which organ in the 
human body produces insulin?
4. MUSIC: Which Disney movie fea-
tured the song “ A Whole New World”?
5.GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What kind of scissors make 
zig-zag patterns on fabric?
6.ADVERTISING SLOGANS: 
Which company used the 
slogan “Imagination at W ork” in its 
ads?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What is the fla-
vor of Frangelico liqueur?
8. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-ing 
of the Latin phrase “alma mater”?
9. GAMES: What color are the 
Ken-tucky, Indiana and Illinois spaces 
on a “Monopoly” board?
10. MATH: What is the date 
of the annual celebration of math 
called “Pi Day”?Answers
1. Africa
2. Toni Morrison
3. Pancreas
4. “Aladdin”
5. Pinking shears
6. General Electric
7. Hazelnut
8. Nourishing mother
9. Red
10. March 14 (3.14)
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 19, 2019King Features Weekly Service1. GEOGRAPHY: On which conti-
nent would you find the Cape of 
Good Hope?
2. LITERA TURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Beloved”?
3. ANATOMY : Which organ in the 
human body produces insulin?
4. MUSIC: Which Disney movie fea-
tured the song “ A Whole New World”?
5.GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What kind of scissors make 
zig-zag patterns on fabric?
6.ADVERTISING SLOGANS: 
Which company used the 
slogan “Imagination at W ork” in its 
ads?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What is the fla-
vor of Frangelico liqueur?
8. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-ing 
of the Latin phrase “alma mater”?
9. GAMES: What color are the 
Ken-tucky, Indiana and Illinois spaces 
on a “Monopoly” board?
10. MATH: What is the date 
of the annual celebration of math 
called “Pi Day”?Answers
1. Africa
2. Toni Morrison
3. Pancreas
4. “Aladdin”
5. Pinking shears
6. General Electric
7. Hazelnut
8. Nourishing mother
9. Red
10. March 14 (3.14)
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 19, 2019King Features Weekly ServicePUZZLE
ANSWERS
Solution on this page. 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida quarterback Feleipe 
Franks was nominated to the 
preseason watch list for the 
Manning Award, which is given 
annually to the top quarterback 
in the nation.
CFP Championship trophy to appear at Winn-Dixie
Locals can see the 2019 National Championship trophy at the supermarket 
off of Southwest 16th Avenue from 12-3 p.m. Friday. Attendees can also par-
take in food samples, music and raffles during the event.Staff Report
UF takes on the Hurricanes in Orlando 
on Saturday at 7 p.m. in the first matchup 
between the two teams since 2013. Football 
writers Sam Campisano, Dylan Rudolph, Kyle 
Wood and Tyler Nettuno give their predic-
tions for the game below.
Sam Campisano 
Prediction: Florida 34, Miami 21.
Ah, good old preseason college football 
predictions. What could possibly go wrong?
I fully expect Florida to beat Miami on 
Saturday in Orlando. In fact, I expect them 
to cover the seven-point spread. Florida 34, 
Miami 21. Famous last words, right?
Redshirt freshman quarterback Jarren 
Williams is making his first career start on 
Saturday against the Gators. A top-10 team. 
On national television. At a neutral site. 
Where have we seen that before?
Feleipe Franks debuted two years ago un-
der very similar circumstances against Michi-
gan. Franks struggled in that game. UF’s of-
fense failed to score a touchdown and the 
team lost 33-17. 
I’m not saying Jarren Williams is Feleipe 
Franks, but I am saying his lack of experience 
will probably hurt him against a strong UF 
defensive unit (No. 6 in total defense in the 
SEC last year).Expect high nerves and a few mistakes 
early in the game. Miami will keep pace with 
UF in the first half, but the Gators’ superior 
talent will ultimately prevail. Florida will 
pick up right where it left off at the end of 
last season. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org 
Dylan Rudolph 
Prediction: Florida 19, Miami 9
College football fans who are expecting a 
high-flying shootout to start their season will 
be sorely disappointed on Saturday. 
Just as any other matchup this early in the 
season, both teams will test different lineups 
and rotations to work through problems and 
find out what they have for the rest of the 
season.
Florida will try to dink and dunk its way 
down the field with short routes and quick 
dropbacks from quarterback Feleipe Franks 
against a talented, but young, Miami second-
ary. At the same time, the Hurricanes will at-
tempt to establish the run and allow redshirt 
freshman quarterback Jarren Williams, who 
played in just one game last year, to develop 
some comfort in the pocket. 
The two teams will use the contest to Chris King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt senior receiver Van Jefferson led the Gators in receiving yards (503) and receiving 
touchdowns (6) last season. He faces a Miami secondary that only returns one starter on Saturday.
UF VS. UM 
alligatorSports predicts Florida-Miami matchup
Chris  King / Alligator Staff
The Gators and 'Canes played annually from 1944-1987. They've played six times 
since then, with UM taking every game except for a 26-3 Florida win in 2008.SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE UF VS. UM,  PAGE 12FOOTBALL
Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida opens its sea-
son against Miami on 
Saturday night. Here are 
several key positional 
matchups to keep an 
eye on as the Gators and 
Hurricanes renew their 
rivalry.
Battles on both lines
In 2017, UF quarter-
backs were sacked 37 
times, which was one of 
the worst marks in the 
nation. A season ago, 
that number dropped to 
18, one of the best in the 
country. But the majori-
ty of the unit responsible 
for that improvement is 
gone.
Four of the five start-
ers from last season’s 
offensive line have left, 
with only center Nick 
Buchanan returning. The new group assigned 
with keeping quarter-
back Feleipe Franks 
upright is not necessar-
ily young, but has lim-
ited playing experience 
besides Buchanan and 
Brett Heggie.
The Gators’ greenest 
position unit is matched 
up against one of the 
Hurricanes’ stronger 
units: its defensive line. 
Miami returns two start-
ers up front — Jonathan 
Garvin and Pat Bethel 
— who pose a serious 
challenge to Florida’s 
less experienced offen-
sive line.
UM’s offensive line 
is younger but more 
experienced than UF’s. 
The Hurricanes are 
starting Zion Nelson, 
a true freshman left 
tackle, along with three 
other underclassmen on 
the offensive line. This 
group will have the job of attempting to keep 
Jabari Zuniga and Lou-
isville graduate transfer 
Jon Greenard away from 
redshirt freshman quar-
terback Jaren Williams.
Both teams’ defen-
sive lines will look to 
exploit the inexperience 
of the other’s offensive 
line. Like in most foot-
ball games, the team 
that controls the line of 
scrimmage will control 
the game, with perhaps 
even more of a focus on 
dominating the line in 
this particular matchup.
Jarren Williams vs. 
Florida’s secondary
Williams has thrown 
just three passes in his 
career. All of those at-
tempts came in a blow-
out win over Savannah 
State a year ago. Flori-Previewing UF's Week 0 opener against the HurricanesBy Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida soccer coach Becky Bur-
leigh still has a plethora of weapons 
at her disposal this season despite 
losing 11 seniors, including four 
that started in the 1-0 overtime loss 
against Arkansas in the SEC Tourna-
ment semifinals that ended Florida’s 
2018-19 campaign.
The arrival of 10 freshmen has 
infused the roster with young, prom-
ising talent, and the recovery of red-
shirt junior midfielder Parker Rob-
erts from a foot fracture has uplifted 
the team.
Burleigh will rely heavily on the 
freshmen and Roberts on Friday 
night when the Gators take on Flor-
ida Atlantic in Boca Raton, Florida.
“I don’t think it’d be a surprise,” 
Burleigh said when asked if any 
freshmen would start the season 
opener. “I think there will be a lot of 
freshmen who will contribute a lot 
of minutes.”
Roberts has been impressed by 
the newcomers and the way that 
they have handled themselves both 
on and off the field.
“Oh, they’re great. I feel like 
they’re not even freshmen,” Burleigh 
said. “It’s so crazy. I’m like, ‘I feel 
like you guys have been here for so 
long.’”
The team has also benefited from 
the return of Roberts, who had her 
2018-19 campaign cut short after 
undergoing surgery on her fractured 
foot last September. She started in 
every game in 2017, playing just over 2,000 minutes and recording 
three goals and one assist.
“Parker (Roberts) is like the En-
ergizer Bunny on the field,” Burleigh 
said. “She is somebody who just 
brings it every day in practice, every 
day in games.”
Roberts will make her return 
to the pitch against FAU and feels 
healthy enough to make an impact 
when the first whistle blows on Fri-
day night.
“I feel the best that I have felt in 
two years,” Roberts said. “Some-
times I feel like I need to settle down 
because I just want to go everywhere 
and do everything.”
The 2017 All-SEC First Team se-
lection was nominated as one of the 
team’s co-captains last season. How-
ever, the Gators have adopted a dif-
ferent approach this year.
“We’ve actually decided to not 
have captains this year. We’re going 
to have captains each game,” Bur-
leigh said. “I just think we’re getting 
leadership contributions from a vari-
ety of places.”
One of those places is from the 
team’s 10-player freshman class — 
a group of players that carry them-
selves as anything but.
“Sometimes freshmen might 
be a little bit weary and scared to 
say something to upperclassmen,” 
senior defender Julia Lester said. 
“But really, since the very begin-
ning, they’ve been pushing hard and 
pushing us hard, too.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Florida fans won’t have to wait 
long for the competition to heat up 
when it comes to Gators volleyball.
Much like last season, the team 
will hit the ground in diving fashion 
as they take on multiple ranked op-
ponents before SEC play takes off 
against Auburn on Sept. 27.
The exhibition contest against 
UCF on Saturday isn’t a cupcake 
match either. The Knights will re-
turn with everyone on the team from 
last season minus their libero. Coach 
Mary Wise is looking forward to the 
extra opponent and “dress rehears-
al” the team will host this weekend. 
“It’s a really great opportunity for 
us to see someone else across the 
net,” she said.
In the first four matches, three of 
UF’s opponents are ranked. 
The competition is steep. Florida 
plays against No. 25 Louisville for 
its first game of the regular season, 
on the road nonetheless. The Gators 
will open up at home against the de-
fending national champions in No. 1 
Stanford on Sept. 4 and the team will 
cap off the ranked opponents with 
another game on the road at No. 3 
Minnesota on Sept. 7 before heading 
into the rest of the pre-conference 
schedule.
“It will give us a great assessment 
of where we are early on,” Wise said. 
“It’s just a matter of, at this point in time, can we be the best version of 
ourselves?”
 
No freshmen on the team is a 
huge advantage
Normally, a squad only has a few 
short weeks of preseason before the 
actual season is underway. The team 
will spend that time focusing on the 
basics of the sport and getting the 
newcomers acclimated to the pro-
gram.
That isn’t the case for Florida, 
though.
No freshmen will play on this 
season’s roster after the addition of 
six first-years and one sophomore 
transfer last season.
“It’s definitely a huge advantage,” 
redshirt junior Holly Carlton said 
Thursday. “It was a bit of a shock 
but it’s been such an advantage to 
train through our systems and keep 
progressing instead of having to go 
back to the beginning like we nor-
mally would.”
Carlton said the team was able to 
go home for winter break but when 
they returned in January for the first 
practice they were told the preseason 
was already underway.
 
Florida fans will have to wait for 
T’ara Ceasar’s debut
Carlton said both sophomore and 
junior transfers Anaya Martin and 
T’ara Ceasar, respectively, fit into the team’s culture seamlessly, both 
bringing in unique traits that make 
this Gators squad better than it was 
before.
“Anaya has just added a new 
work ethic that’s just amazing,” 
Carlton said. “The amount of time 
that she’s in the gym on her own has 
been really special and has rubbed 
off on a lot of the players to just im-
prove their own game individually.”
Ceasar, however, will have to 
wait until 2020 to hit the court per 
SEC transfer regulations with Ceasar 
previously playing at Georgia. She 
will redshirt this season, but her 
work in the gym hasn’t gone unno-
ticed, either.
“T’ara is just a fierce competitor,” 
Carlton said. “It’s really fun playing 
with her.”
 
The only thing missing from Ra-
chael Kramer’s shelf is a national 
championship
Rachael Kramer is hungry. All 
but one box has been checked on 
her grocery list and she’s craving is 
a hefty piece of hardware: a national 
championship.
“We know that’s not out of reach 
for this team,” Kramer said. “From 
Day 1, that has been in all of our 
minds...This level of competition is 
like nothing I have ever seen before.”
The senior middle blocker added 
that nearly eight months of pre-Gators volleyball: 3 things to know coming off media dayAlligator File Photo
Redshirt junior midfielder Parker Roberts missed most of last season with a foot fracture. She's 
expected to play a key role on the Gators' team this fall. She was First T eam All-SEC in 2017.
SOCCER
Florida travels to South Florida for season opener against FAU
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt junior opposite attacker Holly Carlton feels more 
comfortable with her role on the team with a year under her 
belt. She transferred to Florida from North Carolina last season.
 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 1212  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 23, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$3 Wells
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
NightsThe Gators are currently seven point favorites Wise looks 
for irst titleda’s secondary will pose a much greater chal-
lenge than the Tigers did a season ago.
The Gators' defensive backs are led by CJ 
Henderson. The sophomore cornerback was 
named to the Jim Thorpe Award preseason 
watch list for the nation’s best defensive back. 
Marco Wilson, who starts opposite Henderson 
at cornerback, missed almost all of last season 
with a torn ACL, but is returning to a second-ary that will look to make up for a lack of depth 
with sheer talent.
Luckily for Williams, the ‘Canes return their 
top two pass catchers from 2018: wide receiver 
Jeff Thomas and tight end Brevin Jordan. The 
freshman play-caller will likely lean on those 
two veteran targets, but Henderson and Wil-
son, along with whoever UF opts to go with at 
the safety positions, should limit Miami’s abil-
ity to move the ball through the air.
Florida’s receivers vs. Miami’s secondaryReceiver may be Florida’s deepest, stron-
gest position group. The Gators return all of 
their top pass catchers from a season ago and 
have at least seven receivers capable of making 
an impact. Senior wideout Van Jefferson leads 
the receivers unit and is joined by Tyrie Cleve-
land, Josh Hammond, Trevon Grimes and Ja-
cob Copeland.
But Miami’s linebacking corps led by Mi-
chael Pinckney and Shaquille Quarterman will 
attempt to clog up the middle of the ﬁ  eld and 
force Franks to ﬁ  nd his playmakers outside the 
hash marks or down the ﬁ  eld. Established UM 
corner Trajan Bandy leads the defensive backs and is the only returning starter in the unit. 
However, safeties Gurvan Hall Jr. and Amari 
Hall both saw playing time a season ago.
The Hurricanes allowed the fewest passing 
yards per game (135.6) in the nation in 2018. 
Florida’s 213.5 passing yards per game was 
only 82nd. Franks will need to ﬁ  nd the holes in 
UM’s secondary to open up the passing game 
and stay clear of its highly touted linebackers. 
And his ability to do so depends on the time 
the offensive line can afford him in the pocket 
and his ability to extend plays.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 10First start for UM's Williams
season has greatly beneﬁ  tted the team. 
The players were actually able to play 
in a scrimmage-like, six-on-six drill the 
ﬁ  rst day of preseason, which Kramer 
added never happens.
“We have people that have all played 
at least a year of collegiate volleyball, 
whether that be here or somewhere 
else, but they know what it’s like,” 
she said. “It’s not their ﬁ  rst preseason, 
they’re not nervous for that, and it’s so 
nice to have that.”
Kramer isn’t the only one hoping she 
can add a national title to her resume at 
Florida. In Wise’s 29 years of coaching 
at UF, she has yet to hoist the trophy, 
either.
“We were so close in 2017,” Kramer 
said. “And once you’ve been to the Fi-
nal Four and know what it takes to be 
in that championship match, that’s the 
one thing I would be bitter about is if 
I leave this program and didn’t get a 
national championship within my four 
years.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 11build conﬁ  dence while trying 
to limit turnovers and bad ﬁ  eld 
position, but it won’t result in 
much scoring as both will strug-
gle to punch it in the redzone. 
Florida, in particular, may have 
a hard time scoring close to the 
goal line in large part due to 
an inexperienced offensive line 
that may struggle to get a push 
against a sturdy UM defensive 
line. Both teams’ kickers will be 
busy, but the Gators will edge 
out Miami mostly due to a better 
grasp of their scheme compared 
to UM, which is entering its ﬁ  rst 
year under new head coach 
Manny Diaz. 
Florida by 10 thanks to soph-
omore kicker Evan McPherson’s 
leg.
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org
Kyle Wood
Prediction: 27-13 Florida
Months of speculation and 
Twitter banter by fans of two of the state’s premiere programs 
will be put to rest on the ﬁ  eld at 
Camping World Stadium on Sat-
urday night. Miami and Florida 
both had busy offseasons, to say 
the least, in very different ways.
Regardless of UF’s depar-
tures, and UM’s additions by 
retention, the Gators will be 
the better team in this Week 0 
clash, and it will show. Feleipe 
Franks’ growth as a passer and 
the safety net that is his talented, 
deep receiving corps will be a 
saving grace if the Hurricanes’ 
pass rush can bully the Gators’ 
inexperienced offensive line.
Conversely, Miami is putting 
its faith in redshirt freshman 
quarterback Jarren Williams. 
Granted, Williams also has tal-
ented targets to help him out 
in his starting debut, but their 
depth is not comparable to Flor-
ida’s.
Both teams have strong de-
fenses, it’s the advantage UF has 
offensively that will be the dif-
ference in this game. Miami had 
the defense of a top-25 team last 
season, but the offensive prow-
ess wasn’t there. Maybe Wil-
liams will be the one to lead the 
Hurricanes out of their offensive slump, but I don’t expect that 
renaissance to begin Saturday 
night.
@Kkylewood
Kwood@alligator.org
Tyler Nettuno
Prediction: 31-17 Florida
The kickoff of the 150th sea-
son of college football will be a 
spectacle ﬁ  tting for the state of 
the game midway through its 
second century.
The matchup — played in 
Orlando and televised by ESPN 
— is essentially Disney’s wet 
dream. I mean, come on. They’re 
hosting College GameDay at the 
Magic Kingdom, an event which 
costs a full $100 to attend and is 
21.3 miles from the damn stadi-
um (seriously, don’t say I didn’t 
warn you when fans are stuck in 
I-4 trafﬁ  c at kickoff).
But behind the veil of com-
mercialism lies an intriguing 
matchup between the Gators 
and ‘Canes. Florida’s players 
have been talking trash all sum-
mer, and for good reason. They 
ended the season with as much 
momentum as you can ask for.But Miami presents a chal-
lenge for UF, especially its front 
seven. If that unit feels disre-
spected by all the chatter (as it 
probably should), the UM de-
fense will come out with high 
energy. 
The Gators shouldn’t under-
estimate the danger they face in 
the Hurricanes’ vicious defense. 
Florida has to replace four offen-
sive line starters from a year ago, 
and Miami will look to put the 
pressure on quarterback Feleipe 
Franks early and often.
But Franks has a stable of 
talented skill position players to 
get the ball to, such as running 
back Lamical Perine and receiv-
ers Van Jefferson and Trevon 
Grimes. Their speed will allow 
Florida enough explosive plays 
to pull away from a gassed Mi-
ami defense in the second half 
despite a slow start, and red-
shirt freshman quarterback Jar-
ren Williams — making his ﬁ  rst 
career start — won’t be able to 
keep up.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org UF VS. UM,  from pg. 10