WE INFORM. YOU DECIDE.
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 109 AUGUST 12, 2019
(NOT OFFICIALLY ASSOCIATED WITH THE)
    FEATURING:
       INSIDE CENTURY TOWER, pg. 3
     SUPER SMASH BROS. GOD, pg. 8 
   SCOOTER SAFETY, pg. 20
 SPORTS: Evaluating UF’s tight ends, pg. 21T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie DeFreitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467HIGH  91° LOW  75°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
Social Media StrategistFall SG Elections
Elections will be held Sept. 24 
and 25 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 
p.m. across campus. Absentee-
ballot requests are due by 5 
p.m. on Sept. 11 and should be 
submitted through www.sg.ufl.
edu/elections. The elections 
will determine the senators who 
represent living areas on and 
around campus. Party registra-
tion will run from 9 a.m. Aug. 
22 through noon Aug. 28 at the 
SG Office in the Reitz Union. 
There will be an informational 
meeting Aug. 27 at 6:30 p.m. 
for students interested in run-ning. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as 
follows: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Aug. 
29, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 30 and 
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sept. 3. 
Student services relocates 
Student services for Admissions, 
Registrar, Student Financial 
Affairs and the Bursar will be 
relocated from Criser/Peabody 
halls to 100 Smathers Library 
from Aug. 12 to Aug. 30. It 
will be open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. UF said 
this location has been designed for students’ convenience dur-
ing Fall peak time.
UF Uber Safe Rides
Wednesdays through Sundays 
from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. students 
can get a 25 percent discount on 
rides in a zone spanning from 
the Northwest Eighth Avenue 
and Northwest 34th Street in-
tersection to the Southwest 
Sixth Street and Southwest 16th 
Avenue intersection. To redeem 
the discount, access the pro-
mo code through https://one.
uf.edu/saferides/ and apply the 
code in the Uber app.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 109
Gatorskeetandtrap.com
Hours of Operation
Sun, Wed, Fri, Sat—1-6 pmSPECIAL OFFER
FOR NON-MEMBERS:
One Free Round of Skeet or Trap
Does not include ammunition
Available for purchase on site
BRING TO CLUB FOR SPECIAL PRICE
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
5202 NE 46th Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
Behind the airport in the Airport Industrial Park
(352) 372-1044
Find Us On Facebook!
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.netNEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
Bodytech_tattoo   |
WHEN DID IT START FOR YOU?
352-376-4090 | bodytechtattoo.com
Bodytech_piercingsBy Kaylyn Ling
Staff Writer 
One-hundred and fifty-seven feet tall. 
Sixty-one bells. Nearly 12 flights of stairs. 
Your calves are burning. There is sweat 
in places you didn’t know you could sweat. 
You are now over 100 feet above campus 
grounds and looking down at the throngs of 
students in Turlington Plaza. As they move 
from class to class, the beautiful ring of car-
illon bells signal the hour. You have just 
climbed this infamous tower.
Inside, there is a small white-walled 
room filled by a huge wooden keyboard 
instrument. The 61-bell instrument, a caril-
lon, is the pride and joy of Century Tower. 
Not only is it the signature sound of UF’s most famous landmark, but it is the sound 
of the campus. 
Century Tower is one of the most fa-
mous landmarks on the UF campus, and 
its impressive walls of cast stone and brick 
carry over six decades of campus history.
The tower’s construction started in 1953 
during the centennial celebration of the 
university’s founding and was completed 
in 1956. It was dedicated to students who 
served during WWI and WWII. According 
to a 1953 edition of The Alligator, around 
12,000 people donated to the Memorial 
Century Tower construction fund.
The bell tower, which was not filled 
with real bells until 1976, was designed in 
the Collegiate Gothic style, similar to the Saved by the bell: A look at what’s inside Century Tower
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Wade FitzGerald, 22-year-old UF music senior, plays “Milonga” by Ronald Barnes on the 
carillon in Century T ower. FitzGerald has played the piano since he was 5 and learned to 
play the carillon his sophomore year, when he enrolled in the UF Carillon Studio. “You 
get to learn an instrument, ” he said about the studio program, “and you get to brag to 
people that you play one of the rarest instruments in the world. ”
The tower was built in 1953 for the 
centennial celebration of UF’s founding
TOP ADVICE IS TO WORK 
HARD, BE OPEN MINDED AND 
FOLLOW ONE’S PASSIONS 
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Fear. Anxiety. Loneliness. These are just 
some of the emotions that might go through 
first-year students’ minds as they open the 
door to their first college class.
But they are not alone.The Alligator interviewed three professors 
who teach general education courses at UF 
to get their advice on how to be successful 
in college and in life. The professors inter-
viewed include: Macroeconomics professor 
David Knight, Discovering the Universe pro-
fessor Elizabeth Lada and American Federal 
Government professor Suzanne Robbins.
How to survive the course:
Macroeconomics
Knight’s macroeconomics class is an on-
line hybrid format — meaning students can attend live lectures to ask questions, but as-
signments are completed on Canvas. 
The class has students from almost every 
undergraduate major, Knight said. The an-
nual enrollment is about 2,500 students. 
For his class, students struggle when they 
aren’t actively learning. 
“When you look at who’s struggling, 
missing assignment deadlines and not turn-
ing things in, it is a really common issue,” 
he said. 
Another common problem causing stu-
dents to struggle is not going to class and not intently watching lectures. 
“Watching your lectures on double speed 
or watching while you’re doing something 
else —  maybe making dinner — anything 
else is the same as going to class and not 
paying attention,”  he said. 
In order to excel in his class, one must 
take active steps to learn the material, Knight 
said. He suggests having set times to watch 
lectures and possibly a study buddy to keep 
one accountable on their progress. ‘College isn’t the endgame’: Advice from UF’s Gen Ed. professors
SEE GEN ED,  PAGE 5SEE CENTURY,  PAGE 54   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox 
every day for the 
newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/18.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/18.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/19.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/19.
Saturday , September 14th
10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P .M.
$10 per person -  2 and Under free 
Conservation Foundation
Food tr ucks: PDQ , Cilan tro Taco and others
8528 E County Road 225, Gainesville, Florida 32609
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org   Facebook@CarsonSpringsWildlife
Funded in par t by Visit G ainesville , Alachua C oun ty100% of proceeds goes to animal care20-0099Work for Block.
Visit 
hrblock.com/careersLike people &  
flexible hours?
Positions Available:
  Multi-Unit Team Leaders / Team Leaders
  Experienced Tax Professionals
  Client Receptionists
20-0099Work for Block.
Visit 
hrblock.com/careersLike people &  
flexible hours?
Positions Available:
  Multi-Unit Team Leaders / Team Leaders
  Experienced Tax Professionals
  Client Receptionists
20-0099Work for Block.
Visit 
hrblock.com/careersLike people &  
flexible hours?
Positions Available:
  Multi-Unit Team Leaders / Team Leaders
  Experienced Tax Professionals
  Client Receptionists
www.santafestorage.net
352-468-2740
waldo@santafestorage.net
15540 NE US Hwy 301
Waldo, FL 32694904-964-3400
starke@santafestorage.net
1630 N Temple Ave
Starke, FL 32091352-373-0004
gainesville@santafestorage.net
3033 NE 53rd Ave
Gainesville, FL 32609
www.santafestorage.net
352-468-2740
waldo@santafestorage.net
15540 NE US Hwy 301
Waldo, FL 32694904-964-3400
starke@santafestorage.net
1630 N Temple Ave
Starke, FL 32091352-373-0004
gainesville@santafestorage.net
3033 NE 53rd Ave
Gainesville, FL 32609
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF RECENTL Y ANNOUNCED 
IT RECEIVED $776.2 
MILLION FOR RESEARCH 
IN 2019
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer 
As a top 10 research institu-
tion, UF is focused on fostering 
understanding in the world. 
UF recently announced it re-
ceived a total of $776.2 million for 
research in 2019, and all 16 col-
leges received money to conduct 
research. 
So here’s an update on some of 
the latest research: 
Effectiveness of Fitness 
Trackers (Or Lack There-of) 
Wearable fitness trackers 
might not be as effective as one 
believes. UF researchers found wearing 
a fitness tracker might not contrib-
ute to improving outcomes like 
weight loss, cholesterol, blood 
glucose and high blood pressure. 
The study focused on the im-
pact of using wearable devices 
without outside influences like a 
personal trainer, said Ara Jo, a UF 
clinical assistant professor for the 
department of health services, re-
search, management and policies. 
The study consisted of reviewing 
550 articles and selecting six ran-
domized control trials. 
“They didn’t actually find sig-
nificant change, like increased 
blood glucose or blood pressure 
to the optimal level,” she said. 
But despite this, Jo says these 
devices are helpful if one needs 
encouragement. 
“The devices may help moti-vate people, but it doesn’t make 
them really move or exercise,” 
she said.
UF professor and Chair of the 
Department of Health Services, 
Research, Management and Poli-
cies Arch Mainous said there is 
data suggesting these devices 
make people move, but there’s 
uncertainty on the efficiency of it. 
“The question is, is that enough 
to make a difference? Or is it in-
tense enough? Or is there some-
thing else that has to do with it?,” 
he said. 
Overall, Jo said the signifi-
cance of this research is that it 
allows people to understand the 
product they’re buying. 
“My studies kind of give them 
a guide on how to use these de-
vices effectively and to improve 
their clinical outcomes,” she said. 
“And this is done by recognizing 
the product is useful for motiva-
tion, but might not produce the outcomes one wants on its own. 
A New Solution for Citrus 
Greening Disease 
UF research shows injecting 
antibiotic products like oxytet-
racycline in the trunks of citrus 
trees might be more effective than 
more popular spray treatments.
These antibiotic products are 
used to protect citrus trees from 
greening disease, which is a bac-
terial disease that causes fruit to 
drop and branches to die, said Mi-
chael Rogers, a professor at UF’s 
Citrus Research and Education 
Center. 
This disease has been affecting 
the citrus industry and the trees 
for about 14 years now, he said. 
“There’s been a lot of interest 
in the Florida citrus industry in 
finding tools to be used that can 
be used to control the bacterium 
which causes citrus greening dis-
ease,” Rogers said. 
And this UF research was con-ducted to do just that. 
But even though tree injections 
were found to be more effective 
than a spray, they haven’t been 
approved to use, said UF micro-
biology and cell professor Nian 
Wang. 
“Trunk injection of oxytetracy-
cline hasn’t been approved to use 
and more work needs to be done 
to help the citrus industry fight 
citrus greening disease,” Wang 
said. 
However, Rogers says this re-
search is especially important for 
growers to understand. 
“I think it’s also important for 
and maybe more useful for grow-
ers, because they may need to 
rethink how they’re using some 
of these products,” Rogers said. 
“There may be better ways in the 
future.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgFitness and citrus NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
100’s of
New Choices
 COMING
AUGUST 26th
Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Mon. Aug. 26 thru Fri. Aug 30
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Reitz Union
previously built University Au-
ditorium and Murphree Hall on 
campus. 
Charlie Hailey, a UF architec-
ture professor, said the Gothic 
details are most prominent in 
the belfry and nuanced arches. 
The Collegiate Gothic style links 
buildings to older traditions of 
learning, he said. 
“A particular place, in a par-
ticular location and town, cer-
tainly has its own identities,” 
Hailey said. “[UF architecture 
has] a certain identity, whether 
it’s red brick or whether it’s cast 
stone or pre-cast details or the ac-
tual stone in the older buildings.”
UF’s original campus design 
by 19th-century architect Wil-
liam Augustus Edwards called 
for a Gothic bell tower. Century 
Tower fulfilled those original de-
signs and ended up being placed 
in what would develop into the 
heart of campus.
Hailey said its location has 
the advantages of exposure and 
orientation. 
“It’s important that it’s at the 
corner,” he said, gesturing to the 
intersection of Newell Drive and 
Stadium Road. “People can use it 
as a reference point.”
Not only does the tower serve 
as a great navigational tool across 
university grounds, but it serves 
as a musical timekeeper. The 
tower rings every hour and has 
two student performances every 
weekday at 12:35 p.m. and 4:35 
p.m. during the Fall semester. On 
a clear and cool day, its clock-
strikes can be heard for at least a 
half-mile radius. 
“The acoustic presence on 
campus, to me, is as powerful, 
if not more powerful, than its 
actual architecture,” Hailey said. 
“The way [the tower] links the 
whole campus, just through its 
sound, is a huge lesson.”
Century Tower’s 61-bell caril-
lon is one of only four carillons 
in the state of Florida, according 
to the World Carillon Federation 
tower directory. “There are only a handful of 
schools in the country that have 
carillons, and Florida’s program 
is especially good,” said 22-year-
old UF music senior Wade 
FitzGerald. 
FitzGerald has studied under 
Laura Ellis in the Carillon Stu-
dio for the past three years and 
intends on continuing his caril-
lon career after graduation. He 
will begin a fellowship at Bok 
Tower Gardens in the spring. 
There, he will study with Geert 
D’hollander, a world-renowned 
carillonneur.
For students like FitzGerald, 
a piano player who had never 
touched a carillon before coming 
to UF, the university’s carillon 
program was the first step to-
ward a potential life-long career. 
FitzGerald encouraged freshmen 
to look into the carillon program.
“If you play piano, if you 
know music at all, and you’re in-
terested in doing something fun 
and unique, go for it,” he said. 
“Because this is something — UF 
is the only school in Florida that 
has it.”
Century Tower is unique 
as an instrument, even when 
compared to other bell towers. 
FitzGerald has played approxi-
mately 10 different bell towers 
across the nation.
“That’s the cool thing about 
carillon: every tower is com-
pletely different,” he said. “You 
know, you might be able to 
play the notes, but to really play 
something musically — how you 
want it to sound — you’re going 
to have to play around on it for 
a while.”
Composers often write music 
with specific carillons in mind. 
Compositions for Century Tower 
are usually focused on school 
spirit. For example, there are 
unique arrangements of UF’s 
fight song, “Orange and Blue,” 
and alma mater that sound best 
when played on Century Tower’s 
carillon.
Century Tower’s school spirit 
is highlighted on campus tours, 
as well.UF Cicerone Courtland Cam-
po, a 19-year-old advertising 
major, said Century Tower is 
one of his personal favorite stops 
when he gives tours to prospec-
tive students and their families. 
Tour groups often talk about the 
history of University Auditorium, 
Century Tower and Turlington.
Campo said it is also com-
mon for Cicerones to tell “tower 
jokes” at the location.
“The usual one is, when you 
first get there, you say, ‘It’s a 
beautiful, tall structure right here. 
No, I’m not talking about me. It’s 
Century Tower,’” he said. 
Cicerones are allowed to per-
sonalize their tour material. Cam-
po said he has a deep appreciation 
for the tower’s history and music, 
so he shares that with his audi-
ences. Campo had a chance to go 
inside Century Tower and see the 
carillon while being trained as a 
Cicerone. He also had the chance 
to speak to UF carillonneurs.
“I asked them what their fa-
vorite songs were to play,” he 
said. “And one of them said, 
‘The Sound of Music.’ And then 
the other said ‘7 rings’ by Ari-
ana Grande. I did not expect that 
one.”
Campo said a remodeling of 
the tower could be interesting. 
There are currently a series of un-
used rooms inside Century Tower 
visible from the staircase. Campo 
said the empty space could be 
turned into an art gallery or mu-
seum exhibit. He pointed out 
issues with renovation could in-
clude ADA accessibility and the 
availability of air conditioning.
Despite the possibilities for 
renovation, historical preserva-
tion comes first.
“It’s spots like Tower that 
maybe aren’t as well-loved, and 
I still think need to be protected,” 
he said. “I’d love to see that from 
the students — a deeper appre-
ciation for the history and maybe 
not the sports or research that 
we’re doing, although those two 
things are great.”
@KaylynLing
kling@alligator.orgCENTURY,  from pg. 32 students perform each weekday
Discovering the Universe
To Lada, asking questions helps 
students be successful in her Discover-
ing the Universe class. Her class covers 
multiple topics of astronomy from how 
stars are born to the solar system and 
even galaxies. 
She said communicating with pro-
fessors isn’t just beneficial for her class 
but as a whole. 
“I think one of the things is to re-
ally forge a better relationship with 
professors,” Lada said. “To make sure 
you’re understanding everything, ask-
ing questions and getting help when 
you need it.” 
American Federal Government
For American Federal Government, 
Robbins said coming to class prepared 
to discuss readings and asking ques-
tions will help students excel. 
“Learning how to apply concepts 
and ideas across topics will place you 
near the top [in my class],” Robbins 
said. 
Her class focuses on how the Amer-
ican government works, and she ap-
proaches each topic by reflecting on 
both historical and contemporary po-
litical challenges. 
However, the curriculum doesn’t 
really change. 
“The topics do not change — as the 
basic fundamentals of our constitution 
doesn’t change,” Robbins said.
Achieving Success 
That said, all the interviewed pro-
fessors defined what success is to them 
and how to achieve it. 
To Lada, success in general is find-
ing your passion. 
“I think success for me is you’re 
learning something and you’re broad-
ening your perspective,” she said. 
“You’re finding things you’re interest-
ed in and passionate to learn about.” 
But for Knight, success is different 
to each person. 
“To me, success is trying to identify 
and understand what your goals are 
and moving toward them,” he said. 
To do well in his class, one has to 
put forth the work, Knight said. 
And for Robbins, success is differ-
ent from a worldly perspective to a classroom setting. For the classroom, 
success is the desire to learn more and 
be constantly questioning. But outside, 
it’s physical and mental well-being, 
she said. 
“College isn’t the end game,” Rob-
bins said. “It sets you up to always 
want to learn more.” 
Last Words 
Overall, the consensus among the 
professors is first-year students tend to 
struggle with time management. 
To fix this, Robbins suggested keep-
ing a calendar and prioritizing activi-
ties. 
Breaking up large projects into 
small tasks and accomplishing them 
over time is better than doing it all at 
once, he said.
“Every night, make a list of the 
three to six most important things you 
need to accomplish the next day and 
prioritize them,” she said. “Start with 
the most important one first and finish 
it before moving to the next item.” 
As for Knight, he believes first-year 
students struggle with independence. 
“I think that’s a challenge for a lot of 
people who are 18 years old, is going 
from a world in which your parents 
advocate for you to one in which you 
have to advocate for yourself,” he said. 
To overcome this, Knight suggested 
thinking of ways to rely on oneself to 
fix problems instead of others. Also, he 
said students should always work hard 
even though they aren’t sure what 
they are working toward.
“The biggest opportunities that will 
come to you, especially professionally, 
are most often things you have no idea 
of or are even on your radar,” he said. 
Knight said he believes if one works 
hard and is nice, things will usually 
work out. 
Last, Lada’s advice to first-year 
students is to be open-minded and ex-
plore one’s environment. 
“Don’t be afraid to make mistakes 
or be open to new opportunities — 
challenge yourself,” she said. “This is 
a really good time in your life to do 
this.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgGEN ED,  from pg. 3Lada: ‘challenge yourself’EditorialMONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumn
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The beads of sweat drop down your face and burn as 
they slide into your eye. You are finally done moving 
into your new dorm. Even though you are from Florida, 
you have never experienced heat like this. The dorm is 
nice...-ish. But it will do. Nothing can get you down. 
It’s your first week of college, and you’re about to meet your 
roommate who you met on an online forum. As they knock on 
the door, you ask yourself, “How weird could they be?” You 
open the door, and a strange saying is plastered across their 
shirt...
Darts and Laurels 
Welcome to college. We’d like to take the opportunity to intro-
duce you to the highs and lows of the UF experience. Take it from 
us, some elderly Gators. Darts go to things we wish we could 
undo. Laurels go to the parts of college we can’t live without. 
First low of UF is parking. We said it once, but we’ll say it 
again: the parking situation on this campus is not something to 
test. If you are new to campus, please understand, parking offi-
cers are nowhere, yet everywhere. You never see them, but they 
manage to give you a parking ticket every time. The first time 
you get a ticket, you will understand why this part of UF life is 
so dart-worthy.
Swampy UF memes for top ten public teens will make the UF 
experience all worthwhile. What’s the point of suffering through 
irritating professors, unresolved UF alerts and disappointing foot-
ball games if you can’t share the experience with thousands of 
Gators via extremely specific memes? If you ever find yourself 
frustrated about a mishap “no one else understands,” go on to 
the page, and you will realize you are not as alone as you think. 
If the page has a hole where your niche, meme-able experience 
should be, create your own meme and wait for the likes to pour 
in to validate you. A laurel goes to the Facebook group and its 
admins for providing us with Internet content that has us laugh-
ing through the pain that is the college experience. 
With Fall comes the resurgence of those who stake out Turl-
ington in hopes of you lending them your ear. Whether it is club 
recruiters, people handing out flyers, a preacher making their lat-
est stop or Dennis, a dart goes to those who instill a bit of fear in 
us, as their enthusiasm is next level. The event promoters, Stu-
dent Government representatives and club recruiters really want 
you to give them a chance, and you should. In the beginning 
everything will feel so new and exciting. Who knows what that 
piece of paper may hold? Your new community? An awesome 
new skill? Free food? By the third week of grabbing every piece 
of paper shoved in front of you, the truth will settle in: you don’t 
really need the fliers, and you’ve been late to every one of your 
classes because you’re too nice to say anything. 
The return of the Fall semester also means the return of RTS 
buses in great numbers. This also means our favorite bus drivers 
will be back on their routes, and a laurel goes to these hard-
working people for doing all they can to get us to class on time. 
However, a dart goes to the RTS app for doing just the opposite. 
Somehow, buses magically appear and disappear on this god-
forsaken app and have us missing rides we didn’t even know 
existed. Better yet, the app loves to tell you that a bus will be at 
your stop in 10 minutes, when it will really be there in five. So if 
you’re thinking of walking to that bus stop, run your little heart 
out and make sure you’re not late to that 8:30 a.m. lecture. 
First you become a part of it, then it becomes a part of you. 
We know we sound cheesy for saying this, but we want to give 
a laurel to the UF community. No matter where or when you 
find it, there is a group of people here who will validate you and 
empower your growth during your time here. There are many 
definitions of what it means to be a Gator and you can fit into any 
one of them, or make your own if you so choose. The UF commu-
nity is constantly pushing the boundaries academically, socially, 
scientifically and physically. We cheer each other on and support 
each other during times of need. You’re a part of that now. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORHere I am. 
Like so many alumni before me, I 
write my farewell to The Alligator. 
I’ve read so many goodbyes from 
fantastic student journalists over my 
three years here, and writing my own is surreal. 
The basement of Weimer Hall is a bit of 
a maze. Walk around the underground laby-
rinth long enough and you’ll forget where you 
walked in. 
I was a sophomore journalism major during 
Fall 2017, and I still didn’t really know my way across cam-
pus. So finding The Alligator’s open house in the basement 
was daunting. 
Luckily, the smell of free pizza and the loud chatter of 
about 15 people overstuffing a tiny office guided me toward 
my destination. 
I was hoping to meet a couple new people with shared 
interests at the open house. I did. But more importantly, I 
found my people. 
Finding your people is an important part of navigating 
college. An integral part of the college experience is figur-
ing out what you want to do with your life. To do this, you 
need to know who you want to surround yourself with. 
A lot of students find their people through fraternities, 
sororities, clubs, intramural teams, work, etc. I found mine 
at The Alligator, and I am lucky enough to consider The 
Alligator my Gainesville family. 
Being from Tampa, it was difficult to find where I fit 
in as a freshman on UF’s expansive campus. It took me a 
year of putting myself out there before I finally got to The 
Alligator. It may take less or more time for you incoming 
freshmen, but once you find those people, you’ll have a 
reassuring feeling that the path you’re on is the right one. 
My mentors gave me that sense of security. In that little 
office in the Weimer basement, I met former alligatorSports 
editors Jordan McPherson, Ian Cohen, Ethan Bauer, Matt Brannon and Dylan Dixon.
These guys helped me because they fos-
tered a feeling of family in the sports section. 
They gave me daily rides to the office, went 
with me to cover my first game (thanks Jor-
dan!) and sat down with me to reflect on work. 
They made me a better journalist through our 
friendship, and I cannot be more grateful for 
that. 
All of those guys graduated before the end 
of my first two years with The Alligator, but al-
ligatorSports still remained a family in their absence. Myself 
and many of my peers (Jake Dreilinger, Morgan McMullen, 
Alanis Thames, Justin Alhum, Skyler Lebron, Mari Faiello, 
River Wells, Sam Campisano, Dylan Rudolph, Tyler Net-
tuno, Brendan Farrell and Chris O’Brien, just to name a 
few) remain in close correspondence with each other and 
our former bosses, and I hope that never changes. 
In my time at the paper, the sports and news sections 
merged together to form a big, happy Alligator family (of-
fice potlucks and late nights of editing will really bring an 
office together). 
Now as I exit as editor-in-chief, my deepest hope is that 
The Alligator remains a tight-knit family forever. 
To my hard-working Summer staff, I appreciate every 
one of you, and I can’t wait to see what is next for you all. 
To my amazing managing editors, Hannah Beatty and 
Lindsey Breneman, I love you both and could not have sur-
vived the semester without you. 
And to all you incoming freshmen, find your people. 
If you’re ever discouraged, just know they are out there 
somewhere. Hopefully, some of y’all will find them at The 
Alligator. 
Mark Stine was the editor-in-chief of The Independent 
Florida Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @mstinejr or con-
tact him at mstine@alligator.org. I found my people at The Alligator, find yours
Mark Stine
Editor-in-chief
Twitter: @mstinejr River Wells / Alligator StaffNEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 
FIRST CARE 
URGENT CARE / WALK IN CLINIC
Sprains & Strains· Cold, Flu & Acute Illness
Vaccinations· Physicals & More
SIMEDHealth.comOpen Monday - Friday
7:00am - 6:00pm
4343 W. Newberry RD, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Walk-Ins Welcome or By Appointment
Located 1/2 mile East of the Oaks Mall on RTS Bus Routes #5 & #43Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified Family Medicine
First Presbyterian
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship - 8:30 & 10:55 am
Lunch after 10:55 worship
College Fellowship Wed. @7:30 pm
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org  
FLORIDA CICERONES
Interested in Getting 
Involved on Campus?
The Florida Cicerones, as 
the oﬃcial student ambassadors 
to UF, give back in many ways: 
working with the Alumni 
Association, providing campus 
tours, working with the Oﬃce of 
the President, and hosting 
athletic recruits.
Scan Below To Connect!
bit.ly/FCrecruitment
Applications come out in January, 
but look out for more information 
about our Fall Forum!
Last year, almost half 
of all college students 
didn’t have enough 
money for food. This 
comes as no surprise 
due to the rising costs of being 
a college student. After paying 
for tuition, books and hous-
ing, buying food can be put on 
the back burner. Sadly, this 
lack of resources can easily 
lead to disordered eating habits among 
college students.
Before college, we are all warned of 
gaining the “Freshman 15.” This danger-
ous expression can easily lead one to de-
velop a disordered eating pattern known 
as binging. For fear of gaining weight, 
one might restrict their portion sizes or 
how often they eat in order to remain 
thin. This process of essentially starving 
oneself leads to eventual binge sessions. 
When one has been in a calorie deficit 
for a certain amount of time, it is inevita-
ble they will binge on high-calorie foods.
Another habit I have witnessed is 
skipping meals. When a student doesn’t 
have a lot of money to spend on food 
they may fall into the trap of eating one 
meal and counting it as two. Even worse, 
some will take a nap instead of eating. 
When they are really hungry but don’t 
have any food or disposable income, they 
will just “sleep through the hunger.”
Additionally, disordered eating may 
develop due to stress, as there are many 
stressful changes when adjusting to col-
lege life. While some may find transition-
ing into college life easy, others may not. 
They may develop anxiety when trying 
to balance their personal life and school-
work all by themselves. This anxiety can 
leave such individuals vulnerable to dis-
ordered eating. 
When a college student feels they 
have lost control of certain aspects of their life such as school, they 
may look to something else in 
their life that they can easily 
control: food. This can lead to 
restrictive eating habits and 
ultimately an eating disorder. 
Another circumstance that 
can leave college students vul-
nerable to develop disordered 
eating habits or a diagnosed 
eating disorder is decreased 
structure. College is often the first time 
a student leaves the structure and rules 
of their home. While in the past their 
meals were scheduled for them (break-
fast before school, lunch at school and 
dinner set by the parents), this provided 
structure disappears in college. Students 
now have to create their own structure 
in which they set aside time to eat. This 
can be challenging when a student is 
first learning to balance classes, study, 
participate in extracurricular activities 
and more. Thus, they may not effectively 
set enough time aside to eat or buy gro-
ceries.
Between lack of income, the “Fresh-
man 15” stigma, stress and decreased 
structure, it’s easy for college students to 
fall prey to disordered eating habits. Yet, 
many college students who have disor-
dered eating habits are probably unaware 
that they do. They likely don't associate 
disordered eating with a full-blown eat-
ing disorder and therefore don’t see their 
unhealthy habits as that serious. 
Instead of perpetuating the “Fresh-
man 15” stigma around gaining weight, 
we should focus our attention on cur-
tailing disordered eating habits of col-
lege students. By educating students on 
common disordered eating patterns, they 
will know what to look for in their eating 
habits and see warning signs in friends. 
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. College can amplify disordered eatingColumn
The new Fall semester is upon 
us. Whether you’ve already 
been here for Summer or 
are coming back from break, 
there are lots of different 
factors you might need to adjust 
to, such as a new schedule, a new 
dorm or apartment or new bus 
routes. To help ease the transition, 
here are some tips to help you tran-
sition smoothly to Fall.
Rehearse your new schedule  
With the new semester comes new classes, 
and there’s a good chance those new classes 
are in different buildings and locations than 
your previous classes. So before classes start, 
go over your route. Figure out where your 
classes are in relation to one another, and if 
they’re far apart, which buses you’ll need. 
Then walk or ride that route as if you were go-
ing to class, keeping track of how long it takes 
so you know how much time you’ll need. 
Not only will this acquaint you with your sur-
roundings, but if you figure out you don’t have 
enough time between classes, you can plan for 
that now, such as leaving your class early, 
getting a bike or scooter or even dropping a 
class (although I would strongly recommend 
against the latter in most cases, as it could be 
difficult to find a replacement class at the last 
minute).
Get to know your professors
If you want to get ahead and make a strong 
impression, get to know your professors be-
fore the first day of class. Send them an email 
introducing yourself and asking any ques-
tions about the class you might have. You can 
even ask about their office hours if you want 
to meet them in person. While making con-
nections with a professor won’t automatically 
make you an A student, it will have a variety 
of other benefits, such as research or mentor-
ship opportunities, advice about the industry, 
and, depending on the professor, chances for 
extra credit or other help if you’re falling be-
hind. In my experience, professors are always 
willing to help their students, so don’t be 
afraid to ask!Get organized 
Organization will help you be 
ready to go as soon as the semes-
ter starts. Organization could en-
compass many things, such as get-
ting your textbooks and other class 
materials ahead of time, creating 
a folder or binder for each of your 
classes or creating a system for 
storing your papers (physically or 
digitally). While you can get organized at any 
time, the longer you wait, the harder it will 
be, as not only will you have more things to 
organize, but you’ll have to balance time spent 
organizing with time spent on things like as-
signments and classes. Best to get organized 
before classes start while you still have time.
Get in the right mental state  
They say “confidence is key”, and school is 
no exception. If you feel nervous and stressed 
going in there’s a good chance you’ll stay ner-
vous and stressed once you arrive. Instead, 
relax and focus on the positives. What are the 
upsides to going back to school? Why did you 
choose UF in the first place? Are you exagger-
ating the downsides? If you’re confident and 
eager going into the Fall semester, it won’t 
guarantee success, but it will make things a lot 
easier if you go into it with the right attitude.
Last, I would like to close this article by say-
ing if you still need help adjusting to the Fall 
semester, there are plenty of resources to assist 
you. If you’re feeling anxious and you’re not 
sure you can do it, the Counseling and Well-
ness Center can help. If you’re in a hard class 
and having trouble with the material, the UF 
Teaching Center is there to lend a hand. Each 
college or department also offers academic ad-
vising, and the Student Financial Affairs office 
is available to help with any issues relating to 
financial aid, scholarships or loans.
 While this isn’t a one-size-fits-all manual 
for college success, I hope this article helped 
put you on the right track this semester. Good 
luck this Fall, and Go Gators!
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. Tips for adjusting to Fall semesterColumn
Cassidy
Hopson
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Bikes and Scooter Safety , pg. 10By River Wells
Staff Writer 
The very first GENESIS tournament 
was held in a dimly lit room in Antioch, 
California. It was a far cry from the Gre-
cian flair of the city’s ancient counterpart, 
but history would be made there all the 
same.
The inaugural iteration of the tourna-
ment in 2009 was the largest Super Smash 
Bros. Melee tournament ever at the time, 
boasting 290 entrants from around the 
world. Some of those players – like Joseph 
“Mango” Marquez and Jason “Mew2K-
ing” Zimmerman – were already estab-
lished threats in the budding competitive 
scene, while others flocked to the tourna-
ment for the chance to prove themselves 
on the game’s biggest stage.
One of those competitors was Juan 
“Hungrybox” DeBiedma, a Melee player 
from Orlando. DeBiedma, who plays the 
character Jigglypuff, had just placed sev-
enth in the Revival of Melee tournament 
in New York three months before, and 
he looked to once again test his mettle 
against elite players like Marquez and 
Zimmerman.
Hardly anyone knew the name Hun-
grybox before that first GENESIS tourna-
ment, but that day in July would kickstart 
an era that couldn’t say it enough.
DeBiedma said his love of gaming be-
gan with consoles like the Gameboy Ad-
vance, the Nintendo 64 and the Sega Gen-
esis. He enjoyed platformers and sports 
games, like Mario Kart, but there was one 
particular game he found himself playing 
with his friends more than any other — 
Melee. He began with the original Super 
Smash Bros. game on the Nintendo 64, 
but he fell in love with the improvements 
of its successor.
“It just reminded me of a platformer 
game that I could play against other peo-
ple, which is really cool,” DeBiedma said. 
“Melee just has a lot of speed.”
DeBiedma would go to tournaments 
in Orlando at LAN centers near the Uni-
versity of Central of Florida. He and his 
friends created a group called What Are 
The Odds, and when they weren’t at Me-
lee tournaments, they hosted  some at 
DeBiedma’s house. When he advertised 
them, upward of 70 to 80 people would 
come to his mom’s house to play Melee.
“That’s where I learned all the match-
ups, and it was the perfect place to foster 
growth for a player,” DeBiedma said.
One of the members of WATO was 
Luis “Crunch” Rosias, who had known 
DeBiedma since fifth grade. 
DeBiedma quickly became one of the 
top players in the state, but his Melee ca-
reer would take him further. After travel-
ing to New York for Revival of Melee, he flew south to compete in the GENESIS.
That tournament would be different 
than the last. DeBiedma carved through 
the bracket to make it to the Top 4 of the 
tournament on the losers side before suf-
fering defeat at the hands of Marquez in 
the semifinal round by a score of 3-0.
Although he didn’t win the tourna-
ment, the Top 3 placement and the $855 
payout delivered a revelation to DeBied-
ma that Melee could be more than just a 
side gig.
“I was like, ‘S--t, I might be one of the 
best players in the world at this,’” De-
Biedma said. “And money for those tour-
naments is obviously nothing huge, but 
for me at that age, it was a lot of money.”
DeBiedma hit a stride after the break-
out performance at GENESIS. He won two 
major tournaments in Community Effort 
Orlando 2010 and APEX 2010. The lat-
ter victory earned him a $1,485, which 
he said helped him save for college, and 
motivated him to aid his mother after his 
father left their family.
“We were in a pretty low financial 
state, so anything I could pay for I wanted 
to help out with,” DeBiedma said. “Smash 
definitely helped out with that and gave 
me a lot more incentive to keep playing, 
especially because I was making more 
money off it than, like, delivering papers 
or mowing lawns.”
Four 2010 tournaments declared Hun-
grybox king, but as his Smash career ad-
vanced, the Melee scene would call him 
a god.
DeBiedma enrolled at UF in 2011, ma-
joring in chemical engineering. By then, 
he’d won eight major tournaments.
“Any time there was a local, I would 
win,” DeBiedma said. “Any time there 
was a regional event, 99 percent of the 
time, I won them.”
It wasn’t long before Hungrybox was 
declared one of the “Five Gods of Melee.” 
DeBiedma was part of a group of five 
players that many considered unbeatable 
in the competitive community. In 2014, 
DeBiedma officially became sponsored by 
Team Curse, which rebranded to Team 
Liquid in 2015.
While DeBiedma was still dominant in 
Melee, he now had to balance his profes-
sional gaming life with school. His pro-
gram lasted four years, and he took class-
es at UCF and Valencia College during the 
summer.
During his time at UF, DeBiedma had 
a simple system that allowed him to keep 
himself at the top of his game.
“I made Smash Bros. my reward,” De-
Biedma said. “Whenever I wanted to play 
Smash, I always put my classes first. I ac-
tually was unable to enjoy playing Smash 
on a given weekend unless I had finished 
my work.”
While the skill gap between him and the rest of his competition was still fairly 
large, DeBiedma found himself approach-
ing the game differently when he began 
to play people in the Gainesville Melee 
scene.
“For the most part, I would just play 
and beat everyone there, but I noticed 
over my four years there that players 
were improving quickly, to the point that 
I couldn’t just sit back and play however 
I wanted,” DeBiedma said. “I had to con-
sciously make sure I was playing well.”
DeBiedma competed in numerous 
high-profile tournaments while at UF, and 
though he found success, there were a 
few tournaments he was unable to win. 
He competed in the world’s largest and 
most prestigious fighting game tourna-
ment, the Evolution Championship Series 
(EVO) and was unable to win, placing 
third in 2013 and second the next year.
Before EVO in 2015, DeBiedma lament-
ed to Rosias that he’d seen a decline in his 
own play and he wasn’t able to compete 
with the rest of the Five Gods like he used 
to. Rosias responded with an offer.
“I was like, ‘Dude, I’ve been playing 
you since I was 12, 13,”’ Rosias said. “I 
see a lot of flaws in your play. Let me just 
help you out and see what happens.’”
Rosias began to coach DeBiedma, and 
though he once again placed second at 
EVO, Team Liquid was impressed with 
Rosias’ coaching. A few months later, 
they flew Rosias out to Sweden where 
DeBiedma was set to compete at a tourna-
ment called DreamHack Winter in order 
for him to provide coaching while he was 
there. DeBiedma ended up winning the 
tournament and securing a $10,000 prize.
“From there, it became a more formal 
thing,” Rosias said. “I was like, ‘Okay 
guys, clearly, this is working.’”
With Rosias as his coach, DeBiedma 
entered a new era of dominance.
He finally won EVO in 2016, along 
with numerous other high-profile tourna-
ments. From August 2017 to April 2018, 
DeBiedma placed first in 12 of the 13 ma-
jor tournaments he competed in, and he 
won his hometown tournament in CEO 
for the fourth time in 2018.
He quit his job as a process engineer at 
WestRoc in 2017 briefly to pursue Melee 
completely, and that was when DeBiedma 
was able to become No. 1 in the world on 
the SSBMRank, the definitive Melee rank-
ing system. In 2018, he returned to the 
workforce to take an IT job in Orlando.
He had cemented his place in gam-
ing history, but there was still work to be 
done.
See the rest of this 
story online.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
Wear a helmet: A look at scooter/bike accidents
A glimpse into the dangers of campus transportation Pg. 10How a former UF student became a Smash Bros. legend
GAMING
Francisco Suarez / CEOGaming
Juan “Hungrybox” DeBiedma has been the 
number one SuperSmash Bros. Melee Player 
since 2017.
Francisco Suarez / CEOGaming
DeBiedma went to UF from 2011-2015, 
where he majored in chemical engineering.
•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 THE AVENUE 
SweetBerriesGV
The best Frozen Custard ice cream around.
Walking distance from campus
505 NW 13th Street
Open Daily at 11 am till 10 pm
Fri. - Sat. till 11 pm
Deli Sandwiches, Soups, Salads and more
Happy Hour Beer and Wine Thur, Fri, Sat 7-close
SweetBerriesGainesville
352Delivery
Takeout: 352-378-4972
LIVE MUSIC THURSDAYS
Check Facebook Events page
for schedule
$1 OFF  
ANY CUSTARD
(with coupon)
expires 12/15/19
401 NE 23rd Ave-Near Main St.
(Next to TB Goods Pawn)
Monday - Saturday 11 am-9pm
gainesvilleramen.comINSPIRED BY 
THE TRADITION
OF JAPANESE 
STREET RAMENGainesville’s Local Ramen Shop
Tasty Ramen, Served Quick & At A Great Price
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE
Gainesville Healing House  
is a mental health practice 
dedicated to helping you 
through any tough times 
you may have during your 
time in Gainesville. 
If you have any questions 
or would like to make an 
appointment please email 
us at: 
gainesvillehealinghouse@gmail.com
or call us at:
352-660-4142
Students: Get $30 off Initial Evaluation  
with valid student ID from 08/01/19 – 09/15/19
POL PARSLEY
THE THAI ELVIS
BAND: 352.338.0938   |   YouTube: “Pol Parsley” “Thai Elvis”
NOW OPENGAINESVILLE’S NEWEST   
CRAFT BREWERY IS
IT ALL STARTS AT THE WELL
www.cypressandgrove.com LFRIDAY 3PM - 1OPM
SATURDAY 3PM - 10PM
SUNDAY 3PM - 9PM
MONDAY 5PM - 10PM
NOW OPENGAINESVILLE’S NEWEST   
CRAFT BREWERY IS
IT ALL STARTS AT THE WELL
www.cypressandgrove.com LFRIDAY 3PM - 1OPM
SATURDAY 3PM - 10PM
SUNDAY 3PM - 9PM
MONDAY 5PM - 10PM
www.cypressandgrove.comIT ALL STARTS
AT THE WELLMONDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
SATURDAY
SUNDAY5 PM - 10 PM
3 PM - 10 PM
3 PM - 10 PM
3 PM - 10 PM
1 PM - 10 PM
1 PM - 9 PMHOURS OF OPERATION:
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
A LOOK AT THE BUSINESSES 
THAT COME AND GO 
ALONG THE FAMOUS 
STREET
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
In early July, a video resurfaced 
on YouTube showing the famous Uni-
versity Avenue in 1992. As most can 
imagine, the businesses have changed 
over time. Unlike most streets, though, 
the businesses on University seem to 
have a constant revolving door. 
The owner of Silver Q Billiards & 
Sports Bar understands the changing 
nature of University Avenue better 
than most businesses.
Since first opening in 1992, the bil-
liards bar has seen numerous owner-
ship and name changes before even-
tually sitting vacant for three years.
Last weekend, the Silver Q once 
again opened its doors to the public.
Kim Cinque, 48, and her husband, 
Craig, owned and operated the Silver 
Q from 1994 to 2004 before deciding 
to sell the bar. “We were going to name it some-
thing else, but then Devan said, ‘Why 
are we going to name it something 
else? It was the Silver Q for almost 20 
years, and everyone loved the Silver 
Q,’” Cinque said.
Whether it be the Taco Bell at 
Midtown, Patticakes in the Village or 
Sweet Mel’s, an alarmingly high num-
ber of businesses struggle to maintain 
long-term success.
However, most business owners 
do not see location as the main prob-
lem. Rather, operating a business so 
close to a major university presents 
unique challenges many cannot over-
come.
Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria has 
been a staple of University Avenue 
for the past three years. Its business 
is flourishing, and it attributes its suc-
cess to being able to adapt its business 
model to the student customers.
 “You have to cater to who your 
clientele is, and it’s college kids. So, 
we have to adapt and tailor it to the 
college kids,” said Kyle O’Neal, 30, 
Felipe’s restaurant manager. “We lim-
ited everything down to what does 
sell, so we don’t have a lot of over-
head sitting in here, just money on the shelf.”
Further down the avenue, 29° 82° 
prepares for another rebrand. Former-
ly a part of the 3 Natives franchise, the 
health food restaurant became an in-
dependently owned store in late 2017.
Steve Taylor, 35, was a general 
manager of 3 Natives and stayed on 
through the beginning of the change 
to 29° 82° before deciding to leave. 
Two months ago, Taylor and his wife 
had the opportunity to purchase the 
restaurant.
Taylor plans on making the restau-
rant have an even stronger focus on 
health with an emphasis on authen-
ticity, making a rebranding necessary.
“We’re going to be making some 
drastic changes,” Taylor said. “I think 
that will make it much more palatable 
to people.”
For Kim Cinque at the Silver Q, the 
future is bright.
“I feel like [University Avenue] is 
making a comeback,” Cinque said. 
“I’m looking forward to training my 
nephew to take the lead.”
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgThe ever-changing face of University Avenue
Kim Cinque 
Kim Cinque and friends enjoying their time in Silver Q 
Billards & Sports Bar in 1994.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Mia Acker used her dad’s helmet because 
she didn’t want to spend money on a new 
one.
But money wasn’t the only thing the hel-
met saved her from.
“One of the biggest things to grapple with 
has been what would have happened if I 
wasn’t wearing my helmet,” said Acker, a 
22-year-old UF botany senior.
The bump on her head and the damage to 
her helmet are signs that, without the helmet, 
her accident could have ended much worse.
A 2017 statewide analysis of bicycle crash-
es conducted by Florida International Univer-
sity researchers identified two intersections 
on West University Avenue as being crash 
clusters, or areas where accidents occur fre-
quently: Northwest 13th Street and West Uni-
versity Avenue, and West University Avenue 
and Southwest Second Avenue.
On Aug. 3, Acker was riding her scooter 
home after a dinner with friends when a car 
crashed into her on West University Avenue. 
Acker was heading east when the car turned 
onto Gale Lemerand Drive and drove toward 
her.
Acker said the car had been reported to po-
lice before the accident due to erratic driving 
that possibly belonged to a drunken driver. 
Acker is now at UF Health Shands Hos-
pital with a fractured ankle and rods in her 
leg to hold the bones in place. She waits for 
surgery on Tuesday to repair the fracture, but 
Acker will not be able to bear weight on her 
leg for three months.
“I always wear my helmet, but some peo-
ple don’t,” Acker said. “That could have eas-
ily been someone that doesn’t, like my sister. 
I’m just thankful I was wearing it.”
Acker said she posted to Facebook the day 
after her incident, while she was still in the 
emergency room, to make students realize 
the importance of a helmet. She said most 
of the people she knows who own scooters 
don’t wear helmets.
 “That just breaks my heart,” Acker said. 
“It’s really distressing to talk about this, espe-
cially because it was so recent. But I want to 
talk about it. I’ll talk about it all day long if it 
gets someone to wear their helmet.”
Helmet safety
Megan Johnson, a 22-year-old UF health 
administration graduate student, said an 
observational study conducted by the Neu-
romedicine Interdisciplinary Clinical and 
Academic Program at UF revealed only 12 percent of scooter riders observed on campus 
were wearing helmets.
Johnson said New Scooters 4 Less, a 
scooter shop in Gainesville, reported roughly 
50 percent of people who purchase scooters 
buy helmets.
“There is a big drop off in the people who 
own a helmet but still are choosing not to 
wear it,” Johnson said. “People are owning 
helmets, and they’re just not wearing it.”
Johnson, a NICAP quality improvement 
manager, said the NICAP Helmet Safety Cam-
paign was created to increase helmet use and 
find out the perceptions of why students on 
campus don’t wear helmets.
Wearing a helmet reduces a rider’s risk of 
severe injury by 70 percent and reduces the 
risk of death by 40 percent, according to the 
Helmet Safety Campaign.
Laws and accidents by the numbers
University Police provides bike and scoot-
er helmets free for students, Officer John Sa-
vona said. The department also offers free 
bike lights and bike registration.
Savona said a bike rider on the roadway, 
including in bike lanes, is required to follow 
the same laws as a motor vehicle, like stop-
ping at a stop sign.
A bicycle rider who is 
16 or older is not required 
to wear a helmet, accord-
ing to Florida State Statute 
316.2065. 
The current helmet law 
for scooters states a rider 
who is 21 or older may ride 
a scooter without a helmet 
if their insurance policy cov-
ers $10,000 in medical ben-
efits injuries from a scooter 
accident, according to Flori-
da State Statute 316.211.
“Scooters, you know, it’s 
one of those things where 
enforcing the helmet laws, 
it’s kind of tough with the 
way it reads right now,” Sa-
vona said. “We don’t have a 
lot of officers stop scooters 
without helmets. I wish we 
did, but the law is very gray 
for us.”
According to Gainesville 
Police data from the past 
four Fall semesters, 37.2 
percent of scooter accidents 
that occur within a 1-mile 
radius of UF campus dur-
ing Fall semester happen on West University Avenue. Of biking accidents 
occurring within a 1-mile radius of UF cam-
pus, 27.4 percent happened on West Univer-
sity Avenue.
According to GPD data, the amount of re-
ported scooter incidents near campus in the 
past four Fall semesters has decreased each 
year, with 36 scooter accidents reported with-
in a 1-mile radius of campus in Fall 2015 and 
26 scooter accidents reported within a 1-mile 
radius of campus in Fall 2018.
Michael Dees, chief of everything at New 
Scooters 4 Less, said scooter sales have 
stayed consistent throughout the past three 
Fall semesters.
Acker said helmets should be more en-
forced, or more police should be in Midtown 
because a lot of people ride scooters and drive 
through the area.
“There’s just so many factors that go into 
creating safer streets, and people are going 
to ride scooters no matter what, just because 
they’re cheap options for transportation,” 
Acker said.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.org Wear a helmet: A look at scooter/bike accidents
Courtesy of Mia Acker
Mia Acker, a 22-year-old botany senior, credits her 
helmet for saving her life after an Aug. 3 accident. 
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
Anna Volentics is never without an invita-
tion to Thanksgiving dinners. 
Ever since going to school in the U.S., she 
said she has always had a place to go for the 
holiday exclusive to the country. 
Volentics, a 20-year-old UF international 
studies sophomore, doesn’t fly home to Bu-
dapest for Thanksgiving because it is not cel-
ebrated there.
“I always have a million invitations to all 
my friends’ house to celebrate with them, 
which is so, so kind because I think it’s such 
a warm and intimate family gathering,” she 
said. “I literally have no issue leaving campus 
to visit a friend or go hang out with someone 
and spend Thanksgiving with them.”
According to the UF International Center, 
UF was home to 6,881 international students 
out of the 56,079 total students enrolled in 
Fall 2018. 
Entering a new country and culture can be 
intimidating for international students. Leav-
ing their home-country can open up a new 
set of challenges. From Thanksgiving dinners 
to silent disco nights, these international stu-
dents have found their own unique ways to 
find a home away from home.
Why UF?
Feb. 9 was a special day for Volentics — it 
was her mom’s birthday, and the day she got 
accepted into UF. 
She didn’t get the chance to visit UF before 
she committed, so she watched videos online 
to learn more. 
“I really liked the positive vibes I got from 
campus, and I was really excited when I got 
in,” she said.
She said she chose UF because she loved 
the major and minor selections, the environ-
ment and the size of the campus. 
She said football games are a good exam-
ple of how UF students make a good com-
munity. 
“The day of, everyone is just super ex-
cited. Everybody loves everybody,” she said. International 
students find 
a ‘family away 
from home’
SEE INTERNATIONAL,  PAGE 13NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
WE TAKE YOUR WORKOUT TO  
THE NEXT LEVELMEMBERSHIPS 
AS LOW AS 
$19.99
A MONTH  
 
ATHLETIC TRAINING   
 TRX STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING   
COME SEE ALL THAT WE 
OFFER! 
. Juice Bar 
. 24 Hour Access 
.Boxing 
.Cardi ovascu lar T raining 
. Perso nal & Group Training 
.Sauna 
.Turf Training 
 .Athletic Performance 
Training 
. Group Fitness Cl asse s 
. Pro Shop 
.Group exercise classe s 
 24/7 in our NEW  
On Demand stu dio!JOIN  NOW  AT BAILEYSGYM.COM 
3441 W. Universi ty Ave. 
GAINESVILLE, FL 
Corner of Universi ty & 34th  
352-373-4439 
 VISIT US  TODAY! 
*See Club for details12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
“The vibe is super happy, and 
then you go to midtown, down-
town, everyone is wearing their 
Gator stuff, and you just feel like 
you belong.”  
Emilio G. Quiteño, a 20-year-
old UF psychology major, was 
born in El Salvador. He said he 
was raised in Honduras, Guate-
mala, Nicaragua and Canada.
Quiteño said he considered 
factors such as location, weather 
and prestige when choosing a 
school to go to. 
He went to high school in Can-
ada, where he said there was con-
stantly gray skies and rain. 
“That messes with your mood 
a bit,” Quiteño said. “That’s 
something at UF I definitely ap-
preciate: it’s always sunny. Peo-
ple are in a better mood. They 
look better. They feel better, and 
I think it’s just a better environ-
ment to be in.” 
Finances are also a major fac-
tor for international students 
choosing UF. 
Aniket Gupta, a 20-year-old UF 
finance sophomore, said he liked 
the warmer weather and the busi-
ness majors at the undergraduate 
level. He spent seven years of his 
childhood in India. 
But he also enjoyed the ex-
cellent scholarship opportunities 
that UF offered. 
“Getting accepted into UF felt 
great because I got a full scholar-ship,” Gupta said. 
Challenges and fears: “I was 
a bit afraid of people’s response 
to me being from El Salvador 
particularly.”
Matteo Curioni, a 22-year-old 
UF civil engineering junior, was 
born and raised in Torino, Italy. 
He moved to the States when he 
was 19 and transferred from Santa 
Fe to UF. 
Curioni said he faced a lan-
guage barrier when he first moved 
to the States. He knew very little 
English, just colors and animals. 
“At first, I literally had a prob-
lem at understanding what people 
and professors said,” he said. 
It took him around six months 
to feel comfortable with under-
standing the language, he said, 
but then came the obstacle of per-
fecting his fluency in English and 
being able to explain complicated 
concepts in a way people could 
understand. 
Quiteño said he was fearful be-
fore moving to the U.S. for school. 
“I expected the United States to 
be more conservative in regards 
to accepting people from other 
countries,” he said. “I don’t know 
when’s the last time you saw a 
positive news story about El Sal-
vador, but it’s mainly mentioned 
in the fact that there’s a lot of ille-
gal immigrants going to the States, 
and a lot of them are from El Sal-
vador.” 
He wasn’t expecting a positive 
response when he moved, but he 
said people were very friendly to the fact that he was a foreigner. 
For international students, the 
big question of “What are you go-
ing to do after college?” takes on a 
whole new meaning. 
“Because after your student 
visa expires, it’s like, what are you 
going to do?” Volentics said. 
Volentics said she would love 
to have more clubs and programs 
that have speakers who were pre-
viously international students that 
could talk about what they did af-
ter college.
Finding a ‘family away from 
home’
Even with these challenges, 
organizations such as NaviGators 
International can help internation-
al students get acclimated to U.S. 
and UF cultures. 
Dylan Rein, a 20-year-old UF 
international studies sophomore, 
is secretary and membership and 
matching coordinator of NaviGa-
tors International. NaviGators 
International pairs international 
students with American student 
mentors to help them get accli-
mated to life in Gainesville and on 
an American campus. 
Rein recalled a special moment 
she experienced her freshman 
year, when she was paired with a 
student from Saudi Arabia who re-
ally wanted to go with his friends 
to a silent disco Gator Nights was 
hosting.
“That was such a great mo-
ment because they had never gone 
out and just listened to music and 
danced,” she said. “I had never expected to hear from someone 
that they never really danced.”  
For international students like 
Volentics, Quiteño and Gupta, 
finding a home away from home 
means joining organizations and 
communities they are passionate 
about. 
Quiteño has gone to Jackson-
ville to tutor refugees from Myan-
mar, helping them with their 
English and helping them adapt 
to culture in general. He said he 
plans to get involved with the hor-
ticulture club and a Latin Ameri-
can fraternity, Sigma Lambda 
Beta, in the upcoming year. 
Gupta said he feels a sense of 
community as a resident assistant 
at Springs Complex. 
“I do feel like I have a commu-
nity at UF because of the friends 
that I have made and because of 
the community building I have 
been involved in as an RA,” Gupta 
said. 
He said he has never felt home-
sick because of the friends he has 
made. 
Volentics said she loves sports 
and plays volleyball through pan-
hellenic. Next semester, she plans 
on taking it to the next level with 
club volleyball. 
“That’s always a big fear when 
you go to a new place, and you’re 
so far from home, and you just 
want to find your own place, and 
I just really feel like I did,” Volen-
tics said. “I found my family away 
from home, so I’m lucky from that 
perspective.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgINTERNATIONAL , from pg. 10Students discuss language barrier
STUDENTS CAN BE 
REFERRED TO HELP 
THROUGH U MATTER, 
WE CARE
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
To students facing financial hardship: 
you are not alone. Both UF and off-cam-
pus organizations have resources readily 
available to those who need them, said 
Sara Tanner, marketing and communica-
tions director for UF’s Student Affairs.
“We offer universal support to stu-
dents and let them determine their level 
of need,” Tanner said. 
This means these services are avail-
able to all students, regardless of their so-
cioeconomic background. UF recognizes 
some students may be on the cusp of 
poverty, and setting strict regulations may 
prevent them from getting the help they 
need, Tanner said.
“We don’t have a list of students 
that we specifically reach out to, but as 
we hear about students through U Mat-
ter, We Care and faculty members, we 
try to work with them individually,” 
Tanner said. “We work with students 
on a case-by-case basis based on indi-
vidual needs, from food insecurity to UF resources 
for student 
poverty  
SEE POVERTY,  PAGE 1614   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
Gator grads celebrate their achievements at O’Dome  
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Ali Shahin (above), a 23-year-old student graduating with 
a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering, walks 
across the stage Saturday in the O’Connell Center during 
the Summer 2019 graduation ceremony.Chris Day / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent 
Fuchs and professor 
T ed Spiker (left), 
the commencement 
speaker for graduation 
and chair of the 
of department of 
journalism, finish a 
handshake with a chest 
bump after Fuchs 
introduced Spiker 
during the graduation 
ceremony in the 
O’Connell Center.
Chris Day/ Alligator Staff16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
THERE ARE 82 STOPS ON 
UF CAMPUS
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer 
“I put in the wrong location on the app, 
but I’m going to the Kappa Delta house,” 
said a UF student entering a SNAP vehicle. 
“Do you know where that is?” 
“I know this campus so well I could do it 
blindfolded,” the driver said. 
Chadwick Edouard, a 22-year-old UF 
computer engineering senior, has worked 
for SNAP for three years. He picked up the 
student outside Century Tower on Sunday 
evening. This was not his first or last ride 
of the evening. 
“My night is just getting started,” he 
said. 
SNAP stands for Student Nighttime Aux-
iliary Patrol and it is a free transportation 
service for UF students that runs at night, 
said shift supervisor Michael Dormeus. 
Dormeus, a 21-year-old telecommunica-
tions senior, has been with SNAP for three 
years and still drives one of the SNAP vans. 
SNAP has seven vans, and each holds 
13 passengers. The vans run seven days a 
week from 6:30 p.m. to 3 a.m. in the Fall 
and Spring semesters and from 8:30 p.m. to 
3 a.m. during Summer, Dormeus said. 
“We operate on game days and even on 
some holidays,” Dormeus said. “If housing 
is open, we’re open.” 
SNAP has 82 stops on the UF campus 
and only picks up UF students or a group 
with at least one student, Dormeus said.
You can order a SNAP ride through a 
smartphone application called TapRide or 
by calling a dispatch directly at 352-392-
SNAP (7627), Dormeus said.
Each SNAP driver is a UF student who 
has a valid driver’s license, passed the training course and has a good driving re-
cord, Dormeus said. 
“They do background checks every two 
weeks on the current drivers,” said Ed-
ouard’s SNAP co-worker on the Sunday 
night ride. 
“What? Good thing I’ve had a clear re-
cord, but what?” Edouard said. “I didn’t 
realize they background checked us that 
often.”
Dormeus said the background checks are 
necessary to ensure the safety of the stu-
dents. 
The way the typical drive goes is easy 
and timely, if it’s not too busy, Dormeus 
said.
The rider has to order a ride by putting 
in the current location and requesting a de-
sired destination. The rider meets the driver 
at the nearest SNAP stop and the driver will 
pick you up in a SNAP van, Dormeus said.
“This is pretty similar to UberPool,” Dor-
meus said.
He said because there are 13 seats in the 
van, there will be stops along the way. 
“It’s not like you get in the van and go 
straight to where you are going, but you do 
get there,” Dormeus said. “And it usually 
doesn’t take too long.” 
However, it was not always this easy. 
According to their website, SNAP was 
founded in 1976 and was originally a sub-
sidiary service of the UF Police Department. 
The SNAP employees would walk students 
to their destinations rather than drive them.
They eventually upgraded to vans and 
in July 2016, it officially became part of UF 
Transportation and Parking Services, ac-
cording to the site. SNAP’s funding comes 
from the UF transportation access fee which 
comes from student tuition. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSNAP: Pretty similar to 
UberPool — but it’s free!housing insecurity.”
If any students are experiencing any of those 
struggles, Tanner urges them to reach out to U 
Matter, We Care, where a highly trained staff 
member will be able to direct them to the ap-
propriate resources based on their needs, Tan-
ner said. 
One resource, the Field and Fork Pantry, 
allows students to take as much food as they 
need and visit the facility as much as they need 
to. Since it has opened in Aug. 2015, the pantry 
has given out 259,511 pounds of food, and since 
July 1, 2018, it has given out 90,907 pounds of 
food, Tanner said. 
Field and Fork is open to all students and 
staff, and it has recently begun to expand to in-
crease the resources at its disposal, Tanner said. 
This expansion will include meat freezers, 
more space for fresh vegetables and a demon-
stration kitchen, Tanner said. 
“The demo kitchen will help students learn 
how to use the food they receive to make healthy 
meals, which is especially important because of 
the health and wellness disparities often found 
at the poverty line,” Tanner said.
The expansion opens in November, but a 
temporary location can be found at 651 Newell 
Drive.
Another resource available on campus is the 
Molm Family Gator Career Closet, which allows 
students to borrow, or sometimes even keep, 
professional attire for job interviews, Tanner 
said.
The Career Closet opened in 2016 and can 
be found in the Career Connections Center in 
the Reitz Union. 
For students who struggle with housing in-
security, off-campus scholarship houses provide 
opportunities to live cooperatively with other 
students, Tanner said. 
“Each one is set up a little differently, and a 
few are very close to campus,” she said. “Stu-
dents are able to live in these houses free of 
charge, but with certain chores or responsibili-
ties, such as cooking a meal for the house a few 
times a week, for example.”  
These houses are not officially affiliated with 
the UF, and they are instead privately run by 
nonprofits, Tanner said. 
One such housing group, Southern Scholar-
ship, is a rent-free housing scholarship for stu-
dents who show academic success, financial 
need and good character, said Teresa Turner, director of student affairs for Southern Scholar-
ship. 
“Our mission is to help students who want to 
go to college to be able to go to college and hope-
fully graduate debt-free,” Turner said. 
Founded in 1955 in Tallahassee, Southern 
Scholarship was created when students realized 
their initial scholarships did not include hous-
ing, so they went to their dean for help, Turner 
said. 
“By the end of the year, we had our first 
house with 13 young men in it,” Turner said. 
Southern Scholarship houses 178 students 
per year in Gainesville across nine houses. 
Throughout the state of Florida, it houses around 
458 students per year in 15 houses, Turner said. 
Because this is a financial need-based pro-
gram, to qualify for Southern Scholarship ap-
plicants must complete the FAFSA and their 
estimated family contribution should be $7,500 
or below. Additionally, applicants must have a 
3.0 cumulative GPA, and though it is not a re-
quirement, they also look at organizations such 
as sports teams and bands which applicants are 
involved with, Turner said. 
“Living here is a cooperative living experi-
ence, so residents do help in the cooking and 
cleaning, but they don’t pay rent,” Turner said. 
“They save almost $13,000 a year in room and 
board expenses.” 
Two days per week, residents clean the 
house together, and one night per week, they 
have to help either cook dinner or clean up from 
one meal, Turner said.
Residents do pay a food and service bill, but 
on average, this costs residents $970 per semes-
ter and includes their food, utilities, cable, laun-
dry, internet, pest control and social activities, 
Turner said. 
Woody Noel, a 21-year-old UF education sci-
ences junior, said he likes both the opportuni-
ties Southern Scholarship has given him and its 
affordability compared to campus or apartment 
living.
Within the house, he notes the numerous 
opportunities which have helped him learn lead-
ership skills which he is then able to mention on 
resumes and job interviews, Noel said. 
“You’re able to work with other people, and 
you make a lot of friends right away,” he said. 
“You don’t even have to be involved in a fra-
ternity or sorority. You could just simply walk 
into the Scholarship Foundation, you’ll have a 
lot of friends.”
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgPOVERTY,  from pg.. 13NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   17 
Location, Location, 1bed 1 bath condo, 
ground floor, 2 miles to UF on bus route, 
walk to shopping, restaurants, etc. Must see. 
$75,000. Call or text for more info. 352-301-
2403. By appointment only.     8-12-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
MATTRESSES!
TWIN SETS $69 FULL$99
QUEEN$149 KING$199.
352-376-0953              8-23-19-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-4-43-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-4-19-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    12-4-19-43-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-141For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       12-4-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
• It was English novelist and essay-
ist Virginia Woolf, one of the foremost 
modernist literary figures of the 20th 
century, who made the following sage 
observation: “For most of history, 
Anonymous was a woman.”
• Would you rather give up TV or 
your phone? In a Pew Research poll 
conducted last year in the United 
States, only 31 percent of those sur -
veyed said it would be “very hard” to 
give up TV , while 52 percent said the 
same thing about their cellphone. 
• In the language known as Ewe, 
spoken by some natives of West Afri-
ca, the concepts of “yesterday” and 
“tomorrow” are expressed by the 
same word. If you were to translate 
that word literally into English, you’d 
come up with “not now.”
• Most people are aware of the fact 
that scorpions have eight legs — they 
are, after all, arachnids — but you 
probably didn’t realize that they also 
have eight eyes.
• According to the Crayola Compa-
ny, you can eat 3,500 of their crayons 
a day and still not reach the level of 
toxicity found in an ordinary glass of 
drinking water. They don’t mention 
how — or why — anyone would con-
sume that many crayons in a lifetime, 
let alone a single day.
• Those who study such things say 
that Niagara Falls will only last anoth-
er 2,400 years.
• Historians say that Mary, Queen 
of Scots was informed of the mur -
der of her husband, Lord Darnley, 
in 1567 while she was playing golf. 
She must have been quite a dedicated 
sportswoman (or an indifferent wife) 
because they also say that she com-
pleted the round.
***
Thought for the Day: “I never lec-
ture, not because I am shy or a bad 
speaker, but simply because I detest 
the sort of people who go to lectures 
and don’t want to meet them.” — H.L. 
Mencken
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
August 12, 2019
Solution on page 19
Solution on page 19
Solution on page 19NEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   19  
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
Baby Sitter wanted to help drive my kids to 
and from activities. Car needed. youngest 
is 10 and oldest is 16. Primarily after 2 PM 
up to 7 PM. $15/hr. Email rosenson@ufl.edu      
8-19-19-5-14
Facility in Alachua looking for student to 
maintain grounds, tractor work, light con-
struction, handyman repairs. 4-6 hr wk. $17/
hr. Flexible schedule.
Send summary of experience and contact 
info to biopressadmin@gmail.com.     8-30-
19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that pro -
vides  a service? Place your ad in 
the  Services Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per 
day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com    8-12-1-16Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found you in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: August 26, 2019 at 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our web-
site at www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67 th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.  
8-12-1-20
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. Name the film most easily identi-
fied by a series of five musical notes: 
B flat, C, A flat, octave lower A flat, E 
flat. (Try it on a piano or guitar.) 
2. What band and solo artist collabo-
rated on “Under Pressure”?
3. What was the first music video on 
MTV?
4. Which Timmy Thomas song was 
recorded in mono instead of stereo?
5. Name the song that contains 
this lyric: “See that train over there? 
That’s the train of freedom! It’s about 
to arrive any minute now.”
Answers
1. “Close Encounters of the Third 
Kind,” the 1977 Steven Spielberg film 
starring Richard Dreyfuss. The five 
musical notes are repeated in different 
patterns throughout the film and turn 
into a symphony with the mother ship 
at the end. 
2. David Bowie and Queen, in 1981. 
3. “Video Killed the Radio Star,” by 
The Buggles. The video aired on Aug. 
1, 1981.
4. “Why Can’t We Live Together,” 
in 1972.
5. “People Got to Be Free,” by the 
Rascals, in 1968. Legend says the 
song has to do with the political unrest 
that summer, but it was actually a 
response to an unpleasant encounter 
after their tour bus broke down.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
August 12, 201914 Help Wanted 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentPUZZLE ANSWERS
Answers on this page1. Name the film most easily identi-
fied by a series of five musical notes: 
B flat, C, A flat, octave lower A flat, E 
flat. (Try it on a piano or guitar.) 
2. What band and solo artist collabo-
rated on “Under Pressure”?
3. What was the first music video on 
MTV?
4. Which Timmy Thomas song was 
recorded in mono instead of stereo?
5. Name the song that contains 
this lyric: “See that train over there? 
That’s the train of freedom! It’s about 
to arrive any minute now.”
Answers
1. “Close Encounters of the Third 
Kind,” the 1977 Steven Spielberg film 
starring Richard Dreyfuss. The five 
musical notes are repeated in different 
patterns throughout the film and turn 
into a symphony with the mother ship 
at the end. 
2. David Bowie and Queen, in 1981. 
3. “Video Killed the Radio Star,” by 
The Buggles. The video aired on Aug. 
1, 1981.
4. “Why Can’t We Live Together,” 
in 1972.
5. “People Got to Be Free,” by the 
Rascals, in 1968. Legend says the 
song has to do with the political unrest 
that summer, but it was actually a 
response to an unpleasant encounter 
after their tour bus broke down.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
August 12, 2019Flashback Trivia AnswersHocus Focus Differences: 1. Boy's shirt is 
different. 2. Pictures are rearranged. 3. 
Button added to man's shirt. 4. Window 
replaces curtains. 5. Picture on table is 
missing. 6. Boy is closer to doorway.
By Alicia Bachman and Kurt Krauss
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, August 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 i follower
4 Cookout aid
10 Butcher’s 
assortment
14 Blond one in a bar
15 Cry from a toon 
sombrero wearer
16 Scratcher
17 Dog star’s first 
name?
18 Hang around
19 Hebrides isle
20 King’s self-
allusion
22 Share with 
followers, in a 
way
24 Westchester 
County city 
known for its 
Playland
25 Pricey strings
26 Civil rights icon 
Parks
29 Roman god
31 Put (out)
35 Others, to Ovid
36 “Exodus” hero
37 Ad to lure you in
38 Windshield option
39 Two-time 
Wimbledon 
champ Kvitová
41 Ward of “Sisters”
42 Sidesteps
44 Formally seek 
justice
45 Take off
46 November 1 
honoree
47 24-Across, briefly
48 Señor’s “some”
49 Leading
51 __ Aviv
53 Melville narrator
56 County fair sight
60 Classic role for 
Carrie
61 Antique photos
63 Supermarket 
chain
64 Four Tops 
frontman Stubbs
65 Seat of County 
Kerry
66 Swelter
67 Didn’t dillydally
68 Vinny famously 
called them “utes” 
in a “My Cousin 
Vinny” courtroom 
scene
69 Amount to payDOWN
1 Henry VIII’s last 
wife
2 Assortment
3 Reject
4 Magnetic Field?
5 Preliminary 
drudgery
6 Ashtabula’s lake
7 Joker
8 “Roger __ Book 
of Film”: 1996 
publication
9 Harder to find
10 Layered lunch 
order
11 Cream additive
12 Locks in a barn
13 Whack
21 Regal 
headpiece
23 Zap
25 Gets ready for 
the big game ... 
and a hint to four 
puzzle answers
26 Utility company 
listing
27 ’60s-’70s Twins 
star Tony
28 Scene of 
frequent Middle 
East unrest
30 Before, before32 Apply to
33 “The Most 
Happy __”: 1956 
musical
34 Toga party 
places
37 EKG reading
40 Robot play
43 Peak seen from 
Messina
47 Ravel work 
immortalized in 
“10”50 Cantankerous
52 Facilitates
53 Misfortunes
54 Flow slowly
55 Queen’s home
56 Tower of Pisa 
feature
57 Bit of bickering
58 Fairy tale baddie
59 Madcap Martha
62 Six-time NBA  
All-Star __  
Gasol
08/08/19
Find at least six differences in details between panels. Answers on this page.20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
We all stick TOGETHER.
Paying attention to your wellness is vital to your success  
in college and beyond.  The University of Florida supports 
overall student wellness by offering a comprehensive  
variety of campus resources to support you.
 
Visit  umatter.ufl.edu   to learn more and make a plan  
of action to start the year off right.
UMATTER.UFL.EDUMONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida gymnast Trinity Thomas was 
selected to the U.S. Senior National 
T eam thanks to her performance at 
the U.S. Gymnastics Championships.Gators graduate
Thirty-three UF athletes walked across the stage at the University of 
Florida's commencement on Saturday. FOOTBALL
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Tight end Kyle Pitts caught his first career touchdown pass last year against 
Idaho. The sophomore was a four-star recruit before he enrolled at UF.
Alligator File Photo
Former UF football player John Huggins 
allegedly choked a female tutor in October.
John Huggins dismissed from football team
Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
Florida sophomore defensive 
back John Huggins has been dis-
missed from the football program.
The team gave no reason for 
his dismissal, and an ESPN report 
said a team spokesperson de-
clined to comment on the matter.
The Gators made the move of-
ficial on Saturday after Huggins 
had been absent from training 
camp for what coach Dan Mullen 
cited as a “family issue.”
Huggins had participated in 
spring camp before his team ab-
sence and subsequent dismissal. 
Huggins also missed five 
games last year. At the time, it 
seemed like a normal absence 
for an inexperienced freshmen. 
However, recent news suggests 
otherwise.
A police report discovered by 
the Tampa Bay Times last week 
disclosed an October incident in 
which Huggins allegedly choked 
his 19-year-old female tutor after 
she took his phone away. The 
unnamed tutor told the police she 
took his phone away in order to 
make him stay for the whole tu-
toring session, which he had of-ten cut short.
While the incident last fall 
was not publicized or released in 
a report until this past week, it 
seems the football program knew 
about the allegations. When Mul-
len was questioned about the do-
mestic violence report, the coach 
claimed the incident had been 
“handled,” and that Huggins’ fall 
camp absence was not related to 
the October incident.
After Huggins appeared 
against Mississippi State on Sept. 
29, he was inactive for a month 
and a half, remaining off the 
field until Florida’s Nov. 17 game 
against Idaho. Mullen said the al-
leged choking incident was part 
of the reason for that absence. 
This is not the first time Florida 
has dismissed a player or coach 
from the program under Mullen. 
Fellow defensive back Brian Ed-
wards, quarterback Jalon Jones 
and assistant director of player 
personnel Otis Yelverton were 
forced to leave the program after 
accusations of threats or violence 
against women.
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgPosition-by-Position: Evaluating Florida's tight ends
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
The final edition of alli-
gatorSports' Position-by-Po-
sition series focuses on the 
most inexperienced unit on 
UF's depth chart: tight end.
Florida was a team that 
rarely utilized its tight ends 
in the passing game last 
year. C’yontai Lewis, who 
has since graduated, led that 
group in receptions with just 
nine. Instead, coach Dan 
Mullen relied on his tight 
ends to be additional block-
ers, a role in which they per-
formed admirably – Florida 
ranked fourth in the SEC in 
rushing yards per game.
In addition to Lewis, the 
Gators also lost their sec-
ond-leading receiver at the 
tight end position in Moral 
Stephens. Lewis, with 128 yards receiving last year, and 
Stephens, with 106, ranked 
17th and 20th, respectively, 
in receiving yards at their 
position in the conference. 
Stephens was responsible for 
three of the four touchdowns 
UF tight ends reeled in last 
year. The other was caught 
by Kyle Pitts.
Although he only caught 
three passes last year, Pitts 
is a player who should excite 
Gators fans. The sophomore 
was ranked as the No. 5 tight 
end recruit in the country by 
247sports before enrolling at 
UF, and for good reason: he 
has great speed and is listed 
at 6-foot-6, 239 pounds.
Pitts’ versatility makes 
him a huge weapon for 
Florida. His size means he 
can be a formidable blocker. 
His speed – which was on 
full display last year against 
Idaho when he caught a slant and outran the Vandals’ de-
fenders for a 52-yard score 
– gives him the potential to 
be a threat in the secondary. 
He has the characteristics to 
be a tight end/wide receiver 
hybrid.
Lucas Krull is the tight 
end who will get the majority 
of playing time along with 
Pitts. Krull, a redshirt junior, 
caught six passes for 75 yards 
in the seven games he played 
as a tight end last year. 
His main asset is his size – 
the Kansas native is listed 
at 6-foot- 6, 257 pounds, 
which makes him a potential 
mismatch for defenders.
Another tight end to 
watch is freshman Keon  
Zipperer. A member of Mul-
len’s renowned “Lakeland 
trio” of recruits, the four-
star was ranked as the No. 2 POSITION-BY-POSITION
CROSS COUNTRY
UF cross country looks to 
build a top 10 program
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
 
The Florida cross coun-
try program has high ex-
pectations entering the 2019 
season. Assistant coach 
Chris Solinksy was not hesi-
tant to express that.
“We want to be that con-
sistent top 10 contender 
that eventually builds up to 
a national title contender,” 
Solinsky said. “This year 
we want to be the best team 
that has ever come out of 
the University of Florida.”
The women’s team fin-
ished 16th at the 2018 NCAA 
Championships. The men 
failed to qualify. Although 
both improved from a dis-
appointing 2017 campaign, 
placing 16th was not enough 
for Solinsky or the women’s 
cross country team.
“Pretty much everyone 
was unsatisfied with how 
the season finished,” Solin-
sky said. “Everyone seems 
to be pretty motivated to not just do what we did last 
year but improve on it sig-
nificantly.”
The women’s team may 
have been disappointed, 
but it still managed a sec-
ond-place finish in the 
SEC Championship and an 
NCAA Championship ap-
pearance (both for the first 
time since 2012).
Senior Jessica Pascoe 
had a breakout year in 2018 
and led the way for the 
women. The Australian was 
named the 2018 SEC Wom-
en’s Runner of the Year and 
earned All-American honors 
at the NCAA Champion-
ships (the first Florida wom-
en’s All-American since Ag-
ata Strausa in 2013).
Pascoe will be expected 
to finish her collegiate 
career strong in 2019.
On the men’s side, Solin-
sky wants the team to focus 
on the basics. When refer-
ring to the men’s team, he SEE POSITION,  PAGE 23
SEE CROSS COUNTRY,  PAGE 23
The college basketball season 
doesn’t tip off until early No-
vember, but that won’t stop the 
national media from making 
those wildly bold predictions 
merely based off what a team looks 
like on paper.
This year, the Gators have found 
themselves on the right side of those 
predictions, thanks to a complete ros-
ter overhaul this offseason that fea-
tures nine new faces on the 14-man 
squad.
It’s very easy to buy in to the hype when it 
comes to this Florida team.
The seventh-best recruiting class (according 
to 247sports), a trio of sophomores that contrib-
uted greatly during their freshman seasons in 
Gainesville and the addition of the top transfer on 
the market has completely changed the perception 
of what the Gators can accomplish in 2019-20.
Tre Mann and Scottie Lewis – both McDonald’s 
All-Americans – are two players from that top 10 
class that should contribute in a big way right from 
the beginning.
Lewis, a 6-foot-5 guard with a ridiculous 
amount of athleticism, has the tools to collapse a 
defense with his driving ability, which should lead 
to open looks for some of the team’s sharpshooters 
on the outside when he isn’t finishing at the rim.
Mann will be one of those sharpshooters. The 
freshman averaged 23.6 points per game last sea-
son as a high school senior, making 152 three-point 
baskets during his last two years playing at The 
Villages Charter, just an hour south of Gainesville.
I’d expect Mann to get plenty of open looks this 
season, especially with the return of sophomore 
point guard Andrew Nembhard.
An SEC All-Freshman Team member, Nemb-
hard played in all 36 games last season, averaging 
over five assists per contest. His high basketball IQ 
and great vision make him a valuable asset among 
his talented teammates.
Look for Keyontae Johnson (8.1 PPG, 6.4 RPG, 
20 starts) and a healthy Noah Locke (9.4 PPG, 38 
three-point percentage, 26 starts) to both mold into 
more consistent players because of the experience 
they received during their rookie campaigns.
The x-factor for the Gators this season will be 
graduate transfer Kerry Blackshear Jr.
The former Virginia Tech forward gives this 
basketball team something it hasn’t had since Pat-
ric Young and Will Yeguete last played in 2014. 
At 6-foot-11, Blackshear Jr. brings much-needed 
height and athleticism in the paint. Down low, 
Florida has struggled to gain a consistent offen-
sive presence since coach Mike White took over in 2015. With Blackshear Jr., however, 
the team now has a big man that can 
handle the ball, score in the post and 
bounce outside to make a jump shot.
When it comes to talent, UF has 
plenty of it, and that’s why every 
preseason ranking I’ve seen has the 
Gators in the top 10.
ESPN bracketologist Joe Lunardi 
has UF as a No. 2 seed come next 
March in his preseason projections.
College basketball analyst Andy 
Katz put Florida in his preseason Fi-
nal Four, along with Michigan State, Louisville 
and Kansas.
Those are just two of many who share the 
same high praise for White’s group.
In the SEC, many believe it’ll be a neck-and-
neck battle between the Gators and Kentucky. 
When you have national college basketball me-
dia members – many of whom absolutely adore 
the Wildcats year in and year out – picking Flor-
ida to compete with one of the blue bloods of 
college basketball, you know the potential for a 
special season in Gainesville is serious.
Right now, everything looks good on paper, but 
we’ll see if the Gators can live up to it come November.The Gators released 
their 2020 foot-
ball schedule on 
Wednesday, and 
from the looks of it, 
UF fans can breathe a sigh 
of relief.
Florida has a total of 
three “gimme games” on 
its schedule in the form 
of Eastern Washington 
(FCS), South Alabama 
(Sun Belt) and New Mexico State (in-
dependent). Georgia and LSU remain 
its toughest opposition, but the out of 
division opponent – Ole Miss – isn’t 
exactly prime competition for a team 
that appears to be a 10-win squad.
The problem here is a problem 
with almost every Power 5 college 
football team: The scheduling is det-
rimental to the product as a whole. 
Florida went 10-3 last year off of 
some strong victories against LSU, 
Mississippi State and Michigan, but 
also saw wins over paltry Tennes-
see and Florida State teams. Granted, 
it was tough to foresee how pitiful 
FSU was going to be, but with reg-
ular wins over South Carolina and 
Vanderbilt, it’s often clear that UF 
plays in the weaker division of the 
SEC.
Three days ago, Alabama head 
coach Nick Saban said he’d like all 
Power 5 schools to play 10 Power 5 
games over the course of the season, 
and I agree wholeheartedly. Should 
that happen, the Gators schedule 
would no longer include three games 
against opponents they are almost 
certainly guaranteed to barrel over, 
and it would perhaps include other 
teams out of their division in the SEC, 
such as Alabama and Texas A&M.
The problem with scheduling in 
college football is that you really nev-
er know how good a team is. Florida 
may be a 10-win team, but it’s hard 
to tell just how good a 10-win team 
is, and with the 2020 schedule, it 
could be even murkier. 
If Florida played by a six-three-
three schedule, where it plays all six divisional opponents, 
three out-of-division SEC 
teams (one of which is 
LSU every year) and three 
strong out-of-conference 
games (including FSU), it 
would be easier to deter-
mine exactly how good 
of a team the Gators are 
as well as the strength of 
their competition. 
If you get rid of those 
“gimme games” and let the 
FCS teams play each other, I think 
college football becomes a far bet-
ter product. Fans in Gainesville, too, 
would get to see far more intriguing 
games that would hold weight in-
stead of buying a season-ticket pack-
age that includes three games likely 
decided by thirty points or more.
Make teams play more games out 
of division. Stop handing Power 5 
teams wins against paltry opponents. 
Let’s play some football and see 
just how good these teams really are.22   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
For a complete list of locations or to request your appointment visit us online
SIMEDHealth.com
Family Medicine 
Internal Medicine 
Allergy & Asthma 
Clinical Research
Digestive Diseases
Gynecology
Hand Surgery
Interventional Pain Management
Neurology
Spine & NeurosurgeryOrthopedics
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation
Podiatry
Psychology
Psychiatry
Pulmonology
Rheumatology
Sleep Medicine
Urology
Urgent CareGainesville· Ocala· Chiefland 
Lady Lake· Lake City
GatorCare Tier 1 ProvidersQuality Healthcare Closer To HomeChris King / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike White’s UF team has high 
expectations for the upcoming season. 
UF basketball’s preseason hype is deserved24/Evan
Florida and college football 
have a scheduling problemThe Extra Point
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida will play just one Power 
5 team (FSU) in four non-
conference games in 2020. 
Evan Lepak
Twitter: @EvanMPLepak
elepak@alligator.org
River Wells
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgNEW STUDENT EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   23 
• Save with textbook rental 
• Year-round Apple® service center 
• Use Financial Aid online & in-store*
*See store for details
BOOK STORES
Univ ersity of Florida
UFloridaBook store.co m
Everything you need from day oneUniversity of Florida bookstore has
Download the FREE   
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
Alligator File Photo
Jessica Pascoe was named the SEC Women's Runner of the Year last 
year and became Florida's first female All-American since 2013.
asked a question: “How bad do 
you want it?”
The five-time NCAA champion 
knows what it takes to make a 
championship run and Solinsky 
preached that self-motivation is a 
key part of it, particularly in the 
offseason.
“Summer is so much more im-
portant than the season itself,” 
Solinsky said. “A lot rests on 
their motivation, their consisten-
cy to be able to put the work in when people aren’t around, when 
people aren’t watching. It takes a 
special kind of person to be able 
to do that at a high level, and we 
have those individuals.”
The program will add 11 fresh-
men in the fall. Solinsky said to 
keep an eye on Emily Culley from 
Lawton Chiles High School in Tal-
lahassee and Jackie Addy from 
Holy Innocents’ Episcopal School 
in Atlanta on the women’s side.
For the men, Solinsky said 
to be on the lookout for Caden 
Monk from Buchholz High School in Gainesville and Hugh Britten-
ham from Estero High School in 
Estero, Florida.
The Gators start their season 
on Aug. 30 at the UNF Invitation-
al in Jacksonville.
“I think we were a top 10 team 
last year, we just kind of fell short 
of that,” Solinksy said. “This year 
we’re just as good, if not better. 
That’s definitely the goal, let’s see 
how far into the top 10 we can 
finish.”
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.orgCROSS COUNTRY , from pg 21UF cross country adds 11 freshmen
tight end recruit in the country by 
247sports this year.
Zipperer (6-foot-2, 232 
pounds) is not as big as Pitts or 
Krull, but he was highly regarded 
for a reason: his athleticism. Zip-
perer is a powerful player, and he can make plays as a pass catcher 
and can be an effective blocker. 
Though it’s unlikely because of 
his age, he has the potential to 
make an impact this year because 
of UF’s inexperience at the tight 
end position.
Kemore Gamble and Dante 
Lang – both returning players – 
are the two other tight ends Flor-ida fans should expect to see on 
Saturdays. Gamble (6-foot-3, 241 
pounds) and Lang (6-foot-5, 252 
pounds) are both more tradition-
al tight ends. Don’t expect them 
to catch a lot of passes, but look 
for them to be important pieces 
on Florida’s line. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgPOSITION,  from pg 21Zipperer was a four-star recruit
By River Wells
When UF is debating scheduling a Power 5 home-and-home or a neutral site game for 2020SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK24   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 12, 2019    |    NEW STUDENT EDITION
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$5 Craft 
Drafts
$5 Slider
Baskets
(beef, chicken, 
or pork)$5 Liquor
Pitchers
$5 Yuengling
Pitchers 
@10 PM
7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1  
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1  
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia @ 7:30pm 
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Wells
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or  
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
Buzz’d 
Spelling Bee 7:30 pm NIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail  
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Green Tea 
Shots
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
NIGHTSPITCHER PERFECT
WEDNESDAYS
ON THE ROOF
2-4-1  
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
MAC & MULES
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
Door @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pmROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCK 
Open 
WED - SAT
Evenings