We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Florida attorney general advocating against 
ballot drive for assault weapons ban 
Attorney general Ashley Moody said the drive is “misleading,” pg 3
Alachua County in search for poet laureate
The county commission is looking to hire part-time for $2,000, pg 5DUARTE VALE’S COMEBACK
The tennis player came off the bench to be-
come a  Florida Gators hero, pg 11
TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 105
THE 34,000-SQUARE-FOOT 
BURN-AND-WOUND-
CARE UNIT HAS 27 ROOMS 
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF Health has revealed a reno-
vated unit at Shands Hospital for 
burn and wound patients opening 
next month. 
After two-and-a-half years, 
Shands will open a new burn-
and-woundcare unit on Sunday, 
said Brad Pollitt, Shands’ vice 
president of facilities, in an email. 
The new unit costs $30 million.
“This new ICU at UF Health 
Shands Hospital reinforces our 
commitment to providing irre-
placeable, critical health care to 
those who come to us from every 
county in Florida and throughout 
the southeast,” Pollitt said.
The unit will be 34,000 square 
feet with 27 individual rooms, 
Pollitt said. 
This new unit will be used to care for patients with burns, 
severe skin disorders and those 
requiring specialized treatment 
after reconstructive surgery, he 
said. 
“These new rooms are larger 
to accommodate the care of these 
patients and to provide opti-
mal care during lengthy hospital 
stays,” Pollitt said.
At one time, there were 54 pa-
tient beds designated as pediatric, 
cardiac, surgical and neurological 
intensive care units. However, 
these were in fewer rooms in an 
older space built several decades 
ago, Pollitt said. 
Of these 54 patient beds, 30 
moved to the new UF Health 
Heart & Vascular Hospital in a 
cardiac unit, which has 48 beds 
total, providing 18 more beds for 
patients. The remaining 24 origi-
nal beds moved to another ﬂ  oor 
in Shands with space for 30 beds, 
which will make six additional 
beds available, Pollitt said. UF Health Shands Hospital 
opens $30 million burn unit Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
Eight medals in eight days.
Former Florida sprint swimmer 
Caeleb Dressel experienced a record-
setting stretch at the 2019 FINA 
World Championships in Gwangju, 
South Korea, last week.
The 22-year-old American swim-
mer set a FINA World Champion-
ships record of eight medals, break-
ing the previous record of seven that 
was jointly held by him and Michael 
Phelps. Of the eight medals, six were 
gold and two were silver.
He also secured tied the record 
for gold medals earned in one night 
with three.
Dressel, who was a bullet in the 
water all of last week, swept his four 
individual events in commanding 
fashion. He won individually in the 
50- and 100-meter freestyle and in 
the 50- and 100-meter butterﬂ  y. 
His last two individual races, the 
100 ﬂ  y and 50 free, were held less 
than an hour apart from each other.The UF graduate also broke Mi-
chael Phelps’ record in the 100-me-
ter butterﬂ  y, clocking in at 49.50 
seconds in the semiﬁ  nals. Phelps’ 
former record of 49.82 seconds had 
stood since 2009.
The second half of Dressel’s med-
als came in the relay events. He was 
just as outstanding in team play as 
he was individually, leading the 
United States to two golds and two 
silvers. Former Gator Caeleb Dressel sets 
records at World Championships
Alligator File Photo
Former Gator Caeleb Dressel set a FINA World Championships record with eight medals (including 
six gold) last week. He also set a world record time of 49.50 seconds in the 100-meter butterfly. 
SEE SHANDS,  PAGE 3THE SENATE WILL 
HEAR A FIRST READING 
OF THE BILLS AT TO-
NIGHT’S MEETING
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
During tonight’s SG Senate 
meeting, senators will hear nine 
legislative items that could alter 
SG rules and procedures if ap-
proved.
The Judiciary Committee met 
Monday morning to review 26 
proposed pieces of legislation, 
including several controversial 
acts, such as the Commitment to 
Our Constituents Act, the Learn-
ing Laboratory Act and a resolu-
tion that would make extensive 
changes to SG rules and proce-
dures.
The Commitment to Our Con-
stituents Act, co-authored by Ju-
diciary Chairman Will Sandifer (Impact, Business Administra-
tion) and Rules and Ethics Chair-
woman Abby Morris (Impact, 
Business Administration), is an 
amendment to the SG governing 
documents.
The act would create a new 
rule that would bar senators from 
running for re-election if they 
previously lost their seat by ex-
pulsion or resignation by non-at-
tendance.It was approved by the 
committee.
Senator Zachary Amrose (In-
spire, Liberal Arts and Sciences) 
said he thinks this bill was de-
signed to target former Senator 
Ben Lima, who was forced to 
resign his seat during Summer 
A due to non-attendance and at-
tempted to appeal the decision, 
which failed. 
“It seems that it would ensure 
that Senator Lima and a couple of 
other people caught in the cross-
hairs would be unable to run for 
Senate for the rest of their time at 
UF,” Amrose said.The committee approved a 
resolution to authorize SG Spring 
2020 election dates for Feb. 18 
and 19, the Bridges Minority Out-
reach Program Establishment Act, 
the Class Councils Establishment 
Act and a resolution supporting 
the National Puerto Rican Student 
Coalition.
The committee also approved: 
- The Exclusionary Ofﬁ  ces 
Amendment Act, which adds the 
positions of Class Councils Chair-
person, Internal Affairs Chairper-
son and Bridges Minority Out-
reach Chairperson to the list of 
exclusionary ofﬁ  ces in the execu-
tive branch. 
- The Executive Cabinet 
Amendment Act, which adds sev-
eral new positions to the execu-
tive cabinet, including a Graduate 
Student Affairs Director. 
-  The Internal Affairs Estab-
lishment Act, which establishes 
an Internal Affairs chairperson 
who will act as a liaison with SG judiciary committee approves 
9 of 26 new pieces of legislation 
SEE SG NEWS,  PAGE 3Dressel InfoBox - Final Times
50 Free:  21.04
100 Free:  46.96
50 Fly:  22.35
100 Fly: 49.66
4x100 Free Relay: 47.63 
Split time
4x100 Mixed Medley: 49.33 
Split time
Mixed 4x100 Free Relay: 
47.34 Split time
4x100 Medley Relay: 49.28 
Split timeSEE DRESSEL,  PAGE 10T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasHIGH  92° LOW  72°
Social Media Strategist
Florida Tax-free Days
The sales tax holiday begins 
Friday and runs through Aug. 
6. During this period, qualify-
ing items will be exempt from 
tax, including certain school 
supplies selling for $15 or less 
per item; clothing, footwear 
and accessories selling for $60 
or less per item; and comput-
ers and certain accessories 
selling for $1,000 or less per 
item when purchased for non-
commercial or personal use.
Summer Camp Talent Show
Tonight there will be a stand-
up comedy showcase at the 
Midnight, 223 S. Main St. 
Those who would like to per-
form can arrive with a three-
minute set and sign up be-
fore 8:30 p.m. The show starts at 9:15 p.m. and is free.
Books not borders
The Civic Media Center, 433 
S. Main St., is holding a book 
sale to support Casa Carmelita, 
a new community space run 
by local organizers in El Paso, 
Texas, on Saturday from 6 
p.m. to 9 p.m. There will be 
live music, poetry, short film 
projections and a photographic 
exhibit of Zapatista musicians 
by Avispa Midia, an indepen-
dent journalist collective from 
Mexico. Prints will be up for 
sale, and proceeds will support 
the media collective and help 
volunteers and donations make 
it to El Paso. Wine and beer will 
be available. A donation drop 
box for supplies is set up at the 
center and will accept donations until Saturday. The Civic Media 
Center will also be selling its ex-
cess books throughout the week-
end for $2 each or three for $5.
Gainesville Punk Revival
High Dive will host a Punk Rock 
and Emo dance party Friday 
night. Doors open at 9 p.m. Those 
21 and older must pay $5 at the 
door and those 18 to 20 must 
pay $8. It will last until 1 a.m.
Art Beyond Bars
There will be a free program at 
the Harn Museum, 3259 Hull 
Road, exploring the use of art 
as a tool in social justice on 
Saturday. It is being held in con-
jugation with the installation 
"UnseenAmerica: Photographs 
from the Inside,"  which is cur-
rently on view in the Chandler 
Auditorium. The event starts 
at 1:30 p.m. with a viewing of 
the installation, which consists 
of photos by teenage girls in-
carcerated at a detention facil-
ity in Alachua County. From 2 
to 3 p.m. there will be a panel 
discussion. Then there will be  
spoken word and dance perfor-
mances. A reception will con-
clude the event. It is hosted by 
the Harn and the UF Center for 
Arts in Medicine.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 105
TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
At 6 p.m. on Wednesday, July 31st , The Independent Florida 
Alligator  will become the first newspaper in the nation to 
livestream from its newsroom. Tune in for a behind the scenes look into our 
daily operations. Chat with our editorial staff, share breaking news with 
us, or just take a peek behind the curtain. 
You can support your favorite newspaper by following the stream, or 
even better, by SUBSCRIBING.Everyone with an Amazon Prime membership can subscribe for FREE!
Our first stream will be Wednesday, July 31st at 6 p.m.
twitch.tv/alligator_newspaper
W E D N E S D AY 
at 6:00 PM (ET)streaming live  on
“The renovated ICU is a ma-
jor step forward in state-of-the-
art patient care,” Pollitt said.  
It incorporates features such 
as direct access to the operating 
room to lessen the chances of 
infection, a rehab gym, spaces 
for hydrotherapy and bariatric treatment, and other improve-
ments, Pollitt said. 
For the two-and-a-half years 
the unit has been under con-
struction, there were no work-
ing rooms dedicated to it. How-
ever, the renovation will not 
only lead to more beds but an 
increase in staff, Pollitt said. 
Ed Jimenez, the CEO of 
Shands, said this new unit is a step forward. 
“This renovation is another 
step forward for patient care in 
Florida. The space matches the 
extraordinary talent of our fac-
ulty and staff,” Jimenez said. 
“We are thrilled at what the fu-
ture holds.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSHANDS,  from pg. 1ICU ends 2.5 years of constructionuniversity faculty and ensure SG 
initiatives and projects are com-
pleted effectively.
-  The SG Referendum Con-
stitutionality Act, which amends 
the process for submitting refer-
endum questions to SG ballots.
The ﬂ  oor was never opened 
to public debate. The meeting 
concluded before the committee 
heard any of the legislation pro-
posed by Inspire senators.
The legislative items the com-
mittee approved will each re-
ceive a ﬁ  rst reading during Tues-
day night’s Senate meeting. 
If approved on ﬁ  rst reading, 
the legislation will receive a sec-
ond reading at the next Senate 
meeting.
If the legislation passes the 
second reading, then Student Body President Michael Murphy 
will be able to sign them into 
law.
The Learning Laboratory Act, 
authored by Senator Parker Hop-
pens (Impact, Graduate) and 
sponsored by President Murphy, 
was written to strike the sections 
of the SG governing documents 
that require SG to comply with 
the Government in the Sun-
shine law (section 286.011 of the 
Florida Statutes). Removing this 
section from the rules and pro-
cedures would mean SG records 
would no longer be subject to 
public records requests.
Sandifer said the Learning 
Laboratory Act failed in commit-
tee because it was not properly 
formatted. Sandifer said the leg-
islation will be reconsidered if it 
is resubmitted to the committee. 
The Alligator reached out to 
Hoppens, but he could not be reached for comment. 
Frank LoMonte, a UF media 
law professor and director of the 
Brechner Center for Freedom of 
Information, said even though 
SG isn’t speciﬁ  ed in Sunshine 
law, the rulings in lawsuits 
against UF and UCF suggest that 
SG documents do fall under the 
scope of public records.
“The reason this matters, 
even though people think of stu-
dent government as minor league 
ball, they’re spending quite a lot 
of the public’s money,” LoMonte 
said. “Especially at a university 
as big as UF, they’re certainly as 
big as a lot of small-town govern-
ments. Even the smallest village 
in Florida is subject to public re-
cord law.”
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG NEWS,  from pg. 1An act to prevent FOIA requests fails 
By Bobby Caina Calvan
The Associated Press
Florida’s attorney general asked 
the state Supreme Court to disqual-
ify a proposed ballot measure seek-
ing to ban assault weapons, saying 
the measure goes too far in outlaw-
ing the possession of all semi-auto-
matic long guns.
Beleaguered by a spate of high-
proﬁ  le gun-related violence, in-
cluding last year’s Parkland school 
shootings that killed 13 students and 
four adults, backers of the proposed 
constitutional amendment say they 
have collected more than 100,000 
of the 766,200 signatures needed to 
qualify for the 2020 ballot.
Attorney General Ashley Moody 
is attempting to derail the effort by 
asking the state’s high court to rule 
that the proposal is “misleading” 
because it does not adequately spell 
out the ramiﬁ  cations the measure 
would have on gun ownership.
The measure’s six-word title and 
ﬁ  ve-sentence summary fail to dis-
close the true nature of the measure, 
she claimed. She also said it would 
effectively outlaw the possession of 
virtually every semi-automatic long-
barreled ﬁ  rearm, including shot-
guns and riﬂ  es — a point disputed 
by advocates of the ballot measure.
In a letter to the court submitted 
Friday, Moody contended “voters 
will not be able to understand the true meaning and ramiﬁ  cations of 
the proposed amendment, making 
the ballot language clearly and con-
clusively defective.”
On Monday, the group behind 
the proposed ban accused the attor-
ney general of “playing politics” to 
appease the gun lobby.
“What they’re saying is false, 
and frankly they are spreading lies 
as a way to scare voters,” said Gail 
Schwartz, the chair of the group 
Ban Assault Weapons NOW and the 
aunt of Alex Schachter, one of the 
students killed by a gunman at Mar-
jory Stoneman Douglas High School 
last year.
The ballot measure would widen 
the deﬁ  nition of what constitutes 
an “assault weapon” to include 
any semi-automatic riﬂ  e or shotgun 
capable of holding more than 10 
rounds of ammunition using a ﬁ  xed 
or detachable magazine or that uses 
an ammunition-feeding device.
A spokeswoman for the attorney 
general said the language was prob-
lematic.
“Regardless of your position on 
gun restrictions, this proposed ballot 
language is a trick. The drafters of 
this proposal have confused voters 
by creating a misleading deﬁ  nition 
of ‘assault weapons’ which would 
include a majority of the most popu-
lar hunting riﬂ  es and shotguns,” the 
spokeswoman, Lauren Schenone, 
said in a statement.Florida AG wants to block 
assault weapons ban ballot drive4  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
ITALIAN BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICManuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm.
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for 
lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thom-
as’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your or-
der will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, 
wholesale prices available.THE STUDY SURVEYED 
55 GAINESVILLE 
NONPROFIT LEADERS
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer 
Students make up over half of 
Gainesville’s volunteer population 
on average, and a recent UF study 
emphasized the importance of stu-
dents for the local volunteer work-
force. 
The study was conducted by a UF 
assistant professor of nonproﬁ  t lead-
ership Jennifer Jones, assistant direc-
tor of UF’s Brown Center for Lead-
ership and Service Elaine Giles and 
former UF student Emily Carroll. The 
study surveyed 55 Gainesville non-
proﬁ  t leaders to ﬁ  nd out what their 
experiences with student volunteers 
were like, Jones said. 
“Are [students] just this wonder-
ful lifeblood of energy ﬂ  owing into 
these organizations? Are there too 
many students?,” Jones said. “Or are 
the students going to perhaps some 
organizations but not to other orga-
nizations?” The study found although the or-
ganizations enjoyed and were often 
dependent on student volunteers, 
students also presented challenges 
for the organization. 
For instance, transportation and 
timing. Students tend to volunteer 
closer to campus, but there are or-
ganizations farther away that need 
assistance, Jones said. 
As for timing, students tend to 
volunteer semester-round instead of 
year-round, which is what nonprof-
its need. However, organizations 
are dependent on students because 
they usually make up over half of the 
pool of volunteers, Jones said. 
The study also found ways for 
the community to be more proac-
tive when it comes to volunteering. 
On the nonproﬁ  t side, there needs to 
be more focus on actively managing 
volunteers.
The organizations need to have a 
revenue greater than $50,000 a year 
to maintain a staff to manage volun-
teers, she said. However, only 400 of 
1,200 nonproﬁ  ts in Alachua County 
have this revenue. 
In addition, only eight percent of 
the organizations surveyed had full-time, paid staff who manage volun-
teers. Fewer than half of nonproﬁ  t 
leaders said their organizations an-
nually measure the impact of their 
volunteers, Jones said.
However, there are steps students 
can take to make their impact more 
powerful.
For example, a student can 
choose one organization they have 
a passion for instead of working for 
multiple. This will decrease volun-
teer management costs for the orga-
nizations, Jones said. 
Carroll said the research she took 
part in opened her eyes to the impact 
of her actions. 
“When you go and volunteer you 
think you’re doing a good thing, no 
matter what,” said 22-year-old Car-
roll, who graduated with a bachelor’s 
degree in biology in May. “You’re 
not thinking about the resources the 
nonproﬁ  ts are putting into training 
you and how much they’re relying 
on you.”
There are also ways the univer-
sity can help. According to the study, 
72 percent of the nonproﬁ  t leaders 
said the university should offer op-
portunities to present to campus de-partments or student organizations. 
The university needs to do a bet-
ter job of talking to community part-
ners about their needs, Giles said. 
Jones said this research can be 
used to help students think about 
volunteering from a nonproﬁ  ts’ per-
spective. 
“It’s really important to recognize that this is a mutual relationship,” 
Jones said. “To talk to the organiza-
tion and ﬁ  gure out what they need, 
when they need it, how they need it, 
what kinds of skills they need and 
then try to make a good ﬁ  t.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.org
BOTH BUSINESSES LOOK TO 
OPEN IN EARL Y 2020
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
The Mode Salon and Stefano Versace Ge-
lato have been announced as the latest con-
quests in Butler Enterprises’ “leasing spree.”
Mary Reichardt, marketing director at But-
ler Enterprises, said the businesses are looking 
at early 2020 opening dates with Mode Salon 
targeting a Jan. 1 opening.Mode Salon West, 1123 NW 76th Blvd., 
will be closing and relocating to Butler Town 
Center. The new 1,500-square-foot salon and 
spa will be located next to The Village Jeweler, 
Reichardt said.
The Mode Salon location is the only Aveda 
concept salon, using only Aveda products for 
their customers and services, according to the 
salon’s website.
“It’s more of a high-end spa salon concept,”  
Reichardt said. “[Aveda’s] mission is all very 
integral to how they operate, the products that 
they use and how they derive those products.”Reichardt said Mode Salon East in down-
town Gainesville, 603 E University Ave., will 
remain open.
Stefano Versace Gelato’s Butler Town Cen-
ter location will be its second in Gainesville. 
The near 700-square-foot shop will be located 
on a corner next to Pink Narcissus, Reichardt 
said.
“This one will be its own location,” Reich-
ardt said. “Their signature is the Fiat, the little 
white Fiat, that’s inside the store that they 
sometimes serve gelato out of. It will be more 
of a signature store for them.”Martina Maione, chief administrative ofﬁ  -
cer at Stefano Versace Gelato, said the Stefano 
Versace Gelato shop in the Oaks Mall food 
court will remain open.
“Our store in Butler Town Center is not just 
a gelato store, making and serving fresh gelato 
daily, as it is in Italy,” Maione said, “but deﬁ  -
nitely a full-ﬂ  edged cafeteria with a wide range 
of products to serve and a delicious menu to 
offer.”
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgUF study shows Gainesville’s reliance on student volunteers  
Salon, gelato cafe to open new Butler Plaza locationsCourtesy of the UF Family, Youth and Community Sciences
UF assistant professor Jennifer Jones (right) former UF student Emily 
Carroll (middle), and Elaine Giles (left), assistant director at UF’s Brown 
Center for Leadership and Service, made up the volunteering research team.
TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
NO ONE WAS INJURED IN THE 
JUL Y 21 INCIDENT
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was charged  on Mon-
day by Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce depu-
ties in connection to an attempted drive-by 
shooting that took place July 21.
Curtis Woods, 29, drove a burgundy SUV 
to a home on Southwest 10th Place at around 
9 p.m. The homeowner was sitting in the 
driver’s seat of his car, which was backed-
in into the driveway, according to a police 
report.
Woods reportedly ﬁ  red three shots at 
the man, who immediately dropped to the 
ground. He told ofﬁ  cers he crawled around 
to the back of his vehicle as Woods drove 
away, according to the report.
Investigators were called to the scene 
shortly after the incident. Several bullet 
shells were found around a trash can near the vehicle and behind the vehicle’s front left 
tire, according to the report.
The man told police he only knew Woods 
by his nickname, “Whoa,” and also said he 
was recently released from prison, according 
to the report.
He identiﬁ  ed Woods from a Facebook 
proﬁ  le picture for an account with the name 
“Rico Swavai,” which was immediately sent 
to ACSO, who was able to identify him by his 
real name. The man also identiﬁ  ed Woods in 
a photo lineup.
Woods was charged with attempted ho-
micide, discharging a ﬁ  rearm from a vehicle 
and possession of a ﬁ  rearm by a felon, all 
of which are felonies. Woods has previously 
been convicted of battery and false imprison-
ment in connection to a 2016 incident.
Woods remains in jail in lieu of a 
$1,150,000 bond. 
It is unclear if he has an attorney.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgGainesville man charged 
in drive-by shootingWesley Chapel man charged 
in sleepwalking robbery
THE MAN STOLE A KITCHEN 
KNIFE, POLICE SAID
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Wesley Chapel man was charged by 
Gainesville police Saturday night after he 
entered an unlocked apartment and stole a 
kitchen knife while he was sleepwalking, ac-
cording to a police report.
Hubert Nathan Boles, 38, entered an 
apartment through an unlocked front door 
at University Terrace Apartments, 3921 SW 
34th St., shortly before 10 p.m. One of the 
residents reportedly heard him opening doors 
in the apartment but assumed it was his 
roommate.
Boles continued to wander through the 
house before opening the door to the resi-
dent’s bedroom. The resident then watched 
Boles grab a large kitchen knife from a cutting 
board in the kitchen and leave the apartment, 
according to the report. The resident then knocked on their room-
mate’s door, but it was locked, and the show-
er was running. He estimated the cost of the 
knife at $15 and told police he had never seen 
Boles before.
When ofﬁ  cers found Boles, he said he had 
fallen asleep on a bus bench near the com-
plex around 10 p.m. and woke up as he was 
being arrested, according to the report. 
Under questioning, Boles told police he 
had been sleepwalking and does not remem-
ber the incident but later admitted to taking 
the knife. He told police he had smoked meth 
the night before the incident but was not high 
at the time of questioning. 
Boles was charged with armed burglary 
of an occupied residence, a felony, and petty 
theft, a misdemeanor. 
He remains in jail in lieu of a $12,000 
bond. 
His attorney could not be reached for com-
ment.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.org
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Calling all poets: for the ﬁ  rst 
time, the Alachua County Commis-
sion is seeking a poet laureate.
Discussion about this position 
began in early 2019, said Gina Pee-
bles, the assistant county manager 
for community and administrative 
services. Alachua County’s Arts 
Council discussed the qualiﬁ  cations 
in January, which include Alachua 
County residency, a love for poetry 
and an active desire to participate in community affairs. 
As for the job itself, Peebles 
said the new laureate will write 
original poetry for various county-
sponsored events, during which 
they would be invited to be a part 
of the ceremony. These events can 
include ribbon cuttings and build-
ing dedications. 
“Maybe one of their ﬁ  rst jobs 
would be coming to a Board of 
County Commissioners meeting 
and reading a poem at one of our 
board meetings,” Peebles said.
Applications are due Aug. 14 at 2 p.m. and the chosen laureate will 
be paid $2,000 per year.
“Poetry is an art, and we want 
to recognize and appreciate that 
here in our community,” Peebles 
said. “Our Board of County Com-
missioners also recognizes that 
there was an appreciation gap and 
that by having a poet laureate, that 
would help ﬁ  ll that gap and bring 
additional attention to spoken art.”
After being ﬁ  rst championed by 
Commissioner Robert Hutchinson, 
the rest of the commission em-
braced the idea, said Mark Sexton, the communications and legislative 
affairs director for Alachua County.
Though the county has pro-
grams that support art institutions, 
theater, dance and music, some-
times poetry is a little more difﬁ  cult 
for the government to support and 
get involved in, Sexton said.
“The position of poet laureate 
would give poetry a great platform 
and hopefully encourage more in-
terest in poetry,” Sexton said.
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgCounty Commission searching for poet laureateQualiﬁ  cations:
• Alachua County resident
• Experience with literary activities
• At least two letters of reference
• Statement of interest (250 words 
maximum) 
• At least two poetry samples
• Resume
Position requirements:
• Participate in events by writing 
and reading poetry
• Submit web and social media 
content to highlight poetry
• Mentor youth
• Approve and authorize Alachua 
County to review poetry 
selections in advance for Poet 
Laureate programs and events TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   6
Whoa! Check out this SPACE!
Whoa! Check out this SPACE!
Whoa! Check out this SPACE!
See your ad HERE by contacting Alligator Advertising today.
advertising@alligator.org  |  (352)376-4482
Rodney Mosley, who goes by DJ Mr. Mosley, plays music for the crowd during the Summer in the 
City Downtown Dance Party. Mosley performed on a stage directly in front of the Hippodrome 
Theatre for over two hours.
Donovan Ladendorf, 2, dances in front of his 7-year-old sister, Elsa Ladendorf, and a group of people. Donovan’s father, Steve, said they came to the event because 
Donovan’s mother works on the Gainesville Cultural Affairs Board and helped organize the party. Steve said his children enjoyed dancing but had even more fun playing 
in front of the giant fans that were set up to blow mist and cool people off. “They had a ball with that part, ” Steve said.
Scott Easton, 41, lifts his 1-year-old son, Eli. Easton said his family 
moved to Gainesville from Jacksonville recently and found out 
about the dance party online. 
The plaza in front of the Hippodrome Theatre was transformed into a block party 
Saturday evening when the City of Gainesville hosted the Summer in the City 
Downtown Dance Party. Over 650 people attended the event, which had music, food 
trucks, vendors and refreshments. Summer in the City was organized as a part of 
Gainesville150!, a yearlong celebration of the 150th anniversary of the city. Nicole 
Yucht, the project coordinator for Gainesville150!, said organizers plan to hold a large 
event every three months during the celebration. The next big event will be in early 
November. “Music and dancing brings people together, ” Yucht said. Dancing to 150 years
The plaza in front of the Hippodrome Theatre was transformed into a block party 
Dancing to 150 years
Photo Story by Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff EditorialTUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
I ﬁ  rst wrote about remakes, reboots and se-
quels for The Alligator in November of last 
year. At the time, I addressed Hollywood as 
a whole and how it can do remakes better. 
But I have since realized that while almost all 
of the major studios are guilty of this, Disney’s 
approach has been… special.
If you’ve been living under a rock for the past 
few years, Disney has been making live-action 
remakes of its animated classics such as “Alad-
din,” “Beauty and the Beast,” and, most recent-
ly, “The Lion King.” 
Disney’s live-action remakes are like a drug addiction. 
First, it tested the waters with early examples like “Maleﬁ  -
cent” and the 2015 version of “Cinderella.” When it real-
ized how much proﬁ  t was to be made, it did the remakes 
more frequently to chase that proﬁ  ts high. Now it’s spiral-
ing out of control, making live-action remakes that aren’t 
even live-action (all the characters in the new “Lion King” 
are CGI, with only the environments being real). 
People outside Disney’s social circle are starting to take 
notice and trying to convince Disney to quit. It won’t, so an 
intervention is needed.
We should have seen this coming. Under Disney CEO 
Bob Iger, Disney has acquired companies like Pixar, Mar-
vel, Lucasﬁ  lms, and most recently, Fox, giving Disney con-
trol over major franchises like Star Wars and the Marvel 
Cinematic Universe. 
In terms of proﬁ  ts, these acquisitions have paid off: 
“Avengers: Endgame” is now the highest-grossing ﬁ  lm of 
all time, and “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” and “The 
Last Jedi” are now the fourth- and twelfth-highest-grossing 
ﬁ  lms, respectively. 
I fear this emphasis on cultivating and proﬁ  ting off of 
acquired properties has led to the core Disney brand fall-
ing to the wayside, reduced to expensive imitations of its 
Golden Age ﬁ  lms. Now with the new 53 percent critic score 
of “The Lion King” on Rotten Tomatoes, an optimist might 
say Disney will ﬁ  nally learn from its mistakes. Although it 
probably won’t, given the ﬁ  lm still grossed over $750 mil-lion worldwide, and there are other live-action 
remakes in the works for “The Little Mermaid” 
and “Mulan.”
To be fair, Disney hasn’t completely lost its 
way: Walt Disney Animation Studios’ “Ralph 
Breaks the Internet” was well-received by both 
critics and audiences. While I still dislike the 
abundance of sequels and follow-ups, I appre-
ciate when the production studio at least takes 
on new stories and ideas instead of reusing old 
plots and being little more than copies of the 
original. 
The only upcoming Disney Animation Studios ﬁ  lm an-
nounced so far is “Frozen 2.” Hopefully the movie can ex-
ceed the original (which will be extremely difﬁ  cult given 
the pop culture phenomenon the original became) or at 
least be a serviceable sequel not afraid to take risks and 
explore new territory.
And ultimately, it is taking risks and exploring new ter-
ritory in which the Walt Disney Company should strive. 
When Walt Disney — the man — made “Snow White and 
the Seven Dwarfs,” it was a big gamble. No one had ever 
made a feature-length animated ﬁ  lm before. But Disney did 
it anyway, and it opened in 1937 to rave reviews, ultimately 
making the modern equivalent of $1.2 billion dollars. 
According to one story, when Disney was asked about 
making a sequel to his popular “Three Little Pigs” short,  
he famously said, “You can’t top pigs with pigs.” Modern 
Disney is not only trying to top pigs with pigs, it’s using the 
exact same pigs, just in different animation styles. Yet, Dis-
ney did make several sequels to “Three Little Pigs,” so per-
haps creativity and original ideas losing out to sequels and 
redone old ideas is inevitable no matter the time period. 
I like to believe Disney is something more. It is capable 
of more than just sitting on its laurels and turning a safe 
proﬁ  t by exploiting known franchises. But for now, I’m still 
waiting.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.Column
Florida: The home of hot girl summer
In more ways than one.
Hot girl summer is in full swing, and the 
hashtags seem to follow us on every 
social media platform. Along with the 
growing posts, the temperature has  also 
started to rise.
The Sunshine State has become the sunburn 
state thanks to global warming. At a state level, 
Florida’s subtropical climate causes it to be sus-
ceptible to continuous summer heat. The Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
reported this past May was the hottest May in Florida in 
more than a century. As we progress into the year, the daily 
temperature averages for Gainesville continue to surpass the 
normal daily temperatures recorded from 1981 to 2010. 
While we may not feel the consequences of global warm-
ing immediately, the heat is gradually rising. The Florida 
Health Department says the harmful medical effects of glob-
al warming could lead to cardiovascular diseases, mental 
health issues, respiratory issues and heatstroke.
The possible environmental costs of global warming 
come as a sign to make a change within ourselves.  
On a local level, Gainesville has been improving its en-
vironmental efforts. This past January, the Gainesville City 
Commission unanimously approved to ban the use of ex-
panded polystyrene containers and single-use carry out plas-
tic bags by food service providers and retail establishments.
Helping the environment sounds like a great idea but is 
easier said than done. As college students, we have to ﬁ  nd a balance between being economically and envi-
ronmentally friendly. 
Just because our funds are absent doesn’t 
mean our efforts have to be. Some easy ways to 
help the environment include not only recycling, 
but also just observing the amount of waste you 
produce. Sure, reusable red cups have been a sta-
ple at tailgates and house parties alike, but do we 
need to go through dozens at every event? Keep-
ing one at each party can minimize the amount of 
plastic waste you produce.
Buying secondhand clothing can also help 
combat the environmental impact of the fashion industry, 
which is the second largest polluter in the world after the 
oil industry. Buying at thrift stores like Goodwill and Urban 
Thread in downtown Gainesville is a good way to get your 
shopping ﬁ  x without contributing to fast fashion. If you’re 
more of an online shopper, sites like Depop and Thred Up 
are great places to ﬁ  nd second hand clothing in great condi-
tion and styles.
While Hydro Flask bottles may seem like the epitome of 
mainstream college students, the sticker-covered bottles help 
eliminate the need for single use plastic water bottles. Start 
thinking of what Redbubble stickers of memes from “The 
Ofﬁ  ce” you want to place on your bottle.
Our time here on Earth is only temporary, but our impact 
can affect it forever. As a wise man once said, “Save the 
earth. It’s the only planet with chocolate.”
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication major. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Sunday night, a teenage gamer became a multi-million-
aire and also a Fortnite World Cup Champion. Sixteen-
year-old Kyle “Bugha” Giersdorf beat 99 other players, 
and in doing so, became the game’s ﬁ  rst solo world 
champion. He won $3 million. And although he didn’t 
ask, we have a few ideas about how he should spend it. 
Adopt all the dogs in Gainesville animal shelters
The end of the summer brings with it the end of leases and 
the beginning of move-out season. With people going from 
one apartment to another, sometimes pets are sacriﬁ  ced in the 
process. Luckily, Alachua County has a no-kill policy, but the 
amount of animals left behind due to complications in leases is 
sad. Even when housing agreements aren’t part of the problem, 
some college students sign up for a pet without realizing the re-
sponsibility. Yeah, a pet sounds like a great idea, but when you 
haven’t been to your apartment for 12 hours, it seems less so. 
Giersdorf shouldn’t have to spend his $3 million rescuing 
the dogs left behind from underestimating fools who can’t even 
clean their toilet bowl regularly, but think they can take care of 
a dog while taking 15 credits.
Buy a bunch of ice to dump in the ocean to stop global 
warming
With $3 million, Giersdorf can buy enough ice to cool down 
the oceanic temperatures. That’s how we stop global warming, 
right?  
Just kidding. The penguins and polar bears may do well with 
some extra tons of ice, but it won’t stop the way humans have 
decided to exhaust our resources.  No amount of money can 
save us from humanity’s path to depletion. Also, even if money 
could save the planet, it’s not like $3 million is going to make 
a difference. With the amount of money major greenhouse gas 
emitting industries are making, $3 million is a drop in the oil 
bucket. 
Giersdorf worked long and hard for his prize money. Save 
him from buying $3 million worth of ice and do whatever you 
can to stop global warming. You heard all the tips before. Vote 
for change. Limit your waste. Tell your representatives to push 
legislation that helps the environment.
Buy Juul pods to dry up the market and keep addictive 
plastic bits out of the mouths of impressionable teens
Possibly our greatest idea to date. With $3 million, Giersdorf 
can afford to buy over 200,000 packs of Juul pods with enough 
left over to hire someone to go into smoke shops and drain the 
nicotine sources. Yes, we know, this is the solution to the teen 
vaping epidemic the country has been waiting for. 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, one in ﬁ  ve high school students use e-cigarettes. On July 
18, Forbes reported a Connecticut man is suing Juul Labs for 
causing him to have a stroke that left him half paralyzed after 
he became addicted to the product as a teenager. Also, eight 
Milwaukee-area teenagers were hospitalized in the last month 
due to what doctors think is severe lung damage from vaping. 
With all the smoke in the air over vapings safety, if Giersdorf 
can’t buy out all the Juul pods to stop teens from using them, 
maybe his $3 million can go to vape research. 
Buy his way into a university 
Giersdorf may be 16 and a video game world champion, but 
if college is in his life plan he might be able to buy his way 
into the university of his choice. We think he can afford some 
digital artist to Photoshop him into a crew team. Or with the $3 
million, he could buy a building for the school’s gaming team, 
which he will obviously be captain. Of course, we’re kidding 
because, as a Fortnite world champion, you could probably get 
into any college with that resume line alone. But why would he 
even want to go to college when his dorm probably won’t have 
a powerful enough internet connection for streaming/gaming 
purposes? 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOR
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.org
Amanda 
Martinez
opinions@alligator.org
Disney makes money oﬀ   remakes, but creativity is tossed asideColumnTUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Location, Location, 1bed 1 bath condo, 
ground floor, 2 miles to UF on bus route, 
walk to shopping, restaurants, etc. Must see. 
$75,000. Call or text for more info. 352-301-
2403. By appointment only.     8-12-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Another Tuesday night without a date? Read 
The Alligator instead.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-141For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
SOLUTION ON PG. 9TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certified. 
Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    7-30-
19-7-14
Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza on Tower Road is 
now hiring delivery drivers, pizza makers and 
phone personnel. Day shift and nightshift 
available, full time and part time positions. 
Please apply in person at 600 NW 75th St     
8-8-19-5-14
Time to sell your Glow Worm? Your Garbage 
Pail Kids? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
By Susan Smolinsky and C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/30/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/30/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 30, 2019
ACROSS
1 Daytime snooze
4 Sprinkler liquid
9 Nursery rocker
15 Mine find
16 Classic Dior style
17 Eagerly 
unwrapped
18 Pronoun for a filly
19 Frequent Fred 
Astaire partner
21 Salad veggie
23 River delta deposit
24 Salary
25 Army doctor for 
whom a D.C. 
medical center is 
named
29 Close bud, in texts
31 More loyal
32 Wool clippers
35 ’60s “acid”
38 Lewd material
40 Photographed 
from a plane
42 Movies Superman 
portrayer
46 Big rig fuel
47 Excursion
48 Lion’s lair
49 Attached with glue
51 Layered cookies
54 Kid’s bleat
55 “Glee” star who 
won “Dancing 
With the Stars” in 
2017
60 Grounded fast flier
62 “I did it!”
64 What the nose 
knows
65 Start of a Pope 
line about 
fallibility ... as 
shown by 19-, 
25-, 42- and 
55-Across?
70 Coquettish
71 Palindrome 
ending
72 Surrounded by
73 Quarterback’s 
asset
74 Zones for 
different usage, 
say
75 Foamy coffee
76 Caustic solution
DOWN
1 “Ain’t gonna 
happen”
2 Gladiator’s milieu
3 Problem for 
Pauline
4 Ring Cycle 
composer5 Boxer who 
proclaimed, “I am 
the greatest!”
6 Sardine container
7 Required H.S. 
class
8 Witherspoon of 
“Big Little Lies”
9 PC corner key
10 Classic A&W 
soda
11 Neighbor of Uru.
12 Like fish and 
chips
13 “Doctor Zhivago” 
heroine
14 Online craft shop
20 Clears (of)
22 Baseball great 
Mel
26 Steal steers
27 San __: Riviera 
resort
28 Blow, as a 
volcano
30 Taxi charge
33 Creator of 
Atticus, Scout 
and Jem
34 All but
35 TV screen type
36 Be sent via 
FedEx or UPS
37 Group of star 
athletes
39 Beat strongly41 Spy novelist 
Deighton
43 “Insecure” Emmy 
nominee __ Rae
44 Attempt to 
ensnare, with 
“for”
45 Land of the 
banshee
50 June honorees
52 Breakfast juice 
flavor
53 Title for Paul 
McCartney56 Taj __
57 Bus that makes 
all the stops
58 Atlanta university
59 “I did it!”
60 Recipe instruction
61 Not all
63 Goals
66 Old food label 
abbr.
67 Thurman of “Pulp 
Fiction”
68 Witty remark
69 Pantry pest
By Joe Schewe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, July 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Promotional 
giveaways
6 Hard-to-sell 
wheels
10 Muscles in a 
flex-off
14 Illusory pictures
15 __ rug
16 Mélange
17 Airline category 
for hombres?
19 Colorado’s __ 
Verde National 
Park
20 It’s as low as it 
gets
21 Handy bag
23 USPS delivery
24 Fast no more
25 Run in prison?
28 Battle (for)
29 Menlo Park, N.J., 
notable
30 Surgical tools
31 Bellicose god
33 “__ the night 
before ... ”
36 Gregg user
37 Sculptor, at 
times?
40 Old Nick
43 Massachusetts 
Bay city
44 “Little we see in 
Nature that is __”: 
Wordsworth
48 Code of silence
50 Freight weight
52 Born, in 
Bordeaux
53 VIP at royal 
banquets?
56 Chain letters?
57 Author Kesey
58 Piece of farm 
equipment
59 Limited message
61 Historic periods
63 Minimal red-
removing 
amount ... and 
a phonetic hint 
to four long 
answers
66 USAF NCO
67 Gray’s subj.
68 Uninterrupted 
movement
69 Bit of 
choreography
70 Youngster
71 Govt. securityDOWN
1 NYSE listings
2 Like outdoor 
theaters
3 Dugong relative
4 Encourage
5 Rigid
6 Actor Holbrook
7 Sister of  
Euterpe
8 Writer with 
lessons
9 Soft shade
10 Little dog
11 Winner at the 
polls
12 Water storage 
tank
13 Blankety-blank 
type
18 Certain Slavs
22 Clear
24 Girl rescued by 
Uncle Tom
26 Staircase post
27 Member of 
MLB’s 2017 
champions
32 24-Across 
greedily
34 Acker of “The 
Gifted”
35 Nick working at 
night?38 Good way to go 
out
39 __ pine
40 Light bulb 
holders
41 UMass town 
whose third letter 
isn’t pronounced
42 Like many new 
drivers
45 Experience
46 Charge to 
occupy47 Red or Black
49 Financially 
sound
51 Having collected 
the least dust
54 Corleone  
brother
55 Fine-tune
60 Fall locale
62 Indy letters
64 Automne follows 
it
65 Protest leader?
07/25/1915 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 14 Help Wanted
1.  Third ____
1.  Distort5.  Corn ____
2.  Very happy6.  Hammer out
3.  Persisted 7.  Type of aircraft 
4.  Captivate ERGEDE
RMEDFOLDIFE
FGERO
LUFLGEE
NEREDDULIREGD
ANEREDANSWERS: 1A-Degree  5A-Field  6A-Forge  7A-Glider
1D-Deform  2D-Gleeful  3D-Endured  4D-Endear  B-Gerald Ford7-30-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ served in the U.S. House of 
Representatives from 1949 to 1973.
BONUS
Florida football coach Dan 
Mullen was named to the Dodd 
Trophy watch list last week. 
The award recognizes success 
on and off the ﬁ  eld.Feature: Vale’s comeback
Florida tennis player Duarte Vale rebounded from a tough freshman year to 
become one of the team’s best players, pg. 11.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Optimism was abound at UF foot-
ball media day on Thursday.
Coach Dan Mullen’s excitement 
about the state of his team was 
matched by the 35 players who were 
available to interview at the annual 
pre-training camp event. Here are 
some of the biggest takeaways:
The Gators are “for sure” a 
playoff teamWhen alligatorSports asked run-
ning back Lamical Perine if Florida 
was a College Football Playoff team, 
he didn’t hesitate.
“Oh yes, for sure. But you got to 
work hard for it, so we’re going to 
come out every day trying to work 
for that goal.”
Perine, who ran for 826 yards and 
seven touchdowns last year, was not 
alone in setting high expectations for 
this year’s Gators team.
“We want to win a national 
championship,” Malik Davis, anoth-er running back, said. “At the end of 
the day, that’s what we want.”
In order to be in that conversa-
tion, Florida will have to improve on 
last year’s 10-3 record – no easy feat 
with both Georgia and a trip to LSU 
on the schedule. Quarterback Feleipe 
Franks believes he knows how Flor-
ida can do it. 
“Conﬁ  dence is what makes 
us think we can go from 10 to 11 
(wins),” he said. “That’s something 
that we just don’t lack. I think that’s Biggest takeaways from media day
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Lamical Perine said that the Gators are 
“for sure” a College Football Playoff team at UF’s media day on 
Thursday. Perine rushed for 826 yards and seven touchdowns 
last season as UF won 10 games and a New Year’s Six bowl.
The Associated Press
Pete Alonso leads all rookies with 34 home runs and 77 RBIs. 
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
Many college athletes have 
achieved greatness in Gainesville. 
Far fewer have taken the next step 
to the pros, and even fewer have 
stood out among the crowd once 
they make it to the highest level of 
their sport.
The athletes nominated for the 
alligatorSports Pro of the Year are 
former Gators who not only compete 
at a professional level, but stand out, 
due to a triumphant story or excel-
lence in play.
Our writers make their case for 
the four athletes nominated: Brad-
ley Beal, Antonio Callaway, Caeleb 
Dressel and Pete Alonso.
Bradley Beal
Bradley Beal did not just have a good year in the 2018-19 NBA sea-
son.
 He had the best year of his ca-
reer.
Beal had career highs in points 
(25.6), assists (5.5), rebounds (5.0), 
steals (1.5) and minutes per game 
(36.9). He was also the one constant 
in an otherwise disappointing Wash-
ington Wizards season, playing all 
82 games.
Star point guard John Wall 
missed most of the season due to 
injury, and the Wizards unquestion-
ably became Beal’s team. Despite 
his best efforts, the Wizards ﬁ  nished 
with a 32-50 record. 
Still, Beal earned his second All-
Star Game appearance and became 
the ﬁ  rst player in franchise history to reach 2,000 points, 400 rebounds 
and 400 assists in a season.
Beal never won a championship 
at Florida, but I believe he will go 
down as the best basketball player 
to ever represent the Gators in the 
NBA.
The 6-foot-5 shooting guard is in 
the prime of his career and is one of 
the best players in the NBA, and he 
proved it in the 2018-19 season.
He is my pick for alligatorSports 
Pro of the Year. – Joseph Salvador
 jsalvador@alligator.org
JSalvador_14Alligator Awards: Pro of the YearSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 12The ﬁ  rst gold medal 
of the championships 
went to the U.S. and 
Dressel. He helped his 
country’s cause with a 
47.63 split in the 4x100-
meter free relay. The 
second gold Dressel 
collected in the relays 
came in a record-setting 
performance by the US 
with a 3:19.40 time in 
the 4x100 free mixed 
medley.
His ﬁ  nal medal came 
in the relays, as well. 
Dressel sailed across the pool in the 4x100-meter 
relay at 49.28 seconds 
– the only swimmer to 
dip below the 50-second 
mark.
While Dressel now 
stands as one of the pre-
mier swimmers on the 
international stage, his 
path to the record books 
was paved long before 
he dipped his toes into 
the water in South Ko-
rea.
During his time at 
Florida, Dressel also 
competed in the 2016 Rio Olympics in Brazil. 
There, he won two gold 
medals. The ﬁ  rst was 
in the 4x100 free relay, 
while the second was in 
the 4x100 medley relay. 
Dressel holds all of 
the sprint swimmer 
school records. His 
name is written beside 
the 50- and 100-meter 
free, 50- and 100-meter 
ﬂ  y and the 200 medley 
in individual events. 
He was also a part of 
record-setting squads 
in the sprinter relays as 
well. In all, he holds or 
is a part of nine UF re-
cords.Dressel left UF as a 
28-time All-American 
selection, which is a 
record total for a swim-
mer. Dressel concluded 
his college career as a 
10-time NCAA cham-
pion, breaking Ryan 
Lochte’s record of eight 
titles. 
Dressel is preparing 
to qualify for the 2020 
Olympics in Tokyo.
The two-time gold 
medalist is primed for 
another shot to chip 
away at Michael Phelps’ 
record of 28 career 
Olympic medals.
doshea@alligator.org
@dylanoshea24SWIMMING,  from pg. 1Dressel: six gold medalsTUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Florida had been in this situa-
tion before.
The Gators were playing No. 
13 Tennessee on April 20 in the 
semifinals of the SEC Tournament. 
As the host and the best team in 
the SEC during the regular sea-
son, Florida was expected to roll 
through the tournament on its 
way to a potential national title.
Going into the semifinals, 
the Volunteers seemed like they 
would be easy prey for the Gators. 
Florida dominated them 5-2 in 
Knoxville in the prior meeting on 
March 17.
Early on, those expectations 
seemed to hold true. UF was ahead 
3-2 and was one point away from 
a spot in the SEC finals. Florida 
faltered, however, as star fresh-
man Sam Riffice and sophomore 
Andy Andrade blew big leads and 
Tennessee took the match.
Flash forward to May 11. It’s 
the NCAA Tournament Round of 
16; a spot in the quarterfinals in 
Orlando was on the line, and Flor-
ida was playing the Volunteers 
again. The score and the setting 
were the same as that day in April, 
with Florida ahead 3-2 at the Ring 
Tennis Complex in Gainesville.
The Gators had put themselves 
in a great situation, one point 
away from clinching the victory.
On Court 1, Oliver Crawford 
was tied 4-4 in the third set and on 
Court 5, sophomore Duarte Vale 
and Tennessee’s Preston Touliatos 
were in a third-set tiebreaker.
This was supposed to be an 
easy match for Vale. He was 
ranked No. 90 and was 14-1 in 
singles on the season. Plus, he had 
beaten Touliatos easily in two sets 
during their match three weeks 
prior. But they still found them-
selves in a tiebreaker.
The pressure was on Vale.
If he lost this match (and Craw-
ford lost his match on Court 1), 
No. 4 Florida’s magical season 
would end. If he won, the Gators 
would avenge their loss from three 
weeks prior. Vale was ahead 9-8 in 
the tiebreaker and serving.
Vale served. Touliatos hit it 
back, but he overshot the return.
Vale’s teammates jumped on 
top of him. It was pandemonium 
at the Ring.
But the story of Vale is far more 
than that of clincher. Over the 
course of 18 months, he went from 
a foreign-born highly touted re-
cruit, to the bench, to starring on 
one of Florida’s best teams ever.
Vale is from Cascais, Portugal, 
a resort town on the Atlantic coast 
near Lisbon. His potential in tennis 
was realized before high school, 
and Vale came to IMG Academy in 
Bradenton, Florida, to train.
“I had great coaches and part-
ners,” Vale said regarding his time 
at IMG. “Definitely raised my level 
a lot.”Vale flourished at IMG. He 
reached as high as No. 14 in the 
International Tennis Federation’s 
junior rankings, the main rank-
ing system for junior players. He 
also competed in seven junior 
grand slam events – including two 
Wimbledons – and went 6-1 in the 
2016 European Summer Cup as 
Portugal’s No. 1 player, leading 
his country to the final round.
In doubles, he won the ITF 
Grade 1 Copa Barranquilla, a top 
junior event, in 2016. His part-
ner was Andrade, his future col-
lege teammate. The two became 
friends and began to think about 
their future and where they would 
play.
Andrade says they both knew 
they would come to UF early on.
“We had talked about it back 
in high school that we wanted to 
go to college together and when 
we visited here, we were like, 
‘we have to go here,’ and it just 
worked out.”
Vale signed his letter of intent 
in Nov. 2016 and came to Florida 
before the 2017-18 season.
Given his junior success, he 
came in with high expectations 
and lived up to them. He went 8-2 
in singles and 9-1 in doubles in his 
freshman fall. He won the Gator 
Ranked +1 Tournament in singles 
and doubles and advanced to the 
semifinals of the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association All-American 
Championships in doubles. By No-
vember 2017, he was ranked No. 
39 in singles, which is rare for a 
freshman.
He was confident and saw him-
self as an integral piece on a team 
that was going to compete for a 
championship.
 “I wanted to be one of the best 
players in college right away and 
after the fall I was one of the high-
est-ranked freshmen, so I started 
to put a lot of pressure on myself,” 
Vale said.
That pressure started to get to 
him. He began the spring well, 
going 2-1, but then lost two in a 
row and his ranking slipped to 
No. 59 by February 2018. He won 
his next match against Tennessee, 
but lost three consecutive after 
that. By March, he was out of the 
rankings. A player who just four 
months earlier was top 40 in the 
country was now out of the top 
100.
With each loss, Duarte’s confi-
dence fell lower and lower.
“I wanted to have a very good 
season, not just an average sea-
son, and after every match I lost 
I would focus on all the wrong 
things. You shouldn’t ever think 
about the end result; you should 
just take it day-by-day,” Vale said.
Vale recovered to win his last 
two singles matches of the season, 
but it was too little, too late. After 
his win over Wake Forest on April 
2, he was benched and didn’t play 
in singles the rest of the season. 
He watched on the sideline as Florida fell to Texas A&M in the 
quarterfinals of the NCAA Tourna-
ment. He finished the season with 
a record of 5-11 in dual singles.
For coach Bryan Shelton, the 
2018 season said a lot about Vale’s 
drive for the game.
“He was trying to do everything 
in his power to improve. He was 
reaching and clawing to find the 
answers and you got to applaud 
a kid who doesn’t just sit around 
saying ‘poor me.’ He is actually 
on the practice court longer and 
working harder,” Shelton said.
The coaching staff tried to re-
set him throughout the season, 
but Shelton said he just needed a 
break.
That break finally came last 
summer. Vale returned to the 
shores of Portugal, and while he 
did spend the hot days improv-
ing his game physically, he knew 
most of the change had to happen 
in his head.
He arrived back in Gainesville 
in August with a new mindset.
“I was really confident. I knew 
this season was going to be differ-
ent and I had control of my prob-
lems and I put myself in a good 
situation to be successful, like 
feeling good mentally.”
With highly praised freshmen 
like Lukas Greif and Riffice com-
ing in, the Gators once again had 
championship aspirations. They 
entered the 2018-19 season ranked 
No. 4 in the nation.
He started 2018 with an aver-
age fall season that carried over 
into the spring. In his first five 
matches of the spring season, he 
had won twice, lost once and had 
two matches unfinished. He once 
again fell out of the ITA rankings after starting the season ranked 
No. 57.
It seemed as if all that work 
put in the offseason to avoid this 
from happening again would go 
nowhere.
But then, he went on a run 
and didn’t lose a singles match 
for the rest of the season. He won 
13 straight singles matches and 
helped the Gators knock off top-
10 teams like Mississippi State and 
Texas A&M.
The win over the Aggies on 
March 31 helped clinch the SEC 
regular season title for the Gators, 
but it also carried a special mean-
ing for Duarte and the rest of the 
team: Texas A&M had beaten them 
in the Elite Eight in 2018. Vale said 
that victory was his favorite mo-
ment all season.
His teammates and coaches 
were quick to notice the changes 
he made in 2019.
“I think this season he’s a lot 
more positive,” Andrade said. 
“Last season he had a pretty rough 
time and now all the hard work he 
puts in is paying off.”
“From last season to this sea-
son, his maturity has grown a lot,” 
senior McClain Kessler, Vale’s 
doubles partner said. “He had all 
that pressure and now he is just 
enjoying the game.”
Much of this success came with 
Vale playing on the back courts. 
Most players don’t like playing on 
the back courts, Vale said, consid-
ering you don’t attract the atten-
tion that comes with playing on 
the front courts. 
Vale turned it to a positive.
“It gave me room to reset. To 
remember what it feels like and 
get my swagger back.”The clinching win over Tennes-
see ended up being his last memo-
ry on the singles court this season. 
Shelton decided not to put him in 
the singles lineup in the quarterfi-
nals when Florida beat No. 6 Bay-
lor 4-0 to advance to its first Final 
Four since 2005 or when the sea-
son ended with a 4-2 loss to No. 
2 Texas in the Final Four. Over-
all, he finished the season with a 
remarkable record of 15-1 in dual 
singles, a 10-win turnaround from 
last season.
“He was more receptive to 
coaching this season,” Shelton 
said. “He is more willing to make 
the adjustments quicker when 
things aren’t working.”
One of the biggest changes this 
season was how seriously Vale 
took the results. He knew that to 
be successful, he had to enjoy his 
time spent off the court.
“When he’s on the court, he’s 
all business, but when he’s off the 
court, he is a giant goofball,” Kes-
sler said. “He is always putting a 
smile on people’s faces.”
Vale just finished his sopho-
more season, so he still has anoth-
er two years of eligibility. It will be 
a challenge to improve after such 
a successful season, but Shelton 
knows it’ll happen.
“His future is bright. I think 
he is going to continue to build. 
There are certain guys who peak 
after realizing they won’t play 
professional tennis, but Duarte is 
a guy who will always be at his 
best every single day.”
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFrom benchwarmer to hero: Duarte Vale’s comeback
Alligator File Photo
Florida’s Duarte Vale had a breakout sophomore campaign this year, going 15-1 in dual singles play. Vale 
ended the season as the No. 95 player in the country and helped lead UF to a Final Four appearance. 
12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Craft Pints$6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Sam Adams Drafts
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue2pm - closeROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSsomething that you need when you want to 
win those extra games.”
Florida is a healthy team
Outside of redshirt freshman linebacker Da-
vid Reese, who will most likely miss the entire 
season with a torn Achilles (Mullen wouldn’t 
rule out a return for a bowl game), Florida is not dealing with any major injuries as training 
camp gets underway.
“Everybody else we feel (is) ready to go,” 
Mullen said.
That includes defensive back Marco Wil-
son, who was named to the Coaches’ Pre-
season All-SEC Third Team last year before 
tearing his ACL in Week 2 and missing the rest 
of the season.
“I’m ready for it all,” Wilson said. “I’m not 
worried about anything.”Davis is another player coming back from 
injury. The redshirt sophomore, who has 
rushed for 587 yards in 13 career games, broke 
his foot in Week 3 last year and missed the rest 
of the season.
“I’ve been rehabbing, and then going 
through a whole offseason just working hard 
to get back out there,” Davis said. “I’m very 
excited to ﬁ  nally be able to get back out there 
and play.”
A chip on their shoulder
Despite the fact that his team is coming off 
a 10-win season and a New Year’s Six bowl victory, Mullen doesn’t expect a change in at-
titude this season.
“I certainly hope we still play with a chip 
on our shoulder,” Mullen said. “(I hope) that 
we have a chip on our shoulder about those 
three games (UF lost).”
Wilson echoed Mullen’s sentiment.
“We just want to win. We take it each game 
at a time, we just want to win that game,” he 
said. “We’re going to go as hard as we can 
every play, every game.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
Antonio Callaway
Antonio Callaway had his fair 
share of detractors.
His numerous off-the-ﬁ  eld mis-
haps -- including a suspension at UF 
for alleged sexual misconduct, his 
involvement in a credit card scan-
dal and, later, a dropped marijuana 
charge -- left scouts and fans won-
dering if he could truly compete on 
America’s biggest sports stage.
It didn’t take long for him to 
prove that he could.
Callaway entered a Browns roster 
in 2018 competing for the fourth spot 
on the depth chart behind Josh Gor-
don, Jarvis Landry and Corey Cole-
man. After Coleman was traded to 
the Buffalo Bills, Callaway won the 
third spot, and he became an even 
bigger part of the offense when the 
Browns traded Gordon to the New 
England Patriots.
Callaway proved his worth quick-
ly. He averaged 13.6 yards per recep-
tion and caught ﬁ  ve touchdowns 
during the year, including a spec-
tacular grab on Fourth-and-5 dur-
ing Week 2 against the New Orleans 
Saints. Once he was paired up with a 
young gunslinger in Baker Mayﬁ  eld 
after Week 3, the two developed a 
rapport, and Callaway’s last three 
games of the season included 2 TDs, 
nine receptions and 114 yards.
Perhaps Callaway wasn’t the 
ﬂ  ashiest wide receiver in the NFL last season, but to enter the league 
surrounded by doubt and then be-
come an integral piece of a team that 
came back from a winless season to 
net seven victories makes him the al-
ligatorSports Pro of the Year. – River 
Wells
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
Caeleb Dressel
In the scope of Florida athletics, 
some sports and athletes fail to gar-
ner half the attention the major rev-
enue drivers do.
Swimming and diving, a program 
consistently ranked amongst the best 
in the nation and notorious for de-
veloping world-class talent, is one 
of those programs often overlooked. 
Every Olympic Games since 1968 
has featured a UF swimmer, with 
12-time medalists Ryan Lochte and 
Dara Torres highlighting the alumni.
But with the 2020 Olympic 
Games arriving sooner than later, 
it’d be wise to get to know former 
Gator Caeleb Dressel.
The 22-year-old was on campus 
as recently as last year and snagged 
two Olympic gold medals while still 
a student three years ago in Rio de 
Janeiro. 
Since his graduation and subse-
quent professional career, Dressel 
has been preparing for his second 
Olympics. His talents and potential 
for Michael Phelps-esque dominance next year in Tokyo were on full dis-
play this past week at the 2019 FINA 
World Championships in South Ko-
rea.
The native Floridian went on a 
tear, breaking former Team USA 
teammate and Olympic-deity Phelps’ 
record of seven world championship 
medals in a single event with eight. 
Dressel won six golds – the 50- and 
100-meter butterﬂ  y, the 50- and 
100-meter freestyle and the 4x100 
meter freestyle in both mixed and 
men’s. He also bested Phelps’ world 
record 100-meter butterﬂ  y time by 
0.32 seconds, which is far longer in 
the pool than the numbers would in-
dicate.
Some athletes on this list have 
had successful professional careers 
up to this point, but only Dressel 
has the distinction of challenging the 
greatest in one’s sport, giving him 
my full-ﬂ  edged vote for Pro of the 
Year. – Jack Braverman
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org
Pete Alonso
UF’s Pro of the Year in my eyes 
is someone who hadn’t played in a 
single Major League Baseball game 
before 2019. Three years removed 
from his ﬁ  nal season at Florida, Mets 
ﬁ  rst baseman Pete Alonso has taken 
MLB by storm this year and is the 
frontrunner for the National League 
Rookie of the Year award. A bright spot in what has been an otherwise 
rough season for the Mets, Alonso 
has 34 home runs and 77 RBIs.
The 24-year-old from Tampa did 
enough to earn himself a spot on the 
National League All-Star team, pick-
ing up two key RBIs in the top of the 
eighth to cut the American League’s 
lead to 1.
Arguably the biggest moment of 
his rookie campaign came on July 8 
when Alonso won the MLB Home 
Run Derby in Cleveland.
An impressive 91-home run per-
formance from runner-up Vladimir Guerrero Jr. was spoiled by Alonso’s 
ﬁ  nal round as he hit the go-ahead 
home run with 18 seconds left to 
beat Guerrero Jr. 23-22 and add to 
his already incredible ﬁ  rst year as a 
MLB player.
Alonso’s breakout rookie season 
has been impressive. Easily the best 
by any pro Gator this year, and that’s 
why he’s the clear-cut choice for the 
alligatorSports Pro of the Year. – 
Evan Lepak
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 10
AWARDS,  from pg. 10Wilson: “I’m ready for it all.” 
The Associated Press
Caeleb Dressel set a world record time in the 100-meter butterﬂ  y.
