We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF student arrested
He was accused of sexual assault on campus, pg. 3
One of UF’s hospitals is on top
UF’s Jacksonville hospital is one of the best, pg. 4UF baseball suﬀ  ers ﬁ  rst loss
Designated hitter Nelson Maldonado and the 
Gators fell to South Florida in T ampa, pg. 14WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 61
A NEW PARTNER WILL 
TAKE OVER FOR 
COMING FAIR
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Commission 
decided to cut ties with the Alachua County Fair Association for holding 
an unapproved pig race and owing 
them $1,980.
The commission discussed the 
issue for about 15 minutes before 
unanimously deciding not to sign 
another contract with the association 
for the Fall 2019 fair during a special 
meeting. Instead, the commissioners 
are looking into partnering with the Newberry Watermelon Festival. 
The association could not be 
reached for comment. 
The commission started talks 
about not resigning during a Feb. 5 
commission meeting. Gina Peebles, 
the assistant county manager for 
community and administrative ser-
vices, said the association owes the 
county $1,980 and showed account-ing inconsistencies over the past four 
years.  
The association was also faulted 
for holding a pig race at the 2018 fair 
without the commission’s approval. 
Robert Mullen, the manager of the 
association, told the commission the 
Florida Department of Agriculture 
approved it.
The county will now have to de-cide if it wants to hold two events 
or combine the fair and the water-
melon festival, Commissioner Rob-
ert Hutchinson said at the Tuesday 
meeting.
Although he did agree with the 
decision, he said that fairs in this 
area of Florida are dying because 
of theme parks nearby. He also said Pig racing causes commission to end county fair contractChris Day / Alligator Staff
Mary Katherine Boney, 5, and Hampton Boney, 7, inspect Zachariah Chou’s Inspire-themed dinosaur 
costume Tuesday outside of the The Hub. Chou, a 21-year-old UF political science junior, is Inspire 
Party’s presidential candidate for the 2019 UF Student Government elections. Inspire Party members 
also dressed up in a Pikachu outﬁ  t while campaigning. Chou said that the idea for the inﬂ  atable outﬁ  ts 
came from the “‘Pokemon Go’ to the polls” statement that Hillary Clinton made during the 2016 
presidential election. “We thought it would be a very positive way to increase voter turnout, and it’s 
deﬁ  nitely something different, ” he said. “It all started with the Pikachu suit. ” Read the story on page 3.
UCF PLANNED TO SPEND 
$85 MILLION IN 
LEFTOVER FUNDING
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
University of Central Florida 
President Dale Whittaker offered 
his resignation to the chairman 
of the UCF Board of Trustees af-
ter criticism over misuse of fund-
ing. 
Whittaker was criticized for 
using millions of dollars in left-
over operating money on the 
construction of a new academic 
building, according to The As-
sociated Press. The university 
also planned to use millions in 
leftover operating funds on con-
struction, which violates state 
rules.
Last week, State House Rep. 
Randy Fine (R-District 53) sug-
gested shutting down the univer-
sity for ﬁ  ve to 10 years because 
of the violations, the AP said. 
The Board of Governors Chair 
Ned Lautenbach released a state-ment thanking Whittaker for his 
work at UCF.
“I thank President Whittaker 
for his service to UCF students 
and wish him well,” the state-
ment read. “My hope is that his 
decision will be an important 
step toward rebuilding the uni-
versity’s trust and credibility.”
UF had a president in a simi-
lar situation in January 1998, 
when former president John 
Lombardi offered his resignation 
to the Board of Regents, which 
used to govern the state’s public 
universities, according to Alliga-
tor archives. Lombardi offered to 
resign after he made a racially 
insensitive remark about Adam 
Herbert, the ﬁ  rst black Chancel-
lor of the State University System 
of Florida.
Historically, UF has not re-
leased statements on the status 
of other public universities un-
der these circumstances and are 
not expected to release one now, 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgAfter money mishap,
UCF president resignsBy Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
More than three years after she was ﬁ  red for 
slapping passengers’ hands, a Regional Transit 
System bus driver might get her job back.  
The Florida First District Courts of Appeal 
ruled Friday to uphold a decision made three 
years ago to give Desiree Heyliger, 39, her job back with three years’ worth of back pay, after 
she claimed she was unfairly ﬁ  red as an RTS 
bus driver in November 2015. 
The city has 30 days to either reinstate Hey-
liger or appeal the decision. City spokesperson 
Chip Skinner said the city hasn’t made a deci-
sion yet.
The lawsuit is currently not on the agenda 
for Thursday’s city commission meeting, but Mayor Lauren Poe said he expects the commis-
sion to discuss the issue. 
While the commission relies on city staff to 
manage the hiring and ﬁ  ring of employees, it 
does have the power to direct staff on how to 
move forward with the lawsuit, Poe said. 
On Oct. 14, 2015, a woman boarded Hey-
liger’s bus with an open container, according 
to court records. Heyliger told the woman it wasn’t allowed on the bus, 
then asked for her bus pass. 
The woman waved the pass 
in her face and Heyliger 
smacked her hand out of 
the way and said, “Don’t do 
that. Get your hand away.”
The second incident 
was two days later when a 
man complained about the 
bus being late as he boarded, records said. He RTS bus driver wins lawsuit, could get job back
SEE FAIR,  PAGE 4City has yet to make a decision on rehiring her
SEE LAWSUIT,  PAGE 4Heyliger
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
WEDNESDAY
Student Government Elections
When: 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Where: Beaty Commons TV-
Recreation Room, Broward 
Hall Recreation Room, Health 
Science Center BITS C1-121, 
Heavener Hall Room 202, Levin 
College of Law BGH Student 
Commons, Marston Computer 
Lab Second Floor, Murphree 
Hall Conference Room, Norman 
Hall Education Library, Reitz 
Union Lower Level SG Print 
Lab, Southwest Recreation 
Center Social Lounge, Springs 
Area Office Room C202
What: UF students can vote in 
the SG election with a Gator 1 
Card. Candidates for the Student 
Body president, vice president 
and treasurer are on the ballot 
as well as 50 senators by college 
and grade level.
Wine Class - Spain, Italy and 
Australia
When: 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
Where: Downtown Wine and 
Cheese, at 113 N. Main St.
What: The class is taught by 
wine expert Hollie Pique and 
features wines from Spain, 
Italy and Australia. Classes 
are $25 per person, and it in-
cludes cheeses for wine pairing, 
an informational packet, dis-
counts on the featured bottles 
of wine and a coupon for a free 
Thursday night wine tasting. 
Potential attendees can call the 
business to reserve a spot or buy tickets online at downtown-
wineandcheese.com.
FRIDAY
Gay Movie Night
When: 7:30 p.m. 
Where: The Pride Community 
Center, at 3131 NW 13th St.
What: The movie “Beautiful 
Something” will be shown. 
Brian crashes and burns with 
each guy he meets, but does 
not understand why. Jim is not 
afraid to break hearts except 
when it comes to his older lov-
er, a renowned sculptor. Drew 
is more focused on his latest 
masterpiece than Jim. Bob looks 
for hustlers in his white limo 
and searches for the thrill of lost 
love. They comb the streets of 
the City of Brotherly Love, look-
ing for connections though often 
settling for the quick and dirty. 
But they each cross paths with 
the other. Gay Movie Night is on 
the last Friday of each month.
SATURDAY
Theater Trivia Fundraiser
When:  6-9 p.m. 
Where: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre, at 25 SE Second Place 
in downtown Gainesville
What: A theater-themed trivia 
night for Y-Not Theatre’s sec-
ond annual fundraiser from 
6-9 p.m. Feb. 23. The local 
nonprofit supports playwrights 
and actors across north-central 
Florida. Tickets are $25 before 
Feb. 8; after that, tickets will be 
$35. Sababa, a Mediterranean 
restaurant, will serve a buffet. Cake will be provided by D’Lites 
Emporium. The Gainesville 
Improv Guild will perform a 
show at intermission.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
An Ode to Black Women
When: 7 p.m. Wednesday
Where: Ustler Hall
What: The Women’s Student 
Association is hosting a night 
to celebrate culture, feminism 
and the history of black wom-
en. There will be a live perfor-
mance, free food and a discus-
sion on the impact of black 
women on society.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  65°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes HernandezMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones,  Shelby Smith,
Blake Trauschke
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 61WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2019
We will not be publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
Reach 50,000+ sports fans by featuring 
your ad on the NCAA T ournament  
Bracket! This special bracket will be a 
pull out section that Gator fans can use 
for the whole three weeks of March 
Madness to track their favorite teams.
RUN DATE
Mon, March 18DEADLINE
Thurs March 14T ake the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Starting at
$241.79
includes full color
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Contact Alligator Advertising
Reserve your space today!
376.4482 
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
HE WAS FOUND NAKED IN 
VICTIM’S BED
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF student was found naked 
in the bed of a woman he allegedly 
raped when University Police arrest-
ed him Sunday.
The woman invited Ian Fitzgerald 
Deal, 19, of Ponte Vedra Beach, to 
hang out at her apartment in Keys 
Residential Complex, according to a 
University Police arrest report. 
Deal is a UF construction manage-
ment sophomore, said UF spokes-person Steve Or-
lando.
When he got 
to her apartment, 
she told Deal that 
they were not go-
ing to have sex 
because she was 
a virgin, she said.
They started kissing and Deal 
grabbed her by the neck, ﬂ  ipped her 
over and took her clothes off, the re-
port said. She told him to stop and 
that she did not want to have sex.
Deal then pushed her face into a 
pillow and assaulted her, the report 
said. She told him multiple times to 
stop and tried physically stopping 
him, but he continued. When he was done, he rolled 
over and fell asleep naked, police 
said. The woman called the police 
and went to a hospital to complete a 
sexual assault kit. 
Authorities detained Deal at 7:37 
a.m. while still in the bedroom, the 
report said. He told police the wom-
an and he and had consensual sex 
and that he did not use a condom. 
He was charged with sexual bat-
tery, the report said.
He could not be reached for com-
ment.
Deal bonded out of the Alach-
ua County Jail on a $275,000 bail 
Tuesday.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgUF student accused of rape in Keys Residential Complex
Conﬁ  dential Reporting
• UFPD Ofﬁ  ce of Victim 
Services: 352-392-5648 
or 352-392-1111
• Alachua County Victim 
Services and Rape Crisis 
Center : 352-264-6760
• Peaceful Paths : 
352-377-8255
Counseling and Support
• Counseling and Wellness 
Center: 352-392-1575
• U Matter, We Care: 
352-294-2273Legal Services
• Intimate Partner Vio-
lence Assistance Clinic: 
352-273-0804
Medical Care
• Student Health Care 
Center: 352-392-1161
• UF Health Shands Adult 
Emergency Room / 
Trauma Center: 
352-733-0800Deal
RESOURCES FOR VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
Staff report
Cartoon inﬂ  atables, free printing and a 
video from UF President Kent Fuchs. All that 
was necessary to get 239 more students to 
vote on the ﬁ  rst day of elections than last 
year. 
Supervisor of Elections Henry Fair said 
6,723 students voted Tuesday across 11 on-
campus voting locations. Last Spring, 6,484 
students voted on the ﬁ  rst day. In Spring 
2017, 4,482 voted.
Wednesday is the last day for students 
to vote for the Student Body president, vice 
president and treasurer as well as 41 contest-
ed Senate seats by college and year. 
The ﬁ  rst day of voting was met with some 
technical difﬁ  culties. Within 30 minutes of 
the polls opening, students reported getting 
an “access denied” pop-up message, Fair 
said. The issue affected students with UFID 
numbers that start with the number “0” but did not prevent anyone from voting.
UF Student Affairs Information Technol-
ogy department corrected it before noon, 
Fair said. 
Laure Deliscar was motivated to vote on 
the ﬁ  rst day of Spring SG elections after she 
learned students pay $19.06 per credit hour 
to fund it. 
“It was just eye-opening,” the 18-year-old 
UF biology freshman said.
Deliscar, who is a ﬁ  rst-time voter, found 
out that student fees are allocated to SG after 
walking with an Impact Party representative 
in Turlington, she said.
Deliscar said she gave most of her votes 
to Impact because she liked their platform of 
longer library hours, which would help her 
as a student that lives on campus. 
But she voted for an Inspire candidate for 
senator because she liked some of the candi-
date’s ideas but said she has faith in all the 
individuals on the ballot. 
For Deliscar, some important issues she cares about are mental health on campus, 
especially for ﬁ  rst-year students and diver-
sity at UF. 
“I feel that either way, some good will 
come out of it,” she said. “It’s not that there 
is a bad or good party, it’s just they have dif-
ferent ways of making campus better.”
Friends Deneen Wang and Joshua Dela 
Pena walked to the polls together but walked 
out with different ballots. 
Wang, a 21-year-old UF microbiology and 
cell sciences junior, voted for the ﬁ  rst time 
after her anatomy exam. 
Wang, who is an Asian American, voted 
for Inspire Party presidential candidate Zach-
ariah Chou, who is Asian American.
She said she admires his tenacity and 
believes it will carry over into his potential 
presidency.
“He makes everything available to the 
mass of students,” Wang said. “He lets us 
feel aware of what’s going on.”
Wang said she ﬁ  lled her ballot with In-
spire’s candidates because she wasn’t as in-
formed of Impact’s candidates.
The controversy surrounding Impact Par-ty presidential candidate Michael Murphy’s 
former racially insensitive and homophobic 
Facebook posts altered Wang’s perspective 
on the election.
“I feel that what he’s said in the past, he 
still believes,” Wang said. “I don’t want to 
vote for anyone who believes those values.”. 
This election will be Dela Pena’s third 
time voting in a UF SG election. 
The 20-year-old UF economics junior 
chose not to limit himself to party lines. 
He cast a vote for Santiago Gutierrez, Im-
pact Party’s  candidate for treasurer and his 
friend. 
Dela Pena said students should come out 
to vote for what they believe in, no matter 
what the party, in order to get their voice 
heard.
“Every vote counts, even though many 
may have the opposite thinking” Dela Pena 
said. “I just wanted to do my part.”
Alligator staff writers Hannah Beatty, 
Mikayla Carroll, Lakshmi Gomez and Kelly 
Hayes contributed to this report. First day of UF Student Government election sees voter increase 
6,723 students voted Tuesday4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health Jacksonville received a new 
national ranking last Thursday.
The location was selected as one of the 
top 250 hospitals nationwide, which repre-
sents the top 5 percent, for overall clinical 
excellence by the “America’s Best Hospi-
tals for 2019” list by Healthgrades, a na-
tional organization that analyzes the qual-
ity of hospitals across the country.
Dr. Kelly Gray-Eurom, the hospital’s 
chief quality officer, who has been working 
there for over 20 years, attributes the suc-
cess to the faculty’s drive and dedication.
“Hands down, it is our culture and the 
behavior of the people that work here that sets us apart,” Gray-Eurom said.
The 250 selected hospitals represent the 
top 5 percent of hospitals nationwide, the 
top 100 represent the top 2 percent and the 
top 50 represent the top 1 percent, Gray-
Eurom said.
There is no specific ranking given to the 
Jacksonville location within the 250 hospi-
tals, she said.
Infection rates, surgical complications 
and patient satisfaction are all taken into 
account, Gray-Eurom said. The hospital 
plans to continue making improvements in 
these areas and hopes to reach the Top 100 
in the next annual report.
The list evaluated hospitals across the 
United States based on the clinical out-
comes of 32 conditions and procedures, such as heart attacks and sepsis, to deter-
mine the best 250, according to the Health-
grades report. 
UF Health Shands Hospital and North 
Florida Regional Medical Center did not 
make the list, according to the report. 
Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville and Flagler 
Hospital in St. Augustine were ranked in 
the top 2 percent while Delray Medical 
Center in Delray Beach was ranked in the 
top 1 percent, according to the report. 
This is the first time UF Health Jack-
sonville ranked on Healthgrades’ national 
list, Dan Leveton, a hospital spokesperson, 
said.
“Rankings, while we’ve been doing bet-
ter in them, sometimes still don’t tell the 
full story,” Leveton said. “I’ve been work-ing here 10 years and wouldn’t want to 
work anywhere else.”UF Health Jacksonville ranked in the top 5 percent of hospitals nationwide  
North Florida Regional Medical Center and UF Health Shands Hospital did not rank
10 Florida hospitals total made the list. Here 
are a few other Healthgrades nationally 
ranked hospitals in Florida:
T op 5 percent:
Gulf Coast Medical Center 
Lee Memorial Hospital 
T op 2 percent:
Flagler Hospital, Saint Augustine 
Mayo Clinic Jacksonville 
T op 1 percent:
Delray Medical Center, Delray Beach
THEY HAVE A BOND OF 
$15,000 AND $5,000
By Katherine  
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
When a deputy asked two men 
why they were near a stolen car 
Monday, one lied about living with 
an aunt nearby and the other said he 
was going home and jumped a fence 
to get there.
Deputies were told three teen-agers were breaking into cars near 
7200 SW Eighth Ave. at about 12 
a.m., according to an Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Office arrest report. A 
deputy found Reginald Lamar Hines, 
19, of Gainesville, going into a car 
and Tavellion Shaqur Ullah, 18, of 
Gainesville, walking on the road. 
When the deputy spoke with 
them, Hines said he lives in the 
neighborhood with his aunt, the re-
port said. The resident of the apart-
ment that Hines told the deputy 
about said the defendant was lying.
Ullah told the deputy he was walking home from a friend’s house 
at Reflections Apartments, at 205 
SW 75th St., the report said. 
After being arrested, Hines told 
the deputy he was walking to the 
store and was afraid when he saw 
them so he went into a random car, 
the report said. Ullah said jumping a 
fence was the fastest way home from 
his friend’s house.
The deputy found that Hines 
went into a stolen car with a hand-
gun under the passenger seat, the 
report said. 
During a search of the men, a flashlight was found on Hines and a 
blue glove, black glove and multiple 
wet wipes were in Ullah’s pocket, 
the report said.
A victim identified the men as the 
people they saw breaking into cars, 
the report said.
The men told the deputy they 
were not involved in the burglary 
and did not know each other, the 
report said. 
In 2016, Ullah was accused of 
driving a stolen scooter, according to 
court records. Ullah was not found 
guilty of the crime.Hines was charged with posses-
sion of an unlicensed firearm, grand 
theft of a motor vehicle and burglary 
of an unoccupied conveyance, the 
report said. Ullah was charged with 
possession of tools for burglary and 
burglary of an unoccupied convey-
ance.
Both remained in the Alachua 
County Jail Monday. Hines has a 
$15,000 bond and Ullah has a $5,000 
bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgTwo men accused of stealing from stolen car, deputies saysome activities at fairs are dishonest.
“You have these games of chance 
where you end up winning these gi-
ant stuffed animals that were made 
in foreign countries with toxic ma-
terials that no one wants,” he said.
The fair will take place at the 
Canterbury Equestrian Center, at 
23100 W. Newberry Road, Peebles 
said. The county is in the process of 
buying the land. 
Peebles said she is pleased with 
the board’s choice made by the 
board and is thankful it took the 
staff’s recommendations into ac-
count. 
“The board really took a thought-
ful approach on how to handle this,” 
she said. “Two weeks ago, staff 
asked the board to allow the fair as-
sociation to reconcile their discrep-
ancies and now they had a clear an-
swer to be able to make a decision.”
Hutchinson cited several local 
festivals, such as Vegfest and the  
Hoggetowne Medieval Faire, to ex-
plain what he was hoping the new 
event to include. 
“I’m hoping that we create our 
own sort of quirky fair or carni-
val that are much more attuned to 
the people of Alachua County,” 
Hutchinson said.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgFAIR,  from pg. 1County to buy 
fairgrounds
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Discussing diversity 
PJ Jones, the assistant director of UF Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs, speaks to a room of about 15 women Tuesday evening during 
a Respect, Equity and Allyship for Leaders T alk workshop with the 
theme of “becoming allies. ” The UF Bateman T eam, along with the 
Women’s Student Association and the Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs, sponsored the two-hour session, which included topics such as 
race, gender and cultural biases.
reached his arm out toward Heyliger who then slapped it away and 
said, “Don’t touch me. Don’t touch me. Don’t touch me.”
There is video footage of the incidents, both of which Heyliger 
reported to dispatch, records said.
Based on the contract between the city and the Amalgamated 
Transportation Union, which represents RTS drivers, the issue of 
her termination would be settled by an arbitrator, which is an out-
side party that officially settles disputes. 
“Normally, arbitration is great,” said Eric Lindstrom, Heyliger’s 
attorney. “Arbitration is a way for both sides to resolve disputes 
very quickly and very inexpensive relative to lawsuits.”
The arbitrator, Joe Harris Jr., reviewed evidence such as the bus 
videos, other similar RTS incidents and testimonies from some of 
Heyliger’s passengers, records said. 
In 2016, the arbitrator ruled that the city unfairly fired Heyliger 
and should reinstate her with back pay, according to court records. 
Instead of accepting the ruling, the city filed a lawsuit against the 
union, which represents RTS drivers.
The court ruled in the city’s favor, which reversed the original 
decision, records said. The union appealed the court’s ruling and 
it moved on to the Florida First District Courts of Appeal, which 
decided to uphold the arbitrator’s original decision.
The city spent about $44,000 to file a lawsuit against the union, 
records said. 
Heyliger declined to comment and referred questions to Lind-
strom. Lindstrom said Heyliger loved being a bus driver, which 
she started in 2001 and began working at a gas station after she 
was fired. 
“Desiree really is a friendly, outgoing, loving, caring person, so 
she made friends really quickly with a lot of her patrons,” Lind-
strom said. “Her livelihood was taken away from her.”
Lindstrom said that when she was fired, she was devastated. 
“Any attorney would love to have a case go to the supreme 
court and be able to argue before the Supreme Court,” Lindstrom 
said. “But for Desiree, it’s just so important that she goes back to 
work. She can’t have any further delay.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgLAWSUIT,  from pg. 1She works at a gas stationWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner 
any day of the week. Come in and check out 
one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out 
nothing but goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for 
lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven tandoor 
cooking for succulent Halal beef, chicken, lamb, 
and goat made fresh daily for tikka masalas, 
vindaloos,  kormas, and paneers. Vegetarian 
and vegan available too! Daily lunch specials 
include rice, naan, appetizers, salad, desserts. 
Open Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order ahead www.
kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 13th St. 
352-792-6764.BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 5am -7pm  
Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUTBy Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
UF researchers can now assess 
and treat a patient’s condition fast-
er than ever before with advanced 
artiﬁ  cial intelligence technology.
Dr. Azra Bihorac, a UF college 
of medicine and surgery professor, 
and Parisa Rashidi, a UF biomedi-
cal engineering assistant professor, 
published research last Tuesday in 
the Nature Scientiﬁ  c Reports jour-
nal about a system that speeds up 
and more accurately determines a 
patient’s condition using artiﬁ  cial 
intelligence. 
The system Rashidi and Bihorac 
developed quickly processes a large 
amount of data at once to provide 
a clear interpretation of a patient’s 
medical condition. 
“We do have the ability to help 
people not develop these devastat-
ing complications,” Bihorac said. 
“The only way we can improve 
outcomes is by preventing them 
using this technology until we de-velop new therapies one day.”
The research started in 2014 and 
is funded by a $2 million grant from 
the National Institute of Health and 
a $500,000 grant from the National 
Science Foundation, Rashidi said.
The system is called DeepSOFA, 
or Deep Sequential Organ Failure 
Assessment, and is more efﬁ  cient 
than other models known as SOFA, 
or Sequential Organ Failure Assess-
ment, Rashidi said. A SOFA score 
is a mortality prediction determined 
using set degrees of dysfunction in 
the six organ systems.
It gives a “score” to each organ 
to rank its functionality, Rashidi 
said. This traditional system is of-
ten used in intensive care units to 
predict the in-hospital likelihood of 
death.
In one case, the SOFA system 
originally predicted a ﬁ  ve percent 
probability of death. The Deep-
SOFA system more accurately pre-
dicted a 50 to 80 percent probability 
of death, Rashidi said.
The system is better at indicat-ing when a patient needs an urgent, 
life-saving procedure, Rashidi said.
The DeepSOFA can potentially 
help patients in intensive care or fa-
tal conditions, Rashidi said. Deep-
SOFA lets doctors know exactly 
which patients need the most im-
mediate medical attention ﬁ  rst.
The algorithm developed by the 
team is patent pending by UF, Biho-
rac said. The technology has been 
tested for effectiveness using data 
from more than 85,000 prior pa-
tients at UF Health Shands Hospital 
and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center in Boston. To test effective-
ness, each of the hospitals com-
pared their own SOFA model data 
results with the DeepSOFA model.
“The next step in this is develop-
ing platforms and tools that can be 
used in real time,” Bihorac said. “In 
the future, we want our technology 
to be able to be applied at the bed-
side to assist physicians practicing 
medicine.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgNew UF technology uses artiﬁ  cial intelligence 
to help predict patient mortality rates 
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Police arrested a fourth suspect in 
a ﬁ  ve-person August home invasion 
Monday. He thought he was going to 
buy cannabis but allegedly ended up 
being a part of the crime. 
Cameron Hardy, 30, of 
Gainesville, is the most recent per-
son accused of robbing The Niche 
Student Apartments, at 4000 SW 
37th Blvd., according to a Gainesville 
Police report. 
The men previously arrested were 
Derion’te Tre-Sean Robinson, 19, of 
Gainesville; Justin Bradley Ramer, 
21, of High Springs; and Kenny Keon 
Hall, 22, of Gainesville, police said. 
One suspect is still unknown.
Hardy told police he went to the 
apartment complex to buy weed, but 
he saw Ramer put on a mask and the 
rest of the group pull out guns, the 
report said. The ﬁ  ve suspects tried to steal weed from 
an apartment 
resident. When a 
man answered, 
Robinson forced 
his way inside 
holding a gun. 
After stealing 
the man’s Xbox, 
the group realized 
they were stealing from the wrong 
person, police said. Then, Robinson 
put the gun to the back of the man’s 
head, walked him to his roommate’s 
room and demanded cannabis.
Robinson ﬁ  red his gun but didn’t 
hit anyone. 
Hardy was charged with home 
invasion robbery with a ﬁ  rearm and 
false imprisonment, the report said. 
Hardy remained in the Alachua 
County Jail Tuesday in lieu of a 
$300,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgMan accused of being 
part of a home robbery
Hardy
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Vote! You’ll even get 
a sticker out of it
We’ve given our opinion on who you should cast 
your vote for in the Student Government elections 
(hello, it was in the opinions section and is on-
line), but now it’s your turn to decide. Consider 
this a friendly reminder that whether or not you 
vote, SG has control of nearly $21 million that’s taken from 
UF students from student fees. So, maybe take ﬁ  ve minutes 
out of your day to vote, so you can have some control over 
where that money goes. And if you have voted, congratula-
tions, we appreciate it.
In every election, people complain about voter turnout, 
and it’ll most likely happen again. The reporters at The Al-
ligator have given you the tools you need to be informed on 
the candidates and political parties. If you aren’t going to 
read up on the candidates to vote, at least do it to understand 
what’s happening on the Facebook group “Swampy memes 
for top 10 public teens.” Now that you’re educated, and you 
have your own opinion on the parties, you might as well go 
out and vote.
Understanding how much power SG actually has is over-
whelming. They have the power to make a study space 24 
hours (the wrong one, but hey, it’s still power). They’ve 
implemented blue lights across campus, a step in the right 
direction for safety. And they have the power to allocate how 
much money your favorite student organization is going to 
get next year. SG has power, but so do you. 
We want to help you to make your own informed opinion. 
What party you align yourself with is your prerogative, but 
we understand there are a multitude of inﬂ  uences to sway 
your opinion during election season. If you’re one of those 
people trying to decide how to vote, just take an extra second 
to make sure you’re voting how you want to.
Unfortunately, online voting is still not an option here at 
UF, so we can’t offer you another alternative to physically 
walking to a polling site, which is a major oversight of SG 
for anyone who is unable to get to a physical polling site, be 
it from distance, disability or any other reason. For those of 
you who are lucky enough to be at UF in person, you could 
even think of it as “exercising” your civic duty. See, we’ve 
even resorted to dad jokes to try to get you to vote – there is 
no lower point. Don’t let our effort be in vain.
Today is the last day to vote, and there is no way you 
can forget it. There will be a ton of people in Impact Party 
and Inspire Party shirts milling around campus today with 
phrases that will almost certainly include some kind of word 
play involving “Mike” and “Chou.” We’re not the only ones 
who can appreciate a good pun.
Not voting today is easy, but you still have to live with 
the consequences of your actions. You don’t get to complain 
when SG does something you don’t agree with if you are 
choosing not to vote. It’s the same as any regular election 
cycle. You all preach about voter turnout in midterm and 
primary elections and how millennials don’t vote, but when 
it comes to actually showing up to the polls, you ﬁ  nd ev-
ery excuse not to. UF is supposed to be a school that other 
schools can look up to.  There’s no denying there are major 
fundamental issues at UF, and that there are things in need of 
change. Don’t let complacency stop you from making a real 
difference with your vote. Vote with your conscience. You’ll 
even get a sticker to add to your laptop. 
Drunk driving is horrible, and there is no excuse 
According to the Foundation for Alco-
hol Responsibility, deaths caused by 
drunk driving crashes have decreased 
by 48 percent since 1982. This is a 
hopeful statistic, but the nation has a 
way to go before the problem of drunk driving 
is completely eliminated. The Global Status 
Report on Road Safety from 2015 shows that 
the U.S. is the nation with the third-highest 
number of road accident deaths involving al-
cohol, behind only South Africa and Canada.
I am naive to the amount of drunk driving happening 
where I live. I know drunk driving is one of the dumbest 
and most reckless actions someone can do. For many, 
it is a no-brainer that drunk driving is completely out 
of the question. However, others have successfully done 
it and continue to do it, assuming there won’t be any 
repercussions. 
Young people are directly affected by drunk driving, 
and students in college towns are at a high risk of danger 
in these situations. The National Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety 
Administration collected data in 2017 showing that the 
highest percentage of drunk drivers in deathly crashes 
that year (27 percent) were 21 to 24 years old. It is easy 
for drunk people to convince themselves they still have 
the necessary brain functions and motor skills to cor-
rectly operate a vehicle. People are more conﬁ  dent and 
impulsive when they are inebriated.
Even if nobody is killed or injured by a drunk driver, 
DUIs are hard to bounce back from. They typically in-
volve a hefty ﬁ  ne and a probation period, where conse-
quences are harsher if a second offense is committed. At 
that point, it is more worth it to just pay for a ride home. 
Drunk driving has become even more avoidable 
since ride-sharing services, such as Uber and Lyft, were 
launched. Many people prefer these apps over taxi ser-vices because you can get more information 
about your ride and see the exact cost before 
the trip begins. Some people resort to drunk 
driving because they can’t afford to use these 
services. UF students can take advantage of 
the UF Uber Safe Rides Program. UF’s Student 
Government and Uber have formed a partner-
ship offering students rides within a speciﬁ  c 
zone around UF’s campus 25 percent off on 
Wednesdays through Saturdays from 9 p.m. 
to 3 a.m. More information about the program 
and how to use the discount is available on UF’s website.
So how can students continue to help eliminate this 
problem? Everyone has the power to take direct action to 
make sure no one gets behind the wheel when they are 
intoxicated. It is important for everyone to share some 
guilt and take responsibility when being a bystander in 
a situation that leads to drunk driving. If you are intoxi-
cated as well, offer to pay for your friend’s ride home 
and give them some time to pay you back. If you aren’t, 
make sure your friends know they can count on you to 
pick them up and drive them home if the alternative is 
drunk driving. It is even better to ﬁ  nd a way to physically 
conﬁ  scate someone’s keys if you know they are not sober 
enough to drive.
State Farm has a list of signs that someone on the road 
is driving under the inﬂ  uence. Drunk drivers make wide 
turns and swerve around the middle of the road. They 
respond slowly to trafﬁ  c signals and stop and start ran-
domly. These are tell-tale signs that someone isn’t sober 
and shouldn’t be on the road. Do not hesitate to call 911 
if you suspect someone on the road is driving drunk. You 
could save someone’s life.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Everyone has eavesdropped. If you 
say you haven’t, you’re lying. Some 
people describe eavesdropping as 
something only nosy or invasive 
people do. I don’t agree. I often ﬁ  nd 
myself in places surrounded by people: a 
bus, a classroom, a restaurant, a library. 
You name it. In these places, people talk a 
lot, and there are times when I can’t help 
but listen.
For example, I remember a time when I lived in 
the dorms. I was in one of the common areas mind-
ing my own business, quietly seated reading a book 
on the couch. Out of nowhere, a girl comes into the 
room. She’s on the phone, and the conversation she’s 
having has her upset. My eyes meet hers, and she 
looks away. I attempt to continue reading my book, 
but her conversation progressed from angry whispers 
to full blown yelling. I sit 
my book on the coffee table 
and begin to scroll on my 
phone. I don’t know when 
or how it happened, but 
somehow, I become fully 
engrossed in her conversa-
tion. I learn the other person on the line is her boy-
friend. Apparently, it is a long-distance relationship 
that is hanging on a thread. The girl is worried that 
her boyfriend is becoming distant and possibly see-
ing someone else.
I don’t know when it happened, but I started re-
acting to her conversation with my “uh-uh,” “um-
um” and the occasional “oh, no girl.” At this point, 
I forgot that I was supposed to be quietly eavesdrop-
ping, but instead, I inserted myself into their entire 
conversation. It wasn’t until I said, “Girl, you need 
to leave him,” did I realize what I had done. The girl 
looked at me and chuckled. She ended the conversa-
tion with her boyfriend and looked at me. At that 
moment, I was ready to apologize. How could I have 
been so rude? What came next shook me to my core. 
She apologized to me. I was in the wrong, and yet, 
she apologized and quietly left the room. 
I learned two valuable lessons that day. First, I 
have to ﬁ  nd a better way to eavesdrop. Second, peo-
ple are aware of your eavesdropping. If you think 
you can hide it, stop right there. Eight times out of 
10, the person knows you’re listening. So you have 
to learn to be respectful when you're doing it. Eavesdropping isn’t something normal 
people wake up and decide to do. Often-
times, eavesdropping isn’t intentional. It 
doesn’t mean you’re a horrible person. 
Instead, eavesdropping is just something 
many of us have been doing out of habit. 
So when is it okay to eavesdrop?
Well, it all depends. People have been 
using technology to listen into other peo-
ple’s conversation for years. That’s not 
eavesdropping. That’s spying. If you have to go be-
hind someone’s back and use technology to listen to 
something, then you shouldn’t be listening to it. Stop 
being weird. Put down the phone and mind your 
business, and you should never eavesdrop with the 
intention of hurting someone.
If someone is in the privacy of their own home, 
room, ofﬁ  ce etc., then it’s not okay. Clearly, the per-
son separated themselves 
from people in order to 
have a private conversation 
with someone else. There-
fore, you should respect 
that and leave them alone. 
However, if someone will-
ingly has a private conversation in a common area or 
in public with everyone else, then it’s fair game. You 
can’t have a conversation with people in a room and 
not expect them to listen. So if you don’t want to be 
eavesdropped on, make the proper arrangements to 
not be in a public setting.
There are many times when eavesdropping can 
work to your advantage.  In high school, I overheard 
a conversation about UF’s application deadline. I 
made a mental note to myself, and the rest is history. 
If I didn’t eavesdrop on that conversation, there’s a 
high chance that I would have forgotten about the 
application deadline, and I would have never be-
come a Gator. And then I would never be here, giv-
ing you advice on eavesdropping. 
All in all, eavesdropping has been a part of our so-
ciety since the dawn of time. Now it's just more pre-
alent with the use of cellphones. We all do it, even 
if you admit to it or not. It’s become something that 
we are wired to do. When done correctly, it doesn’t 
have to be a bad thing.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. Her col-
umn normally appears on Fridays.We are all guilty of eavesdropping; 
listening to others is part of human natureColumn
From the rumors of Impact 
Party corruption to allegations 
of Inspire Party ineptitude, stu-
dents will hear it in the presiden-
tial debate, Senate livestreams 
and each time campaign season 
comes around. When there are 
two parties, scandal and contro-
versy ensue. 
I have been fairly active in 
the Student Government Senate 
and have had the privilege of 
working with both parties. I am 
not a senator, but I have had my 
voice heard thanks to the bipar-
tisan efforts of the Senate. The 
following should not be taken as 
unappreciative of both parties’ 
efforts and efﬁ  ciency. 
It becomes the duty of the 
majority to pass legislation, and 
it becomes the responsibility of 
the minority to bring things to 
the majority’s attention in the 
Senate — something a non-sen-
ator could do in public debate 
and by shaking the right hands.
Bipartisanship does not 
mean cooperation. There is no 
need for cooperation when any 
one party controls two-thirds 
of the vote and has veto power 
over whatever remaining frac-
tion of the one-third remains. If 
the minority passes something, 
it is only because they were al-
lowed to.
Why do we bother with mi-
nority parties, then?
When a person who is pas-
sionate about SG does not get 
slated with the majority party, 
and is thus excluded from that 
race as anything other than an 
independent candidate, there is 
a strong incentive for them to 
start their own political party. 
From there, it is fairly easy to 
get votes by running an anti-
majority party campaign. Many 
times, a vote for the minority is 
a vote against the majority. The reason behind a minority party 
is for the opposition. Both must 
defend themselves against the 
other. 
What happens when some-
one opposes both the majority 
and minority parties? The voter 
is forced to vote for the “lesser 
of two evils,” someone who 
they did not support in the ﬁ  rst 
place. The voter feels unrepre-
sented, and turnout in the next 
election is even lower because 
the voter no longer relates to 
SG. Online voting will not ﬁ  x 
this. 
Before you know it, the Sen-
ate is passing resolutions on 
non-issues or represents only its 
partisan base because the rest 
of the Student Body will not ap-
proach the Senate about what 
really troubles them. 
The problem is bipartisanship 
because the Senate becomes un-
representative when there is an 
inability for any other party to 
gain a voice, like a third party. 
This is not about opposing the 
majority party and minority par-
ty or watering down their inﬂ  u-
ence. After all, the majority will 
likely retain their base, and the 
minority (as it currently exists) 
will always be there so long as 
there is the majority to oppose. 
This is about bringing the di-
versity of topics students want 
before SG without them feeling 
that their vote is being wasted, 
so the Senate can serve as a true 
forum of discussion for the be-
liefs of all students. Until then, 
the misrepresentation will con-
tinue to be the status quo. The 
abolition of ﬁ  rst-past-the-post 
is long overdue, and the era of 
multi-partisanship is steadily 
approaching.
Alfredo Ortiz is a UF philoso-
phy freshman. Letter to the Editor
People are expressing themselves in 
forms of media that used to be re-
served for professional companies 
and social media inﬂ  uencers: vlogs 
and podcasts.
A vlog is the video version of a blog post. 
Vloggers turn their phones to the side and 
use the camera as a means for the outside 
world to see their everyday life. It used to 
be something YouTubers did to keep fans 
updated. Seasoned YouTubers are known 
for their ﬂ  ashy production and regular 
upload schedule. But now, for those of 
us whose job title isn’t “YouTuber” with 
classes to attend and jobs to work, we can 
make videos like “A Day in My Life as a...” 
or “What I Eat in a Day.” These vlogs can 
center on more casual things anyone can 
do with just a phone and a bit of creativity. 
People go to events like concerts and 
music festivals and take the opportunity to document them from their point 
of view for the world to at least 
for their friend group.  The vid-
eos usually consist of jokes that 
viewers are in on, but the video 
style isn’t exactly Hollywood-
level production. The low-qual-
ity transitions and royalty-free 
music become a part of a joke in 
the videos, becoming something 
akin to sarcasm. People are not 
recording these videos to create award 
winning content, it's for their memories. 
For those watching, the production does 
not really matter. It’s about being able to 
see what their friends have been up to and 
the shenanigans they ﬁ  nd themselves in. 
This year, vlogs have become mainstream. 
The same goes for podcasts.
Everyone and their mom has a podcast. 
How many times have you been hanging out with your friends, laugh-
ing at their hilarious jokes and 
heard someone say, “OMG, we 
should make a podcast!” The 
idea stems from thinking you 
and your friends are the funni-
est or wittiest people you know, 
and the world deserves to get 
in on your profound jokes and 
stimulating intellectual conver-
sation.
Podcasts used to be reserved for major 
publications like NPR or The New York 
Times. Now, people are learning the ropes 
of creating and editing podcasts. Usually, 
the audio consists of a group of people 
rather than the usual one person talking to 
another person. With these new-age pod-
casts, if you tune in, it’s as if you’re lis-
tening to a group of friends having a con-
versation on the latest sports, pop culture or political news. There is the occasional 
special guest, usually another acquain-
tance not normally a part of the podcast 
commentators. With vlogs and podcasts 
becoming more mainstream, young cre-
ators ﬁ  nd a means to express and speak 
their mind in a format that seems more 
grown-up, while also not being too serious. 
We have the ability to take older forms of 
media and make it new again. 
We millennials take the modes of com-
munication and entertainment set before 
us and use them to speak to an audience 
that knows us. Popular YouTubers and 
podcast creators do not know their audi-
ences personally. Chances are, you prob-
ably know someone with a podcast or vlog.
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism ju-
nior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Here's why vlogs and podcasts are the new way millennials document their livesColumnAnede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org“I learned two valuable lessons that day. 
First, I have to ind a better way to 
eavesdrop. Second, people are aware 
of your eavesdropping ”Bipartisanship is the problemWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
‘Finding Neverland’: An Actor Spotlight
We talked with one of the stars of the national tour 
performing at the Phillips Center, Friday pg 10Horoscopes
Find out what the stars have in store for your week, pg 10By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
“Black Panther” is one of Marvel’s 
most successful ﬁ  lms of 2018. The ﬁ  lm 
brings the hero’s world to life — allowing 
viewers to experience Wakanda with it’s 
incredible culture and futuristic technol-
ogy. Perhaps more importantly, it gives 
black audiences the chance to ﬁ  nally see 
a powerful superhero who looks like them 
on the big screen and achieve roaring suc-
cess.
Wakanda is a ﬁ  ctional hidden country 
in sub-Saharan Africa and is the home of 
the world’s strongest metal, vibranium. 
The metal allows the country to be more technologically advanced 
than the rest of the world. 
After losing its king, 
T’Chaka (John Kani), 
Wakanda crowns Prince 
T’Challa (Chadwick Bose-
man) as it’s new rightful 
heir and protector, the 
Blank Panther. 
Then, a long-lost cous-
in, Erik Killmonger (Mi-
chael B. Jordan), demands 
to be considered king, so 
he can use Wakanda’s 
technology to help his oppressed broth-
ers and sisters in America. This leads to a 
civil war and the dethroning of T’Challa.
Overall, the ﬁ  lm is beautiful and en-
thralling, while also shining light on the 
constant oppression African-Americans 
have faced for decades. 
“Black Panther” gives young black 
people a superhero to look up to and 
a reminder that everyone should be 
treated equally. Good luck to everyone 
who worked on the ﬁ  lm and remember: 
Wakanda forever!
acamargo@alligator.org
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
The retelling of Freddie Mercury’s life 
may be the champion of the box ofﬁ  ce 
and Oscar night. 
Set in the 1970s, the ﬁ  lm, directed by 
Bryan Singer, attempts to share the story 
of the life of music legend and frontman 
to music group Queen, Freddie Mercury 
(Rami Malek). 
The ﬁ  lm opens with a brief begin-
ning scene of Mercury, whose birth name 
was Farrokh Bulsara. He was bullied for 
his large teeth but found his way when 
he stepped in as the 
lead singer of the band 
Smile. 
The ﬁ  lm takes us 
through the develop-
ment of Queen from a 
United Kingdom sensa-
tion to a global house-
hold name, as well as 
the ups and downs of 
Mercury’s life. 
Many critics found 
it especially interesting 
that the ﬁ  lm writers 
and directors decided 
to brieﬂ  y touch on 
Mercury’s health com-plications by depicting his battle with the 
fatal illness AIDS; at one point, there is 
a scene with Mercury coughing up blood 
into a napkin. 
Although the ﬁ  lm frequently shows his 
tumultuous relationship with Mary Austin 
(Lucy Boynton), whom he never actually 
marries, it also explores ow he questioned 
sexuality and had an increased interest in 
men. 
While some have criticized the ﬁ  lm for 
not delving deeper in the life of Mercury 
or Queen, others have praised the open-
ness of its depiction.By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Tied with “Roma” for the most Os-
car nominations this year, this historical 
drama depicts the age-old tale of family 
members battling to be the most loved 
and the best. 
Taking place in the 18th century, 
“The Favourite” follows cousin Sarah 
Churchill (Rachel Weisz) and Abigail 
Hill (Emma Stone) who are now in com-petition with each other to be the most 
trusted of the monarchy for the fortune. 
In 1711, Queen Anne appointed Hill 
to be Keeper of the Privy Purse, revers-
ing the fortunes that were originally go-
ing to Sarah Churchill, who was once 
one of the queen’s most trusted advis-
ers. 
Throughout the ﬁ  lm, Hill and 
Churchill engage in different come-
dic acts and contests vying for Queen 
Anne’s affection with no guidelines or 
rules to declare a true 
winner. 
The R-rated ﬁ  lm not 
only did well during its 
ﬁ  rst week of release, 
but it has continued to 
get large numbers in 
the box ofﬁ  ce after its 
Golden Globe nomina-
tion. However, some 
history buffs have crit-
icized the ﬁ  lm’s inac-
curacies.
@manertt 
tmaner@alligator.orgBy Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
A black man uses his white colleague to 
help him inﬁ  ltrate and breakdown the Ku 
Klux Klan during the 1970s — sounds like 
almost everything could go wrong. 
That is the basic plot for the 2018 ﬁ  lm 
directed by award-winning director Spike 
Lee, which is now Oscar nominated for 
best picture and best director. 
Premiering in box ofﬁ  ces on Aug. 10, 
the ﬁ  lm offers a horrifyingly realistic look 
into race relations in America during that 
tumultuous time and brings light to the di-visive nature that society is in today. 
Spike Lee’s drama follows the real-life 
story of Colorado Springs rookie police of-
ﬁ  cer Ron Stallworth as he becomes part of 
the “organization” and developing relation-
ships with members including the Grand 
Wizard David Duke to ﬁ  nd and reveal in-
formation regarding military connections 
within the Ku Klux Klan.
Adding to the impact of the ﬁ  lm is the 
closing montage, which features clips of 
the actual 2017 white supremacist rally 
in Virginia and includes video of the car 
that struck counter-protesters and killed 
32-year-old Heather Heyer. ‘Black Panther’: the superhero we neededThe team gives our takes on the nominees for Best Picture 
before the 91st Academy Awards on Sunday Feb. 24.
‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ rocks the big screen Was this your ‘Favourite’ film of 2018 ‘BlacKkKlansman’: unveiling a true story 
and how it still relates today
OSCARS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
“Vice” is about power. It’s a dark bio -
graphical comedy about Dick Cheney’s 
rise to become one of the most powerful, 
yet problematic, vice presidents of U.S. 
history. 
However, it did not start this way. 
When all seems lost for Cheney (Christian 
Bale) after his Yale dropout, it is his part -
ner, Lynne Vincent (Amy Adams), who 
convinces him to pull himself together. 
After tapping into Washington, D.C., 
with a congressional internship, Cheney is 
soon launched into the rest of the politi -
cal sphere through serving positions such 
as White House chief of staff, secretary 
of defense under George H.W. Bush and eventually chosen as George W. Bush’s 
running mate.
Intertwined in this ambitious tale, how -
ever, are some of the dark political ac -
tions that Cheney supervises in the Bush 
administration, including using 9/11 as 
an excuse to invade Iraq, supporting en -
hanced interrogation tactics and calling for 
increased warrantless surveillance of U.S. 
citizens. 
Cheney is certainly not the perfect poli -
tician, but Bale’s performance makes him 
somewhat sympathetic anyway.
Director Adam McKay weaves together 
an eerily grotesque, yet compelling story 
that draws viewers into the semi-factua 
and speculative life of Cheney.
Sarahan@alligator.org
@sarahan921By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
“A Star Is Born”  is the fourth Holly-
wood version of this tragic tale: Two tal-
ented musicians fall in love thanks to their 
undeniable chemistry on stage. 
Lady Gaga’s character, Ally, is a wait-
ress who doesn’t realize her full potential 
for stardom until Jackson Maine (Bradley 
Cooper, who also directed the film) takes 
her under his wing. 
Maine drunkenly stumbles into a Hol-
lywood drag club after performing under 
the influence of alcohol and drugs. Even 
in a drunken state, Maine is seduced by 
Ally’s powerful yet angelic voice when 
she performs a French song, “La Vie en 
Rose.” 
Unable to let her go, he convinces Ally 
to perform a duet of her original song “Shallow.” It’s an instant hit with the 
roaring crowd. This scene is the beginning 
of Ally’s uphill climb to fame while Jack 
spirals out of control — losing his music 
career in the process. 
Besides the phenomenal cast and mov-
ie soundtrack, “A Star Is Born” won me 
over because it shows the audience a tired 
cliche in a fresh way: Only you can stand 
in the way of your dreams. Ally might 
not be the classic definition of beauty, 
but she is still a gorgeous and deserving 
star. Shame on all those who told her she 
wouldn’t go anywhere in the music indus-
try with her “looks.”
The film challenges Hollywood’s idea 
of what it means to be beautiful and fo-
cuses on the success of a strong female 
character. 
@vanessablankie
Vblankenship@alligator.orgBy Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Shot in black-and-white and in pan-
oramic style, “Roma” is a cinematic mas-
terpiece that makes its ten Oscar nomina-
tions well deserved. Directed by Alfonso 
Cuarón, the Mexican director of “Gravity” 
(2013) and “Harry Potter and the Prisoner 
of Azkaban” (2004), “Roma” follows the 
story of Cleo (Yalitza Aparicio), a live-in 
maid for a white, upper middle-class fam-
ily in the Mexican city of Colonia Roma. 
The film conveys a mood and emotion 
that tells a story through the characters’ 
intimacy with one another. Each scene 
conveys such emotion and beauty that if 
it were shot in color, overstimulation and distraction would occur. 
Available to stream on Netflix, this is 
the perfect film to watch by yourself. More-
over, the company scoring this nomination 
is an amazing feat in their struggle to be 
taken seriously as a production company.
The film’s plot is never jaw-dropping or 
mind-shattering, but it tells a compelling 
tale that many have never thought of, or 
probably gazed past. At the end, there is a 
sense of satisfaction. I, myself, was put to 
ease by it. Usually at the end of a movie, 
audiences discuss and express “what ifs” 
or “should have beens,” but the poetic and 
reverie-ness of “Roma” leaves us silent and 
still. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.orgBy Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Editor
After years of slowly diversifying the 
Academy, “Green Book” seems to be the 
pick of the remaining faction of old white 
men. The film is “based on true events” in 
the story of an acclaimed black musician’s 
tour through the Deep South with a racist 
white driver who changes his attitude to-
ward race during the journey.
I’ll offer praise where I can: This film 
had phenomenal performances from Ma-
hershala Ali, who played Dr. Don Shirley, 
and Viggo Mortensen, who portrayed Frank 
“Tony Lip” Vallelonga. It also had absolute-
ly stunning cinematography. 
My criticisms have one overarching 
theme. Dr. Don Shirley, the complicated, 
famous musician, should have been the 
protagonist. Shirley remains an enigma 
throughout the story with only hints of his 
mysterious life. His ambitious sexuality, in-
tense loneliness in living between racial cul-
tures, and his backstory 
only make flighting ap-
pearances. 
Moreover, after the 
movie’s release, Shir-
ley’s family came out 
with accusations that 
this was an inaccurate 
portrayal of the man 
they knew and loved. 
His nephew, Edwin 
Shirley III, and brother 
Maurice Shirley, said 
the film twisted truths 
and manipulated a cordial work relationship into a touching 
friendship.
This film was co-written and co-pro-
duced by the driver’s son, Nick Vallelonga. 
It’s not difficult to imagine that his father 
was deeply affected by this trip and ex-
plained these tales to his son in a more ro-
mantic light than that of reality. 
However, the film’s focus on Vallelon-
ga’s evolution rather than Shirley’s misses a 
lot of potential salience for the story. More-
over, Tony’s “teaching” moments wherein 
he describes parts of African American cul-
ture to the highly educated black man are 
particularly grating — especially when he 
claims to be “more black.”
Overall, it’s a beautiful movie with won-
derful acting. The story had true potential 
but was centered entirely under the wrong 
framework. If this film wins, it will be an-
other step back for the Oscars on their tu-
multuous road to inclusion. 
@lindseybreneman
Lbreneman@alligator.org
‘Vice’ has the power to humanize Dick Cheney Gaga and Cooper shine in ‘A Star is Born’Netflix’s ‘Roma’ gives the production 
company legitimacy in the art fieldWhen white people romanticize our histories, 
we get films like ‘Green Book’
REVIEW OF THE POPULAR FESTIVAL, 
III POINTS
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Filled with mesmerising visual art and music, 
the Miami music festival III Points returned for its 
sixth installment after a 16-month hiatus. 
In the Wynwood Art District at the Mana Wyn-
wood Convention Center, the festival set-up provid-
ed for musical experiences both inside and outside 
with seven stages, each one providing audiences 
with entertainment both visually and audibly.
The Skate Space stage transformed part of the 
convention center into an indoor roller rink. Those 
brave enough to strap on a pair of free rental skates 
whizzed around the elevated DJ booth while whim-
sical projections ﬂ  ashed on the ground as people 
skated in circles to the groovy electronic music. 
Although never over-kill, the festival’s produc-
tion still managed to transport audiences with the 
use of art and light. In Boiler Room, viewers feel 
as if they left Miami and walked into a simplistic 
NYC club with projected lips and eyeballs sprinkled around to keep things interesting. Whichever stage 
you found yourself dancing at, your ears and eyes 
were kept busy. 
The festival was open from 5 p.m. to 5 a.m. The 
later start time was enacted so people would not 
rush to get to the grounds. The end time may seem 
extreme, but with multiple acts going on, there was 
always music to listen to if one desired to explore in 
the early morning hours. 
Artists like Virtual Self (also known as Porter 
Robinson) and James Murphy (from LCD Sound-
system) kept the energy up close to dawn at Main 
Frame, the unofﬁ  cial secondary stage reserved for 
electronic and rap acts. 
Although many acts performed throughout the 
night, some of the major headliners, like SZA, 
Erykah Badu and A$AP Rocky, started much later 
than their set times. A$AP Rocky and Erykah Badu 
were over 30 minutes behind schedule. 
Another drawback was the festival lacked 
enough water reﬁ  ll stations. The festival environ-
ment requires audiences to have easy access to wa-
ter. 
For anyone anticipating to attend the festival 
next year, be warned: The concrete kills your back. 
It took me a while to realize 
why my back hurt so much 
until I realized the concrete 
allows for little to no impact 
absorption. 
Overall, III Points show-
cased a diverse range of art-
ists, from R&B to rap to house 
to what I would describe as 
“whale EDM.” The festival is 
worth attending, especially 
with one-day tickets avail-
able, which made it afford-
able for those wanting a taste 
but not the ﬁ  nancial plunge 
of a three-day event. The Mi-
ami music festival returned 
in full groovy, dark, melodic 
force and hopefully will make 
a name for themselves in the 
years to come. 
@Jackiedef7
Jdefreitas@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
PROFESSIONAL ACTRESS 
EMMANUELLE ZEESMAN 
DISCUSSES HER ARTISTIC 
JOURNEY
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
On Friday, Gainesville residents 
are invited to reconnect with their 
inner child in the national tour of 
“Finding Neverland.” Before the 
show, actress Emmanuelle Zeesman 
gave us a sneak peak into a show 
she said is one of a kind.
The Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts will present the U.S. 
National Tour of “Finding Never-
land” on Feb. 22 at 7:30 p.m. It is a 
musical, based off true events, about 
how playwright J.M. Barrie brought 
his story of Peter Pan to life through 
courage, hope and a childlike imagi-
nation.
Barrie struggles to garner atten-tion and fame for his work and is 
about to lose hope when he meets 
widow mother Sylvia and her four 
boys: Jack, George, Michael and Pe-
ter. Barrie gains inspiration for a sto-
ry when he helps Peter learn to love 
life and play again. Barrie develops 
the story of Peter Pan in 1904 Lon-
don, a dreary and unlikely setting 
for the production of the successful 
children’s play. 
Emmanuelle Zeesman portrays 
the role of Mrs. du Maurier, Sylvia’s 
disapproving mother who is skepti-
cal of Barrie and his childlike imagi-
nation. 
Zeesman began acting around the 
age of 10 in children’s theatre and 
has pursued her passion for musical 
theatre since. She graduated from 
the University of Windsor in Ontario, 
Canada with a bachelor’s degree in 
musical theatre performance and a 
minor in classical voice. 
Upon graduation, Zeesman land-
ed a job with a Canadian theater company called A Company of Fools, 
in which she performed Shakespeare 
in the Park during summers and 
worked as an actor and musician. 
Since moving to the United States, 
she has performed in numerous U.S. 
national tours and off-broadway pro-
ductions. She has been working con-
sistently as an actor since her college 
graduation. 
“A Company of Fools was my 
heart,” Zeesman said. “I did not 
want to go to New York right away 
when I was cast in such a great 
place.” 
Zeesman said she needed to 
ﬁ  nd out who she really was before 
moving to New York. She has trans-
formed on stage and in her personal 
life because she has gained conﬁ  -
dence in who she is, rather than ca-
tering to what she thinks people may 
want.   
“The craft really impacted how 
open-minded I am as an individual,” 
Zeesman said. “My job is to believe everything that is written for my 
character. I’ve developed a good 
understanding of the human condi-
tion.”  
Zeesman said the most difﬁ  cult 
part of getting into her character was 
committing to a particular line about 
how children are meant to be seen 
and not heard. She had trouble be-
lieving that line, and did an exten-
sive amount of research in order to 
sympathize with her character. She 
said she read journal entries from 
that time period in order to better un-
derstand Mrs. du Maurier’s thought 
process. 
“My job as an actor is to believe 
everything I’m saying and never 
judge my character,” Zeesman said.  
Zeesman said the rehearsal pro-
cess for the show was taxing due to 
the speed at which the cast had to 
learn everything, but they all bonded 
quickly over the course of the two-
and-a-half week rehearsal period. 
Zeesman believes that a huge part of being an actor is trusting one’s 
own artistic journey and authentic-
ity. She claims that any roadblocks 
she has experienced in her acting ca-
reer had to do with trusting herself. 
Some say that women in musical 
theatre need to fall into a certain ste-
reotype or a speciﬁ  c category in or-
der to succeed, but Zeesman claims 
this is not true.
“I realized that when it comes to 
acting, less is more,” Zeesman said. 
“Our job is to shed that cookie-cutter 
stereotype, and be the real, raw hu-
man beings we are onstage.”   
Zeesman hopes, overall, that au-
diences take away the magic and 
playfulness of “Finding Neverland” 
when they see the show. 
“The audience will leave feeling 
like no matter how old they are, they 
can do anything,” Zeesman said. 
“This show is all about magic and 
believing in yourself.” 
@emmamcavoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.orgUF Performing Arts’ ‘Finding Neverland’: an actor spotlight  Jackie DeFreitas, Avenue Staff
The Skate Space area allowed for attendees to 
rollerblade around an elevated DJ.
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Aquarius: With the beginning of 
the week came the start of Pisces sea-
son, meaning it’s time to meditate and 
start thinking in romantic metaphors. 
From Thursday to Saturday, Aquarius 
feels the need to step up their already 
intense social game, but don’t burn 
yourself out.
Pisces: It’s time to party, Pisces, 
because it’s your birthday (season). 
People know you for being dreamy 
and introspective so much that you 
walk the line into delusion. It’s your 
time, so take a grasp of reality and 
make some money moves. Make sure 
your money is in check as you gear 
up for this transformative birthday 
season.
Aries: The full super moon in 
Virgo earlier this week turns you into 
a health nut. As a ﬁ  re sign full of en-
ergy, this week may be the time to try 
a form of exercise that goes against 
your basic “go, go, go” identity: yoga. 
Take a breather as a the lunar energy 
counteracts your spit-ﬁ  re energy.
Taurus: This week focuses around 
love and work for the sign symbolized 
for the bull. The ﬁ  rst half of this week 
may have both single and dating Tau-
rus’s feeling the love. The second half 
of the week calls for you to take the 
time to ﬁ  gure out how to juggle your 
life and work in a way that allows for 
you to live your life to the fullest.
Gemini: The full moon in Virgo 
sets Gemini off into an organizational 
mood. 
Cancer: Known as a homebody, 
Cancer gets out of its shell this week 
as it prepares for a change in scenery 
and perspective. Now is the time to 
plan a trip, not only because spring 
break is right around the corner, but 
also because your ruling planet cur-
rently resides in Virgo, making orga-
nization and planning seem appealing 
this week.
Leo: With your ruling planet, the 
Sun, in Pisces, you feel the passion to 
let it rip emotionally. Those who have wronged you better watch out as you 
ignite the ﬁ  re to give everyone a piece 
of your mind. Those who are lucky 
enough to have you on your good side 
will feel the intense love as you give 
them some much needed attention.
Virgo: The full super moon in this 
sign makes for a spotlight on you Vir-
go. Usually a quiet one, now is your 
time to sign with the power of the 
moon behind you. Take this radiating 
energy and harness it into a project or 
goal of yours.
Libra: Libra’s emphasis for this 
week should be money. Whether it be 
ﬁ  nding a new job, asking for a promo-
tion or tidying up your ﬁ  nances, now 
is the time to take control of your cash 
as Venus (your ruling planet) and Plu-
to (your ruling ﬁ  nancial planet) come 
together to give you the energy and 
clarity to sit down and ﬁ  nally reevalu-
ate your cash or career plan.
Scorpio: Everyone knows you 
as the mysterious sential one. This 
week, as your ruling planet of love, 
Venus, conjuncts your ruling planet, 
Pluto, it may be time to stop with the 
theatrics and let your heart speak for 
itself. Waft away that cloud of mystic, 
and tell someone just how much you 
care. 
Sagittarius: Although unlike your 
wandering, traveling self, this week 
is your time to cozy up at home and 
recuperate. It’s Pisces season, so it’s 
time to put all the partying aside and 
take a look within yourself. Stop run-
ning away from your problems be-
cause now is the perfect time to look 
inward and see what needs to be 
cleaned up. 
Capricorn: Ready to talk it up, 
Capricorn? This week the sun resides 
in your house of communication, 
making this week the ideal time to get 
your ideas across to anyone who will 
listen. If you have been meaning to 
confront a friend, lover or coworker, 
take notes from the sun’s energy, so 
your truth shines through. 
@Jackiedef7
Jdefreitas@alligator.orgThis week in the stars
THEATERUp-and-coming Miami music 
festival is a roaring successBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
Condo on the 3rd floor,Two bedrooms, 2 
baths, screened balcony, laundry room. Pool 
area. Plenty of parking, unassigned. Storage 
room. Close to UF and Santa Fe college.
Contact Mayda Owner/Agent 305 772-1950    
2-25-19-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
WANTED TO RENT:
Apt, Cottage, Efficiency, Cabin
in relatively quiet & safe area.
I have a HUD / VASH voucher 386-266-6886     
2-22-3-2
FOR RENT
2-STORY HISTORICAL HOUSE.
9-10 bedrooms starting 8-1-19.
1022 NW 3rd Ave.
Contact Brenda 352-672-8657          3-1-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
MATH TUTOR
More thank 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro-
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Busy professional looking for assistant to 
help with errands, managing household, 
etc. 3 hours/week guaranteed, $15.00/hour. 
Contact me at kathyob1961@gmail.com     
2-20-19-3-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Do you WordPress? If so, we have a job for 
you. You must have strong WP knowledge, 
be familiar with theme development and basic 
coding languages (HTML, CSS, JavaScript & 
PHP). www.dmcreativestudios.com/careers    
2-22-19-4-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring deli 
help.  Fast paced friendly environment. No 
experience needed. Reliable transportation 
a must. Applications available on site at 2327 
N W 13th Street.     2-25-5-14
We have a part time job waiting for you if 
skilled at INDESGN and can type well. Call 
Connie or Jim at (352)377-2444   3-01-05-1414 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
1. MEDICAL: What is the condition 
that carries the official name “diapho-
resis”?
2. MOVIES: Who played the presi-
dent in the film “The American Presi-
dent” (1995)?
3. HISTORY: What was the nick-
name of the Haitian president Francois 
Duvalier, who died in 1971?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: How many 
future presidents of the United States 
signed the Declaration of Indepen-
dence?
5. TELEVISION: Who was the nem-
esis of Detective Steve McGarrett in 
the original “Hawaii 5-O” TV drama?
6. SCIENCE: What is the name of 
the ocean current that warms the east-
ern seaboard of North America?
7. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the bank in the “Harry Potter” 
book series?
8. ANATOMY: Where is the pinna 
in the human body?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state is 
nicknamed the “Cornhusker State”?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the common commercial 
name of the drug called diazepam?
Answers
1. Sweating
2. Michael Douglas
3. Papa Doc
4. Two: Thomas Jefferson and John 
Adams
5. Wo Fat
6. The Gulf Stream
7. Gringotts Wizarding Bank
8. The outer ear, which is made of 
cartilage
9. Nebraska
10. Valium
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 18, 2019King Features Weekly Service
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNew side-hustle alert!
Join www.Brands.Buzz and start earning 
with your social network…consistently, every 
day! Free to register. Join today!       2-20-
19-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  Novice
1.  Disconcert 5.  Movie ____
2.  External6.  ____ coffee
3.  ____ Peninsula 7.  Spiritualist’s meeting 
4.  Sitcom BunkerOEOKIR
TRELATLIETT
SIIHR
SDEUOIT
RNIEIBACAEESN
CAEIRHANSWERS: 1A-Rookie  5A-Title  6A-Irish  7A-Seance
1D-Rattle  2D-Outside  3D-Iberian  4D-Archie  B-Star Trek2-20-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This show aired for three seasons 
before being canceled.
BONUS
By George Jasper
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, February 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gaping mouths
5 “The Sorcerer’s 
Apprentice” 
composer
10 States in an 
outdated atlas: 
Abbr.
14 Nobelist Wiesel
15 Official mandate
16 Analogous (to)
17 One way to ride a 
horse
19 Stereotypical 
pooch
20 D.C.’s 
Pennsylvania, 
e.g.
21 Named, briefly
22 Shop talk
23 One in a 
hundred?
25 Cafeteria 
worker’s cover
27 Affleck of “Gone 
Girl”
28 “Downton __”: 
PBS show
29 Dramatic 
opening?
32 Many an  
emailer
34 ’50s political 
monogram
37 Typical MLB 
pitching 
alignment, and 
a hint to this 
puzzle’s circles
41 Train stopping at 
every sta.
42 They turn litmus 
paper red
43 Does impressions 
of
44 Grazing groups
46 “Gimme a __”
48 Large goblet
50 “Haven’t the 
foggiest”
54 Bamboo lover
55 Alternative to 
fries
56 Korean 
automaker
57 Script fraction
58 Military expert, 
say
61 Sun Devils’ rival
62 Canadian fliers
63 Language of 
Pakistan
64 Riverbank 
residue
65 Govt.-backed 
bond
66 “Freeze!”DOWN
1 Small plateaus
2 Still in contention
3 Alleviate traffic 
on, perhaps
4 “Told you”
5 Exactly right
6 Milk source
7 10-time NBA  
All-Star Jason
8 Commonly 
injured knee part, 
briefly
9 Sault __ Marie
10 “On Language” 
columnist
11 Barely enjoy the 
pool?
12 First Homeland 
Security 
secretary
13 Condescending 
one
18 Place
22 First sign of fall
24 Rose’s Broadway 
beau
25 Saintly glows
26 Drive the 
getaway car, say
29 Partner of 
30-Down
30 Partner of 
29-Down
31 Remote choice
32 Ouzo flavoring33 MDW : Midway :: 
__ : O’Hare
35 Anonymous Jane
36 Peyton 
Manning’s four?
38 Educator 
Montessori
39 Adapter letters
40 Delicate handling
45 Firstborn
46 Parlor piece
47 Let up
48 Just above 
average49 One side of 
Hispaniola
50 Talk oneself up
51 School uniform 
part, perhaps
52 Foul up
53 Thoroughly enjoy
55 Early smartphone
58 Rank above cpl.
59 Coffee break 
time
60 Mercury 
astronaut 
Grissom
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Deep opera 
voices
6 Quaint “you”
10 “SOS” pop group
14 From square 
one
15 Pair on a Disney 
World hat
16 Little brook
17 *Sore loser’s 
reaction
19 Live __: party 
hearty
20 Temporary 
period
21 Clytemnestra’s 
son
23 Soap-making 
chemical
24 Often
26 Road’s end?
27 Versatile vehicle, 
for short
28 Handel’s 
“Messiah” is one
32 Vertical billiards 
stroke
35 Not fresh
36 Ambient music 
pioneer Brian
37 Apple computer
38 Fifth and newest 
member of the 
set that includes 
the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues
39 NYPD rank
40 Zero, like 
chances
41 “Full court” NBA 
defense
42 Pat Conroy’s 
“The Prince  
of __”
43 Corporate info-
sharing system
45 Hawaiian dish
46 “Chestnuts 
roasting __ open 
fire”
47 Online craft store
49 Rap sheet abbr.
52 Elks, in Canada
55 __ Kodak
57 Top poker cards
58 *Valentine 
recipient
60 Ready for 
harvesting
61 Half of Mork’s 
sign-off
62 Novelist Joyce 
Carol __
63 Smartphone 
ancestors, briefly64 Cookbook amt.
65 “Elder” Roman 
scholar
DOWN
1 Fragrant herb
2 Ecstasy’s 
opposite
3 Fry
4 “Your Highness”
5 Unappreciative 
one
6 Pedro’s “I love 
you”
7 WWII General __ 
Arnold
8 Crumbled 
sundae-topping 
cookie
9 Cold War power: 
Abbr.
10 Noble Brit
11 *Finale to fight to, 
with “the”
12 Treatment for 
gray hair
13 Swiss peaks
18 Irritate but good
22 90° from sur
25 How food may be 
seasoned
27 Trojans’ sch.
29 Male sheep
30 Thrilla in Manila 
boxer
31 “My bad!”32 Revealing skirt
33 Protein building 
block
34 *Hip-hop trio with 
a condimental 
name
35 “Peter Pan” 
pirate
38 Reception server
39 Three, on a 
sundial
41 Breathe heavily
42 Kid’s favorite 
store, often44 Elevates
45 10th-grader’s 
exam, for short
48 Start a golf hole
49 Vintage violin
50 Megan’s “Will & 
Grace” role
51 Anxious
52 __ speed: “Star 
Trek” rate
53 Fails to be
54 Q-tip
56 Greenish-blue
59 Nav. rank16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Baggarly wins share of AllState Sugar Bowl title
Sophomore Addie Baggarly ﬁ  nished even par at the tournament, one of 
only two golfers to do so. The Gators ﬁ  nished tied for fourth out of 18 teams, 
ﬁ  nishing with a team score of 24 over par.Florida lacrosse goalkeeper Haley 
Hicklen (pictured) earned AAC 
Defender of the Week, and Lindsey 
Ronbeck was named AAC Attacker 
of the Week.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Mike White knows that opportuni-
ties are becoming scarce. 
The Gators men’s basketball coach 
noted the resolve his team has shown 
lately, responding to a three-game skid 
with back-to-back wins over Vander-
bilt and Alabama.
But it doesn’t stop there.
“I like that we’re coming off a game 
that we played very well, of course,” 
White said of Florida’s 71-53 win over 
the Crimson Tide. “Played very well to 
win in Tuscaloosa, and so it’s a good 
sign. Hopefully there’s another one 
of those in us or a few of those in us, 
preferably every game.”
The Gators only have six more 
chances in the regular season to repli-
cate the success they had against Ala-
bama, and they’ll start with tonight’s 
matchup against No. 13 LSU in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana. 
The Tigers have won 14 of their last 
15 games, and they took down then-
No. 5 Kentucky and Georgia on the 
road last week.
LSU’s offensive efﬁ  ciency and abil-ity to dominate the offensive boards 
stood out to White as two of the big-
gest challenges it presents.
“They can score it in the interior, 
they can pound it to a couple of guys,” 
he said. “...They’ve got guys that can 
make shots, they’ve got complimenta-
ry wings, they’re deep. They’re really 
good.”
Guard Tremont Waters leads the Ti-
gers’ offensive attack with 15.9 points 
and six assists per game, and he’s 
made a team-high 44 three-pointers 
this season. 
LSU has three other players who 
average double-ﬁ  gure scoring: forward 
Naz Reid (13.8) and guards Skylar 
Mays (13) and Javonte Smart (10.4).
Florida might match up well if it 
employs the same half-court press that 
suffocated the Alabama offense, how-
ever.
The Gators will also need to get 
the ball to their best shooters in Noah 
Locke and KeVaughn Allen. The Tigers 
aren’t great at defending the three-
ball, allowing their opponents to shoot 
nearly 34.5 percent from deep this sea-Florida focuses on attention to detail ahead of LSU matchup
To the Victor Go the Spoils / Opinion
I’ve always prided myself in 
my ability to play Pop-A-Shot. 
The fast-ﬂ  owing motion of 
transferring a ball from one 
hand to the other. A simple 
ﬂ  ick of the wrist to propel the ball 
towards the rim and in. It’s such a 
silly and simple game at its core. 
I love it. 
And as I found out on NBA 
All-Star Saturday Night, I’m pretty 
good at it, too. I won the ﬁ  rst annual NBA Pop-
A-Shot Championship in Charlotte, North Caro-
lina, on Saturday at All-Star Weekend. 
With former NBA star Shaquille O’Neal by 
my side, I held a legitimate NBA All-Star trophy 
over my head while Twitter deemed me “the 
pop-a-shot kid,” producing numerous memes 
at my expense. It was one hell of a weekend.
I’m sure you’re probably wondering why 
there’s Pop-A-Shot at All-Star Weekend and 
how I, of all people, ended up there.
Well, it’s all thanks to a man named Jonny 
Pizzo and the Miami Heat. 
Back in the 2017-18 season, the Oklahoma 
City Thunder held an oncourt Pop-A-Shot com-
petition for its fans. It was a well-received on-
court promotion, but nothing more.
Pizzo, who worked for the New Orleans Pel-
icans, then thought of an idea to do a league-wide Pop-A-Shot competition to 
pit the best against the best with 
each team’s winner representing 
its organization at All-Star Week-
end. He submitted the idea to the 
NBA, which loved it and ran with 
it. I represented my hometown 
Miami Heat in Charlotte after 
qualifying for and winning the lo-
cal championship by beating out 
132 competitors.
I thought nothing could sur-
pass competing in front of a Heat home crowd 
and winning that trip to All-Star weekend. 
Boy, was I wrong. 
There’s something about All-Star week-
ends that are so enticing as a fan. The leagues’ 
brightest and best stars all gather on one court 
to celebrate and entertain. I know the NBA All-
Star weekend sometimes gets a bad rap, but it’s 
always been my favorite. Attending it in person 
gave me a new-found appreciation for it.
My dad and I attended the Rising Stars Chal-
lenge that Friday with my sights set for Satur-
day. The next morning, we attended All-Star 
media day and practice with the Pop-A-Shot 
competition following shortly after.
All 30 competitors competed on the ﬂ  oor 
of Bojangles’ Coliseum with the top two scor-I outshot Curry at All-Star Weekend Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen scored just six points against Vanderbilt on Wednesday.
Victor Prieto 
Twitter: @victorprieto_11BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida never led.
The No. 6 Gators (3-1) dropped their 
ﬁ  rst game of 2019 to South Florida (3-1) on 
the road 6-1. The Bulls left more runners 
on base and committed two more errors 
than UF, but the Gators could not over-
come a combined two-hitter by the USF 
pitching staff.
“This was our ﬁ  rst road game, and ob-
viously we didn’t handle the stage very 
well,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said.
The Bulls scored two quick runs in the 
ﬁ  rst inning off sophomore starter Hunter 
McMullen his third career start. Nick Gon-
zalez led off with a single and came around 
to score three batters later on a ﬁ  elder’s 
choice. Austin Bodrato singled to left ﬁ  eld 
in the very next at-bat to send Jordan San-
tos home.
It was ultimately the three-hit, two-run 
ﬁ  rst inning that sunk the Gators.
The next three runs came on home runs, two by USF, one by UF. Joe Genord 
hit a solo shot in the third inning to extend 
the Bulls’ lead to 3-0. 
Freshman center ﬁ  elder Jud Fabian 
responded in the sixth inning by launch-
ing his ﬁ  rst career home run, putting the 
Gators on the board and breaking up the 
combined no-hitter. Baron Stuart left the 
Gators hitless through four innings, before 
being replaced by Richie Cruz, who al-
lowed the Fabian home run.
Chris Chatﬁ  eld homered for the Bulls in 
the seventh inning to put them ahead by 
three runs. A Kyle Phillips double later that 
inning scored Garrett Zech and Gonzalez 
to give USF extra insurance and a 6-1 lead.
Senior second baseman Blake Reese did 
not play after injuring his shoulder against 
Long Beach State. Freshman Cory Acton 
started in his place. Reese is not expected 
to play against UNF today but may return 
to the lineup this weekend against Miami, 
O’Sullivan said. 
Florida had a prime opportunity in the Gators' ﬁ  rst loss comes 
on the road to the BullsSEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SWIMMING AND DIVING
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
The men’s and women’s swim-
ming and diving teams return to Ath-
ens, Georgia, for the first time since 
their seemingly effortless victories 
over the Bulldogs last October.
Only the stakes are significantly 
higher at this point in the season.
The 2019 SEC Championships 
take place from Feb. 19-23 at the 
University of Georgia’s Gabrielsen 
Natatorium, with both prelims and 
finals occurring on each day of com-
petition through Sunday. The Gators 
are searching for continued excel-
lence in what has already been a 
successful year for both teams.
The Gators arrived ready to con-
tinue their historical SEC dominance 
at this event.
The men’s team, heading into this 
week ranked No. 6 in the nation, 
look to rack up its seventh confer-
ence title in as many years.
Florida has 17 swimmers and five 
relay teams with top-20 times in the 
SEC, highlighted by SEC-best times 
in the 200 and 500-meter freestyle, 
both held by junior Khader Baqlah.
Also competing for the men is 
two-time SEC Swimmer of the Week 
Maxime Rooney, as well as fresh-
men Kacper Stokowski, Robert Finke 
and Trey Freeman, who all have at least one SEC Freshman of the Week 
honor this season (Freeman is a two-
time SEC Freshman of the Week, 
and also has an SEC Swimmer of the 
Week honor).
The women’s team looks to 
claim its first SEC Championship 
since 2009 and add to the legacy of 
a program that won 11 consecutive 
conference titles from 1986 through 
1996.
The No. 8 women’s squad con-
sists of 19 swimmers and four re-
lay teams with top-20 times in the 
SEC. The women are highlighted by 
six-time SEC Freshman of the Week 
Vanessa Pearl, who has swam well 
in the 100 and 200-meter breast-
stroke all season, as well as fresh-
man Mabel Zavaros and junior Sher-
ridon Dressel, who have each earned 
an SEC Swimmer of the Week nod.
When the Gators jumped into the 
pool two weeks ago at the Auburn 
Invitational, victories and personal 
bests were accomplished in abun-
dance among some of the nation’s 
top swimmers and teams. With 
equally strong competition to be 
faced this week, expect UF to chal-
lenged all week as it attempts to 
leave Athens with the SEC titles on 
both sides.
 
@jackbraverman
jackbraverman@alligator.orgUF returns to Athens for 
conference championshipsSOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The pitcher is the most scrutinized player 
in softball. 
A poor performance in the circle can gift a 
victory to the opponent, but a great pitcher can 
completely shut down a team on her own.
The Florida Gators will be tasked with 
throwing lights-out and scoring against qual-
ity pitching when it plays the Jacksonville Dol-
phins at the Debbie and Fred Pruitt Softball 
Complex today at 5 p.m. 
Providing solid pitching has not been a 
problem for UF this season, but hitting against 
it has been one of the team’s biggest issues. 
Florida’s tough pitching staff
Florida has routinely fielded one of the 
nation’s best pitching staffs since coach Tim 
Walton took over in 2006. A UF pitcher has 
won SEC Pitcher of the Year five times since 
Walton’s first season, and 2019’s staff has per-
formed to par. 
Led by two-time All-American Kelly Barn-
hill, the Gators hold the 18th-best earned run 
average in the country (1.22). Three pitchers 
— Barnhill, Natalie Lugo and Elizabeth Hight-
ower — have maintained ERAs of 1.00 or un-
der. 
Barnhill leads the NCAA in strikeouts (54) 
and she’s 10th in hits allowed per seven in-
nings (2.41). She has started five games so far 
and allowed two or less hits in all but one of 
those performances (Arizona State had four on Friday). 
Meanwhile, Lugo has allowed four fewer 
hits (seven) and five fewer walks (two) than 
Barnhill, although she has seen 10.1 less in-
nings of action. She’s sixth in the country in 
hits allowed per seven innings (2.26)
Hightower is Florida’s most pleasant sur-prise. The freshman has pitched seven innings, 
given up only two hits and struck out 14 bat-
ters. 
Coach Tim Walton was impressed with 
Hightower’s start against Utah State on Satur-
day, where she pitched three perfect innings to 
begin her outing. “She really pitched with confidence and 
was excited to be on the mound,” Walton said. 
Struggles on offense
It seems weird to say that a team batting 
.351 is having troubles at the plate. But the 
Gators have difficulty scoring against above-
average pitchers. 
Florida plated 78 runs in its first 11 games, 
but it only scored six earned runs against the 
four starting pitchers it has faced with sub-3.00 
ERAs (2.21 earned runs per seven innings). 
The Gators offense amassed 20 hits in 19 in-
nings against these pitchers (7.4 per seven in-
nings). So batters are getting on base, just not 
hitting when it matters.
“To me, to be a great team, you have to hit 
with two strikes and two outs,” Walton said. 
“If you hit with two strikes and two outs, espe-
cially with runners in scoring position, you win 
championships.”
UF will face another challenging hurler in 
right-hander Alyssa Bilodeau. JU’s ace holds a 
1.91 ERA and has given up 21 hits in 25.2 in-
nings of work. 
Bilodeau started against the Gators last sea-
son and held them to two runs and six hits. 
Florida won that contest 2-1, but if it doesn’t 
improve, it could find itself in another tight, 
low-scoring affair.
“Their (the Dolphins’) No. 1 pitcher has 
given us — not only us but everyone else — a 
tough time the past few years,” Walton said. “I 
think they’ll be tough just like every mid-week 
game.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators thrive with, but struggle against, quality pitching
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Natalie Lugo is No. 6 in the NCAA in hits allowed per seven innings 
(2.26). She has allowed only seven hits and two walks this season.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
The Florida State women’s tennis team came 
to Gainesville with just one win in program his-
tory under the lights of the Ring Tennis Com-
plex. 
It left Tuesday night with another, marking 
its third-consecutive victory over Florida when 
it only had one in program history against the 
Gators a season ago. 
The No. 20 Seminoles (9-1) dominated No. 
24 Florida (2-3) from start to finish, defeating 
the Gators 4-1. Though Florida’s young team 
suffered its third loss of the season under coach 
Roland Thornqvist, he believes the team is still 
growing and making strides with each match.
“I know the players, with their youth, it’s 
going to be hard for them to find some posi-
tives in tonight’s play. But it’s my job to filter 
through that,” Thornqvist said. “In no way will 
I try to attempt to diminish (the disappoint-
ment) because that’s just not what we do here.”
Florida dropped the doubles point for the 
fourth-consecutive match, losing both matches 
early. Florida State’s tandem of Carla Touly 
and Ariana Rahmanparast handled Florida’s 
freshman duo of Marlee Zein and Anastasia 
Kharitonova 6-2, while Victoria Emma and 
McCartney Kessler fell to Ana Oparenovic and 
Emmanuelle Salas 6-4. This was Florida’s first 
dual match this season in which both return-
ing sophomores were featured after Emma had 
been sidelined with a shoulder injury.
“Today was the beginning of something,” 
Thornqvist said. “That was my message in the 
locker room. I think we can really get better 
from here. (Emma and Kessler) both need to 
play and compete to feel natural on the court again.”
Emma and Kessler looked promising early 
on, but a sailing volley return from Emma and 
a subsequent double fault sealed the match vic-
tory and doubles point for the Noles. 
The singles play didn’t prove to be much dif-
ferent for the inexperienced Gators as they fell 
behind early, losing the first set on all but one 
court. Some battled back to force decisive third 
sets like Tsveta Dimitrova and Zein, but others 
failed to put up a fight losing in straight sets.
No. 39 Kessler managed to win just two 
games in her match, losing 6-1, 6-1 to No. 49 
Carla Touly. Though No. 43 Emma fought back 
in the second set, her comeback effort wasn’t 
enough to stop FSU’s Nandini Das, losing 6-1, 
7-6 (7-5). Zein couldn’t muster enough strength 
against No. 110 Salas, losing in three sets (6-3, 
2-6, 6-4) which clinched the match victory for 
the Noles. 
No. 17 Ida Jarlskog secured the lone point 
for Florida, defeating No. 103 Oparenovic with 
a roaring cheer towards the crowd which ap-
peased the fans in attendance.
Though Florida’s start has been slower com-
pared to years past, Thornqvist believes his five 
new members will eventually find their foot-
ing, which will lead to better results that the 
Florida faithful has been accustomed to from 
teams past.
“I do think that we can continue to grow a 
lot. I think we have a lot of talent. On some 
courts we have more talent than we know what 
to do with,” Thornqvist said. “I think we can 
certainly get better from this but today Florida 
State was just a little bit tougher.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgFlorida drops rivalry match against FSU16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSson.
Locke and Allen shoot 41 percent and 34 
percent, respectively, from beyond the arc, 
and Florida is 5-0 when it shoots 40 percent 
or better from three-point range.
White said Locke has played with an in-
jury for over a month, and he has gone two 
straight games scoring less than ﬁ  ve points.
But freshman guard Andrew Nembhard 
and forward Keyontae Johnson have in-creased their production in his place and 
may have to continue in Baton Rouge if 
Locke still isn’t fully healthy.
“Everybody on the team probably has to 
take a step up if Noah’s down,” Nembhard 
said. “He’s a real good player for us and has 
been the whole season. I think everybody 
will have to pick up the slack for him.”
It won’t just be the shooting that the 
Gators will focus on to have success against 
LSU. 
It’ll take things like communication down the stretch, keeping key defensive 
pieces like center Kevarrius Hayes and for-
ward Dontay Bassett out of foul trouble, 
getting production from the bench and 
dominating the glass.
“Our attention to detail has got to be 
terriﬁ  c because these guys, they’re really 
good,” White said. “I mean they’re a top-15 
team for a reason, and only getting better.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14White: Locke has played with injury for over a monthers battling for the ultimate crown on All-
Star Saturday Night in between the 3-point 
contest and dunk contest. When it was my 
turn, the current leader was at 22. I racked 
up 24 points in 30 seconds and earned a 
seat in the Leaders Lounge. 
I was a ﬁ  nalist.
Fast forward to that night. I’m standing 
on the same court that Steph Curry just lost 
the 3-point contest on. Shaq is standing by 
my side as my “shooting coach,” and I walk 
out to my name being called as if I was 
voted on to represent the Heat at All-Star 
Weekend. It’s these moments that make 
sports so special.
People ﬂ  ock to sports for many different 
reasons. Some use it as an outlet to leave 
the struggle and worry of their everyday 
lives behind. Others use it as an opportu-
nity to get lost in the moment altogether. 
Whatever the reasoning may be, it’s these 
moments that captivate and gravitate fans 
towards sports. Those goosebump-giving, 
unforgettable times that carry with you. 
Pop-A-Shot gave me that. 
Rather than following along in the 
stands or sitting in a press box, the cameras 
were pointing at me. All 19,000-plus people 
in attendance that night cheered as I made 
36 shots in 30 seconds to become the ﬁ  rst 
annual NBA Pop-A-Shot Champion.
I’m honestly still not sure what came 
over me in the moment. Maybe it was 
Shaq’s inspiring advice to “beat his a**."  
Maybe it was just all those years of play-
ing Pop-A-Shot in arcades and my backyard 
that amounted to this performance. 
My smile couldn’t have been wider on 
the walk back from the Spectrum Center to 
my hotel. 
It goes to show how a silly little game 
can give you so much. By saying yes to at-
tending that qualiﬁ  er round at Florida Blue 
Health in Miami (which I almost didn’t 
even attend), I received an unforgettable 
weekend in Charlotte with my dad and a 
surreal experience I couldn’t imagine in my 
wildest dreams. All because of Pop-A-Shot.
See ya next year, Chicago. 
Victor is a sports writer at the Alligator. 
Follow him on Twitter @victorprieto_11, 
and contact him at vprieto@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
top of the seventh to tie the game up, or at 
least cut into the deﬁ  cit.
With Nelson Maldonado on ﬁ  rst and Brady 
McConnell on third after a single by the for-
mer and a walk by the latter, USF pitcher Lo-
gan Lyle proceeded to strike out Wil Dalton, 
Kendrick Calilao and Acton to end the inning 
and neutralize the threat.
Florida struggled greatly on the mound.
The Gators’ pitching staff combined for six 
strikeouts, a season-high seven walks and al-
lowed a season-high 12 hits. McMullen strug-
gled early on, and the bullpen did not pick 
it up in his stead. No pitchers for UF lasted 
three innings.
Justin Alintoff was ﬁ  rst out of the bullpen, 
walking three batters and striking out two. 
He worked his way out of a jam in the fourth 
inning, striking out two batters with bases 
loaded to end the inning. Alintoff lasted 2 2/3 
innings and was replaced by Jordan Butler.
Three of the four batters who faced Butler 
reached base. He gave up two hits and walked 
one batter. Butler was promptly pulled. Hunt-
er Ruth yielded the seventh-inning surge that 
allowed USF to put the game away. Kirby Mc-
Mullen threw a scoreless eighth inning with a 
strikeout, and he was arguably Florida’s best 
pitcher.Florida’s performance at the plate was not 
much better, striking out a combined 13 times. 
Eleven of the 13 batters that logged an at-bat 
struck out. Maldonado and Jason Young were 
the only ones who did not. UF also had a sea-
son-low two hits against the Bulls.“We’ve got to do a better job making ad-
justments,” O’Sullivan said. “These are the 
type of learning experiences that we’ll learn 
from and get better from.”
kwood@alligator.org
@KkylewoodBASEBALL,  from pg 14Florida pitching staf combined for seven walks
Alligator File Photo
Florida designated hitter Nelson Maldonado had one of UF's two hits in its 6-1 loss to 
USF on Tuesday in T ampa. 
