We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Florida wins NCAA Regional
The Florida softball team outscored its oppo-
nents 16-0 over the weekend as it advanced 
to the NCAA Super Regional, pg. 10
Fossil of ancient bird discovered in Montbrook
The fossil is of an ancient heron and is estimated to be 5 to 5.5 
million years old, pg 3
SAT “adversity score” under review by UF
The new score measures a student’s access to resources, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 88
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Starting this summer, tex-
ting while driving could cost 
you money and points on your 
license.
Florida Governor Ron De-
Santis signed a bill into law on 
Friday that makes texting while 
driving a primary offense rather 
than a secondary offense. If 
police ofﬁ  cers see a driver tex-
ting, the driver can be stopped 
even if they have not commit-
ted another violation, said Key-
na Cory, a coordinator for the 
Florida Don’t Text and Drive 
Coalition.
Cory said she and her col-leagues have discussed the bill 
since 2012. House Bill 107 was 
originally proposed by Florida 
representatives Jackie Toledo 
and Emily Slosberg.
Cory created the Florida 
Don’t Text and Drive Coalition 
in 2014 to better advocate for 
this bill. Under her guidance, it 
has been addressed to some ex-
tent at almost every single leg-
islative session since, she said. 
Cory recalled a similar strug-
gle in the 1980s when seatbelt 
violations were considered only 
a secondary offense. 
“Even back then, opponents 
tried to argue that by making it 
a primary offense, it infringed 
UF WAS RANKED 
SIXTH OUT OF ALL 
PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
While UF ranked among the 
top 10 employers for public uni-
versities, some UF employees 
believe the title is not deserved. 
On April 17, Forbes Maga-
zine released a list ranking 
large employers. It ranked UF 
sixth among public universities 
and 19th among all universi-
ties. However, some employees 
have disagreed. 
Bobby Mermer is co-presi-
dent of UF Graduate Assistants 
United (GAU), a union repre-senting teaching assistants, re-
search assistants and graduate 
student instructors at UF.
Mermer said he was con-
fused with the criteria Forbes 
Magazine used to rank UF. He 
argued it could be inaccurate 
if it was only higher adminis-
tration who contributed to the 
Forbes feedback. 
“Other staff including gradu-
ate assistants, [Other Personnel 
Services] workers and tempo-
rary workers would not rank 
UF as a top employer,” Mermer 
said. 
Mermer said the university 
does not take every staff mem-
ber into consideration when 
making decisions — big or 
small. Two hours prior to the conclusion 
of the most highly-anticipated series 
ﬁ  nale on television, a Broadway star 
was introduced on stage at UF as a 
“slayer of high notes, breaker of music 
chains and house of Chenoweth.” She 
opened her set with an operatic ver-
sion of the “Game of Thrones” theme 
song, which elicited chuckles from the 
audience.
After being introduced by Brian 
Jose on Sunday around 7:30 p.m., 
Kristin Chenoweth took the stage at 
the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts, which was four months after she 
was originally scheduled to perform.  
Around 1,300 guests of all ages attend-
ed the show.
Brian Jose, director of UF Perform-
ing Arts, came out to greet the audience at showtime and thanked sponsors like 
Blue Water Bay for making the per-
formance with Tony Award-winning 
singer Kristin Chenoweth possible. 
Chenoweth is a veteran in the en-
tertainment scene. She debuted on 
Broadway as Precious McGuire in the 
1997 musical “Steel Pier,” and has 
since earned three Tony Award nomi-
nations — one of them ending in a win 
for Best Featured Actress in a Musical 
— and an Emmy.
Virginia Martinez, UF School of 
Theater and Dance acting instructor, 
had always known about Chenoweth 
but had never followed her career 
closely. Even though Martinez was not 
a personal fan, it did not dissuade her 
from coming to see the Broadway star.
“It would be a foolish waste of [an] opportunity,” Martinez said.
Martinez was later brought to tears 
by Chenoweth’s rendition of “The 
Sweetheart Tree” by Henry Mancini, 
originally performed in the 1965 movie 
“The Great Race.”
Chenoweth gave a loving shout-out 
to Malcolm Gets, a UF acting profes-
sor, who was in the audience. Gets has 
been nominated for a Tony Award and 
has performed on Broadway multiple 
times. Both Gets and Chenoweth were 
in the musical “The Apple Tree.”
“He was a teacher to me in a very 
important time,” Chenoweth said.
There were many touching mo-
ments throughout the show, such as 
when Chenoweth honored military 
veterans with the song “Bring Him Texting while driving  
becomes primary oﬀ  ense
 Employees respond to 
UF employer ranking
SEE TEXT/DRIVE,  PAGE 3
SEE FORBES,  PAGE 5 SEE CHENOWETH,  PAGE 3The law will go into efect July 1Chenoweth takes the throne during 
Sunday night show
The Broadway star gave an 
intimate performance at the 
Phillips Center
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Chenoweth takes the throne during 
Sunday night show
The Broadway star gave an 
Sunday night show
The Broadway star gave an 
Sunday night show
intimate performance at the 
Phillips Center
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Kristin Chenoweth, the 50-year-
old Emmy and T ony Award-winning 
actress and singer, performs a 
Gator Chomp Sunday evening 
while wearing a Florida Gators 
T-shirt during the beginning of her 
show at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts. Around 1,300 
people watched as the Broadway 
star performed, sharing quirky 
personal anecdotes between songs.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  95° LOW  69°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 88
Florida Forest Service Urges 
Caution with Outdoor Activities 
Due to Hot, Dry Conditions
The Florida Forest Service’s Wac-
casassa Forestry Center put out a 
press release stating the following:
The organization is urging the 
public to be careful with ﬁ  re and 
all potential heat sources due to 
the increased hot temperatures, 
low humidity, and sparse rainfall. 
These weather conditions increase 
wildﬁ  re concerns because ﬁ  res 
can ignite and spread easily.• Develop and implement a 
family wildﬁ  re action plan
• Call 911 or a local Florida 
Forest Service ﬁ  eld unit 
ofﬁ  ce immediately in the 
event of a wildﬁ  re
• Obey Florida’s outdoor 
burning laws
• Never burn on windy days
• Always keep a water 
source and suppression 
tools on hand when 
· No Weekends
· Gain Sales Experience
· Flexible Work Schedule
· Learn Prospecting SkillsADVERTISING SALES REP POSITION
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
***Applicants must be enrolled in classes at the University of Florida or Santa Fe College***HELP WANTED1. Internship Credit Hours  Earn credit hours while interning
2. Valuable Skills Team work and client relations
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative
4. Build Your Resume
5. Hands On Training
6. Flexible Schedule
7. No Weekends!ADVERTISING INTERNS
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Intern Coordinator
intern@alligator.org
Applicants must be enrolled in classes at 
the University of Florida or Santa Fe CollegeHELP WANTED
burning yard debris
• Never leave an outdoor 
ﬁ  re or hot grill unattended
• Avoid parking vehicles on 
dry grassEngagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editor
PhotographersLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie DeFrietas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Chris KingSam ThomasKaylyn Ling
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Emily Perpich,TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 MANY STUDENTS RECEIVED 
WRONG PHOTOS FROM 
INACCURACIES IN FACIAL 
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
 
Jonelle Joseph was damp from the rain 
when she took her graduation photos. 
The gloomy weather matched her disap-
pointment when she found out she had to 
take photos in front of a green screen. 
“The pictures looked hilariously photo-
shopped,” she said. 
First, the 21-year-old UF sociology gradu-
ate didn’t get to walk across the stage at the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences com-
mencement ceremony in Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium, which was canceled for nearby light-
ning. 
Two weeks later, Joseph received her 
graduation photo proofs. However, not all 
the photos were of her, she said. Through so-
cial media, she discovered at least three other 
graduates were emailed her photos.
The bad weather was to blame for the 
photo mix-ups, wrote Jamie Parker, owner 
of University Photography, in an email to the 
graduates that was obtained by The Alligator. 
The incorrect photo proofs were sent to 
the graduates who were not recognized on 
the stage, because the company had to rely 
on facial recognition software, Parker wrote 
in the email. Between 200 to 300 graduates were not recognized on stage. 
The photography company split the gradu-
ates’ photos into three categories in response 
to the confusion that followed the CLAS cer-
emony, Parker wrote. The categories were 
those who had walked across the stage, those 
who had taken a photo in front of the green 
screen preceding the stage and those who had 
a picture with CLAS dean David Richardson. 
University Photography had no way of 
identifying those students without resorting 
to facial recognition technology because the 
graduates’ names were not announced.
University Photography attended the 
makeup ceremony at 9 a.m. Saturday in the 
O’Connell Center. 
Parker apologized for this issue in the 
email sent to all of the graduates. The email 
made it accessible to view all of the proofs.
University Photography has been taking 
UF graduation photos for over 30 years and 
makes their income solely on photo sales 
from students, UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando wrote in an email. 
The photographers are reaching out to the 
students who did not cross the stage in order 
to ensure that each student receives the right 
proofs, Orlando said.
Annie Deaderick, a 21-year-old UF ento-
mology and nematology graduate, also re-
ceived incorrect photos. 
She received more than 20 different faces 
when she was emailed her proofs. Thirteen 
out of the 52 photos she was sent were actu-
ally of her, she said. 
“I don’t think they are great pictures, but I’m not sure there’s a great way to do (green 
screen pictures) anyway,” Deaderick said.
For Joseph, these photos are just a re-
minder of a bad day. She has decided to not 
order any of the photos, she said.  
“I decided against ordering any, because I didn’t want a memory of the most disap-
pointing day of my undergrad career,” Joseph 
said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.org
on their personal freedoms,” Cory 
said. “Although I believe that per-
sonal freedoms are important too, 
safety violations like not wearing 
a seatbelt or texting while driving 
start to infringe on the freedoms of 
everyone else around you.” 
In more recent years, Cory 
remembered hearing about the 
death of UF graduate Patrick Wan-
ninkhof in 2015. As he was riding 
his bike across the country for 
charity, Wanninkhof was killed by 
someone who was texting while 
driving. 
“That hurts my heart when 
families come in and say that they 
have lost children as a result of 
texting and driving,” Cory said. “It 
tugs at your heart that their child 
was taken away from them for no 
reason.”
Although the law goes into ef-fect July 1, it will begin with a 
“grace period” to allow drivers 
to wean themselves off of their 
phones. The law will be more 
heavily enforced in school and 
construction zones on Oct. 1 and 
in all other areas on Jan. 1. Each 
violation will cost about $30 and 
point deductions from their licens-
es, Cory said. 
Ethan Long, 38, works at Gator 
Cycle on 13th Street and has seen 
his fair share of dangerous situ-
ations as a result of sharing the 
road with distracted drivers. 
As a biker in Gainesville, Long 
says he often has close calls where 
he thinks a driver sees him, only 
to find out they don’t. 
“It’ll definitely help drivers see 
bikes a little more as well now that 
there’s one less thing to look at 
while driving,” Long said.
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgHome” from the musical “Les 
Miserables.”
Chenoweth engaged the crowd 
when she sang her iconic solo 
“Popular” from Broadway musi-
cal “Wicked.” She invited audi-
ence members to bring out their 
phones and record her. Videos of 
the audience were posted to Che-
noweth’s Instagram Live toward 
the end of the song. 
Austin Halvosa, an 18-year-
old senior in the performing arts 
program at the P. K. Yonge De-
velopmental Research School, 
said his favorite performance of 
the night was “Popular.”
“I thought the show was in-
credible. Just seeing her that 
close to me was just astonish-
ing,” Halvosa said.Near the evening’s end, Che-
noweth brought out students 
from the UF School of Theatre 
and Dance to help her sing her 
last two songs. She surprised the 
students with the addition of an 
unplanned song, the Leonard Co-
hen tune “Hallelujah.” 
Chenoweth asked the audi-
ence to sing along during the final 
chorus to create one harmonious 
choir in the theater before taking 
a bow and leaving the stage.
That was not to be the conclu-
sion, however.
To the delight of the audience, 
Chenoweth quickly returned to 
the stage for an encore perfor-
mance of the ballad “Smile” by 
Nat King Cole. Chenoweth ex-
pressed how much she loved 
music and started her final song 
of the evening without a mi-
crophone. As she performed “Smile,” her voice bounced off 
the walls and filled up the room.
At the end of the song Che-
noweth encouraged the audience 
to sing the last word in unison: 
smile. She then took a bow and 
everyone in the theater rose to 
give her a standing ovation. 
After the show, Martinez said 
she was deeply moved by Che-
noweth’s performance and that 
she had surpassed her expecta-
tions.  
“You can see her roots and 
a lot of her personality coming 
through the music and the way 
she expresses the music,” Marti-
nez said. “She really is a story-
teller.” 
@BtNwallace
Bwallace1@alligator.orgTEXT/DRIVE,  from pg. 1 CHENOWETH,  from pg. 1 Emefa Amoah (pictured on the left) received Jonelle Joseph’s (right) proofs after the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences commencement ceremony on May 5. The photo-
graphs were sent to both of the graduates due to an inaccuracy in the facial recogni-
tion software that University Photography used.  
THE SITE IS ESTIMATED 
TO BE 5 TO 5.5 MILLION 
YEARS OLD
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
A hobby turned into history 
when two Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History volunteers found the 
bones of a new species of extinct 
heron at the Montbrook fossil dig 
site.
The species has been named Taphophoyx hodgei in honor of 
Eddie Hodge, owner of the pri-
vate property outside of Williston 
where the dig site is located.
Florida Museum curator of or-
nithology David Steadman and 
research assistant Oona Takano 
identified the species after its dis-
covery and published their find-
ings.
Takano said the fossil is the 
first of its age to be found in North 
Florida. It is estimated to be 5 to 
5.5 million years old.
“The fossils we are finding from the site include many com-
plete bones, a high diversity of ter-
restrial vertebrates and many new 
species,” Takano said.
They identified the heron fos-
sil using the bones of the bird’s 
shoulder girdle, which showed 
shape differences from those of 
previously known herons, Takano 
said.
The new species is just the first 
of possibly many species to be 
found from the site, Takano said. 
Other birds from the site have pri-
marily been aquatic species.Jonathan Bloch, Florida Mu-
seum curator of vertebrate pale-
ontology and a coordinator of the 
fossil dig, said fossils are not iden-
tified at the site, and it is likely 
the volunteers did not know what 
they found. 
“Very often, we don’t know 
how exciting it is until much later 
after we’ve gone back to the lab 
and had a chance to study them,” 
Bloch said.
More than 700 volunteers have 
worked at the fossil site. The dig 
takes place during a period of three to four weeks in the fall and 
the spring.
Bloch said the site, which has 
been used since mid-November 
2015, is one of the most important 
fossil sites found in Florida in de-
cades.
“It really gives us a window 
into what North Florida was like 
here 5 to 6 million years ago in a 
river-type of environment,” Bloch 
said.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgUF CLAS graduates received wrong graduation photos
Volunteers uncover bones of ancient heron at Montbrook fossil siteCourtesy of Emefa Amoah and Jonelle Joseph4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the 
modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a 
wide array of desserts and treats made 
daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side Car Our 
Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open LateBREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises 
daily since 1990. Egg & cheese 
with bacon, ham, or sausage 
on a Thomas’s english mufﬁ  n 
or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-
0376. Your order will be ready 
when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-ﬁ  , 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh 
bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle 
soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  
Come try our new specials! 
Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this ad 
and get 10% off your order!
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
THE ARGUMENT STARTED 
OVER ACCUSED 
FOOD THEFT
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
UF student Jinming Chen, 20, was ar-
rested by the Gainesville Police Department 
on Saturday after threatening his roommate 
with a butcher knife, according to a GPD ar-
rest report. 
Chen was cutting vegetables in his apart-
ment kitchen, located at 1000 SW 62nd Blvd., 
when he became increasingly angry with his 
roommate and accused him of stealing food 
from the shared refrigerator, according to the 
arrest report. 
Chen damaged the kitchen countertop and 
doors to the laundry room with the butcher 
knife. Chen confronted his roommate about the food theft with the 
butcher knife in hand. The 
roommate became fear-
ful for his life and left the 
apartment, according to 
the report.
Chen admitted to hold-
ing the butcher knife while 
arguing with his room-
mate while being questioned. He said he had 
no intention of causing any harm. A witness 
to the incident said Chen was not holding the 
knife in a threatening manner.  
Chen was charged with aggravated assault 
with a deadly weapon without intent to kill. 
Chen was released on his own recognizance 
on Sunday. The Alligator was able to reach 
Chen, who declined to comment until “after 
the incident has been solved.” 
@rschirmerr 
rschirmer@alligator.org UF student allegedly threatened 
roommate with butcher knife  
Chen
HIS BOND IS $70,000
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
Joshua Hyden, 34, allegedly stole a 2016 
Kawasaki motorcycle on May 4 at 1320 NW 
3rd Ave., according to a sworn complaint 
from the Gainesville Police Department. 
Williston Police Department located the 
motorcycle with the ignition “punched out” 
in Hyden’s Ford SUV. There was an ignition 
cylinder and tools associated with removing 
ignition switches in the SUV as well, accord-
ing to the sworn complaint. 
Hyden claimed he purchased the motor-
cycle for $1,000 but had no proof of pur-
chase, according to the sworn complaint. 
Detectives met with a witness on May 7 
who said Hyden called her and asked her 
to pick him up somewhere between Archer 
and Williston on County Road 241. She said she helped Hyden load the 
motorcycle into the SUV 
but did not know it was 
stolen, according to the 
sworn complaint. 
On May 10, Hyden re-
quested to speak to a de-
tective about the incident 
from Levy County Jail. 
Hyden was read his Mi-
randa rights and was reminded the detective 
could not speak to him unless he speciﬁ  cally 
asked because he now had a lawyer, accord-
ing to the sworn complaint. 
After detectives turned off the recording 
device during their interview, Hyden admit-
ted to grand theft. Hyden is charged with un-
armed burglary and grand theft in lieu of a 
$70,000 bond.  
@tientle11
tle@alligator.org  GPD:  Man charged with grand 
theft of Kawasaki motorcycle 
Hyden
TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
MORE THAN 30 SENATORS’ 
APPOINTMENTS MAY BE 
NULLIFIED
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Colin Solomon was set to fill the vacant 
seat of UF Student Government District D 
Senator Mackintosh Joachim for the sum-
mer up until last week when his position 
was petitioned.
Following SG procedure, Joachim chose 
the 19-year-old UF criminology sophomore 
to fill in for him on Senate while he would 
be away for the summer. Solomon, an in-
dependent party member, was approved by 
the Senate on April 23.
Three weeks later, on May 14, Senate 
President Libby Shaw sent an email to the senators stating their replacements would be 
nullified. Shaw cited Article III, Section IV 
of the Student Body constitution, which says 
all Senate replacements must be approved 
on May 1.
Since they were approved before May 1, 
Solomon and more than 30 other replace-
ment senators are in danger of losing their 
positions.
“These actions have come from a place 
of assumed power where it’s not stated they 
have such power,” Solomon said. “The right 
of Senator Joachim to appoint me has been 
taken from him.” 
Shaw argues that since these replace-
ments were not made following the consti-
tution’s rules, they won’t be recognized by 
the Senate, Shaw wrote in an email.
“The only way student senators have any 
influence over their summer replacements, according to Article III, Section IV of the con-
stitution, is by appointing and confirming 
their replacements on May 1,” Shaw said.
Shaw said the new replacements would 
be chosen during a meeting with the Sen-
ate Executive Committee and the Replace-
ment and Agenda Committee, which will be 
Thursday at 2 p.m.
Any previously chosen replacements 
were encouraged to reapply for their posi-
tion, she said. Applications for vacant Sen-
ate seats are on SG’s website.
Ashley Grabowski, a 23-year-old UF po-
litical communication master’s student and 
Senate Minority Leader, has been vocal 
about her disagreement with Shaw’s actions.
Grabowski has been meeting with Sen-
ate replacements whose positions are in 
question, she said. She has also met James 
Tyger, the SG advisor, to decide what the best course of action is.
“The constitution does say that they 
should be confirmed on May 1,” Grabows-
ki said. “However, the Senate President 
doesn’t have the right to unilaterally undo 
something that’s done by a majority of the 
Student Senate.”
Grabowski said she worries this could set 
a dangerous precedent that would allow the 
Senate president to undo any decisions that 
have been made.
As for Joachim’s replacement Solomon, 
he plans to reapply, but he is skeptical about 
how fair the whole process will be.
“I wish I had full faith and confidence 
that the Student Body Government, sitting 
me as an independent, not Impact or In-
spire, would appoint me again to that posi-
tion,” he said.
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgUF Senate president petitions senator-appointed summer replacements
He said UF barely regards 
graduate assistants as employees 
since they are also students, lead-
ing to their insufficient pay and 
their inability to voice an opinion 
and be heard. 
“We dedicate our lives, and 
most of our work leads to the uni-
versity, so we should get a say in 
the priorities,” Mermer said.
Ashley Nguyen, coordinator 
for Alachua County Labor Coali-
tion (ACLC), said the list is accu-
rate if you’re a person of power.
Nguyen has worked with ACLC 
for almost three years, help-
ing make UF a better place for 
contracted OPS workers, which 
stands for Other Personnel Ser-
vices workers. OPS positions are 
temporary work, she said. Nguyen said OPS workers do 
not have a democratic choice in 
how their workplaces are run. 
Since the new OPS policy 
was released, moving some OPS 
workers to full-time but letting go 
many others, the ACLC has been 
upset. Nguyen said the university 
doesn’t give the same opportu-
nity to OPS workers to speak out 
about their grievances and com-
plaints. 
“OPS workers do not have a 
voice,” she said. “They are not 
paid fairly, and a lot of them are 
not able to support their own live-
lihoods because of the pay they 
recieve.” 
The Alligator reached out to 
UF for comment, but it did not 
have a statement at this time. 
  
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgFORBES,  from pg. 1Many OPS workers let go
THE NEW SYSTEM WILL NOT ALTER 
SCORES
By Meleah Lyden 
Staff Writer
UF admissions is navigating the changes to 
the SAT like rising high school seniors. 
The SAT, often considered in college ad-
missions, is adding an “Environmental Con-
text Dashboard” to the exam. However, UF 
is still figuring out how it will apply the new 
system, which measures a student’s access to 
resources.
The dashboard, also called an “adversity 
score,” looks at high school environment 
indicators like the average number of AP 
classes taken and the percentage of students 
eligible for free or reduced lunch, College 
Board spokesperson Jaslee Carayol wrote in 
an email. Carayol said it also factors in neighbor-
hood data like familial income and crime. The 
dashboard excludes the consideration of race 
and does not alter the score. 
“Our focus is finding merit and resource-
fulness of students,” Carayol said. 
College Board piloted this new scoring sys-
tem at more than 50 colleges and universities, 
including Florida State University. UF was not 
part of the pilot, and has yet to look at how it 
will impact admissions or how it will use the 
new dashboard.
For now, the university’s information on 
the score’s impact is fairly limited, UF spokes-
person Steve Orlando wrote in an email. 
“We are currently evaluating its use for fu-
ture years,” Orlando said. 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgUF evaluating new SAT “adversity score”6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
Gunnar Piner, a 28-year-old ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter EMT and driver, 
helps start the ﬂ  ow of ﬂ  uids into a patient’s arm who is being 
transported to the hospital in an ambulance. The woman’s 
heartbeat was ﬂ  uctuating. During the transit she asked another 
paramedic, Andrew Picklo, “I ain’t gonna die, am I?” Picklo 
then reassured her while working to steady her condition, “No 
ma’am, you’re not going to die. ” 
Andrew Picklo, a 24-year-old ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter EMT, trains with 
the engine ladder outside of GFR Station 1, 525 S. Main St. 
The ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters took part in a time trial to see how quickly 
they could inspect the engine and maneuver the ladder as 
close to the top of the street light as possible.
Casey Brooks, a 23-year-old ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter emergency 
medical technician, examines bunker gear placed 
outside the station for inventory. Brooks and 
other Gainesville Fire Rescue staff members were 
responsible for the preparation of equipment sets 
to be used by newly hired ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters.
Evan Davis, a 26-year-old ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter with GFR, looks out the window 
of a ﬁ  re engine Friday, March 28 while responding to a call. The ﬁ  re 
turned out to be a false alarm and the engine returned to Station 1. The 
Alachua County Commission declared May 19 through May 25 to be 
Emergency Medical Services Week in Alachua County, Florida, on May 
14 to recognize the value and accomplishments of those in the emer-
gency medical ﬁ  eld. 
Call The Fire Department
Call The Fire Department
It’ll know what to do!
It’ll know what to do!
Photo story by Chris Day
Alligator StaffThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The dreaded SAT. If you went to high 
school in the United States, you prob-
ably took this important test at some 
point. 
In addition to the usual math, reading 
and writing scores, there will soon be one more 
score in the mix: the adversity score.
Last week, College Board (the organization 
that runs the SATs) announced it would cre-
ate what is being referred to as an “adversity 
score,” which scores each student from 1 to 100 based on 
15 different factors, such as local crime rate, poverty rate 
and estimated education level of their parents. Numbers 
above 50 will be more disadvantaged and numbers below 
50 will be less disadvantaged. Students will not be able to 
see their adversity scores. It will instead be viewed only by 
college admissions departments. 
There’s been an outpouring of both positive and nega-
tive reactions. Proponents say it would give context to stu-
dents’ results and provide a better understanding than the 
raw test scores. Opponents expressed concerns it would 
negate students’ hard work and reduce them to a product 
of their surroundings.
On one hand, this move toward adversity scoring does 
make sense. There has been evidence of disparities in SAT 
scores based on race and socioeconomic status (those two 
factors are often linked). Even without that evidence, it’s 
common sense that someone who can afford SAT prep 
classes and has parents and educators to help prepare 
them for the big test would do better than someone who 
does not have access to those things. While this could ap-
ply to all tests and exams, this is truer for the SAT and 
ACT due to both being roughly consistent year-to-year 
in terms of the types of questions. High scores are often 
based more on studying and preparation for the test rather 
than intelligence. The adversity score wouldn’t necessar-ily raise or lower anyone based on their back-
ground, but it would provide context.
The entire idea of the SAT and how it’s 
viewed goes against the concept of an adversity 
score. The original pitch for the SAT was sim-
ple: a handful of scores on key subjects (math, 
reading, and writing) that would give colleges 
an idea of how well each student is prepared for 
college-level material. The value of the SAT, and 
perhaps its reason for existing, is that it takes 
a range of information and condenses it into one overall 
score and three sub-scores. Including an adversity score, 
while more reﬂ  ective of the real-world, also seems to go 
against the very core of the SAT. In short, adding other 
variables makes the simple and straightforward scores not 
so simple and straightforward.
In the end, the College Board is in a tough situation. 
College Board now has to acknowledge that a small set 
of scores devoid of context cannot accurately reﬂ  ect a 
whole person. The idea of the all-important SAT scores is 
so ingrained in people’s minds and in the purpose of the 
test that trying to add context and complexity is bound to 
cause backlash.
So what is to be done? My answer, and this is some-
thing that College Board won’t like, would be to de-em-
phasize SAT and ACT scores. Make it optional. Do not 
consider it a crucial part of all applications. A handful 
of scores can never completely reﬂ  ect who a person is 
and how they’ll do in college. Instead of relying on those 
scores, we should rely on other methods, such as grades, 
portfolios and other measures which tracks a student’s 
whole school career rather than one test. This may not be 
a simple or straightforward measurement, but it may be a 
lot more accurate than any “adversity score.”
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column appears 
on Tuesdays. Adversity scores expose the problem with the SATNo shade in sight, you stand at the bus stop. This wretched 
RTS app tells lies of a bus ﬁ  ve minutes away. But you’re on cam-
pus and the GPS location of the bus proclaims your chariot is 
chugging along on Archer Road. Being the genius that you are, 
you come to the conclusion there is no way the bus is as close as 
it says it is, so you go to Starbucks to get that sickly sweet, bright 
pink tea. 
 “Beautiful” you think to yourself. There’s no line. You place 
your order and wait for the barista to shake your drink up. Then 
you check your phone. The bus has somehow managed to sneak 
up on you and now it’s only a minute away. How long can it pos-
sibly take to pour a splash of tea and an unproportionally large 
amount of water into a cup? The barista hands you your drink 
and just as you step outside, you see your bus drive right pass 
the stop you were standing at just ﬁ  ve minutes ago. You look 
down at your drink and see they didn’t even get your name right. 
Instead it reads…
DARTS & LAURELS
On Friday, Taiwan’s parliament legalized same-sex 
marriage. We are giving a laurel to Taiwan for being 
the ﬁ  rst place in Asia to do so. In 2017, the state’s 
constitutional court ruled the Taiwanese constitu-
tion guarantees same-sex couples the right to mar-
riage and gave lawmakers two years to bring laws up to its 
new standard. According to BBC News, the most progressive 
of three bills to legalize same-sex unions was the one signed 
into law with a 66-to-27 vote. The law goes into effect May 24. 
 Ohio State University released a report Friday that deceased 
OSU athletic doctor Richard Strauss sexually abused at least 177 
male students over the course of 20 years. We are giving a dart 
to OSU because an independent investigation found the univer-
sity knew about the abuse as early as 1979, according to NPR. It 
wasn’t until January 1996 that the university started to investi-
gate complaints against Strauss. That summer he was removed as 
an OSU physician but was still kept as a tenured faculty member. 
With more than 200 pages, the report brought to light the abuse 
students and athletic members experienced because of Strauss.   
The recent James Charles and Tati Westbrook beauty com-
munity drama has us giving a dart to cancel culture. “Cancel-
ing” someone is the act of no longer supporting someone (usu-
ally a celebrity or online personality) by either ﬁ  nancial or digital 
means because they have been regarded as problematic by the 
masses. In the case of Charles and Westbrook, popular beauty 
Youtuber Westbrook posted a video titled “Bye Sister” and essen-
tially started the cancelation of Charles, a Youtuber with 13 mil-
lion subscribers. We are giving a dart to cancel culture because 
it allows for toxic public shaming without due process. All the 
drama may be fun to watch unfold, but there are serious implica-
tions for assuming guilt. 
 We are giving a laurel to Game of Thrones. After eight years, 
the HBO series ended Sunday night. Regardless of criticism of 
this recent season’s writing and character development (or the 
squashing thereof), the show seemed to unite millions in fan the-
ory, debate and hilarious memes. The 73-episode show won 47 
Primetime Emmy Awards and maintained over 12 million view-
ers based on audience measure by Nielsen Media Research. But 
now that the beloved fantasy show is over, there’s no need to 
spiral into a GOT-deprived abyss. According to CNBC, there are 
at least three spin-off series planned. 
Lastly, we are giving a laurel to internet sensation Grumpy 
Cat. She died May 14 at the age of 7 (roughly 44 years in “human 
years”) from complications from a urinary tract infection. Al-
though she always sported a frown, the comedy associated with 
her grimace always put a smile on our faces. Grumpy Cat, whose 
real name is Tardar Sauce, became famous via Reddit six years 
ago when her owner, Tabatha Bundesen, posted the cat’s picture 
introducing her to the Internet world. We hope kitty heaven is 
everything worth smiling about for Grumpy Cat. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORLetter to the Editor
UF’s College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences commence-
ment ceremony was brieﬂ  y 
interrupted by three of our student 
organizers during the college’s sec-
ond go at a proper commencement. 
Despite the relevance, we were 
not making a statement on how UF 
can’t seem to provide a graduation 
that prioritizes student individuality 
and expression over convenience. 
Instead, these students forfeited their 
hard-earned moment on stage to cre-
ate a platform for those who have 
had their voice stolen by society. 
Their action is coordinated in mes-
sage with the three students from 
commencement ceremonies earlier 
this month. 
Incarcerated individuals are un-
justly regarded as a class that should 
be disenfranchised from all of their 
civil liberties and subsequently can-
not easily advocate against the living 
and working conditions they face 
on the inside. Organizations like the Incarcerated Workers Organiz-
ing Committee (IWOC) have helped 
bridge their voices to those who are 
much more privileged, like college 
students. It is because of prisoner 
testimonies and letters, tied in with 
our recognition of labor, that Divest 
UF campaigns to terminate UF’s in-
volvement in modern slavery.
IFAS, ranked as the nation’s fourth 
best agricultural program accord-
ing to U.S. News, has only assumed 
its size and proﬁ  t margin because it 
steals labor from incarcerated work-
ers. Instead of valuing labor and pay-
ing Florida residents a living wage 
for the work, UF IFAS contracts local 
prisons to send out about 100 pris-
oners a day to do what the prison-
ers have described as “grunt work” 
on several agricultural sites around 
Florida. The labor performed is not 
just short in actual trade skill, but 
also provides zero ﬁ  nancial compen-
sation to the inmates. A state solu-tion to criminality should be rooted 
in reparation and reconciliation; it 
shouldn’t serve as a cost-saving tool 
for government agencies, universi-
ties or private companies.
By contracting prison labor from 
the Florida Department of Correc-
tions (FDOC), UF is choosing to ex-
plicitly join the list of corporations 
that proﬁ  t off of mass incarceration. 
We must also be cognizant of the 
fact that black and brown people re-
main disproportionately targeted by 
our carceral system. 
Ending these contracts is a prima-
ry step in removing moral authority 
from an inherently corrupt and abu-
sive agency of the state. The Senior 
Vice President of IFAS, Jack Payne, 
admitted its capacity to terminate 
these contracts in a meeting this 
spring. Help hold UF accountable by 
telling them to #CutTheContracts. 
Help us create living wages for those 
across Florida while creating a tan-
gible end to slavery. 
Juan Zapata is a 23-year-old UF   
electrical engineering graduate.  IFAS beneﬁ  ts from prison contracts 
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDHouse for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,000/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-30-19-102-2
4 LARGE BR / 1 BA, 1 BLK TO UF Campus 
Credit Union, School of Ed, Steps to bus. 
$410 / room or $1640 / mo. Patio, wood, car-
pet throughout. Kitchen & bath renovated. 
Pvt parking avail. Call or text 352-222-4141    
5-21-19-5-2
GREAT FOR UF STUDENT
3BR/3BA, 2-story condo behind Gainesville 
Sun Office. July 1st, $875 / mo each. nghe@
msn.com or phone 352-327-2931    5-30-19-
6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Another Tuesday night without a date? 
Read The Alligator.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals 'll bring you ‘round!
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
10 For Sale
Time to sell your Furby collection? Your 
Tickle-Me-Elmo? Looking to buy one? Check 
out the For Sale section for great results. 
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Trump MAGA wearers hate this hat for 
mocking theirs Make A Hole Go A Way of 
course the MAGA on this hat is much lager 
than all of the other. Go to Gville Craigslist and 
type in Blue Hat to see the hat and contact info.     
5-30-19-4-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more informationTUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
P/T babysitter,$12/hr, help take kids age 10-
16 to summer activities. Experience babysit-
ting, car needed. I pay for gas as well. Email 
to rosenson@ufl.edu      5-28-19-5-14
OFFICE ASSITANT $8.75/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-6-19-
8-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Did you know? The 1967 Outer Space Treaty 
forbids any nation from trying to own the Moon.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are lifesavers.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
 FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 5:30 
- 7:30 p.m. on 5/20 – 5/23.  Verbal on M&W, 
Math on T&R.  To register and learn the room 
location, go to the TC website www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study Skills" 
then "Workshops.”      5-21-19-3-20
Researchers at the University of Florida are 
looking for cigarette smokers to participate in
a study involving incentives for quitting. If 
interested, call the Behavioral Health and 
Technology Research Clinic at 352-273-
2151 or email us at motiv8@psych.ufl.edu.    
6-4-5-20
Did you know? Modern brunch was first pro-
posed in 1895 as a post-hangover meal.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Please recycle this newspaper.
By John-Clark Levin and Jeff Chen
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 Fur-protesting 
org.
5 Criminals, to 
cops
10 Idiotic
14 With, in France
15 Paying careful 
attention
16 Biblical twin
17 California county 
known for 
vineyards
18 JFK Library 
architect
19 Talked like a rat?
20 Shoe brand with 
a three-stripe 
logo
22 Jabbing rudely
24 Rescue 
helicopter
26 Something 
for serving 
the English 
breakfast?
27 Spanish hand
28 Crushing on
29 Fronton game 
word
32 Like about-to-be-
toppled dominoes
34 Surreptitious 
summons
38 Branded wares, 
informally
40 American 
gymnast 
Raisman with 
three Olympic 
gold medals
41 Magazine name
42 Preface, briefly
43 Tip of a quill
44 Ensure the win
45 “The Tempest” 
king
47 Send to iCloud
49 “Doctor Who” 
airer, familiarly
50 Smoothie maker
52 Gained altitude
53 “Survivor” faction
55 Stud farm stud
56 Latin art
57 Not yet sleeping
59 Chicago 
ballplayer
60 Show on 
which Tina Fey 
co-starred for six 
seasons
61 Cooks’ prep tools
62 India pale __
63 “Yo!”64 Bar tender in 
Tokyo?
65 For instance
66 Blanc who voiced 
Bugs
DOWN
1 Former Delta 
rival
2 Give the slip
3 Lukewarm
4 It’s often worn 
with a hood and 
mortarboard
5 Italian chum
6 Massachusetts 
state tree
7 U.S. House 
member
8 Cursor 
beginning?
9 Grad student’s 
income
10 Computer screen 
array
11 Delta rival, as it 
was once known
12 Exodus food
13 Glitch-ridden, as 
software
21 “Selma” director 
DuVernay
23 Bread grain
25 Longtime late-
night host26 Don Ho’s 
signature song ... 
and a hint to this 
puzzle’s circled 
letters
29 “What __ 
missing?”
30 “Stormy 
Weather” singer
31 In a naive way
33 Giants QB 
Manning
35 Stabilizer for 
movie shooters36 Outmoded 
calculator
37 Hanoi New Year
39 Sharpen
41 Shower wall piece
46 Divan kin
48 Thorax 
membrane
49 Garbage
51 Defy authority
54 __-at-ease
57 MI6 agent
58 “Gangnam Style” 
musician
By Mike Peluso
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/17/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/17/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, May 17, 2019
ACROSS
1 VMI program
5 ’80s-’90s 
courtroom drama
10 On-call worker
14 Assert as true
15 Three-time A.L. 
batting champ 
Tony
16 Pupil’s place
17 Chipper
20 Tetra- doubled
21 Atonement
22 Confuse
25 Wrigley brand
27 Chipper
31 Geological time 
span
32 Carpenter’s joint 
element
33 Hiccup cause
36 Genesis voyager
38 Protector with 
strings
40 Mlle., across the 
Pyrenees
41 God of Islam
43 Called from the 
field
45 Bordeaux 
vineyard
46 Chipper
49 Rural wagons
50 Response at the 
door
51 Fair-hiring 
problem
54 “I don’t like  
your __”
56 Chipper
62 Tierra en el mar
63 Force to leave
64 Personification of 
victory
65 Dance basic
66 Shemar’s 
longtime 
“Criminal Minds” 
role
67 Plus
DOWN
1 One of five 
characters on 
“The Big Bang 
Theory” to appear 
in every episode
2 Ab __: from the 
start
3 Cube root of 
1,0004 Spicy cuisine
5 Plunder
6 Italian wheels, 
briefly
7 Ad-__
8 Director 
DuVernay
9 Horseradish 
relative
10 Casual  
summer 
garments
11 Former Indiana 
governor Bayh
12 Amalgamate
13 Chums
18 Crime scene 
clue, maybe
19 Arab bigwigs
22 Gemini rocket 
stage
23 Eagerly 
anticipate, with 
“over”
24 North America’s 
highest peak
25 Fragrant
26 Fame
28 Large expanse
29 Part of the 
picture
30 Busters34 Four-decades-
plus first name in 
the Senate
35 Title role for Bea
37 Links equalizer
39 Take-home
42 Tough to hear, 
as criticism
44 Like embers
47 Stuck
48 Medit. tourist 
attraction
51 Author Martin52 Unexpected blow
53 Couture monthly
54 Roof piece
55 Fraction of a meg
57 Men’s grooming 
brand
58 Aperitif named 
for a former Dijon 
mayor
59 Good thing to 
strike
60 Signs off on
61 Sign of summer
05/16/1914 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
1. Houston’s George Springer set 
a record in 2017 for most extra-base 
hits in the World Series. How many 
was it?
2. When was the last time a league 
leader in ERA for a season had a num-
ber higher than 3.00?
3. Jimmy Garoppolo, in 2017, 
became the second 49ers quarterback 
to win his first three NFL starts. Who 
was the first to do it?
4. In 2018, Villanova’s Jalen 
Brunson became the seventh male 
Naismith Award winner (top college 
basketball player) to win the NCAA 
Tournament the same year. Who was 
the last to do it before him?
5. When was the last time the Buffa-
lo Sabres reached the NHL playoffs?
6. In 2018, Atlanta’s Josef Marti-
nez set a Major League Soccer reg-
ular-season record for goals scored 
(31). Name two of the three others 
who shared the mark of 27.
7. Which of the following heavy-
weight boxers did Ken Norton not 
fight during his pro career: Muham-
mad Ali, George Foreman, Joe Frazier 
or Larry Holmes?
Answers
1. Eight hits (three doubles, five 
home runs).
2. John Lackey, with a 3.01 ERA for 
the Angels in 2007.
3. Y .A. Tittle (1951-52).
4. Anthony Davis of Kentucky, in 
2012.
5. It was 2011.
6. Roy Lassiter (1996), Chris 
Wondolowski (2012) and Bradley 
Wright-Phillips (2014).
7. Joe Frazier.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 20, 2019King Features Weekly ServiceFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Sierra Brooks ﬁ  nishes second at NCAA Championships
Florida golfer Sierra Brooks was the runner-up for the NCAA individual title 
after shooting an even round on Monday. Arkansas' Maria Fassi shot 5 under 
on the day and won the title by ﬁ  ve strokes, pg. 11. UF captain Nelson Maldonado 
was named the First T eam 
All-SEC designated hitter 
on Monday. First baseman 
Kendrick Calilao was named to 
the Freshman All-SEC T eam.“He’s not as disruptive as he was 
four years ago, but he’s still a good 
player.”
That was what Tampa Bay Bucca-
neers coach Bruce Arians had to say 
about defensive tackle Gerald McCoy 
this offseason. He told ESPN that he 
needed to “evaluate” him, and that Mc-
Coy was at the age where “production 
and (pay) don’t match.”
On Monday, McCoy was released 
from the team, and he’ll end his career 
with the Buccaneers with zero playoff 
appearances and only two seasons with a winning record.
Four-time All-Pro. Six-time Pro 
Bowler. Zero team success.
There’s an inherent problem in the 
way Arians spoke of McCoy to the 
media. To some, Arians’ words could 
be interpreted as merely speaking the 
truth. McCoy certainly hasn’t been as 
productive as he once was  -- ever since 
his 9.5-sack season in 2013, that num-
ber has declined -- and his 13 million 
dollar price tag doesn’t reﬂ  ect well on 
those numbers.
To the people that matter, though — 
the players in the locker room and the 
coaches — it could be a precedent for 
the future.
To question McCoy’s work ethic 
and on-ﬁ  eld presence does little to give 
justice to the career of the third-overall 
pick, and there were those in Tampa 
who expressed their anger at the deci-
sion to release him.
“You tweeting me talking (about) how good this situation is very very 
[sic] irrelevant,” Tampa middle line-
backer Lavonte David tweeted, after 
tweeting out an angry emoji a few min-
utes earlier. “I’m literally the last per-
son you should try to convince!”
McCoy was notorious for being vo-
cal about his detractors, even going as 
far as to rant on an Instagram story and 
to assure his critics that he is “an All-
Pro on and off the ﬁ  eld.”
It's likely that what Arians said 
didn’t sit well with McCoy. His release 
did not sit well with David, either, and 
with the new regime coming in for the 
2019 season, there is good reason for 
players to wonder if Arians could call 
them out next. McCoy has been a sta-
ple at Raymond James Stadium since 
his ﬁ  rst season in Tampa in 2010, and 
by calling out such a high proﬁ  le player 
and locker room leader, Arians risks 
something that any new regime can’t 
risk: losing the support of its players. Arians’ treatment of Gerald McCoy sets a dangerous precedentSOFTBALL
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
There was no match for the Gators softball 
team.
Boston University, Stanford and Boise State 
each failed to muster up anything sufﬁ  cient 
enough to challenge an elite Florida pitching 
staff this past weekend at the Gainesville NCAA 
Regional.
The No. 8 Gators (47-15) cruised to their 12th 
NCAA Super Regional in program history, and 
Gainesville will again serve as host this weekend 
to a three-game series against No. 11 Tennessee 
(42-15), the winner of the Knoxville Regional.
Three games into NCAA play, Florida looks 
prepared to make a strong Women’s College 
World Series run. The Gators blazed their way 
through all three NCAA Regional matchups, out-
scoring their opponents 16-0. Here’s how they 
did it: 
Continued dominance in the circle
To say Florida’s pitching excelled would be 
an understatement. The Gators didn’t allow a 
single run in three games at Katie Seashole Press-
ly Stadium, which included a combined no-hitter 
in Saturday’s game against Boise State.
Senior ace Kelly Barnhill (32-11) displayed 
her typical prowess in the circle, winning two of 
her three starts and fanning 14 batters in the pro-
cess. She’s now only 34 strikeouts short of Stacey 
Nelson’s UF single-season strikeout record (363).
Sophomore Natalie Lugo (8-3) entered in re-lief for Barnhill in Saturday’s Boise State game 
and threw three perfect innings of her own, earn-
ing a win while getting her ﬁ  rst postseason ex-
perience.
UF once again proved that it has one of the 
nation’s best pitching staffs, capable of carrying 
it deep into the postseason.
Bats trending upwards
While often an inconsistent aspect of the 
team, the Gators were effective offensively, 
scoring 16 runs on 20 hits in the three regional 
games.
The top of the order, consisting of ﬁ  rst base-
man Amanda Lorenz, designated player Kendyl 
Lindaman and second basemen Hannah Adams, 
continued to spark the offense — the trio com-
bined for half the team’s hits.
The other players in the lineup also showed 
signs of life this past weekend. Right ﬁ  elder Jai-
mie Hoover homered in the regional ﬁ  nal, and 
left ﬁ  elder Jade Caraway knocked in three RBIs 
in the game prior.
The pitching UF faced this week was less 
challenging than what it faced in the SEC Tour-
nament a few weeks ago, and it was likely in-
ferior to the pitching it will face throughout the 
rest of the postseason. The offensive production, 
however, was still encouraging.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org Key takeaways as Gators look 
toward NCAA Super Regionals
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Second baseman Hannah Adams was a key contributor for Florida at the NCAA 
Gainesville Regional, going 4 for 8 with two RBIs and two runs scored.
The Associated Press
Gerald McCoy, who was released by the Bucs on Monday, 
has earned three First-T eam All-Pros and has made six Pro 
Bowls in his NFL career.
Hells Wells
River Wells
twitter: @riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team has 
made an appearance in the NCAA 
Tournament every year since 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan took over 
in 2008.
But UF, coming off of four-
straight College World Series ap-
pearances, hasn’t performed up 
to expectations this season.
Currently sitting at 33-23 over-
all and 13-17 in conference play, 
the Gators are firmly on the NCAA 
at-large bubble as the SEC Tour-
nament gets underway in Hoover, 
Alabama, on Tuesday.
Though the team’s loss count 
is high and it’s under .500 in 
SEC play, a 25th-ranked RPI and 
the fourth-strongest strength of 
schedule, according to D1base-
ball.com, has Florida kept alive.
“We play a difficult schedule 
every year and I think you should 
be rewarded for that,” O’Sullivan 
said in a release after Saturday’s 
victory over Missouri. “It’s a very 
difficult league… Everybody feels like they should be in, but I do 
believe the way we’re playing 
right now, if we can find our way 
into a Regional, we’d be tough to 
handle.”
The Gators were on the out-
side looking in prior to their se-
ries against Mizzou. They des-
perately needed a sweep to help 
bolster their resume and remain 
alive for an at-large bid.
UF earned its first road series 
sweep of the season, and now 
needs to win a game or two in the 
SEC Tourney to feel secure head-
ing into Selection Monday next 
week.
It’ll be an early first-pitch for 
Florida on Tuesday, as it matches 
up with the Texas A&M Aggies 
(36-19-1, 16-13-1 SEC) in Game 1 
of the tournament at 10:30 a.m.
Florida earned the 11th seed 
and will play third-seeded Geor-
gia on Wednesday if it gets past 
the Aggies.
UF and A&M didn’t meet dur-
ing the 2019 regular season, but 
the two teams did play in 2018, Florida chasing NCAA berth as SEC Tournament begins
Alligator File Photo
T ommy Mace earned his eighth win of the season over the weekend against Missouri, pitching 6.2 
innings and allowing just two earned runs. The sophomore decreased his ERA to 5.18 with the effort.
Alligator File Photo
Sierra Brooks finished the second round of the NCAA Championships tied for first on the individual 
leaderboard, but settled for second place after Arkansas' Maria Fassi pulled away in the final round.
GOLF
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Sierra Brooks waited anxiously 
in the clubhouse after finishing the 
stroke play portion of the NCAA 
Championships in a tie for first with 
Arkansas’ Maria Fassi.
Brooks ended with an overall score 
of 4 under, but Fassi still had 13 holes 
remaining to clinch the individual 
title. 
Fassi claimed sole possession of 
the lead with a birdie on the par-4 
sixth and never gave it back, carding 
an overall score of 8 under to beat out 
Brooks for the NCAA individual title 
on Monday in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
The Gators were eliminated from 
the NCAA Championships despite 
Brooks’ showing at the event. They 
finished in 10th with an overall score 
of 42 over.
Florida entered the final round in 
13th (+31) and needed a spark to 
qualify for the match play quarterfi-
nals, as only the top eight teams ad-
vance.
But four out of UF’s five golfers re-
corded a score above par on the last 
day, which ultimately put an end to 
its season.
Brooks started off well, extending 
her lead to three strokes after birdie-
ing three of the last four holes on the 
front nine.
But the junior’s performance on 
the back nine hurt her chances of tak-
ing home the NCAA individual cham-
pionship.She registered a bogey on hole 10 
and two double-bogeys on the 12th 
and 14th to finish the round at even 
par.
Fassi, however, was consistent 
throughout the final round of stroke 
play.
She had the luxury of playing on 
her home course, the Blessings Golf 
Club, and took advantage of it by re-
cording five birdies and zero bogeys 
on her way to the NCAA individual 
crown.
Marta Perez, who carded a score 
of 11 over for Florida in the second 
round, performed better on Monday. 
She registered seven birdies — after 
posting only one on Sunday — to fin-
ish the last round at 2 over.
Addison Baggarly got off to a bad 
start in the final round, shooting a 
double-bogey on her first hole. She 
closed out the front nine with two 
birdies on holes six and eight, but re-
corded none on the front nine, ending 
the last day with a score of 4 over.
Elin Esborn remained steady after 
a 13-over finish in the opening round 
of the event, posting a score of 5 over 
in each of the last two rounds.
Clara Manzalini recorded two 
triple-bogeys on Monday, with one 
coming on hole seven and the other 
on hole 14. The freshman closed out 
the tournament with a 6-over score 
on the final day.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgBrooks misses out on 
individual title, UF eliminatedSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 1212   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 21, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS 
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK
when the Gators went to College 
Station and took two out of three.
Florida is expected to have 
right-hander Tommy Mace (8-4, 
5.18 ERA) start against A&M on 
four days rest, while the Aggies projected starter is southpaw Asa 
Lacy (7-4, 2.13 ERA).
Lacy leads the team in strike-
outs with 115 and has given up 
just two earned runs in his last 
11.1 innings pitched.
In the batter’s box, Mace will 
be taxed with trying to stop an Aggies lineup highlighted by in-
fielder Braden Shewmake (.309, 
six home runs, 46 RBIs), catcher 
Mikey Hoehner (.294, two home 
runs, 28 RBIs) and infielder Bryce 
Blaum (.284, seven home runs, 
27 RBIs).
Texas A&M has won four of its last six games, taking two out of 
three from fifth-ranked Arkansas 
in its final series of the regular 
season.
UF faces a difficult task in 
Hoover, but an upset on Tuesday 
will go a long way in strengthen-
ing the team’s resume and help-ing it increase its NCAA tourna-
ment streak to 12 years.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 10Florida has made the NCAA Tournament every year since 2008