We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Q&A with Pete Alonso
The Alligator’s Jake Dreilinger and Sam Campisano interviewed 
the Mets’ star rookie, a for mer Gator, pg. 14Sold-out show
Hasan Minaj spoke in Accent’s last show of the school year,  pg. 9
Turlington dancer ‘laying down the law’
Dennis Kane was arrested,  again, pg. 4FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 80
LIVING IN GAINESVILLE: AFFORDABLE HOUSING (PART 3 OF 4)
UNITS CAN TAKE YEARS TO FIND
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Michael Powers has bought a new 
washer, but he still hangs his clothes out -
side to dry. A grey rolling chair doubles 
as his dining room seat at night and his 
barber’s chair during the day. 
He pointed to the March calendar and 
laughed — he has been too busy raising 
his children to change it. He dreams of a 
house with a fenced green yard and a car 
but has never lived in a home like this. 
Powers, 31, lives in Woodland Park, a 
subsidized public housing neighborhood 
at 1900 SE 4th St., with three of his nine 
children in a three-bedroom apartment. 
“It’s not always the most comfortable,” 
he said. “Unfortunately, I may never re -
ally get out of here.”
Powers uses a public housing voucher 
from the Gainesville Housing Authority to 
afford his $200 rent, which is 30 percent of 
his monthly income as a barber. Without 
the voucher, Powers and his sons would 
be sleeping on couches or still living in a moldy 1960s trailer in Waldo, Florida.
High housing costs have led to about 
15,000 cost-burdened households, which 
means those families pay more than 30 
percent of their income toward rent. An 
average two-bedroom unit costs $17.19 
hourly, while the median hourly wage is 
$15.95 in Gainesville, according to 2017 
data from the UF Shimberg Center for 
Housing Studies. 
“I’m successful right now because I’m 
not where I used to be,” Powers said.
As of 2018, there were 3,403 afford -
able units offered in three ways: Section 
8 housing vouchers, public housing and 
state- and federal-assistance programs. 
If a family can’t find affordable housing, 
alternatives can be homelessness, staying 
with friends and family or relocating.
Powers said he can’t work at a barber -
shop without reliable transportation, and 
his bus doesn’t run on Sundays. A five-
minute car ride can take an hour and a 
half on the bus, so his clients have their 
hair cut in his dining room. 
“Just today I made enough money to Few options, failed solutions for residents seeking affordable housing
By Lakshmi Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer
A girl smiling ear to ear raised 
her arms in the air in front of the 
Walt Disney World Cinderella 
Castle at Magic Kingdom. 
She was wearing Mickey 
Mouse ears with her blonde 
hair tucked behind her face. She looked happy in the framed pho -
tograph. 
The picture was placed at the 
bottom of a tree that was wrapped 
in yarn at her vigil Wednesday 
night. Friends and family walked 
up to the tree as tears streamed 
down their faces to hang pictures 
of Sophia Visent on clothespins. 
Visent, an Uruguayan first-generation 22-year-old UF envi -
ronmental management senior, 
died by suicide last week in Mi -
ami. More than 100 people gath -
ered on the Plaza of the Americas 
to celebrate her life. 
Candles lit the way as 16 of 
Visent’s closest friends and fam -
ily members walked to the front 
of the crowd to read letters they wrote to her about their favorite 
memories.  
Nicole Visent, one of her older 
sisters and a 23-year-old UF busi -
ness administration junior, said 
she wanted Visent to be remem -
bered for her joy, persistence and 
patience. 
“She was a person that was 
just so filled with this tenacity...this spark that only she could car -
ry,” Nicole Visent said.
Sara Hoffen, a 22-year-old UF 
international business master’s 
student and Visent’s friend, said 
she remembers the day she went 
tailgating with Visent at fraternity 
row. Visent wore heart-shaped 
glasses as they snuck into a DJ 
Pauly D concert by pretending to 
be in a sorority. ‘How could this happen?’ Vigil held for UF student who died by suicide
HE HAS A $50,000 BOND
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man who allegedly threatened to 
“shoot the whole campus up” during a 
Gators game in a rap song was arrested 
Tuesday, deputies said. 
On March 22, Christopher Maurice Mc -
Callum, 27, of Ocala, posted a rap song under the name Wb Jun on his Facebook 
page, according to an Alachua County Sher -
iff’s Office warrant affidavit. 
The post has been viewed about 35,000 
times and shared by 318 users.
In the song, McCallum raps about an on -
going feud between unknown groups from 
Ocala Shores and Gainesville. He rapped 
the lyrics “catch you at a Gator game and 
shoot the whole campus up,” the report 
said. He also said in the song that he doesn’t 
want to see the group from Gainesville at a 
March 23 concert by Kenyata Bullard, also 
known as Yungeen Ace, at the 8 Seconds 
nightclub, at 201 W. University Ave., the 
report said.
Multiple shootings have occurred at or 
nearby Bullard’s concerts, the report said. 
In June, Bullard’s brother Trevon Bullard 
and two teenagers were killed in a drive-
by shooting in Jacksonville. On March 11, three Jacksonville men were arrested after 
a shooting in Waycross, Georgia that killed 
one of Bullard’s friends and injured another. 
McCallum was charged with sending a 
written threat to conduct a mass shooting, 
the report said. 
He remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Thursday in lieu of a $50,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgOcala man accused of threatening to shoot up UF campus in rap songCaroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Michael Powers, 31, sits at his dining table where he is about to eat a baked chicken din -
ner for himself and his three sons. He lives in East Gainesville public housing but dreams 
of moving to Savannah, Georgia.
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
SEE UF VIGIL,  PAGE 8More than 100 people attended the event in honor of Sophia VisentT oday’s Weather
TODAY
Becoming a Woman of Influence
When:  9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where:  Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom
What: This will be the fifth an -
nual half-day leadership sympo -
sium featuring successful alumni 
from the College of Journalism 
and Communications. This is 
designed to inspire students 
and emerging professionals to 
enter the workforce with con -
fidence and impact. Speakers 
include Erin Cigich, the CEO of 
Clickbooth; Karen Irwin, the 
president and CEO of Universal 
Studios Hollywood; Jasmine 
Johnson, a personal brand strat -
egist for The J. Chanelle Group; 
and Annelie Schmittel, the vice 
president of Player Development 
for the Philadelphia 76ers.
Spring Plant Sale
When:  11 a.m.-5 p.m.
Where:  Wilmot Gardens
What:  The fourth annual spring 
plant sale will include succulents, 
tropical houseplants, herbs, ed -
ibles, plant terrariums, holiday 
crafts and more. All proceeds 
are used to maintain the his -
toric Wilmot Botanical Gardens 
and to sustain the Therapeutic Horticulture Program. Admission 
is free and cash, check and credit 
card payments will be accepted.
There will be free parking.
SUNDAY
Florida Museum to host photogra -
phy workshop
When:  9 a.m.-noon
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What:  During the event, people 
can use tripods and other pho -
tographic equipment not usually 
permitted in the Florida Museum 
of Natural History’s “Butterfly 
Rainforest” exhibit, which fea -
tures more than 50 species of 
butterflies. The fee is $40 or $35 
for museum members and it in -
cludes exhibit admission. Pre-
registration is required and closes 
Friday. Participants must be 18 
years or older.
Correction:
In an article titled “UF College 
of Engineering construction de -
layed” that ran on Wednesday, 
the construction was originally 
projected to cost $53 million.  The 
new budget is expected to reach 
about $72.2 million and includes 
funding from $28.4 million from 
Public Education Capital Outlay, $23.3 million from Wertheim, 
about $13 million from the 
College of Engineering and $3.6 
million from UF. The Alligator 
reported differently because a 
reporter was given unclear infor -
mation after the project manager 
referred The Alligator to talk to 
UF’s spokesperson for the story.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  67°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org . 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis -
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format -
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger,  jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 80FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
MORE THAN 100  
PEOPLE ATTENDED A 
VIGIL FOR HIM
By Katherine Wallace-
Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Craig “Red” Arttez Brewer and 
his 2-year-old son had a routine. 
At least twice a month, Brewer 
picked up his son, Corrian, and 
took him to his favorite restaurant, 
Popeyes. After, they would park in 
front of Gainesville Regional Air -
port and watch the airplanes take 
off. 
Sometimes, the 41-year-old fa -
ther would take Corrian and his 
11-month-old daughter, Caylin, 
to Depot Park and Albert “Ray” 
Massey Park.
The last time Corrian was with 
his father was the weekend before 
Brewer was shot and killed at a 
Waffle House, at 7611 W. New -
berry Road. 
On Sunday, Brewer was at the 
restaurant with his cousin Ra -
sheeda Johnson and their nephew 
Manuel Norman when he began to 
pass out $20 bills to pay for cus -
tomers’ orders.
When one customer became 
frustrated that he didn’t pay for 
her meal, the man she was with, 
Ezekiel Hicks, went outside and 
put a gun in his pants, according 
to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Of -
fice arrest report. He went back 
inside the restaurant and fought 
with Brewer before he shot him in 
the head.
“As soon as he fell, I was trying 
to stop the blood,” Johnson said.
Brewer wasn’t a stranger to 
paying for people’s meals, said Monique Gordon, his children’s 
mother. 
“When he’s out there and he’s 
having a good time and he’s feel -
ing good, that’s what he does,” 
Gordon said. 
On Wednesday night, Brewer’s 
family held a vigil in his mother’s 
backyard, said Monique Ross, 
Brewer’s sister. Hundreds attend -
ed. 
“By 7 o’ clock, there was peo -
ple that couldn’t fit in the yard, so they were all gathered down the 
street,” Ross said. 
Friends and family stood shoul -
der to shoulder praying and cry -
ing, Ross said. They lit candles 
that spelled out “Red,” a child -
hood nickname his mother gave 
him. They then released more 
than 200 red and blue balloons.
After, friends and family lis -
tened to songs from Dej Loaf, one 
of Brewer’s favorite artists, took 
pictures in front of his BMW and shared stories of how he touched 
their lives. 
Brewer worked as a tile in -
staller for On The Mark Tile, LLC, 
Ross said. He would often go to a 
Walmart and pay for kid’s book -
bags and school supplies, Ross 
said. If he saw a kid who couldn’t 
pay for new shoes, he would buy 
shoes for them, too.
“He always helped people be -
cause his blessings were going 
to come back 10 times,” Gordon 
said. “He always said that.” 
Brewer would also mentor Jer -
rica Rowe’s 8-year-old son, De -
marion Grant. 
“Craig was more than a men -
tor,” Rowe said. “He was a father 
figure to him.” 
Rowe’s son would wait at the 
window for him to get back from 
work and then run to greet him, 
Rowe said. Brewer paid for his 
haircuts, gave him money to keep 
in his pockets and told him to stay 
out of trouble. 
When Brewer moved away, 
Grant would beg Rowe to see him. 
The day Brewer died, Grant was 
supposed to talk to him in the af -
ternoon about his classes.
“It’s very hard because my son 
just loved him to death,” Rowe 
said. “He instantly started crying 
and asking, ‘Why? Why? Why 
they took him? Why did it have to 
happen to him?’”
Brewer is survived by his moth -
er Marsha Simmons; his brother 
Derrick Hill; his sister Monique 
Ross; his wife Monique Gordon; 
his children Corrian and Caitlin 
Brewer; and his nieces, nephews 
and grandnephew. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgCommunity mourns man killed at Waffle House
SHOOTINGS & 
KILLINGS SINCE  
JAN. 1 IN 
ALACHUA 
COUNTY
Daniel Schweitzer was 
found dead underneath 
palm fronds in 
Micanopy on Feb. 18. 
He was 20 years old. 
 No arrest made for the 
murder  
A man was shot in the 
butt at 1900 SE Fourth 
St. on Feb. 22
 Ferrie Vashaun Cook Jr., 
21, was arrested for the 
shooting 
Montez Davis was shot 
to death behind the 
Eighth Ave Food Store 
on March 9.  He was 31 
years old.
 James Eugene Boykins, 
20, was arrested for the 
murder
Craig Arttez Brewer 
was shot and killed at 
Waffle House on April 
7. He was 41 years old.
 Ezekiel Luke Hicks, 25, 
was arrested for the 
murderCourtesy to The Alligator
Craig Brewer and his son Corrian, 2, went to look at helicopters the 
weekend before Brewer was shot and killed at a Waffle House.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019THREE EJECTED PASSENGERS 
WERE WEARING SEATBELTS
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A new report published Wednesday shows 
that three passengers involved in the Interstate 
75 crash that killed seven in January were eject -
ed even when they wore seatbelts. 
The National Transportation Safety Board 
released a preliminary report on the crash. It 
didn’t include a probable cause for the crash or 
safety recommendations, but it did show only 
five of the passengers of the passenger van were 
wearing seatbelts when the crash happened. 
On Jan. 3, five children and two adults were 
killed and eight were injured in the crash on 
I-75 near Gainesville.
Steve Holland was driving a semitruck north 
on I-75 in Gainesville when he hit Robyn Rat -
tray in a vehicle. Both vehicles went through 
the guardrail into the southbound lane and hit 
the passenger van with the children and Doug -
las Bolkema’s semitruck. Five people were 
ejected from the van.
The semitrucks caught on fire after 50 gal -
lons of diesel fuel spilled onto the highway. 
The passengers in the van were on their way to 
Walt Disney World from Louisiana.
The Safety Board report said that Holland held a commercial driver’s license with an ex -
piration date of February 2022. Investigators 
believe he operated within the regulated hours 
of service.
He has received eight traffic citations in 
Palm Beach County since 2003, according to 
court records. One of the citations was for care -
less driving.
The board won’t release personal informa -
tion on the passengers until a final report of the 
investigation is released. 
The board, which is a federal agency, 
couldn’t send investigators to gather evidence 
because the crash happened during the govern -
ment shutdown from Dec. 22 to Jan. 25, said 
board spokesperson Keith Holloway. 
The board sent investigators to Gainesville 
on Jan. 31 to look at the vehicles, photographs 
and documentation taken when they weren’t 
on the scene. 
During the shutdown, 21 crashes were 
not investigated and 367 employees were fur -
loughed. Only 26 employees were deemed es -
sential personnel.
The investigation is still its early stages, so 
the information in the preliminary report can 
change,  Holloway said. The investigation can 
take about 12 to 18 months.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgNew report reveals details 
of deadly January I-75 crash
AN OFFICER THOUGHT  
DENNIS KANE WAS GOING  
TO ATTACK HIM
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
“Turlington Dancer” 
Dennis Kane got in trou -
ble with the law, again, 
Wednesday. 
He was accused of try -
ing to fight a Gainesville 
Police officer and telling 
them that he’s “laying 
down the law.”
At about 8:40 p.m., an 
officer approached Kane, 43, of Gainesville, 
outside The Swamp Restaurant, at 1642 W. 
University Ave., according to a GPD arrest 
report. 
The restaurant’s manager called police 
multiple times throughout the day to com -
plain about Kane’s behavior outside the res -
taurant, the report said. 
Kane told an officer, “I’m untouchable,” 
when the officer approached him, the report 
said. When the officer tried to speak to him, 
Kane took a step back and became tense. 
Kane then yelled, “I dress you guys down. You follow my law.” The officer 
thought Kane was going to attack him, the 
report said. 
After being handcuffed, Kane apologized 
for his behavior. 
He was charged with breaching the peace, 
the report said. 
In August 2017, Kane was banned from 
UF’s campus for three years after students 
complained about his aggressive and loud 
behavior. He was previously banned for 
three years in 2012 for threatening students. 
Before he was banned, Kane was known 
for dancing on Turlington Plaza in colorful 
shorts and shirts, throwing up peace signs 
and talking to passing students. 
Kane was released from the Alachua 
County Jail Thursday afternoon on his own 
recognizance. 
Kane told The Alligator that he was raising 
awareness for a international environmental 
movement called Extinction Rebellion.
He also said if the officers did not stop 
him when they did, he would have given 
them a “combination uppercut and tornado 
kick” and they would have been “knocked 
out cold in no time flat.”
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org‘Turlington Dancer’ yells ‘You 
follow my law’ at GPD officer
Kane
GAINESVILLE IS FIRST U.S. 
CITY TO HAVE BREAKFAST 
OPTIONS
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville early risers have an -
other reason to eat breakfast in bed. 
Gainesville is the first Ameri -
can city to have breakfast delivery 
provided by Bite Squad, said Liz 
Sniegocki, the Bite Squad spokesper -
son. As of Monday, customers can 
order breakfast from 13  restaurants.
Bite Squad is an on-demand res -
taurant delivery app. It partners with 
more than 11,000 restaurants in 
more than 375 cities, she said. The 
Gainesville delivery area covers from about Southwest 170 Street to the 
Gainesville Regional Airport, at 3880 
NE 39th Ave.
Breakfast service is subject to 
the times restaurants begin and end 
serving breakfast, she said. Some of 
the partnering restaurants include 
Chick-fil-A, Maple Street Biscuit 
Company and Mi Apá Latin Café. 
The service will be a permanent part 
of the app. 
“Gainesville’s one of our stron -
gest markets, so we do incredible 
business in the area,” Sniegocki said. 
“It’s just going to provide another 
level of convenience to consumers 
that was previously not available to 
them.”
The breakfast delivery option will 
be introduced to Minneapolis, Min -
nesota, the hometown of Bite Squad, next week, Sniegocki said. Bite Squad 
was founded in Minneapolis in 2012 
and came to Gainesville in 2017. 
Jonatan Rodriguez, a 27-year-old 
assistant manager at Mi Apá Latin 
Café, said partnering with Bite Squad 
has been beneficial to the restaurant. 
There have been about 20 breakfast 
orders since Monday.
“When customers can use differ -
ent kinds of options to still do busi -
ness with us, that’s a plus,” he said. 
“It helps a lot to reach our goals in 
sales.”
Rodriguez said the most popular 
delivery breakfast items this week 
have been ham, egg and cheese 
sandwiches, Cuban bread rolls and 
coffee. 
Bite Squad previously did not 
allow customers to order drinks that were not canned, but now the 
company provides drink carriers 
with the breakfast delivery, which 
allows customers to order coffee, 
smoothies and juice.
Leslie Reyes, an 18-year-old UF 
criminology freshman, said she or -
ders from Uber Eats at least once or 
twice a week for lunch or dinner, but 
now that Bite Squad has a breakfast 
option she might be changing her de -
livery app of choice.
“A lot of us are awake at that 
time just getting ready for school,” 
she said. “Being able to order that 
quick breakfast and have it delivered 
to us instead of going out of our way 
might be very beneficial.”
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgBite Squad introduces breakfast delivery to Gainesville
43rd Street Deli & Breakfast House
Adam’s Rib Co.
Bojangles’ Famous Chicken ‘n 
Biscuits 
Chick-fil-A
Clock Restaurant
David’s Real Pit BBQ
Flying Biscuit Cafe
Maple Street Biscuit Company
Mi Apá Latin Caf é 
Mother’s Pub & Grill
Sonic Drive-In
Peach Valley Café
Sugar Creek RestaurantLOCAL RESTAURANTS 
PARTICIPATING  By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Students who voted for remote access on -
line voting as freshmen in 2016 still won’t be 
able to before they graduate this Spring.
The UF Student Government Supreme 
Court unanimously decided during a meeting 
Thursday to uphold its 2016 decision to allow 
abstentions — a vote of neither yes or no — 
to count as a “no” vote on SG election ballot 
items. 
This affirmation delays amendments that 
would have been implemented, including re -
mote access online voting. 
The UF SG Supreme Court includes Chief 
Justice Erica Baker and justices David Walsh, Chris Boyett and Allie Watson. 
The petition regarding the counting of ab -
stentions was filed by Michael Russel and 
Keith Saint on March 27. This petition asked 
the Court to reconsider how abstentions are 
counted to be consistent with Florida law. 
“As future law professionals heading into 
promising careers, will you put your name 
down as someone that believes that a court 
can choose to follow or ignore parts of its own 
governing body’s Constitution?” Russel asked 
the Court during the hearing. 
Remote access online voting was passed as 
an amendment with 6,047 votes in favor and 
2,751 votes against in the UF Spring 2016 elec -
tion. About 1,900 students who voted in the 
Spring 2016 election did not vote either way on the issue. 
An amendment must be passed by a three-
fifths vote to be added to the constitution, ac -
cording to the Student Body Constitution.
The UF SG Supreme Court decided on June 
25, 2016, that all votes cast in an election 
should count when considering the three-fifths 
threshold. This interpretation came from the 
sentence: “those voting in the spring general 
election.” 
Several amendments previously passed 
were canceled retroactively including remote 
access online voting in 2016 and an updated 
anti-discrimination policy that would include 
genetic information under the protections in 
2014. 
Russel argued before the Court that UF SG elections were not in compliance with Florida 
Statute Title IX Ch. 97.021, which states that 
abstentions are not counted in the total vote 
count as they are “undervotes.” Elections 
should follow this statute because of an article 
in the UF SG Constitution’s that states that UF 
SG is subordinate to Florida law, Russel said. 
Boyett said there was no discrepancy be -
tween the 2016 decision and how the state of 
Florida governs its elections. 
“It’s so hard to draw a line unless I see a 
direct conflict,” Boyett said. 
The final decision will be written by Boyett 
and will be released in the next few weeks. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgRemote online voting delayed after UF SG Supreme Court decision
Court cited issues with the hierarchy of law and legislating from the benchFRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Caleb Young spends his afternoons with 
a bunch of sugar ants. 
‘Sugar ants’ is how he describes the 
20 boys that scurried around the yard at 
Reichert House: small and sweet. 
“They’re all different shapes and sizes,” 
the 35-year-old said. “They have the op -
portunity to grow, and I have the oppor -
tunity to watch it. It’s the kids, that’s the 
only reason I’m still over here, that’s for 
sure.” 
Reichert House  is an afterschool pro -
gram that looks after about 100 boys ages 
8 to 18 after school each day. The program 
is dedicated to providing support and men -
torship, Young said.
Young, a Reichert House program man -
ager, said he believes there is a divide be -
tween East and West Gainesville, and he 
hopes that Reichert House can help work 
to close that gap.
The kids notice the gap, too, he said. 
Sometimes, they ask tough questions such 
as “Why isn’t there a grocery store here?” 
and “Why does the bus route run here 
different times than on the other side of 
town?” 
“That disparity is a real one. You can 
look around and just nothing is over here,” 
Young said.
The UF Bureau of Economic and Busi -
ness Research released a study titled “Un -
derstanding Racial Inequity in Alachua 
County” in January 2018. The study out -
lined social, economic and education gaps 
in Alachua County. 
The study states that in Gainesville, 
black households have the lowest average 
income and the highest exposure to pov -
erty – 28 percent more than the community average. Along with this, Gainesville has 
a strong concentration of poverty, which 
suggests that Gainesville has the “highest 
levels of geographic segregation document -
ed in at least the last 26 years.”
Programs in the community have come 
together to help close that gap. 
After seeing that crime rates rose after 
school, Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones 
and Richard Baxter founded the program 
in 1987. Reichert House offers wraparound 
services, including education, mentor -
ship and case management to at-risk and 
high-risk young men in Alachua County. 
Every child is assigned a case manager 
who works to create a partnership between 
Reichert House and the child’s home and 
school. 
For Tarphanesha Phillips, Reichert 
House was her village while raising her 
twin sons as a single mother. 
“I just don’t know what I would have 
done without the Reichert House,” Phillips 
said. “They have been there for my boys 
and me through everything. There was 
never a time I couldn’t call on them.”
The people at Reichert House have act -
ed as father figures for her sons, Phillips 
said. She doesn’t know where her children 
would be today if it wasn’t for them. 
“There’s so many other things kids can 
get into out in the streets,” Phillips said. 
“We need Reichert House.” 
Josh Chisham, 21, sat in front of a large 
screen playing video games in a room filled 
with Lego robots, science posters and 3D 
printers. 
He put down the controller and reflect -
ed on his time at Reichert House. Chisham 
started attending Reichert House when he 
was in 10th grade. 
Now, Chisham said he comes back to 
mentor the kids to give back to the pro -gram that helped him throughout high 
school. 
“Every kid, now, needs it,” Chisham 
said. “A lot of things happen around here, 
like gang-related stuff and shootings and 
stuff. I’m glad this place is still here so kids 
can still get the mentoring they need.” 
The Santa Fe College East Gainesville 
Instruction initiative  was founded in 
2002 to have an ongoing connection with 
East Gainesville and to help try to close 
gaps and provide services to the commu -
nity, said the executive director, Karen 
Cole-Smith. 
As part of its mission to help close the 
gap, East Gainesville Instruction asked 
people in the community to identify what 
they needed most. 
Cole-Smith outlined the six areas of 
need as family empowerment, literacy, 
technology, educational outreach, work -
force development and a faith-based con -
nection. 
Cole-Smith said the East Gainesville In -
struction partners with other organizations 
in the community to provide resources in 
these areas of need. 
She said she’s proud of what she does 
and loves to watch her work develop a 
spark of an idea into a full-fledged program 
that helps improve people’s lives. 
“When you’re out in the community, 
and people come up, and they say, ‘gosh, 
I’m so thankful for Santa Fe,’ or ‘if it had 
not been for Santa Fe,’” Cole-Smith said. 
“That’s a good feeling.”
Read to Me is a program that allows 
incarcerated parents to record an age-ap -
propriate book reading onto a disc that is 
then given to the child. 
It’s a program that combines two areas 
of need: family empowerment and literacy. 
The Alachua County Jail staff, Alachua County Library, Catholic Charities and East 
Gainesville Instruction partnered together 
to start the program in 2015. It has provid -
ed 233 books to 209 children, said Takeev -
eia Martin, a transition specialist at the jail. 
“I feel like this program is pretty much 
like a bridge between the parent and the 
child, and what makes the bridge even 
sweeter is literacy,” Martin said. 
For Martin, Read to Me is an opportuni -
ty to help give people a second chance. She 
said a lot of people don’t think about the 
families that are left behind when someone 
goes to jail. 
“I really do believe that individuals 
should be able to have a second chance in 
life, again, after a mistake,” Martin said.
Building bridges, providing mentorship 
and helping people is the goal of programs 
like Reichert House, East Gainesville In -
struction and Read to Me. 
Back at Reichert House, Young said he 
never thought he would end up being a 
mentor, but now he spends his afternoons 
with a bunch of ‘sugar ants,’ mentoring 
and helping them grow. 
“You know, what do I have to give to 
the kids?” Young said. “The answer is ev -
erything. Everything you have and more. 
Even what you don’t have, find somebody 
that do.”
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCommunity programs work to bridge gaps in East Gainesville
Programs offer education and mentorship
LOCAL PROGRAMS
• Reichert House
• The Santa Fe College East
 Gainesville Instruction 
• Read to MeThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsThis week we’re starting with some otherworldly news. 
The first-ever image of a black hole was released 
Wednesday, and it’s every science fiction lover’s 
dream. The image was taken by reaching across in -
tergalactic space to the galaxy Messier 87, where the 
black hole resides in the galaxy cluster, Virgo. This is the pho -
tographic evidence scientists across the globe have been wait -
ing for. We would like to give a laurel  to all of the scientists 
and researchers who have spent years working to obtain this 
image. A photo of Katie Bouman, a 29-year-old Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology postdoctoral fellow, reacting to the im -
age has gone viral after we learned she was one of the first 
creators of the algorithm that led to the photo. She has since 
said the photo was a collaboration among scientists. 
Much closer to home, we are giving out a dart to Chris -
topher Maurice McCallum, a 27-year-old man from Ocala. 
McCallum was arrested Tuesday after he posted a rap song 
on March 22, where he threatens to “shoot the whole cam -
pus up,” in reference to UF. He goes on to talk about a feud 
between two groups, one from Gainesville and another from 
Ocala shores. The case hits close to home. However, it is 
still to be determined in court if the rap can be considered 
a threat of mass shooting or hyperbole. As many rappers 
use exaggerations, the context around the speech has to be 
observed and determined to be threatening. If the context 
seems non-threatening, it could be determined that McCal -
lum was using his right to free speech. 
Spanish-speaking Florida voters could be getting assis -
tance and ballots written in Spanish in the next election if 
Florida’s election chief addresses a court case involving 32 
Florida counties. Gov. Ron DeSantis said, “It is critically 
important that Spanish-speaking Floridians are able to ex -
ercise their right to vote without any language barriers,” 
in a news release. We’re giving a laurel  to those fighting 
to help Spanish-speaking Floridians. Florida has the fifth-
highest percentage of Spanish speakers in the U.S., about 16 
percent of Florida’s population, according to Census Scope. 
The yearlong legal battle came to a head on Friday when a 
coalition of groups went to a judge to ask that ballots writ -
ten in Spanish and Spanish-speaking assistants be available 
starting Aug. 1. You’re in your car scouring a UF parking garage in hopes 
of finding a gloriously empty parking spot. You have looked 
for a spot on three floors already and things aren’t looking 
good. But you have a meeting in 10 minutes that you have 
to get to, so the search must continue. Then you see it, an 
empty spot perfectly nestled between two shining cars. You 
quickly whip into it, claiming the spot as yours. 
You hop out of your car, only to notice a sign on the ga -
rage wall, which reads “Orange decal parking.” It’s 4 p.m., 
so you aren’t allowed to park in orange. You make the split-
second decision to leave your car parked there. After all, 
parking is lifted in half an hour. 
Later, making your way back from your meeting, you 
pray to the parking gods that there isn’t a little yellow slip 
on your windshield. You trudge up the stairs of the parking 
garage and make your way over to your car. Sure enough, a 
small yellow slip awaits you. You heave a big sigh and grab 
the slip, ripping it open. You realize it isn’t a parking cita -
tion at all. It’s your weekly dose of… 
Darts & Laurels
How is it possible for people to relate to superheroes?
When the latest Marvel movie, “Cap -
tain Marvel,” was released, there was 
a good amount of articles that said 
something like this: “What a great, 
strong female lead for girls to see on 
the big screen.” This struck me as odd since Cap -
tain Marvel is a superhuman who can fly, dwell 
in outer space and shoot energy blasts out of her 
hands. I find this to be a strange role model for 
anyone, let alone girls searching for a female her -
oine in their lives. The character seems more super than 
human, after all.
Indeed, how could a young girl watch Captain Marvel in 
computer-generated flames, soaring through space, and say, 
“I want to be just like her!” How can anyone relate to that? 
I’m fine with sci-fi and fantasy, but the greatest of that genre 
always has a deeply human focus. We never think hobbits 
are inhuman, even though they technically are. We never 
feel detached from Leia, Luke or Han, as if they are strange 
space creatures.
The great film critic Roger Ebert once said about “Star 
Wars” that “the characters are not themselves - they are 
us. We are looking out through their eyes, instead of into 
them…” What he meant is “Star Wars” is a human drama 
placed in space. The reason why we can relate to the fears, 
desires and actions of the characters is that they aren’t so 
different from us. That’s what makes “Star Wars” so good.
And, quite honestly, it’s what makes most of Marvel 
so bland to me. Rather than watching fellow humans live 
relatable human lives and share our human struggles, we 
watch Thor, a god, smite thousands of anonymous enemies 
and the Hulk wrestle with megamonsters. Of course, Marvel 
gives us the origin stories of our favorite heroes to help us 
relate to them, but naturally, we are watching the origins of 
superhumans who can do impossible things with great ease. 
Captain America can survive a plane crash without any fatal injuries, for instance.
The appeal of Marvel is also what makes it 
unappealing. We go to the movies so we can wit -
ness superhuman feats. We want whole cities in 
ruins and battles between Earth and space. We 
want absurd objects tossed around like baseballs 
and thousands of enemies dead on the streets like 
fallen leaves. The more cosmic the tension and 
the more galaxies involved, the better.
But notice what this does. In order to accom -
modate the whole galaxy, you must take more time away 
from the human aspects of the stories. In other words, 
things become impersonal when Thanos can appear on any 
planet at any time and alter reality with a stone or snap of 
his fingers and kill half of all living creatures. In order for sci-
fi or fantasy to work, we must connect with the characters, 
even if we cannot connect with their worlds. And to connect 
with a character, they must be robustly human, even if they 
are not, for example, Yoda or Dobby. 
It is difficult to connect with Marvel’s universe precisely 
for this reason. The Russo brothers are usually lauded for 
their ability to juggle good storytelling with enough qual -
ity dialogue for high, perhaps too high, amounts of char -
acters. This is exactly my point. We praise Marvel for its 
size and think it is a genuine achievement to fit dozens of 
superheroes in one movie. I think it is one of Marvel’s big -
gest downfalls.
A huge movie with two dozen characters who inhabit 
multiple galaxies and cost hundreds of millions of dollars for 
special effects will most likely overlook one thing: people. 
We are limited beings who live quiet, humble lives. We can -
not ignite and fly through space, shooting lasers from our 
hands. We are not limitless. Marvel should remember that.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His columns nor -
mally appear on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 There is an enormous 
number of Gainesville 
citizens struggling with 
food insecurity, The Alli -
gator reported. Food inse -
curity is one of those issues many 
people hear about in passing or 
read about occasionally, but it 
never seems to receive the atten -
tion it deserves. Food insecurity 
is a devastating issue in our com -
munity and it deserves more attention. The 
people who help combat food insecurity de -
serve more praise and support.
Food insecurity, as Kelly Hayes summa -
rized in her article, is “an experience where 
individuals or households don’t have access 
to healthy, affordable food.” She explains food 
insecurity usually results from “food deserts.” 
These are areas far from grocery stores with 
low-income residents. The stores in these ar -
eas may provide some sort of food, but not 
any with substantial sustenance. 
The need for food is primal, meaning it 
is impossible to function without it. No one 
deserves to go hungry. Furthermore, people 
trying to escape situations that cause food 
insecurity need nutritious meals to have the 
energy to work toward a better, more stable 
life. It is the American dream to be able to 
work your way up the social and economic 
chain to a more comfortable lifestyle. Issues 
such as food insecurity and hunger prevent 
hardworking and inspired individuals from 
accomplishing their aspirations and dreams. 
I understand that issues such as hunger and 
homelessness will likely never be totally re -
solved everywhere on Earth. However, that 
does not mean we should become complacent 
or desensitized to these issues. Rather, the 
persistence of these problems should further 
motivate us to fight these issues and minimize 
their impact as much as possible, starting with our Gainesville community. 
Hayes’ article highlighted an 
important solution to food inse -
curity, which is to encourage the 
stores in these food deserts to sell 
more nutritious and filling foods. 
I was encouraged and pleased 
to read that a master’s student 
at UF, Vanessa Berthoumieux, 
researched food insecurity and 
helped establish this plan to com -
bat it. I find many people my age are oblivious 
to or not worried about major issues, such as 
food insecurity. I have fallen prey to ignorance 
or a lack of concern in the past because I am 
caught up in school, work and other social 
issues. However, I think more young people 
should invest their time and energy into sup -
porting local food pantries and spreading the 
word about food insecurity. As future leaders, 
we need to prioritize social and economic is -
sues, such as food insecurity, at an early age 
so that we can study these issues and effect 
changes to combat them immediately. 
UF’s Field and Fork Pantry provides food 
insecure students and staff healthy foods to 
combat malnutrition and hunger on campus. 
These organizations, and other local orga -
nizations like Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, 
deserve more appreciation and credit for the 
generous work they do for our community. 
These organizations are providing Gainesville 
with food security, something that is a fun -
damental need for success. Their causes 
help people attain security, not just in food, 
but also in their lives. When our community 
doesn’t have to worry where its next meal will 
come from, it is able to work toward a better 
future, and therefore a better Gainesville.  
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism fresh -
man. Her column appears on Fridays.Recently Gainesville has be -
come attractive to real es -
tate developers, as reported 
by The Alligator in “Living 
in Gainesville: Students 
choose between luxury and afford -
ability.” I’m from Orlando, so when 
I arrived in Gainesville, one thing 
I noticed was that Gainesville was 
a bit underdeveloped. This causes 
a less diverse real estate market, with fewer 
options to choose from. As housing develop -
ers continue to invest in building luxury-style 
apartments, what’s going to happen to all the 
students who can’t afford the now-average 
$860 a month for an apartment? How are older 
apartments going to keep up and remain mar -
ketable?
Gainesville construction should focus 
more on affordable housing for the people of 
Gainesville. Instead, we see an influx of luxury 
apartments, when we should see newer, yet 
more affordable housing. If this problem isn’t 
remedied, there could be several new issues 
brought up in the future.
For example, there are students at UF 
whose parents help them pay $950 a month 
for a luxury apartment. Housing developers 
love these renters because they are the kind 
of renters who are going to make them the 
most money. Consequently, developers build 
more luxury-style housing complexes to ca -
ter to these students. But guess what? This is 
college, and in four years, it’s likely these stu -
dents will move away from Gainesville. After 
these students, who is going to live in these 
expensive apartments? Maybe someone with 
the same ability to afford these apartments, or 
maybe not. 
The article mentions that of nine Florida 
public universities with more than 5,000 stu -
dents, UF is the least socioeconomically di -
verse. Let’s be honest: UF is doing horribly 
at achieving a high level of diversity. Last 
year, UF received an “F” for race equity. For a 
school aiming to be the best, this is unaccept -able. I wouldn’t be surprised if UF 
was working diligently to change 
the makeup of the university. That 
would also mean that soon UF 
might be comprised of students 
from more diverse socioeconom -
ic backgrounds. These students 
may not have support from their 
families or scholarships for their 
housing. If developers continue to 
build apartments with rents of $860 or higher, 
where will these students stay? Secondly, how 
will UF become more diverse if students can’t 
afford a clean and safe place to stay? It doesn’t 
take too much analyzing to see where this is 
heading.
On the other hand, I understand why stu -
dents and residents in Gainesville are moving 
toward more luxury apartments. Many of the 
affordable complexes are lacking severely, es -
pecially in regards to management. I’ve had 
my fair share of dealing with questionable 
management from various apartment com -
plexes. However, I’ve been lucky and my is -
sues were resolved. On the other hand, one 
student mentioned in the article from The Al -
ligator that he had to wait an hour for main -
tenance to respond to a bad leak. If someone 
has the means, then it makes sense why they 
would pay more to avoid possible problems 
like this. Apartment management teams 
should work harder to provide quality services 
for their residents.
All in all, student housing at UF will never 
be perfect. A student will always run into is -
sues when it comes to cost. However, there 
should be options in the types of apartment 
complexes. For every luxury-style apartment 
being built, there should be an affordable 
apartment being built with it. Why should 
students have to choose between luxury and 
affordability? Can’t we have both? Apparently, 
not in Gainesville.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. 
Her columns appear on Fridays. Food insecurity is a battle in Gainesville Luxury and affordability don’t go togetherCOLUMNISTS REACT TO 'WHO IS GAINESVILLE?' Do you ever have too much money 
laying around that you don’t want to 
spend on initiatives benefiting the stu -
dent body? Student Government does 
and it just so happens to be time for 
our annual banquet.
Every year, a group of student “leaders” 
will gather in a designated area for a night of 
fancy food and awards. When I was a first-year 
student, despite at that point having already re -
vealed myself to have been a rabble-rouser, I 
was invited to the SG banquet. Actually, every 
senator was, as the invite was sent over the 
Senate Listserv. How inclusive.
The next year, I wasn’t invited. In fact, 
not every Senator was invited. I suppose this 
makes sense, given the emergence of the mi -
nority party (and we know SG has a strained 
relationship with minorities), but I was sur -
prised to eventually realize many Senate mem -
bers from the majority party weren’t invited as 
well.
Nevertheless, I tried to go and was stopped 
at the door. I wrote about the incident in my 
column. If I had a meme in mind, it would be 
the clenched fist of Arthur, the bespectacled 
aardvark from many of our childhoods.That night I found out the ban -
quet is usually funded by SG’s ex -
ternal revenue, which is why mem -
bers were able to close off the event 
to the peasants of UF. Using exter -
nal revenue as the funding source 
also means SG gets to skirt around 
the financial regulations that nor -
mally govern how we fund events.
So what does SG do? It spends a 
lot of money on its banquet.
Next Wednesday, the banquet 
will be held at the Champions Club in the foot -
ball stadium. Cost? $2,500. The program book -
lets will cost $600. Security will cost $504. SG 
lapel pins? That’ll be $510.42 for 400 of them.
Let’s talk about decor. We are paying, 
among other things, $150 for “green potted 
palm trees.” That’s hot. There’s also $400 be -
ing spent on “white polyester napkins folded 
rectangle style on guest table.” Nothing says 
“clout” like folded napkins. Anyhow, we are 
spending a total of $3,137 on decor so I guess 
those costs really add up.
There’s another student activity request, 
which are financial forms that students fill out 
for events, for awards. I really, really wonder what is going on with this one, 
since we’re apparently buying 32 
awards priced at $82 apiece for a 
total of $2,624.
Finally, there’s food for the 
mere sum of $10,521. I love food. 
Let’s talk about the menu.
First, there are appetizers: 
We’ve got Italian meats and chees -
es, Caprese skewers, fresh fruit, 
nuts, hummus, baked brie and 
veggies. “Crostinis & Crackers” are 
included. There’s also “shrimp & grits topped 
with a candied bacon skewer.”
Now on to the main course: we’ve got 
a chef-carved Texas-style BBQ brisket and 
Southern-style fried chicken. For the vegans, 
there are jackfruit sliders. On the side, there is 
baked macaroni & cheese with a panko bread 
crumb topping, Southern-style collard greens, 
“rustic” mashed potatoes with gravy, salad, 
fresh-baked sweet yeast rolls and warm bis -
cuits with butter and jam.
For dessert, there are mini trifle dessert 
“shorts” in the flavors of key lime pie, mousse 
and peach cobbler. There are also traditional 
banana puddings with Nilla wafers, served in mini Mason jars, as well as mini sweet potato 
pie.
More than $10,000 for food to feed what 
should be around 150 people seems a little 
excessive. I don’t know if that’s sort of an un -
popular opinion or something, but I guess I 
should say it.
All in all, we are slated to spend $20,396.42 
on the SG banquet. Hi there, it’s unpopular 
opinion time again: I think that’s excessive.
Just over a decade ago, the Student Body 
president at the time canceled the banquet and 
donated over $15,000 to the Institute of Black 
Culture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures. This year, more than $20,000 will 
go toward a fancy banquet while Ian Green’s 
minority outreach program is still struggling 
to raise $1,000. But panko-breaded mac and 
cheese? Those pesky first-generation minori -
ties can just figure out college on their own; 
I’m hungry!
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area senator. His column 
appears on Fridays.A look into Student Government’s $20,000 banquet full of awards and food
The Alligator has worked for months on a project called "Who Is Gainesville?" The project aims to showcase how the city has grown and developed 
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgAnede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
over the years as well as the relationships between its citizens. Two of The Alligator's columnists chose articles from the project to discuss and react to. 
Column Column8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
“When they played a Spanish song, she 
went crazy,” Hoffen said. “She laughed at 
me when I tried to sing the lyrics in Span -
ish.”     
Bianca Sanchez, a 22-year-old UF micro -
biology senior, spoke about how Visent’s 
bubbly personality helped her get a picture 
with the drummer at an Andy Grammer 
concert at UF.
They later stopped at Gator Corner Din -
ing Center and had root beer floats, she 
said.  
But Sanchez said she also remembers 
Visent’s struggle with mental health.
She said she hopes Visent’s passing 
motivates UF to increase funding for the 
Counseling and Wellness Center, which of -
fers mental health services to students, to 
hire more counselors. 
“We as students put so much pressure 
on ourselves,” Sanchez said. “Organiza -
tions on campus are trying to break down 
the stigma against mental health, but I 
don’t think UF helps them enough.” 
During the vigil, people signed a pledge to show their support for mental health 
awareness, which they will present to the 
Dean of Students Heather White on Thurs -
day at Peabody Hall. 
White stood toward the back of the 
crowd. She could not be reached for com -
ment after the vigil.  
Aimee Wasserman, a 22-year-old UF 
philosophy senior, said she drove five 
hours down to Miami the night she heard 
Visent was in the hospital. Visent was in 
a coma for four days before a neurologist 
pronounced her brain dead.  
“I kept wondering ‘How could this hap -
pen?’” Wasserman said. 
Students wrote what they wished to say 
to Visent on Post-it notes to include in a 
scrapbook that will be sent to Visent’s fam -
ily in Miami. The vigil ended with a minute 
of silence. 
“I will always have a place in my heart 
for you,” Wasserman said. 
    Staff Writer Lina Ruiz contributed to this 
report.
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.orgUF VIGIL,  from pg. 1People signed a pledge to show support for mental health awareness
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Pictures of Sophia Visent, a 22-year-old UF environmental management senior, are 
seen Wednesday during a candlelight vigil that mourned her death. More than 100 
people attended the vigil on the Plaza of the Americas.
take care of all my bills,” he said. “Then 
I had some disposable income, but I don’t 
even consider that disposable income be -
cause I need a vehicle right now.”
Powers is about to become a father for 
the 10th time. He strives to be the dad he 
never had. 
He beamed at his children’s photos 
along his kitchen countertop. He said he 
feels blessed, but he doesn’t know where 
he would be without a roof over his chil -
dren’s heads.
“This has been a huge help for me to 
get on my feet, save money and move for -
ward,” he said. “But I am not a tire spin -
ning in the mud. I’m trying to get out of 
here.”
Accessing homes people can afford 
In November, the Gainesville City Com -
mission discussed GNV RISE, a possible 
solution to affordable housing issues that 
would have built affordable units.
The commission chose to not accept 
the plan after about 70 residents opposed 
its lack of community input and neighbor -
hood interference.
In February, more than 100 residents 
gathered at a workshop to share ideas. 
Anne Wolf, the city citizen engagement 
program manager, said no future work -
shops are scheduled.
Pamela Davis, the executive direc -
tor of the Gainesville Housing Authority, 
said affordable housing locations in East 
Gainesville are farther away from areas of 
opportunity, like Butler Plaza or Celebra -
tion Pointe. Areas of opportunity have 
public transportation, high-scoring schools 
and an active job market. 
Although housing vouchers cover a por -
tion of rent, renters may pay more for a 
better location but have to afford the dif -
ference. The housing authority’s role is to 
make sure rent does not exceed 30 percent 
of the tenant’s income, Davis said. “There’s so many jobs that don’t start 
at that hourly wage rate,” Davis said. “If a 
unit is running for $1,300 a month, some 
school teachers can’t even afford that.”
Gainesville Housing Authority received 
more than 4,000 Section 8 applications over 
three days in 2018. Out of those 4,000 ap -
plicants, the housing authority placed 900 
people on a waiting list, and the remaining 
applicants were denied, Davis said. 
Section 8 applications do not open an -
nually but may reopen with more units 
and a shorter waiting list, Davis said. In 
the past, applications have opened two or 
three years apart, depending on the num -
ber of available units.
Gainesville needs 5,822 more affordable 
units for no household to pay more than 30 
percent of its total income, according to UF 
Shimberg Center for Housing Studies.
Extremely low-income households, 
which earn 30 percent or less of the median 
income, are the first priority for Section 8 
and make up 70 percent of the waiting list. 
The median income for renters is $23,398 
and $61,629 for homeowners, according to 
Shimberg Center data. 
Elderly and disabled people, working 
families, and those who do not receive 
federal housing assistance are prioritized 
next, Davis said.
People may be on the waitlist for one to 
three years.
“Keeping 4,000 people on a waiting list 
with no homes to help them is not the most 
efficient way to operate,” Davis said.
Davis said if the housing authority can -
not provide Section 8 housing, it suggests 
looking for tax credit housing units, which 
can cost $800 to $900. 
Skepticism and stigmas
Pat Abbitt walked into her Gainesville 
apartment after her previous tenant moved 
out. She discovered her washer and dryer 
missing, broken windows and holes in the 
walls. 
A single mother rented Abbitt’s three-bedroom apartment under Section 8 for a 
year. Abbitt, 65, wanted to help her tenant 
find a safe home for her children but didn’t 
realize the task she accepted.
Eighteen families applied for her unit.
Abbitt said more landlords should ac -
cept Section 8 tenants because families 
often accept low-quality homes in fear of 
the Department of Children and Families 
taking away children without homes.
“Some people accept places because 
they want to have a roof on their head,” 
she said. 
Many landlords are skeptical of accept -
ing Section 8 vouchers from the Gainesville 
Housing Authority because of risky tenants 
and the requirement of a thorough Hous -
ing Quality Standards inspection, Abbitt 
said. Irresponsible tenants are not limited 
to Section 8 – student renters also cause 
property damage.
“Just like learning how to balance 
a checkbook, you should learn how to 
change an air filter,” Abbitt said. 
District 3 Commissioner David Arreola 
hopes to improve tenant-landlord relation -
ships as the Rental Housing Subcommittee 
chair. Since November, the subcommittee 
has worked to draft renters’ rights legisla -
tion.“We’ll be able to craft a roster of hous -
ing affordability policies that are going to 
help people access homes they can afford 
and stay in homes they can afford,” Arreola 
said. 
John Harris, 64, bought his first home 
in October 2018. He previously lived in an 
apartment, but he couldn’t afford rent after 
a $200 increase from renovations. He turned 
to a Gainesville Housing Authority entrepre -
neurship program, which taught him how 
to run a business and save for a home. 
“It meant the world to me to own a 
home,” he said. “The blessings started 
pouring in after I bought a home.”
Harris’ goal is to teach others how to 
buy affordable homes. This month, he will 
speak at a seminar about how to handle 
debt, fix credit scores and work with real -
tors and mortgage lenders.
The seminar at the Cone Park Branch of 
the Alachua County Library District will be 
at 11:30 a.m. on April 20. 
“A lot of people don’t think they can buy 
their own house,” Harris said. “They didn’t 
think it was possible, but all things are pos -
sible.”
@taylorgirtman  
tgirtman@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 15,822 more affordable housing units are needed in Gainesville
GAINESVILLE AFFORDABLE HOUSING BY THE NUMBERS
According to UF Shimberg Center for Housing Studies
• 15,000 cost-burdened households, excluding students
• 3,403 affordable units
• Deficit of 5,822 affordable units
• 900 applicants allowed on Section 8 waiting list in 2018
• $17.19 hourly wage to afford an average two-bedroom 
apartment
• $15.95 median hourly wageFRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
INVOLVEMENTAWARDSON BEHALF OF STUDENT
ACTIVITIES & INVOLVEMENT
CONGRATULATIONS
AWARD RECIPIENTS
Student Organization Advisor of the Year
James Tyger, Hispanic Student Association 
Dr. Sindia Rivera Jimenez, 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers 
Gator Connect
Circle K International
Florida Women in Business Greater Good
Equal Access Clinic NetworkStudent Organization Oﬃcer of the Year
Evan Hauser, Undergraduate Consulting Club
Jacqueline Shannon, Food Science and Human Nutrition Club
Student Organization of the Year
Dream Team
Impact
Children Beyond Our Borders
Inclusive Excellence
Natural Resource Diversity InitiativeStudent Organization Member of the Year
Wafaa Ateyah, Islam on CampusNew Student Organization of the Year
Theme Park Engineering & Design Club
Campus Collaborator
Asian American Student Union
Innovative Event
Emerging Leaders in Science Policy and Advocacy
Professional Development
National Society of Black Engineers
Learn more about how you can be involved on campus at
 www.studentinvolvement.uﬂ.edu 2019
MORE THAN 1,700  
PEOPLE ATTENDED 
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
Hasan Minhaj said he was fired from just 
about every job he’s had.
Even at OfficeMax, where he said he was 
“really bad at selling printers.”
“If you’re losing in life, it’s really good for 
comedy,” he said.
Minhaj spoke about this and more in a 
moderated conversation with UF journalism 
master lecturer Mike Foley Tuesday night at 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. 
This was the Accent Speakers Bureau’s last 
show for the 2018-2019 school year and had 
sold-out to a crowd of more than 1,700 peo -
ple.
The Indian American comedian, known 
for being the host and creator of the Netflix 
comedy show “Patriot Act with Hasan Min -
haj,” was paid $78,000 for the interview.
Minhaj talked about censorship laws and 
discussed one of his episodes, which was re -
moved from Netflix in Saudi Arabia. The epi -
sode talked about the murder of Washington 
Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.
Foley said, “You pissed off Saudi Arabia” 
to which Minhaj responded, “No, I didn’t. 
Just kidding. Yeah, I did.”“I’ve been advised to not go back to India 
for a little bit,” Minhaj said. “We’re doing 
more international stories next cycle. It’s one 
of those things where safety has become a 
little bit of an issue now.”
Minhaj also touched on how he got into 
comedy. 
When he was in school, Minhaj said he 
would tell his dad he was going to the li -
brary when he would actually take the car to 
comedy shows to perform, he said. His dad 
found out the truth when he crashed the car.
His mom was in on the agreement the 
whole time, he said. 
“My mom is my hero,” Minhaj said. “She 
has the hustle and ability to think two or 
three steps ahead. She was one of the first 
supporters of my career.”
During the 15-minute Q&A session open 
to the audience, Hasan answered questions 
on topics ranging from his special “Home -
coming King,” to receiving death threats 
from Saudi Arabia and his favorite meme, 
which is Kermit the Frog drinking Lipton tea.
One audience member posed a question 
about backlash Minhaj received from his 
show’s episode on the murder in Saudi Ara -
bia.
“Yeah, I got trolled,” Minhaj said. “But 
that stuff comes with the territory.”
Fatima Jarrah, a 20-year-old UF nutrition -
al sciences sophomore, said she has been a fan of Minhaj since seeing his specials 
on Netflix. She found out about the event 
through Facebook.
Jarrah, a member of Islam on Campus, 
enjoyed seeing Minhaj take over the inter -
view, she said.“He talked about a lot of things we could 
all relate to, so it was cool to see him here 
and see us be represented,” Jarrah said.
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgComedian Hasan Minhaj talks about his Netflix show at UF
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Hasan Minhaj, a 33-year-old comedian known for his time as a correspondent on 
“The Daily Show” and his Netflix show “Patriot Act with Hasan Minhaj, ” answers 
questions Thursday at the  Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
SURVEY WILL BE OPEN 
UNTIL MAY 10
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is seeking students’ input on 
how to end sexual assault and mis -
conduct on campus. 
On Monday, UF students re -
ceived an email from UF President 
Kent Fuchs to complete a Campus 
Climate Survey on Sexual Assault 
and Misconduct. 
The survey will be open until 
May 10, and the results will be 
used to recommend changes to UF’s policies related to sexual as -
sault and misconduct, UF spokes -
person Steve Orlando wrote in an 
email. 
The survey asks questions 
about students’ knowledge of on-
campus resources, of what sexual 
assault is and their thoughts on 
how problematic sexual assault is 
on campus.
The survey was first and last ad -
ministered at UF in 2015, Orlando 
said. The overall response rate was 
17 percent.
Orlando said UF officials have 
been encouraged by the early re -
sponses to the new survey, but 
would not give an exact number to ensure students continue respond -
ing. 
The Association of American 
Universities is conducting the sur -
vey, the association’s spokesperson 
Pedro Ribeiro wrote in an email. 
UF officials decided to partici -
pate in the survey to proactively 
prevent sexual assault on campus, 
Orlando said. 
In 2017, there were 17 reported 
rapes and two reported fondling in -
cidents on campus, according to a 
University Police Annual Security 
and Fire Safety Report. In 2016, 
there were 22 reported rapes and 
three reported fondling incidents 
on campus.A date has not been set for the 
next survey, but it will not happen 
before 2023 so that the universities 
have time to make effective use of 
the data, Ribeiro said. 
Thirty-three universities are 
participating in the study, Ribeiro 
wrote. Other universities include 
the University of Arizona, Boston 
University and Stanford University. 
“University leaders want to 
make their campuses safe places 
for students to learn and succeed, 
and they can’t do that without 
hearing from their students and the 
campus community,” Ribeiro said. 
“
Tess Gaynor, a 19-year-old UF elementary education sophomore, 
said she thinks the survey is not 
effective. 
“I think it’s good that they’re ac -
knowledging that it’s a problem,” 
Gaynor said. “But at the end of the 
day, it’s just a survey that no one 
fills out.” 
Gaynor said a better solution 
would be to add more blue light 
emergency phones around campus.
Blue light phones provide stu -
dents with direct contact to Uni -
versity Police, according to the UF 
website. Although there are phones 
spread throughout the campus, a 
UF map shows that there are none 
on Fraternity Drive.Survey asks students about sexual assault on campus10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
Reusable shopping bags. Citywide com -
posting. Styrofoam-free restaurants. This is 
Gainesville’s future.
Gainesville city officials are working to 
make Gainesville a zero waste city by 2040, 
which means keeping materials and foods out 
of landfills by reusing or repurposing them. It 
started with the approval of a single-use plas -
tic ban, but its implicate date has been pushed 
back.
City officials are making this move to stop 
climate inaction and limit waste generation, 
said Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos. Mo -
tivators for the initiative were food scraps mak -
ing up 25 percent of the city’s waste and the 
abundance of plastics in creeks.
“We have to take action now,” Hayes-San -
tos said. “It’s not sustainable what we’re do -
ing in terms of the waste generation that we’re 
creating.”
The city won’t take big steps toward its goal 
until after its 2020 budget is finalized on Oct. 
1, Commissioner David Arreola said. Money 
for the new projects will come from the city’s 
general fund, which is filled by property taxes, 
service fees and Gainesville Regional Utilities 
revenue.
Steps like assessing current programs and 
writing a strategic plan to improve them will 
be placed on hold, Arreola said. However, the 
commission is looking for a sustainability man -
ager to be in charge of sustainability programs.In the meantime, city officials have already 
started to make progress toward the goal by 
banning single-use plastics and Styrofoam con -
tainers. The ban was voted on in January and 
will take effect Jan. 1, 2020. A fine of $250 will 
be given to businesses that are not in line with 
the ban.
When the ban was originally voted on, it 
was scheduled to begin Aug. 1. On March 28, 
the commission voted 5-2 to move the date to 
January. 
The extended deadline will allow local busi -
nesses to include the ban in their 2020 annual 
budgets, Arreola said.
The commission may add plastic straws 
to this ban, but the Florida Legislature is con -
sidering a bill that would delay it. Following 
Gainesville’s lead, the Alachua County Com -
mission also discussed a single-use plastics ban 
on April 2.
Christa Court, a UF food and resource eco -
nomics assistant scientist, said the ban will act 
as a tax and disproportionately affect lower-in -
come residents who don’t own reusable bags.
At the same time, businesses may have 
increased sales as some consumers prefer to 
shop in eco-friendly stores, she said.
Court suggested an education campaign 
promoting repurposing and recycling could 
better serve the community in the short-term.
“People are afraid to say they disagree with 
the ban,” she said. “A lot of people reuse plas -
tic bags.”
Caitlin Burkill, the co-owner of Harvest 
Thyme Cafe, said her business made the switch from plastic and Styrofoam a year ago.
“It’s a huge price difference, which sucks 
because taking care of the environment 
shouldn’t be more expensive,” she said. 
Her cafe now uses biodegradable cups and 
containers made from corn. These products 
can cost two to three times the price of their 
plastic and Styrofoam alternatives, she said.
It took a few months for the cafe to have 
enough money for the switch. 
“We just saved up for a while and finally 
just said ‘screw it’ and made the switch,” she 
said.
Although she said she thinks the ban could 
bankrupt other local businesses, she still sup -
ports the overall 2040 initiative. 
Along with the ban, city officials will take 
other steps to reach the waste-free goal like 
updating recycling, testing a home composting 
pilot program and reducing food waste, Hayes-
Santos said.
Home composting is the process of making 
nutrient-rich soil from uneaten food scraps, ex -cluding fat, at home.
The future plans and strategies the commis -
sion will create have been supported by local 
group Zero Waste Gainesville. The group has 
also provided information on sustainability is -
sues.
Nina Bhattacharyya, the group’s founder, 
said her group supports and advises the city 
commission by compiling a list of environmen -
tal plans from other U.S. cities while also edu -
cating local residents on sustainable living.
The group would like to see the city and 
county commissions enact policies to increase 
the number of residential recycling bins and re -
duce the amount of methane gas that escapes 
from landfills.
The organization also aims to educate resi -
dents through local workshops. On May 8, it 
will host a reusable grocery bag sewing class 
with the Gainesville Repurpose Project.
“It became pretty evident early on that 
there’s only so much that the city and county 
can do in terms of passing policies and enforc -
ing policies,” she added. “It really is also a 
matter of the community coming forward as 
members and practicing more zero waste life -
style choices.”Gainesville hits brakes on plans to move toward waste-free living
The city hopes to complete its goal of zero waste by 2040
Environmental policies Zero Waste Gainesville would like to see:
• Increase the number of residential recycling bins and clearly label them
• Recycle more building and demolition materials
• Widen the pay-as-you-throw fees for residential garbage
• Increase cost for bigger bins and decreasing the cost for smaller bins
• Compost citywide, reducing the amount of methane that escapes from landfills  
as greenhouse gasBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds4/2 House For Rent In Historic Golfview 
Neighborhood. Available August 1st.
This house features a huge living room with 
pool table, patio with gas grill, washer/dryer, 
2 carports & is on a double lot adjacent to a 
2.5 acre wooded preserve. Located between 
the University Golf Course & Law School. 
Walk to campus. $2,200 a month.
Call John Ryan 954-258-5900.
4-22-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Bintelli Sprint Scooter 49cc
2017, yellow, less than 100 mi, new battery. 
Req no motorcycle license. Comes w/car 
carry rack. $1500/OBO. Call 352-222-2226                
4-12-19-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
● ● ● LOVE MOTORSPORTS? ● ● ●
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. Must 
be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, love  of 
motorsports. Email: Management@GoRally.
com to apply. NO CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM 
learn more before applying. $12 / HR     4-17-
19-10-14
★HIRING FOR JANITORIAL CLEANERS ★.
The positions: FT & PT include both heavy 
& light cleaning at a commercial business. 
MUST have transportation. APPLY NOW!! 
Call 352-258-1357                 4-24-19-6-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.13 WantedFRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
COMPUTER & IT TRAINING PROGRAM!
Train at Home to become a
Computer Help Desk Professional!
NO PRIOR TRAINING IS REQUIRED!
Cti CAN HAVE YOU TRAINED & READY!
1-888-471-3711 AskCTI.com       4-12-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Joe Kidd
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, April 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 Building unit
5 “Oh yeah?”
11 Pranks, in a way, 
for short
14 Industrial 
portmanteau
15 Movie leads, often
16 Narrow inlet
17 Energetic jug 
band performer?
19 Mtn. stat
20 Lodge
21 With indifference
23 Western 
formation?
26 “See ya later”
28 Some distance 
away
29 Skewered food 
cooked vertically?
31 Caine and 
Connery
32 __ rally
33 What snobs may 
put on
34 “Up to 3,000 
lights” brand
35 Do business with
37 Mississippi source
40 Seminarian’s subj.
41 Like-minded 
group
42 It’s worn with a 
kimono
44 Himalayan priest
46 Doesn’t get fixed?
49 Off-kilter
50 Weymouth of 
Talking Heads
51 Oxidizes
52 Like some 
elections
54 “This is __ 
chance”
55 Cooler cooler
56 Wile E. Coyote 
purchases from 
Acme?
62 Zero, to Man U
63 Online 
investment 
service
64 Loan default risk
65 Remote cells
66 One who’s 
determined to 
lose
67 Server’s edge
DOWN
1 Suggest, as a 
price
2 Org. that voted 
Keith Urban 2018 
Entertainer of the 
Year3 “Monsters, Inc.” 
raspy-voiced 
undercover 
agent
4 “I” swelling?
5 Word of 
comparison
6 Farm female
7 Jackie O’s 
second
8 Original V8 base
9 Aquanaut’s 
workplace
10 Nobel Institute 
city
11 They sometimes 
help relieve 
congestion
12 Vertical 
Parthenon 
component
13 Mythical man-
goats
18 Yellow pool table 
item
22 Caravan 
stopover
23 Maximally soft, in 
music
24 Fútbol cheers
25 Celebs on 
runways
26 Poi plant
27 Hunk’s pride
30 Build-it-yourself 
buy34 Massage parlor 
service
36 Sprang
37 Three-time NHL 
All-Star Kovalchuk
38 Talking-__: 
lectures
39 Be up against
41 Disallow
43 “__ a deal!”
44 Thin layer
45 Jodie Foster’s 
birth name
46 Low clouds47 Musical tone 
quality
48 Natural light show
53 Barely managed, 
with “out”
54 Traditional 
Passover barley 
offering
57 Granola kernel
58 Keats creation
59 Marked, as a 
ballot
60 Prefix with -logue
61 Male issue
1.  Revolt
1.  ____ mission5.  More pleasant 
2.  Prudent, wise6.  ____ mill
3.  ____ wreck 7.  Shut
4.  ____ Nobel NIMTYU
EDANMNENIRC
FURLO
AFULTCT
OVNESURECDLOS
AERDLFANSWERS: 1A-Mutiny  5A-Nicer  6A-Flour  7A-Closed
1D-Manned  2D-Tactful  3D-Nervous  4D-Alfred  B-Leonard Nimoy4-12-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor, who was born in Boston in 
1931, received a star on the Hollywood 
Walk of Fame in 1985. BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
By Julian Kwan
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, April 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Sizzling Tex-Mex 
meat
7 Polling results: 
Abbr.
11 Adams of “Vice”
14 Boy whose 
wings melted in 
the sun
15 Four-star review
16 Forest female
17 Gently used
18 Salinger title teen
19 “Let’s get out of 
here!”
20 Drawer in the 
court
23 Isn’t feeling 100%
26 Grafton’s “__ for 
Alibi”
27 Ship stabilizer
28 “You overreact 
when you’re 
hungry” candy 
bar
33 Brand of suit 
Bania gave Jerry 
in a memorable 
“Seinfeld” 
episode
34 Lamb’s alias
35 Indiana state 
flowers
37 Cast a spell on
42 Banking biggie
44 Acrobatic dive
45 It may contain 
curls and 
crunches
49 Nice dad?
50 MADD ad, e.g.
51 Holly genus
52 Clinic technician
57 Singer DiFranco
58 Opera set in 
Egypt
59 Ex-Met pitcher 
known as “Dr. K”
63 __ profit
64 Pitch indicator
65 One way to 
travel
66 Carpentry tool
67 __ loser
68 Kids’ card  
game ... and 
a directive 
pertaining to 
the four longest 
puzzle answers
DOWN
1 Shark tip-off
2 Bandage brand
3 Boxer’s target4 Biometric 
identification 
technique
5 Narwhal feature
6 Queens tennis 
stadium
7 Sharply defined
8 Transaction 
without financing
9 “South Park” 
rating
10 Magic 8 Ball, 
some hope
11 Brody of “The 
Pianist”
12 Revealed the 
function of, with 
“over”
13 Streisand title 
role
21 La Brea __ Pits
22 Ref’s ruling
23 Quickly, quickly
24 Memo lead-in
25 Wheels for a 
celeb
29 New York cager
30 Farm follower?
31 Jargon
32 Former 
Portuguese 
colony in China
36 More senseless
38 Had a great first 
date39 Deep blue dye
40 Aloha State bird
41 “Jurassic World” 
predator, for 
short
43 “The coast is 
clear”
45 Withdrew 
gradually
46 Kayak alternative
47 Actor Stephen 
who is a 
UNICEF Ireland 
Ambassador48 Traitor
49 Course before 
contingencies
53 Anatomical 
pouches
54 Storage cylinder
55 Excited
56 Words said  
with a finger  
wag
60 “__ know you?”
61 Canon SLR
62 Unspecified 
degreeFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators upset No. 14 Michigan at home
The Florida women's tennis team defeated the Wolverines 4-3 on Thursday 
at the Ring T ennis Complex. After securing the doubles point, UF saw victo -
ries from McCartney Kessler , Marlee Zein  and  Tsveta Dimitrova to pick 
up the win.Florida freshman Trinity 
Thomas was named the 
NACGC Southeast Region 
Gymnast of the Year on 
Wednesday.SPECIAL
By Jake Dreilinger and Sam 
Campisano
Sports Writers
Sports editor Jake Dreilinger and staff 
writer Sam Campisano talked to former 
Gators and current New York Mets first 
baseman Pete Alonso on Wednesday be -
fore the Mets' victory over the Minnesota 
Twins. He is batting .378 with 17 hits and 
six home runs this year.
Hear what Alonso had to say about 
his transition from college to professional 
baseball, if the College World Series pre -
pared him for the bigger stage, and why 
he dislikes the metal bats used in college 
ball.
 
How has the transition been from 
college to the minors, and then from 
the minors to the majors?
 
Pete: It’s been awesome. The beau -
tiful thing about professional baseball, 
whether you’re in the minors or in the 
big leagues, is that there’s no school. You 
don’t have to worry about crushing a 12-
page paper the night before you play a 
top-ranked SEC opponent. Or you don’t 
have to worry about taking finals and 
then having to play Georgia in a big se -
ries that weekend. Or you don’t have to 
worry about missing class and then being 
a week behind and then playing catch up and then never being able to work ahead. 
So, that’s nice. That’s kind of the one 
thing that makes professional baseball a 
little bit easier, because you don’t have 
to worry about classes, professors, or 
papers or exams. It’s all baseball. That’s 
kind of helped, and the one thing about 
the college game that’s a little different 
is that there’s only four games a week, 
maybe five. In professional baseball, you 
play every day and you get a chance to 
make adjustments and learn and kind of 
continue what you do well every single 
day. So, you have a lot of things fresh in 
your mind going into the next day and 
you don’t have to wait. Let’s say you’ve 
got a Tuesday game; you don’t have to 
wait all the way until Friday to play. You 
get to play that next day and you get to 
play every day, which I think is extremely 
beneficial.
 
Do you think it’s beneficial for 
players to go to college instead of just 
jumping from high school into the mi -
nor leagues?
 
Pete: I learned a lot about the game 
of baseball at the University of Florida. 
Learning different nuances about it, like 
playing smart, running the bases well, 
just learning the game. For me, that was 
invaluable and I feel like that kind of gave Q&A with New York Mets first baseman Pete Alonso
Alligator File Photo
Former Gators and current New York Mets first baseman Pete Alonso is batting .378 with 
17 hits and six home runs.
 SEE ALONSO,  PAGE 16
SOFTBALL BASEBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The margin was as thin as a blade of 
grass for Texas A&M on May 26, 2018. 
The Aggies held a 3-2 lead over Florida 
with two outs and two strikes against Jor -
dan Matthews in Game 3 of the NCAA Su -
per Regionals in Gainesville.
Then, the season melted through their 
fingers. 
Matthews hit a three-run, walk-off home 
run off the scoreboard to give the Gators a 
5-3 victory. 
Friday’s matchup in College Station, 
Texas, will be the first time these two teams 
take the diamond since. 
The new Texas A&M
A lot has changed for the Aggies (25-
15, 3-9 SEC) since they left Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium last May. 
They went from one of the SEC’s top 
teams in 2018 to dead last in the current 
standings.
The team not only lost three of its top players to graduation but saw its top re -
turning offensive player, outfielder Sarah 
Hudek, and pitcher, Samantha Show, trans -
fer. 
Hudek, now a junior, transferred to 
Louisiana, and Show, a senior, left for Okla -
homa State. 
Remarkably, Texas A&M’s offensive pro -
duction hasn’t stifled. It actually improved 
in team batting average (.296 in 2018 to 
.303) and in runs per game (4.82 in 2018 
to 5.2). 
Yet the loss of pitchers Trinity Har -
rington, Lexi Smith and Show has caused 
the team’s earned run average to skyrocket. 
The Aggies have a 3.89 ERA compared 
to a 2.22 average last season. Baylor trans -
fer Kendall Potts holds a team-best 2.96 
ERA. The two pitchers that follow, Kayla 
Poynter (3.78) and Payton McBride (4.09), 
combined for only four starts a year ago. 
With the personnel changes also came an 
update to Texas A&M’s home. It remodelled 
its old stadium, the Aggie Softball Complex, 
into the 2,000-seat Davis Diamond. By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida was hitless heading into the bottom 
of the third inning.
Back-to-back walks by center fielder Jud 
Fabian and second baseman Blake Reese set 
up a golden opportunity for shortstop Brady 
McConnell to break the scoreless tie.
The sophomore delivered, blasting his sev -
enth home run of the season high over the 
right-field wall to give the Gators an early 3-0 
advantage.
McConnell’s homer sparked a six-run, six-
hit inning for UF’s baseball team as it defeated 
South Carolina 9-5 at Alfred A. McKethan Sta -
dium on Thursday night.
“It was a first-pitch slider that he left over 
the plate,” McConnell said. “I sat on it well 
and took it the other way. I was just glad to 
lead the game off like that and get the lead.”
First baseman Kendrick Calilao laced the 
first pitch of his at-bat into right field to score 
left fielder Austin Langworthy and pick up his team-leading 37th RBI of the season.
One batter later, third baseman Cory Acton 
forced one back up the middle to earn his own 
RBI single and give UF (23-13, 5-8 SEC) a 5-0 
lead. He went 3 for 4 with two doubles and 
two RBIs on the night, upping his season total 
to 19.
Fabian capped the scoring in the third with 
a two-out RBI single that landed just in front 
of South Carolina right fielder Jacob Olson.
Gamecocks starter Reid Morgan came into 
the night with solid numbers, but UF’s of -
fensive surge in the third sunk the junior and 
handed him his second loss of the season.
Morgan went five innings and gave up sev -
en earned runs off nine hits. He walked three 
batters and only struck out two.
Florida starter Tommy Mace redeemed 
himself from last weekend’s start against 
South Carolina.
The sophomore struggled with command 
at times, walking four through six innings. He 
made up for it in strikeouts with six, claiming Rivalry renewed: Gators visit 
Texas A&M for weekend seriesFlorida upends Gamecocks, 
claims Game 1 of series
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15 
BY THE NUMBERS
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Florida defensive coordinator 
Todd Grantham has earned a bit of 
a reputation.
He likes to get after the quarter -
back, especially on third-and-long 
scenarios.
Even before arriving in 
Gainesville, the former Georgia, Lou -
isville and, most recently, Missis -
sippi State defensive playcaller was 
known for his aggressiveness. 
But, when you bring the pressure, 
you’re prone to getting beat over the 
top. This problem has been perva -
sive on Grantham-coached teams, and the phenomenon of allowing 
big plays on third-and-long has been 
(unaffectionately) dubbed “third and 
Grantham” by fans and pundits.
It plagued the Gators throughout 
the 2018 season.
Or did it?
In this edition of alligatorSports’ 
“By the Numbers,” we examined ev -
ery third-and-long situation Florida’s 
defense faced last season to deter -
mine whether “third and Grantham” 
was real or just a confirmation bias-
fueled myth.
How aggressive were the 
Gators on third-and-long situa -
tions?Short answer: not very.
For the purpose of this analysis, 
we defined third and long as seven 
or more yards to gain. The Gators 
forced 110 third and longs last year.
Defining a blitz as rushing the 
quarterback with more than four 
defenders, Florida blitzed on 46 of 
these, meaning it rushed only 41.8 
percent of the time on third and long.
This already dispels much of 
the “third and Grantham” hypoth -
esis, but it doesn’t mean the Gators 
weren’t very aggressive at times, de -
pending on the game situation.
They blitzed more frequently in 
the second half, with 27 of their 46 
third-and-long rushes coming in the 
final two quarters.
This is to be expected, as most 
of Florida’s games were close well 
into the second half. So, the defense 
rushed more often because the situa -
tion necessitated big stops.
UF’s defense was also more ag -
gressive when its opponent was in 
its own territory. Twenty-nine of its 
blitzes came when the ball was on 
the opponent’s side of the 50.
That is also to be expected, as the 
risks of blitzing when the opponent 
is deep in its own territory are much 
less than when it is encroaching on 
field-goal range.
So, even though some situations 
called for more aggression than oth -
ers, the Gators still only rushed three 
or four defenders most of the time.
But, when they did blitz, they 
were frequently burned.
Right?
How effective was Florida’s 
rush?
UF gave up a first down on third 
and long 28 times.
Though a 25.5 percent conver -
sion rate on third and long is proba -
bly higher than head coach Dan Mul -
len would like to see, it doesn’t mean 
over-aggressiveness was to blame.
Florida blitzed on 15 of the 28 
first downs it allowed. This means 
that, while they were more likely 
to give up the first down when they 
blitzed (32.6 percent) than when they didn’t (20.3 percent), from a 
results perspective, the Gators gave 
up nearly as many first downs when 
they didn’t bring the pressure.
UF allowed four touchdowns on 
third and long in 2018. All of these 
came in the three games that it lost.
Florida gave up two touchdowns 
on third and long against Georgia, 
and one each against Kentucky and 
Missouri. It blitzed on two of these 
touchdowns.
On the other hand, the Gators 
made several big defensive plays 
on third and long. They forced four 
turnovers in these scenarios, blitzing 
on two of them. They forced 24 total 
turnovers last season, so third-and-
long plays account for 16.7 percent 
of them.
Florida also sacked the opposing 
quarterback 11 times on third and 
long, making up 29.7 percent of its 
37 sacks.
Surprisingly, it only blitzed on 
four of those sacks.
Verdict
The Gators were hardly a very ag -
gressive team when it came to third-
and-long situations in 2018. When 
they did bring the rush, they usually prevented the other team from get -
ting a first down.
Though Florida gave up four 
touchdowns on third and long, it 
forced just as many turnovers and 
more than twice as many sacks.
Overall, whether UF brought the 
pressure wasn’t a very good indicator 
of third-and-long success. The results 
were nearly identical, regardless.
It’s also worth noting that, while 
the numbers show that Florida 
wasn’t exceedingly aggressive, its 
reputation for aggression was very 
real.
Grantham knew this, and he used 
it to his advantage.
Florida frequently brought five 
or six defenders to the line of scrim -
mage pre-snap, before all but three 
or four would drop back into cover -
age at the snap, leaving the oppo -
nent guessing.
So, consider the “third and 
Grantham” myth officially busted.
Grantham’s defensive philosophy 
doesn’t inhibit the team’s success. If 
anything, it probably works to Flori -
da’s advantage.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgIs the phrase “Third and Grantham” fact or fiction?
The percentage of playcalls made in 3rd-and-long situations. 
Grantham called for a blitz 42 percent of third downs.The Associated Press
T odd Grantham’s defense accumulated 37 sacks in his first season 
as Florida’s defensive coordinator.
The amount of blitzes throughout the game. Grantham called for 
more blitzes late in the game than he did in the beginning.
LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Senior attacker Lindsey Ron -
beck and the Florida women’s la -
crosse team ran rampant at the 
Jacksonville Lacrosse Center.
Ronbeck recorded nearly half of 
the Gators’ first-half goals (seven 
out of 15) and finished the game 
with eight, bringing her season to -
tal to 58.
Her offensive explosion fueled 
No. 18 UF to a 19-13 non-confer -
ence victory over Jacksonville on 
Thursday night.
“We got off to a great start in 
the first half, and our offense was moving the ball well,” coach 
Amanda O’Leary said in a release. 
“Our second half wasn’t as strong 
as we would have liked.”
Florida (8-6) got on the board 
first after sophomore midfielder 
Shannon Kavanagh scored an un -
assisted goal, but attacker Erin 
McGuire tied the game for Jackson -
ville (10-3) less than three minutes 
later.
The Gators responded with four 
consecutive goals from senior mid -
fielders Madi Hall and Paige Al -
dave, Kavanagh and Ronbeck.
Hall gave UF the lead at the 
22:28 mark of the first half, her 
11th goal of the season.Two goals in 22 seconds from 
Kavanagh and senior midfielder 
Paige Aldave, who found the back 
of the net for the first time this year, 
extended Florida’s lead to 4-1.
Jacksonville midfielder Alexis 
Deaken earned a yellow card after 
Aldave’s goal and had to leave the 
game temporarily.
Ronbeck took advantage of the 
man-up opportunity and converted 
from the free position.
Dolphins coach Mindy McCord 
called a timeout after the Gators’ 
fifth goal and swung the momen -
tum in her team’s favor.
Midfielder Jenny Kinsey an -
swered with a free-position goal, but junior midfielder Brianna Har -
ris restored UF’s four-goal lead just 
over a minute later.
Harris’ goal marked the begin -
ning of a 10-1 run by Florida to end 
the first half, which put the Gators 
up 15-3 heading into the break.
UF managed only four goals in 
the second half, while Jacksonville 
scored 10.
But Florida held on to earn its 
fifth-consecutive win despite losing 
in the draw circle 19-14.
This was the first time the 
Gators emerged victorious after 
controlling fewer draws than their 
opponent.
Ronbeck led the team with four draw controls, while Kavanagh and 
senior defender Caroline May had 
three and two, respectively.
One draw control from sopho -
more defender Sabrina Cristodero 
helped her break the program re -
cord for consecutive games with a 
draw control (28).
UF’s dismal second half was 
a cause for concern, and O’Leary 
pointed that out.
“We have some things to work 
on before we get back into confer -
ence play on Saturday,” she said.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgRonbeck scores eight goals, leads UF to fifth-straight victory16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!his sixth victory of the season after giving up 
just two earned runs off three hits.
The Gamecocks (20-14, 3-10 SEC) picked 
up two unearned runs in the seventh to cut 
the lead to 7-3 after relief pitcher Hunter Ruth 
threw two wild pitches in the same at-bat.
The Gators added a couple insurance runs 
in the bottom half of the eighth. A wild pitch 
from South Carolina reliever Cole Ganopulos 
scored Calilao from third, and Fabian’s sacri -
fice fly gave him his second RBI of the game, 
scoring Acton.
Crisp was given the ball for UF to finish the 
game in the top of the ninth, but two walks and an RBI double caused coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
to go to reliever Ben Specht to close it out.
Florida won an important SEC game at 
home, but the vibe from the team wasn’t cel -
ebratory after the game.
“It was great to get the win,” McConnell 
said. “But it was a frustrating win, definitely 
not the way we wanted it to go.”
Eight walks and four wild pitches left 
O’Sullivan scratching his head.
“I don’t know what to say to be honest with 
you,” O’Sullivan said. “We’re just not throwing 
the ball across the plate, and it’s kind of been 
the same thing all year long.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Cory Acton and Kendrick 
Calilao both hit 3 for 4
me an edge, whether it be picking 
up pitch sequences or learning how 
to play the game properly and know 
different situations. But if a guy gets 
offered a bunch of money out of 
high school, don’t turn it down.
 How different has the speed 
of the game been from college to 
professional?
 
Pete: There’s a lot of the same 
guys I’ve seen, especially playing at 
a school like UF, you get to see a lot 
of high-quality competition up and 
down the league and there’s a ton of 
guys that I played with and against that I’ve seen rise the ranks and 
they’re right here with me. Right 
off the top of my head, Nick Sen -
zel, University of Tennessee, think 
he’s Triple-A. I don’t know if he’s 
in the big leagues or not. Also, Da -
kota Hudson, he was my draft class, 
first-rounder to the Cardinals, and 
he’s in the big leagues. So, those are 
some high-quality guys, SEC guys that I played against all throughout 
college and summer ball, just rose 
through the ranks together.
 
Do you think that playing 
in the College World Series 
prepared you in any way for 
the bright lights of the major 
leagues? Pete: Oh, a hundred percent. 
College World Series, that’s one 
of the biggest stages ever. I mean, 
you’ve got rowdy fans, I think 
you’ve got 30,000 people in that 
stadium, and bright lights and ev -
erything.
Read the rest of this interview 
online at alligator.org/sports.ALONSO,  from pg 14Alonso is in his rookie season with the New York MetsChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida first baseman Kendrick Calilao went 3 for 4 with an RBI in UF's 9-5 win 
over South Carolina at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on Thursday.
“I’ve had rave reviews as far as the envi -
ronment and the experience,” UF coach Tim 
Walton said. “The 12th Man is real.”
Reigniting the rivalry
Last year’s super regional series was one of 
many postseason meetings between the Gators and the Aggies. 
UF leads the all-time series 18-5, but Texas 
A&M has emerged victorious three times in 
postseason play. 
The first meeting between the two pow -
erhouse programs was in the 2007 Super Re -
gionals at College Station. The Aggies defeated 
Florida 2-0 in Game 3 to advance to the Wom -
en’s College World Series. 
The two teams met a year later at the WCWS, and A&M ended UF’s season with a 
1-0 extra-innings win. Florida got revenge in 
the NCAA Regionals in 2009 with a 7-1 win. 
The postseason rivalry renewed in 2017 at 
the WCWS with an 8-0 run-rule victory for the 
Gators. 
Now, the Aggies have an opportunity 
to end Florida’s four-game winning streak 
and take their first SEC series of the season. 
They’ve had a difficult conference schedule so far, losing 2-1 series to No. 5 Alabama, No. 7 
LSU and No. 13 Georgia. They were also swept 
by No. 12 Auburn. 
“They’ll be tough,” Walton said of the Ag -
gies. “They’ve had the toughest SEC schedule 
so far, so I think that’s where some of their 
losses have shown up.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Texas A&M is last in the SEC with a 3-9 conference record