We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Man ﬁ  nds shark tooth from foot years after bite
Jeff Weakley, 46, used the help of the Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History to identify the blacktip shark tooth, pg 4
Tijuana Flats relocating to Butler Plaza
The mexican-themed restaurant’s Archer Road location is in the 
the process of moving to a new spot at Butler Plaza North, pg 6GATORS AT THE WORLD CUP RECAP
See how current and former Florida Gators per-
formed in France, pg 10
TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 99
GEORGE EDMONDSON 
— MR. TWO BITS — 
DIED JUL Y 2
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Florida Gators superfan George 
Edmondson Jr. — known as Mr. 
Two Bits — died on July 2 at the 
age of 97, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. 
The history of Edmondson’s 
fandom goes back all the way to 
a 1949 game at Florida Field. The 
Gators were playing The Citadel, 
a school he attended before enlist-
ing in the Navy during World War 
II. 
As the Gators came onto the 
ﬁ  eld, fans booed because of the 
team’s losing streak. So Edmond-
son, whose loyalties held strong 
even though he himself did not at-
tend school at UF, jumped up and 
started the iconic cheer: “Two-
Bits, Four-Bits, Six-bits, a dollar. 
All for the Gators, Stand Up and 
Holler!” 
This started the legend of Mr. 
Two Bits. And for 60 years, Ed-
mondson started every Gator 
home football game with his 
famous cheer. He led the cheer 
wearing his signature yel-
low shirt and orange-and-blue 
striped tie, showing his love and 
spirit for the team. He continued to “stand up 
and holler” until his retirement 
in 2008, in which the ﬁ  nal home 
game happened to be against The 
Citadel. 
After he retired, Albert and Al-
berta continued the tradition until 
2013, when UF began inviting ce-
lebrities, including Steve Spurrier, 
Danny Wuerffel, Cris Collinsworth 
and other beloved Gators to do the 
cheer. 
Edmondson’s impact stretched 
beyond football. In fact, UF Foun-
dations’s 2019 Giving Day had the 
theme “Stand Up and Holler” to 
honor the cheer. This day included 
T-shirts styled after Edmondson’s 
outﬁ  t and a campaign resulting 
in 11,535 gifts totaling over $12.6 
million in a single day.
In addition, Edmondson and 
his wife, Jane, provided awards to 
UF cheerleaders by founding the 
Mr. Two Bits Scholarship Fund, 
Orlando said. 
Edmondson’s legacy will not 
only be remembered by his wife, 
children, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren but also by Gator 
fans all around the world. 
A celebration of life will be 
held in Tampa in August. Details 
will be announced at a later date.  
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgRemembering 
Mr. Two Bits 
Alligator File Photo
George Edmondson Jr., also known as Mr. Two Bits, leads The Swamp in his signature cheer 
before the Gators’ 2008 home opener against Hawaii on Aug. 30. The UF superfan and World 
War II Navy veteran, who first led the cheer in 1949, died on Thursday at the age of 97.
A $40 MILLION DONATION 
HELPED KICKSTART 
THE INSTITUTE
By Kasamba Kokayi
Contributing Writer
UF’s new neurological center now brings 
medical doctors and clinical researchers to-
gether like never before.
The Norman Fixel Institute for Neurolog-
ical Diseases, which opened July 1, brings 
medical professionals and researchers of dif-
ferent neurological focuses under the same 
roof to treat patients for conditions such as 
Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, Lewy body dementia and amyotrophic lat-
eral sclerosis (ALS).
Lisa Warren, Fixel’s rehab site manager, 
said Fixel is nothing like the other academic 
health institutions she’s worked at during 
her 31 years as an occupational therapist. 
She said Fixel is the perfect one-stop shop 
for patients who would otherwise typically 
go to one doctor only to be told they need to 
seek a different one.
“Fixel offers it all under one roof,” said 
Warren, who will be supervising the insti-
tute’s physical, sight, speech and occupa-
tional therapy programs. “It all works out in 
the patient’s favor.”
Warren said the Center for Movement Doctors and researchers unite at 
UF’s new neurological institute
SEE FIXEL,  PAGE 3THE UNIVERSITY WILL 
HOLD A CELEBRATION 
OF LIFE FOR CHEN 
THIS WEDNESDAY 
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF has responded to the 
recent death of a graduate 
student amid calls for an in-
vestigation.
The university issued a 
statement regarding the death 
of Huixiang Chen, an interna-
tional doctoral candidate in 
the Department of Electrical 
and Computer Engineering, 
who was found dead on cam-
pus in Benton Hall after tak-
ing his own life on June 13. A celebration of life memorial 
service for Chen is scheduled 
for 2 p.m. Wednesday at the 
UF Baughman Center.
UF released the statement 
after UF Graduate Assistants 
United (GAU) requested an 
investigation following the 
circumstances that led up to 
Chen’s death. 
In the statement, the uni-
versity said Chen left behind 
a note suggesting possible 
research misconduct by his 
faculty adviser, Tao Li.
The university is issuing 
an investigation through the 
Ofﬁ  ce of Research in addi-
tion to the University Police’s 
investigation, the statement 
said. UF is also examining the circumstances surrounding 
his death, including hiring 
an independent investigator 
with experience in working 
with students in higher edu-
cation. 
The university also sent 
out an email addressed to 
graduate students regarding 
the news on behalf of Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs. The Alliga-
tor obtained a copy from UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando.
In the email, Fuchs ad-
dresses the difﬁ  culties of be-
ing a graduate student. He 
also suggests resources avail-
able through the university 
to receive mental health care 
including the Counseling and UF responds to calls for investigation of death 
SEE CHEN,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasSocial Media StrategistHIGH  90° LOW  75°
‘Those Magnificent Men in 
Their Flying Machines’
The Florida Museum is hosting a 
screening of “Those Magnificent 
Men in Their Flying Machines,” 
released in 1965 and rated PG, 
at the museum on Friday at 
7 p.m. Visitors will have the 
opportunity to discuss the film 
with a panel of scientists, artists 
and special effects experts prior 
to the movie and explore the 
balance between science and 
art. The museum's permanent 
exhibits, except the “Butterfly Rainforest” and “Discovery 
Zone,” will be open to the public 
for extended hours until 10 p.m. 
For more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
creative-b-flying-machines or call 
352-273-2061.
'Rocky Horror Picture Show'
Tonight and Wednesday, the 
High Dive will take part in the 
"Rocky Horror Picture Show" 
presented by Glory Day Presents 
& Frankie and the Pretenders. 
The show will consist of live action skits from local artists. 
Audience participation is encour-
aged and there will be drinking 
games for attendees. Wednesday 
night is sold out but you can still 
purchase Tuesday tickets at tick-
etfly.com. Tickets are $7 for the 
standing area near the bar or 
$12 for seating close to the stage. 
You must be 18 or older to enter. 
There is an additional $3 charge 
at the door for those younger 
than 21. Doors open at 8 p.m. and 
the show lasts from 9 to 11 p.m.
Phoenix Rising at The Wooly
Listen to triumphant stories on 
Thursday at The Wooly from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. Guts and Glory 
GNV is hosting a storytelling 
event where speakers will share 
times in their lives where they 
overcame seemingly insurmount-
able obstacles and stories of re-
covery in many different forms. 
Tickets are $10 for students 
and $15 for general admission. 
You can purchase them on-
line at brownpapertickets.com. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 99
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, located 
at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from 
now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator ofﬁ  ces in 
a meeting open to the public on Friday, July 26th. Applicants must be degree-
seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who 
have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:
TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Disorders & Neurorestoration, which 
she was hired for in 2010, served as 
the foundation for the Fixel Institute.
Dr. Adolfo Ramirez-Zamora, a 
movement disorder neurologist and 
Fixel’s director of clinical trials, said 
the Fixel Institute has been in the works for six months. Before it had 
a name, it was a collection of dif-
ferent doctors on the fourth ﬂ  oor of 
UF’s orthopedic building, expanding 
over time to include a wide variety 
of specializations.
When UF Health received a $20 
million gift from the Lauren and Lee 
Fixel Family Foundation in January, UF matched the donation, kickstart-
ing the formation of the institute 
located at 3009 SW Williston Road, 
according to a UF Health release.  
Ramirez-Zamora said the insti-
tute has ﬂ  oors for different neuro-
logical specializations and rooms 
dedicated to research and testing. 
The Fixel design bridges the gap be-tween doctors and clinical research-
ers in hopes of improving patient 
treatments.
Neuropathologist Dr. Stefan Pro-
kop will lead Fixel’s Brain Bank, 
overseeing the collection of donated 
brains and analyzing the research 
samples. Prokop and others doing 
research at Fixel will study the brain and the effects of neurological dis-
eases, providing more information 
that can be used to develop treat-
ments.
“You can only see what’s going 
on in the brain after death,” Prokop 
said. “Our feedback betters the diag-
noses and treatment that the doctors 
give.”FIXEL,  from pg. 1A $20 million donation matched by UF kickstarted the institute 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Lee Fixel, a venture capitalist and co-owner of the Lauren and Lee Fixel Family 
Foundation, and his father Norman Fixel, a UF alumnus, sign a beam on Jan. 18 at a 
ceremony for the start of construction on the Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological 
Diseases at UF. Norman Fixel earned a bachelor’s degree in business from UF in 1975. 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Dr. Kelly Foote (left) and Dr. Michael Okun (right), co-director and executive director of 
the Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, respectively, thank Norman Fixel 
and the Fixel family on January 18 for their donation of $20 million for the Norman Fixel 
Institute for Neurological Diseases at UF. “We accept your challenge to impact as many 
people as we can, ” Okun said. 
Wellness Center and U Matter, We 
Care.
“Like many of you, I was ex-
tremely saddened to learn of the 
death of Huixiang Chen,” Fuchs 
said in the email. “I know from my 
own eight difﬁ  cult years in gradu-
ate school that under any circum-
stances being a graduate student is 
challenging and losing a colleague 
in such a tragic way is incredibly 
hard.” 
Bobby Mermer, co-president of 
the GAU, appreciates the measures 
UF and the community are taking 
for Chen and the university’s quick 
response in letting GAU know 
about the investigation. 
“To have this public event where 
people can come in real time to re-
member Mr. Chen and be around 
one another — I think that’s very 
good for our international commu-
nity,” he said.
Mermer said there is an issue 
with UF where international gradu-
ate assistants are afraid to come 
forward with allegations against 
their supervisors out of fear of re-
taliation. 
Mermer said GAU is concerned 
UF will not investigate mistreat-
ment of graduate students further 
than this case.
The UF CWC has a variety of re-
sources to help students struggling 
with mental health. Appointments 
are available during their on-cam-
pus hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. week-
days. They can also be reached by 
phone at (352) 392-1575.
The number for the 24/7 Na-
tional Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 
1 (800) 273-8255.
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgCHEN,  from pg. 1
,
FIVE MEDICAL SPECIALTIES 
MADE THE TOP 50 RANKINGS 
By Sarah Pickett
Contributing Writer
UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital 
ranked nationally in the 2019-20 Best Chil-
dren’s Hospital rankings released in June by 
U.S News & World Report.
The hospital was ranked in ﬁ  ve medical 
specialties: pediatric cancer, cardiology and 
heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, 
neurology and neurosurgery and pulmonol-
ogy and lung surgery.
UF Health Shands’ pediatric cancer pro-
gram rose to No. 25 (up 24 spots from last 
year). The pediatric cardiology and heart sur-
gery program moved up eight places to 11th 
in the nation, according to a press release 
from UF Health Shands.  The diabetes and en-
docrinology program rose to No. 19 (up from 
27th). Neurology and neurosurgery ranked 
42nd (up from 50th) and pulmonology 22nd 
(same as last year). 
The hospital’s pediatric cardiology and 
heart surgery program was the highest-rated 
in Florida for the fourth-consecutive year. 
Cancer, diabetes and endocrinology and pul-
monology also ranked the highest in Florida. 
The neurology and neurosurgery program is 
the second-highest ranked program in Florida.
Ed Jimenez, the CEO of UF Health Shands, 
said the high rankings showcase the great 
medical care and research happening at the 
hospital. In pediatric heart surgery, Shands 
has one of the best survival statistics in the 
U.S., and more people are trusting them to do 
complicated surgeries on small and sick chil-
dren.
“We’re proud that this is another external 
validation that there are amazing things hap-
pening here that are of a national scale,” he 
said. Jimenez said understanding the need to 
care for families as a whole, hiring talented 
staff and improving science research are what 
help make UF Health Shands Children’s Hos-
pital a nationally ranked children’s hospital.
“Other children’s hospitals in the state of 
Florida that families trust send their patients 
here,” he said. “It’s because the teams here 
often give hope where hope doesn’t exist.”
Dr. Desmond Schatz, the interim chair of 
pediatrics at UF Health Shands, said the rank-
ings are exciting and show a commitment to 
patients to provide excellence at every level.
“It’s a team effort and a team approach,” 
he said. “It’s recognition that we are making 
[a commitment] to improve the lives of each 
and every child and to do that at the personal 
level.”
Boston Children’s Hospital (No. 1) and 
Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (No. 2), 
among others, ranked higher than UF Health 
Shands. The ranking system only ranks 10 
children’s hospital’s overall, and UF fell out-
side of the honor roll. The other top-rated 
hospitals have much bigger programs, more 
patients and more health care providers than 
UF Health Shands, Schatz said.
Despite that, the rise in the specialties’ 
rankings are still spectacular for the Shands’ 
size and number of patients, he said.
“My hope would be that all our subspe-
cialties will continue to grow and be ranked 
because that’s what we all want to do is to 
provide the best possible care for everybody,” 
Schatz said.
The cardiology and heart surgery program 
is now close to the top 10 in the nation, com-
ing in at No. 11. The advancements of the doc-
tors, the complicated cases and the decreased 
mortality rate are a testament to the team and 
the reason why so many people throughout 
the state and beyond the state are referred to 
the program, Schatz said.
Rankings like this help build a program of 
integrity and a program where people want to come back because they can trust the doctors 
and the health care system, he said.
Ocala resident, Karen Butler, 52, has relied 
on UF Health Shands more than once for her 
children, even though her family lives outside 
of Gainesville.
She took her son, Christian, to UF Health 
Shands Children’s Hospital when he was 13 
after leaving different emergency rooms in 
Ocala in several times without a diagnosis. At 
UF Health Shands, he was diagnosed with a 
partially collapsed lung.
“They were quick. They were informative. 
They let me know what was going on,” she 
said. “They were amazing with him.”
Butler’s son spent four weeks in the hos-
pital because the ﬂ  uid around his lungs was 
infected.
“I could not have asked for a better hos-
pital and better nurses,” she said. “Even the 
football team came by and did an art project 
with him.”
Butler thought the ratings were spot on. 
She has six kids and has had many emergency 
room visits. UF Health Shands has been the 
best, she said. 
“Shands is the only one I trust anymore,” 
Butler said, “because you should be able to 
trust your local hospitals, but you can’t.”UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital ranked nationally
UF Health Shands Children’s 
Hospital national program 
rankings:
No. 11 - Pediatric cardiology and 
heart surgery
No. 19 - Diabetes and 
endocrinology
No. 22 - Pulmonology
No. 25 - Pediatric cancer
No. 42 - Neurology and 
neurosurgery4  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
ITALIAN BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICManuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm.
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for 
lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thom-
as’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your or-
der will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, 
wholesale prices available. Courtesy of Jeff Weakley to The Alligator. 
Jeff Weakley, 46, at his follow up appointment about 
a week after the blacktip shark bite in 1994. This is a 
hospital in Deland, Florida, near Stetson University, 
where he was a student at the time of the bite.
UF RESEARCHERS 
IDENTIFIED THE BLACKTIP 
SHARK TOOTH 
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
A Florida man discovered the 
owner of the tooth lodged in his foot 
after 25 years thanks to UF research-
ers.
Editor of Florida Sportsman maga-
zine Jeff Weakley, 46, tweezed a par-
ticle out of his foot and sent it in for 
DNA testing to the Florida Program 
for Shark Research at the Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History last fall. After 
being lodged in his foot for nearly a 
quarter of a century, researchers con-
ﬁ  rmed it was a tooth from a blacktip 
shark bite in 1994. 
In the fall of 1994, Weakley trav-
eled from his college, Stetson Univer-
sity, for an annual sorority and fra-
ternity party on the coast of Flagler 
Beach. While surﬁ  ng with his friends, 
he felt a bite and immediately saw 
blood trickling off his foot. 
“I don’t recall any signiﬁ  cant 
pain, but it was kind of a shock,” Weakley said. 
Weakley paddled to the shore, 
and his friends rushed him to the 
emergency room. The nurses spent 
time ﬂ  ushing out the wounds and 
removing any contaminants. 
“I didn’t at the time think about 
a thing or two launched in my foot,” 
Weakley said. 
About 15 years ago, Weak-
ley tweezed a tooth out of his foot 
from the original accident. When he 
tweezed the second tooth out last 
fall, he had just read an article about 
Gavin Naylor’s work with UF’s ﬁ  rst 
DNA sequence in Florida shark re-
search program.
The article inspired Weakley to 
send in the tooth for investigation. 
 Tyler Bowling, manager of Florida 
Program for Shark Research, worked 
directly with the DNA sequencing 
project. 
“Given harsh conditions, such 
as being inside a living person with 
heat and moisture — traditionally, 
DNA wouldn’t survive,” Bowling 
said. “But it seemed it was protected 
enough that we were able to record 
the tooth.” 
The tooth was identiﬁ  ed as a three-to-ﬁ  ve foot blacktip shark, which is 
common in the waters Weakley was 
surﬁ  ng, Bowling said.
Lei Yang, the shark program labo-
ratory manager, said they began do-
ing DNA sequencing last year. 
“As museum researchers, we spe-
cialize on working on difﬁ  cult sam-
ples,” Yang said. “The recent study 
of the shark bite incident made us 
realize that the techniques we are us-
ing may be more powerful and gen-
erally applicable than we originally 
thought.”
In 2018, there were 16 cases of 
unprovoked shark attacks in Florida 
according to the International Shark 
Attack Files. 
Weakley continues to surf and 
ﬁ  sh. He’s grateful for the connections 
UF’s shark research program is mak-
ing between shark and human inter-
actions. 
“It’s pretty wild because I still 
might have a tooth in there from this 
same shark 24 years ago,” he said. “I 
guess in some ways, maybe I’m part 
shark.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.org
UF INNOVATION IS HOPING 
TO CREATE A DIVERSE AND 
INCLUSIVE DISTRICT 
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF Innovation District is under the lead-
ership of two new managers and is work-
ing to create a more inclusive environment.
This expansion includes the university 
working in partnership with Gainesville 
and the chamber of commerce to bring in 
new businesses to the innovation district, 
said David Norton, vice president for UF research. 
Jim O’Connell, the assistant vice presi-
dent for UF Innovate, and Mark Long, di-
rector of incubation services at UF Inno-
vate’s business incubator, The Hub, will 
both be responsible for the management of 
Innovation Square, Norton said. 
“This is being done in order to grow 
startup businesses from UF technologies 
and have them blossom into larger compa-
nies in that space,” Norton said. 
The innovation district will develop by 
hosting new businesses, Norton said. UF 
graduates may also attract high-tech com-
panies to be located in the area. O’Connell and his group at UF Innovate 
take UF technologies, development and in-
tellectual property patents from the univer-
sity and look to create new companies and 
businesses. 
The businesses start within the incuba-
tor space, the Innovation Hub, located at 
747 SW Second Ave., Norton said. 
Norton said this change will impact In-
novation students by providing jobs for 
graduate students, especially engineering 
graduate students and allowing them the 
opportunity to see what it takes to be an 
entrepreneur. 
“We’re making a very positive impact on our community and what we’re sup-
posed to do because our primary business 
is educating students,” Norton said. 
O’Connell said he is good at creating 
“inclusive entrepreneurial ecosystems,” 
while UF Development Corporation is good 
at managing real estate. The innovation 
district is now shifting the focus from real 
estate to inclusive ecosystem development.
“I’m not going to sign real estate leas-
es,” O’Connell said, “but I’m going to man-
age the tactical and strategic development 
of the land around us that we have put in-
put into and ﬁ  gure out what kind of direc-
tion it needs to go in and do that in a much 
more inclusive way.” 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgFlorida man discovers tooth in his foot after old shark bite
New management for UF Innovation District TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THEY WILL DISCUSS 
LANDSCAPING AND IRRIGATION
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
The Alachua County Environmental 
Protection Department (ACEPD) will host the 
ﬁ  rst of two public discussion meetings about 
landscaping and irrigation on Tuesday. 
This meeting will occur from 6 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. at the Alachua County Health Department 
Auditorium on 224 SE 24th St. 
Stacie Greco, the interim water resources 
program manager of the ACEPD, said this 
meeting’s goal is to talk with attendees on how 
they can reduce both fertilizer and water use 
and improve the local water quality. This issue was ﬁ  rst brought before the 
department at its April 9 meeting when 
activists and landscaping industry members 
voiced their concerns about the county’s 
“impaired water bodies.” In particular, they 
were concerned about the elevated levels of 
nitrogen and phosphorus in lakes, creeks, 
rivers and springs, Greco said. 
“It is partially Alachua’s responsibility to 
reduce those nutrients,” Greco said. “One thing 
we can do is to try to limit our fertilizer use.”
Greco and the other members of the 
department are calling on the experiences of 
landscapers and environmentalists within the 
community through these meetings. 
The second meeting, which will be held 
on July 30, will build on the ﬁ  rst. Both will 
feature group exercises that will allow participants to share their ideas and opinions, 
Greco said. Though this is not intended to be 
an educational meeting, Greco said later in the 
summer, the ACEPD will attempt to inform the 
public about the information it has gathered, 
Greco said. 
“We don’t want county residents to feel 
stressed if they aren’t familiar with these 
changes because most have not gone into 
effect yet,” Greco said. 
Chris Bird, the director of ACEPD, said 
elevated phosphorus and nitrogen levels are a 
world-wide issue. The biggest issue they face 
is water pumping, which causes nitrogen-
polluted water to be pumped back into the 
ground, Bird said. 
“In our case, nitrogen is a real problem 
because it causes algae,” Bird said.To combat this issue, the department 
is trying to help the county reduce its water 
footprint, both on an individual level and a 
community level. 
As it is, there may not be enough water 
to sustain the population, so Bird and his 
colleagues are focused on ﬁ  guring out how to 
turn trend around, Bird said. 
“The point of these workshops is really 
just to get ideas from the community because 
we understand that we don’t have all the 
answers,” Bird said. “This is always going 
to be a work in progress, and we’re always 
going to have to be looking for ways of kind of 
tweaking what we’re doing.” 
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgEnvironmental Protection Department to host public meetings
,· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD SAYS THE UF STUDENT 
VOMITED ON AN OFFICER
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Anthony Castronovo was charged for 
assaulting a security guard and vomiting 
on a police ofﬁ  cer after a night out at :08 
bar on Friday morning.
GPD was called to the downtown bar, 
located at  201 W. University Ave, shortly 
past midnight after a security worker said 
Castronovo, a 19-year-old UF student 
from Boca Raton, was ejected from the 
club, according to a police report. 
Castronovo responded by swinging 
a pole attached to a cement-ﬁ  lled pot 
toward the security worker. The pole 
hit the side door of the business then 
shattered, missing the security worker. Ofﬁ  cers detained Castronovo after 
questioning in the back of a patrol car. 
During questioning, Castronovo told 
one ofﬁ  cer he was going to vomit on him. 
According to the police report, 
Castronovo put his mouth on the divider 
between the front and back of the 
patrol car and aimed his projectile path 
toward the front. He vomited on both the 
electronic panel of the vehicle and the 
ofﬁ  cer.
Castronovo was charged with 
aggravated assault with a deadly weapon 
and battery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer, 
both felonies. 
He was released on his own 
recognizance on Friday but was ordered 
not to return to :08.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgStudent charged with assault
THE ROBBERY OCCURRED IN MAY, 
ACCORDING TO POLICE
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was charged by 
the Gainesville Police Department on 
Wednesday in connection to a home 
invasion that happened in May.
Paul Lenard Terry, 26, entered an 
unlocked unit at Arbor East Apartments, 
located at 2335 SW 35th Place, with two 
other people on May 13, according to a 
police report. 
A resident of the apartment was home 
at the time and was pistol-whipped by 
one of the intruders. 
The homeowner remained held at 
gunpoint by the intruder, while Terry and 
the third intruder raided the apartment, according to the report.
A cell phone and $300 cash were part 
of the stolen items from the apartment, 
according to the police report. 
Terry’s ﬁ  ngerprints were found at the 
scene. 
According to Alachua County Clerk 
of Court records, Terry was arrested for 
grand theft and ﬂ  eeing police in 2013. 
Terry admitted he entered the 
apartment with intent to steal when 
under questioning by police, saying he 
went there to “hit a lick,” which means 
to carry out a robbery.
Terry was charged with home invasion 
robbery armed with a ﬁ  rearm, a felony. 
He remains in Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $500,000 bond. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan charged for May robberyTUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   6 
Steph Strickland and Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Coulter Small (above), a first-year medical student 
at UF, walks through the Plaza of the Americas with 
his family (left). Small pictured himself working in 
business. However, in December of 2017, his career 
plan changed when his mother passed away. Small 
said he extended his stay in undergrad at UCF to take 
courses to prepare him for his new path in medicine. 
He underwent two 15-credit semesters, one in which 
he took general chemistry and biochemistry together, 
to finish in four years. Small’s family members said 
he overcame the odds and they are all proud of him. 
“I was really fortunate to tour a lot of different med 
schools, ” Small said. “I toured at UCLA. I went to NYU. 
I went to Albert Einstein. There was no place that I 
felt more comfortable than being here. ” 
THE NEW LOCATION WILL OPEN ON 
MONDAY AND FEATURE 63 SEATS 
INSIDE AND 40 SEATS OUTSIDE
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Tijuana Flats regulars of the Archer location, 3414 
SW Archer Rd., will have to go to midtown this week 
for their Tuesday taco special as the Archer location 
relocates to Butler Plaza North near Jimmy John’s and 
Orangetheory Fitness.
The Archer location closed on Sunday and the new 
location will open on Monday. The midtown location, 
1720 W. University Ave., is available for customers dur-
ing the relocation.Jazmyn Reed, associate public relations manager for 
Findsome & Winmore, an Orlando marketing agency, 
said the franchise is changing some of its locations to 
Tijuana Flats’ new store layout that features new decor.
“They’re selecting particular locations and revamp-
ing them,” Reed said.
The new 2,220-square-foot location on 3205 Clark 
Butler Blvd. will feature a custom wall mural, a total of 
103 seats (13 more than the previous Archer location)
and 15 hot sauce pumps, Reed said. 
“They have a muralist coming in there this week 
and painting. It’s really gorgeous,“ said Mary Reichardt, 
marketing director at Butler Enterprises. “And they have 
a really bright new corner on one of the busiest intersec-
tions we have in Butler.”
The new Tijuana Flats location will host a grand re-
opening in the fall after students return in late August. 
The event will include food specials and a “Give Back” 
day where a portion of sales will be donated to a local 
non-profit organization.
The building of the Archer location will be demol-
ished and turned into parking for the upcoming Butler 
Town Center currently under construction, Reichardt 
said.
“We just want to make sure that we have everything 
in place to make that a convenient environment,” Reich-
ardt said, “and so that particular building, because it 
was so old, is now going to become additional parking.”
A demolition permit for Butler East was filed on June 
3, according to the Gainesville city permits website.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgTijuana Flats on Archer to relocate to Butler Plaza North#StudentsInTheSwamp
Courtesy to The Alligator
The new Tijuana Flats at Butler Plaza North will feature a custom 
mural and a hot bar with 15 hot sauce pumps for customers to 
choose from. Courtesy to The AlligatorEditorial
ColumnTUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Your body has an annoying amount of cortisol running 
through it. Your neighbors (a loose term used for anyone who 
lives in a mile radius of you) have been setting off ﬁ  reworks at 
random times in the night for what seems like days. The stress 
hormone is taking its toll. Your fuse is getting shorter as more 
ﬁ  reworks lose theirs. It’s been almost a week since the Fourth, 
so you decide to use the freedom your forefathers fought for 
and give these pyrotechnic enthusiasts a piece of your mind. 
You walk out the door and look up to see the ﬁ  reworks spell 
something out. It says…
Darts & Laurels
After receiving backlash from telling a parent the Holocaust 
was not a “factual, historical event,” a Boca Raton high school 
principal has been reassigned. A parent asked Spanish River 
Community High School’s former principal William Latson 
about Holocaust education at the high school. His response was 
he could not force Holocaust awareness on students as “we all 
have the same rights but not all the same beliefs.” A dart goes 
to this former principal. He tried to be so neutral it led him to 
denying the importance of Holocaust education in a time where 
anti-Semitism is on the rise and in a high school with a large 
Jewish student body.
The U.S. women’s national soccer team won against the 
Netherlands 2-0 in the 2019 World Cup ﬁ  nal. A laurel goes to 
the team, as this is its back-to-back win and fourth world title. 
The team will return home to talks of settlement with the U.S. 
Soccer Federation for its pay to be the same as the men’s national 
team. In March, 28 team members ﬁ  led a gender discrimination 
lawsuit. At the ﬁ  nale on Sunday, the crowd made its presence 
and stance known by booing and chanting “equal pay” at FIFA 
chief Gianni Infantino. 
Multimillionaire Jeff Epstein was arrested on sex trafﬁ  cking 
charges on Monday. A dart goes to the 66-year-old as federal 
prosecutors charged him with running a sex trafﬁ  cking ring 
where he allegedly sexally abused dozens of underage girls 
according to CNN. For some, these federal charges are long 
awaited. In 2008, he struck a deal with federal prosecutors in 
Miami. Epstein served 13 months in prison, registered as a sex 
offender and paid restitution to victims. He did not face federal 
charges according to his deal. A laurel goes to the Miami 
Herald’s Julie K. Browning whose investigation on Epstein last 
year brought attention to this scandal and how it was dealt with.
On Saturday, Disney star Cameron Boyce died after a 
seizure in his sleep. He was 20. He acted in the Disney Original 
movie “Descendants” and the Disney Channel television show 
“Jessie.” He was involved in philanthropic projects such as the 
Thirst Project, a non-proﬁ  t that works to bring safe drinking 
water to communities. Fans and fellow actors who worked with 
him took to social media to post condolences. We are giving a 
laurel to Boyce in honor of his memory.
A dart goes out to any of the twisted sadists who felt the 
need to open a carton of ice cream in the middle of the store, 
lick the top of it… and put it back in the fridge. This gross trend 
started from a video where a teenage girl licked the top of a Tin 
Road Blue Bell Ice Cream carton, which hurts us emotionally 
because the delicious ﬂ  avor deserves so much better than this 
notoriety. Other copycats have popped up as well. Buying a 
carton of ice cream is guilt-inducing enough (the calories, the 
sugar, the diary). Now, it’s just plain scary. Keep your grimy 
clout-chasing paws off our sweet frozen cream. Please. 
Fifteen-year-old Cori “Coco” Gauff’s ﬁ  rst Wimbledon ended 
on Monday when she lost to Simona Halep. We’re giving a 
laurel to the teenager not only for her impressive run, but 
for the thrilling manner in which she got there. Gauff faced 
two second-set match points to 28-year-old Slovenian Polona 
Hercog in the tournament’s third round on Friday, but the 
Delray Beach, Florida, native roared back. Gauff erased a 5-2 
deﬁ  cit in the set then completed the comeback with second- and 
third-set victories. Bravo, Coco. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORNike, Colin Kaepernick, the American 
ﬂ  ag and slavery combined together to 
create a lightning rod of controversy 
last week.
To celebrate Independence Day, 
Nike produced a red-and-white sneaker with an 
image of the 13-star Betsy Ross American ﬂ  ag on 
the back (in reality, whether Betsy Ross actually 
made this ﬁ  rst American ﬂ  ag is disputed among 
historians, but that’s a story for another time). 
There was swift backlash, as people took 
issue with the use of this ﬂ  ag for two reasons: (1) It was 
created and used during a time when slavery was legal in 
the United States, and (2) it had been appropriated and 
used by white nationalist groups. 
Colin Kaepernick, whose protest of kneeling during the 
national anthem as a San Francisco 49ers player, told Nike 
of his issues with the design, and the shoe was subsequently 
pulled from sale. Ever since, pundits on both sides have 
been debating Nike’s decision with some saying it’s a 
respectful move in order to avoid associations with slavery 
and the far-right, and others saying it’s erasing American 
history and an example of political correctness gone mad.
The debate over Nike’s ﬂ  ag shoe is emblematic of a 
bigger issue surrounding America’s founding period and its 
use in current discourse. 
People argued the Betsy Ross ﬂ  ag had been appropriated 
by white nationalists and the far-right. Those people aren’t 
wrong. According to NBC News, white nationalist groups 
like Identity Evropa and the Ku Klux Klan have used the 
Betsy Ross ﬂ  ag to symbolize a period when slavery was 
legal in the United States. While there was a time when 
use of the Betsy Ross ﬂ  ag was non-controversial (it was 
present at President Barack Obama’s second inauguration 
in 2013), some would argue times have changed and it’s 
now nothing but a symbol for bigots and racists. I disagree. Now more than ever, we need 
to reclaim America’s founding era and its 
associated symbols.
At its core, America’s founding is about a 
group of bold men with a vision of breaking 
away from what they saw as a tyrannical empire 
in order to create a new nation; one which 
would be unique for emphasizing freedom, 
liberty and self-governance. Did we always meet 
those ideals? 
No. Besides slavery, there were property 
requirements to vote in some states until the 1850s. Women 
didn’t get the right to vote until the 19th Amendment in 
1919. And African Americans weren’t truly guaranteed the 
right to vote until the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
But I would argue the Founding Fathers set high ideals 
and left room for change, so we could move closer to living 
up to those ideals. And while slavery was part of early 
America, the men who founded the republic weren’t all 
supporters of slavery. Benjamin Franklin spent the last few 
years of his life campaigning against slavery and petitioned 
Congress for its end. I think men like Franklin would be hurt 
and insulted the ﬂ  ag of their nation had become associated 
not with liberty and freedom, but with slavery and hate.
The Betsy Ross ﬂ  ag may be mainly used as a symbol for 
white nationalists now, but we should not let them keep it. 
There is a lot we can admire in the hope and idealism of 
the nation’s founding. Rather than looking at it at as a time 
when slavery was protected, we should look at as a time 
when enterprising men set out the goals of the American 
experiment and left room for future generations to pick 
up where they left off. That vision is something that still 
resonates, and it’s what the Betsy Ross ﬂ  ag is truly about. 
Jason Zapulla is a UF history senior. His column appears 
on Tuesdays.Betsy Ross ﬂ  ag should not be a symbol of hate
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-141For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
Answers on page 9TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
A+ CLEANING & PAINTING SERVICES
Seeking homes and offices to clean or paint. 
We customize for each client.
In Central Florida since 1986.
Call 386-717-2929    7-11-5-15
*Tree Trimming, Stump
Grinding & Brush Removal*
Call 3 H Enterprise 352-414-8222 Free
estimates. Located in Gainesville. Quality, 
Reliable & Affordable Services call today!    
7-23-19-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Now Hiring Substitute Teachers for Alachua 
County Public Schools
Minimum criteria for becoming a substitute 
teacher: 
• High School Diploma
• The ability to pass background, drug and 
fingerprint screenings 
• Must be 21 years or older
Please call 352-363-2013 or email
2074@kellyservices.com      7-23-19-5-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Now hiring happy, athletic people for PT/FT. 
Regular consistent availability and 1 day on 
the weekend a must. Apply in person to 1504 
NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF.    7-18-19-4-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certi-
fied. Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    
7-30-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 Tampa NFLers
5 Copier powder
10 Like much 
testimony
14 Sundance Film 
Festival state
15 Virtuosic piece
16 Document with 
an executor
17 Celeb’s wheels
18 Angry diner 
patron’s decision
19 French Toaster 
Sticks brand
20 *Hit the roof
23 Barn bale
24 Spring flower
25 Turned to 
compost
27 Pretend to be
30 Word with call or 
ritual
32 Rudder’s region
33 Religious faction
34 Ballet skirt
37 Museum display
38 *Goes on a 
winning streak
41 Satisfied 
exhalations
42 Fictional terrier 
from Kansas
44 Picture of health?
45 Kiddie-lit brutes
47 “Famous 
potatoes” 
referred to in 
a license plate 
slogan
49 Rubble-lifting 
machine
50 Movie theater
52 __ bath: 
therapeutic soak
53 Energy unit
54 Pretend to be 
wealthy, in old 
slang ... and a 
hint to words that 
end answers to 
starred clues
60 Arnaz of early TV
62 Anwar of Egypt
63 U2 lead singer
64 Sufficient, briefly
65 Bike for a tyke
66 Shamu was one
67 Rooms with 
recliners
68 Take the wheel
69 RR depot 
postingDOWN
1 Daffodil-to-be
2 Electric co., e.g.
3 Covert ops garb
4 More  
flamboyant
5 Nadal’s sport
6 Great Plains 
natives
7 Tree-borne 
allergen sources
8 Tweak, as text
9 Work under, as a 
manager
10 Have bills to pay
11 *Old Spice rival
12 Pool owner’s 
concern
13 “Airplane!” actor 
Bridges
21 Indonesian ape
22 Luau finger food
26 Blowup letters
27 Natl. Merit 
Scholarship 
qualifying exam
28 Other, in Oaxaca
29 *Photogenic 
evening event
30 Western 
plateaus
31 Like overworked 
muscles
33 Houston MLBer35 You, quaintly
36 Cold War 
country: Abbr.
39 Drains of energy
40 One in a comb 
row
43 Glorifying verse
46 Open-sided 
structures 
also called 
summerhouses
48 Sound system 
part49 Leave a paper 
trail?
50 Formally gave up
51 Goddess of peace
52 Slithering reptile
55 Fruit pastry
56 Drooling toon 
canine
57 Nerdy sort
58 Back in the day
59 Egg on
61 “No __, ands or 
buts”
By Debbie Ellerin
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/03/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/03/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 3, 2019
ACROSS
1 Calamine target
5 It may be a 
stretch
9 “Amscray!”
13 Old King or Nat 
King
14 Exiled Roman 
poet
15 Quench
16 Mullet or mohawk
18 Like one who 
errs?
19 Tech gurus
20 Overwhelm
22 Prefix with 
“-phyte”
23 Cartoon boy 
voiced by Nancy 
Cartwright
28 Trait transmitter
30 Actor McGregor
31 The Beatles’ 
“__ Just Seen a 
Face”
32 Kenyan tribe
35 Frittered away
38 One of many that 
begin with “Honk”
41 Make a 
contribution
42 Pinto-riding 
sidekick
43 Donkey
44 Personal bearing
46 Fleeces
50 Where attorneys 
Darrow and 
Bryan faced off
55 FDR agency
56 Colorful Danish 
blocks
57 Seasoning blend 
from Maryland
59 Skin care brand
61 Having cabin 
fever ... and a hint 
to this puzzle’s 
circles
64 Improve
65 “__ No 
Sunshine”: Bill 
Withers hit
66 Aha moment 
remark
67 Eponyms of 
seven planets
68 Comedian 
Carvey
69 Desk drawer items
DOWN
1 Chinese book of 
divination
2 Exactly
3 Like some 
earrings4 Münster mister
5 Tons of, casually
6 One of a 
collegiate octet
7 “Cool” sum
8 Texas or Ukraine 
city
9 Batter’s rough 
patch
10 Pitcher’s spot?
11 Letters in a 
BOLO alert
12 Midmorning time
15 Bogus
17 Lament loudly
21 Best type of 
situation
24 “Cracked __ 
View”: Hootie 
& the Blowfish 
debut album
25 Party game 
inducted into the 
National Toy Hall 
of Fame in 2015
26 “Get __ it!”
27 Neighbor of 
23-Across
29 Austen novel that 
inspired the film 
“Clueless”
33 Apropos
34 Appear to be
36 Make a move
37 Hershey toffee 
bar38 Pear type
39 Like some 
mysteries
40 Novelist 
Morrison
41 Prosecutors: 
Abbr.
45 “How tragic”
47 Hoping to make it 
home
48 Shamelessly 
bold
49 Accept a 
proposal51 Hammer heads
52 “Jeepers”
53 Major artery
54 Partners’ legal 
entity: Abbr.
58 Coffee brewing 
choice
59 Back-seat driver, 
e.g.
60 “Here’s what I 
think,” in texts
62 Madre’s 
hermana
63 Hampton __
07/02/19
15 Services
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the west-
ernmost province of Canada?
2. GAMES: What sport originally 
was called “mintonette” when it was 
invented in the late 1800s?
3. CHEMISTRY: What is the second 
element on the Periodic Table?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which two 
presidents did Dean Rusk serve as sec-
retary of state?
5. LITERATURE: What was the title 
of the 19th-century book that carried 
the subtitle, “Life in the Woods”?
6. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-
ing of “omniscient”?
7. AD SLOGANS: What product 
featured the advertising slogan, “Bet-
cha can’t eat just one”?
8. MOVIES: What is the real name 
of the character known as Sleeping 
Beauty?
9. GEOLOGY: What type of rock is 
created from molten lava?
10. GOVERNMENT: What is the 
eagle in the United States’ Great Seal 
holding in its beak?
Answers
1. British Columbia
2. V olleyball
3. Helium
4. Kennedy and Johnson
5. “Walden”
6. Knowing everything
7. Lay’s Potato Chips
8. Princess Aurora
9. Igneous
10. A scroll with the national motto, 
“E pluribus unum” (one from many)
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 8, 2019King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior middle blocker Rachael 
Kramer was named to the 
Preseason All-SEC team last 
Wednesday. UF volleyball 
was ranked No. 2 in the SEC 
Preseason Coaches' Poll.Former Gator Pete Alonso wins Home Run Derby
The Mets first baseman defeated T oronto Blue Jays third baseman Vladimir 
Guerrero Jr. in the final round and hit 57 total home runs in the contest, tak-
ing home the million-dollar jackpot for winning the event.FOOTBALLALLIGATOR AWARDS
SOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s secondary depth took another 
hit on Monday when defensive back 
Brian Edwards announced his intention to 
transfer.
Edwards, who was entering his junior 
year at UF, posted his decision on Twitter.“Unfortunately, I will be entering the 
transfer portal and looking to further my 
education and athletic ability elsewhere,” 
he said. “This was a very tough decision 
for me.”
Edwards’ decision comes after a 
tumultuous offseason. He was arrested in 
May for a misdemeanor charge of simple 
battery following an alleged incident in which he grabbed his girlfriend by the 
neck. Those charges were dropped in June 
due to insufficient evidence, but Edwards 
was still on suspension from the team.
Edwards will be the ninth Florida foot-
ball player and second defensive back to 
transfer this offseason. His decision puts 
added pressure on a cornerback unit that 
already lost four-star recruit Chris Steele to the transfer portal.
The loss of Edwards is one the team 
should be able to withstand, however. He 
played sparingly last season, registering 
seven tackles, four pass breakups and one 
fumble recovery in eight games. He did not 
figure to be a key player this year.
Barring an appeal, he will have to sit 
out the upcoming season at his new school 
due to NCAA transfer rules.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFor our third installment 
of this summer’s Alligator 
Awards, four of our writers 
go head-to-head and debate 
which UF athlete deserves 
to be named alligatorSports 
Athlete of the Year. Lacrosse 
player Lindsey Ronbeck, 
track athlete Grant Holloway 
and softball players Kelly 
Barnhill and Amanda Lorenz 
are the contenders.
Lindsey Ronbeck: More 
often than not, senior at-
tacker Lindsey Ronbeck was 
the first player to arrive for 
practice. She was already on 
the field 30 minutes before-
hand going through a series 
of individual drills. 
Ronbeck’s additional 
training paid off. The se-
nior recorded a team-high 
89 goals and 18 assists in 
the 2019 campaign. Her 107 
points set a program record for most in a single season. 
Ronbeck’s play earned 
her an Intercollegiate Wom-
en’s Lacrosse Coaches Asso-
ciation First Team All-Amer-
ican honor.
The senior wreaked hav-
oc on the American Athletic 
Conference, leading Florida 
to its ninth-straight regular 
season conference cham-
pionship and sixth-straight 
conference tournament 
championship. She was 
named the AAC Attacker of 
the Year and received All-
AAC First Team honors.
Ronbeck’s nine goals in a 
25-9 victory over conference 
rival Cincinnati on April 27 
not only marked a career-
high, but was also the most 
scored in a single game in UF 
history.
Her game was not limited 
to offense, however. She 
was also a force in the draw circle where she recorded 65 
draw controls, good enough 
for third on the team.
Ronbeck was the MVP 
of the Florida women’s 
lacrosse team, and that was 
evidenced by her versatility 
as an attacker, drawtaker and 
team captain. This makes 
her the clear-cut choice for 
Athlete of the Year. – Bryan 
Matamoros 
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
Grant Holloway: UF’s 
Athlete of the Year, in my 
opinion, was found on the 
track and field team this past 
season. Grant Holloway is 
the pure definition of an ath-
lete and is quite possibly the 
most decorated in the history 
of the University of Florida.
Cup
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
 
One current Gator and three former UF 
soccer players represented their countries 
at the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup, 
which concluded on Sunday with a victory 
for the United States.
Former Gators Havana Solaun and  
Lauren Silver played for the Jamaican 
national team in Group C. Meanwhile, 
current forward and rising junior Deanne 
Rose and UF alum Adriana Leon  
represented Canada in Group E.Jamaica, nicknamed the ‘Reggae Girlz’, 
struggled throughout the World Cup and 
came last in its group after scoring only one 
goal through three games.
That goal, however, meant the world to 
the small Caribbean nation — it was the 
first in the country’s Women’s World Cup 
history, and it was scored by none other 
than Solaun. 
Solaun, who played for UF from 2011-
2014, scored the goal off an assist from 
Khadija “Bunny” Shaw as she split the 
Australian backline and dribbled past the 
keeper before putting it away with her left 
foot.
DB Brian Edwards to transfer from FloridaAlligator Awards: University of Florida Athlete of the Year
Solaun's historic goal 
highlights Gators at World Chris King / Alligator Staff
Grant Holloway became just the fifth Gator to ever be named SEC Male Athlete of the 
Year for his performances in 2019. The junior took home four individual NCAA titles.
Alligator File Photo
Havana Solaun, pictured in 2014, scored Jamaica's first-ever World Cup goal in 
a loss to Australia. Solaun played for UF from 2011-2014. 
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 12TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
The United States Men’s 
National Team’s stunning 
2-1 loss to Trinidad and 
Tobago on Oct. 10, 2017, 
put the organization in a 
state of disarray.
It left the team out of the 
World Cup for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 1986 and prompted 
the resignation of then-
coach Bruce Arena.
Millions of dollars in 
potential sponsorships, merchandise 
sales and TV licenses were lost by 
failing to qualify for the world’s biggest 
tournament. The morale of a country 
trying to garner interest in the sport took 
a hit as well.
The appointment of Gregg Berhalter 
as coach in late 2018 was supposed 
to be a turning point for the USMNT. 
But after its 1-0 loss to Mexico in the 
Gold Cup on Sunday — and the United 
States Women’s National Team lifting 
the Women’s World Cup trophy on 
the same day — there are even more 
questions surrounding Berhalter and his 
team.
Berhalter started his reign with three 
straight victories over Panama, Costa 
Rica and Ecuador and a 1-1 draw against 
Chile. Berhalter’s honeymoon stage, 
however, came to a screeching halt after 
defeats to Jamaica and Venezuela in the 
two warm-up games leading up to the 
Gold Cup.
He also decided not to call up 
19-year-old forwards Josh Sargent and 
Tim Weah, two promising youngsters 
for the next generation of US soccer.
Sargent’s name was not on the Under-20 World Cup roster 
either, meaning he played 
no competitive soccer since 
his club team’s season 
ended in May. Weah, at 
least, participated in the 
Under-20 World Cup this 
summer, recording two 
goals and two assists in ﬁ  ve 
games.
But what they both 
needed was ﬁ  rst-team 
experience; a chance to showcase their 
skills in an international tournament 
and provide fans with a glimpse into 
the future alongside Christian Pulisic. 
Even if they didn’t play a single minute 
in the tournament, Sargent and Weah 
would have beneﬁ  ted from practicing 
and traveling with the USMNT.
Instead, Berhalter brought 29-year-
old Jozy Altidore, whose career has 
been marred by injuries, and 27-year-
old Gyasi Zardes, who scored only once 
in his last 16 international appearances 
before the Gold Cup.
Despite the two-game sputter in last 
month’s friendlies and the questionable 
roster decisions, the USMNT was 
considered one of the favorites to win 
the Gold Cup. And just like in the 2018 
World Cup qualiﬁ  ers, it failed to meet 
expectations.
Berhalter’s hiring marked the 
beginning of a rebuilding phase for the 
men’s team, yet players like 31-year-
old Michael Bradley and Altidore are 
still being called up to represent the 
country. Berhalter must get rid of all the 
deadwood to rejuvenate his roster and 
the spirits of soccer fans across America.USMNT must get youngerLess is Matamoros
The Associated Press
Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliot ran for 1,434 yards and six touchdowns 
last season as Dallas captured its second NFC East title in three years.  
The Associated Press
United States forward Jozy Altidore reacts after missing a shot against Mexico during the 
ﬁ  rst half of the CONCACAF Gold Cup ﬁ  nal soccer match at Soldier Field in Chicago, Sunday, 
July 7, 2019.
The National Football League 
always has surprises. Divisions 
change hands, great teams regress 
and squads come out of nowhere to 
make improbable playoff runs. It’s 
nearly impossible to predict the parity 
of the NFL year in and year out.
That doesn’t mean I can’t try.
Here is who I believe will take 
every division in the NFL for the 2019 
season.
NFC North
Winner: Chicago Bears
With quarterback Mitch Trubisky trending in a 
positive direction and the defensive trio of Roquan 
Smith, Khalil Mack and Eddie Jackson still prowl-
ing Soldier Field, Chicago shouldn’t have too much 
trouble trouncing over Detroit, Minnesota and 
Green Bay to put the Midway back on top.
NFC South
Winner: New Orleans Saints
New Orleans may not have ended its season 
on a pleasant note after the controversy surround-
ing the NFC title game, but virtually none of the 
key pieces that made the Saints so dominant are 
departing. Cameron Jordan will still be a terror on 
the defensive front, Drew Brees is still one of the 
league’s top quarterbacks and running back Alvin 
Kamara looks to dominate out of the backﬁ  eld for 
years to come. 
NFC East
Winner: Dallas Cowboys
Another year with running back Ezekiel El-
liot is all Dallas needs to retain its division title. It 
wouldn’t hurt to have wide receiver Amari Cooper 
continue to dazzle and linebacker Leighton Vander 
Esch follow up on a strong rookie year, either. 
NFC West 
Winner: Seattle Seahawks
The Seahawks are the perfect team to break the 
chain of repeating champions in the NFC. Quarter-
back Russell Wilson is likely to play inspired after 
becoming the NFL’s highest paid player, and the 
addition of D.K. Metcalf gives him a dangerous 
vertical weapon. AFC North
Winner: Pittsburgh Steelers
The Pittsburgh Steelers’ demise 
has been greatly exaggerated. James 
Conner looks to be more than capable 
of being the Steelers’ lead back, and 
Ben Roethlisberger can rely on him 
to open up the passing game as 
he looks to the lethal Juju Smith-
Schuster through the air. With the 
addition of linebacker Mark Barron 
and cornerback Steven Nelson in free 
agency, the Steelers should make up for missing 
the playoffs last year. 
AFC South
Winner: Indianapolis Colts
Andrew Luck showed us last year that his ca-
reer is far from over, and with a stout defensive 
corps consisting of linebackers Anthony Walker 
Jr., Darius Leonard and safety Malik Hooker, the 
Colts have few holes for the 2019 campaign. Of-
fensive guard Quenton Nelson had a stellar rookie 
campaign last year as well, and his performance 
gives Luck room to breathe. 
AFC East 
Winner: New England Patriots
In what should surprise absolutely no one, 
the Patriots do not waver. Despite the retirement 
of tight end Rob Gronkowski, quarterback Tom 
Brady has shown no signs of mortality in the past 
few seasons and cornerback Stephon Gilmore is 
the centerpiece of a very capable defense.
AFC West
Winner: Los Angeles Chargers 
Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes is a great 
player, but you can only do so much without 
weapons. The Chiefs released running back Ka-
reem Hunt and could lose receiver Tyreek Hill for 
considerable time because of a suspension, which 
effectively neuters the high-powered offense they 
had last year. The Chargers, meanwhile, have 
quarterback Philip Rivers and running back Mel-
vin Gordon on offense and defensive end Joey 
Bosa and safety Derwin James on defense. They’re 
the more complete team, and they’ll dethrone the 
Chiefs.Predicting every NFL divisionThe Extra Point
Bryan 
Matamoros
twitter: @bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
River Wells
twitter: riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019
This season, Holloway capped off his 
storied career with the Gators in style. The 
junior from Chesapeake, Virginia, captured 
just about every individual award you could 
imagine, including four individual NCAA 
Championships after sweeping the 60 and 
110-meter hurdles during the Indoor and 
Outdoor NCAA Championships this past year.
At the SEC Indoor Championships, he 
broke the SEC Indoor record with 28 points 
after winning the 60-meter sprint and the 
60-meter hurdles events.
Holloway also swept the USTFCCCA 
Indoor and Outdoor Track Athlete of the Year 
awards, was named the SEC Indoor Runner of 
the Year and became just the ﬁ  fth Gator ever 
to be named the SEC Male Athlete of the Year.
With the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo nearing, 
Holloway will turn his attention toward 
winning a gold medal to add to his already 
massive list of awards and accolades.
Not a lot of people can dominate their 
competition like Holloway has, and for that 
reason, he is undoubtedly the 2018-19 Florida 
Athlete of the Year. – Evan Lepak
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
Kelly Barnhill: If grit, determination and 
pure willpower are the only metrics taken into 
consideration for this award, Kelly Barnhill 
wins indisputably.
The senior ace was the ultimate workhorse 
for the Gators softball team this season, hurl-
ing 287 innings over 52 appearances, going 34-14. In the postseason, Barnhill was domi-
nant, carrying a team with the SEC's worst 
batting average to the Women’s College 
World Series almost single-handedly. She was 
in the circle to start in Florida’s last 11 games, 
earning SEC Tournament MVP honors along 
the way for her efforts.
One of the most decorated softball players 
to ever play for Florida may have ended her 
career on a bitter note – lasting less than one 
inning in the WCWS against Alabama – but 
Barnhill has not been sulking in her lows.
In April, she was drafted ﬁ  rst overall by 
the Chicago Bandits in the 2019 National Pro 
Fastpitch College Draft, the highest draft pick 
in Florida history, and was awarded All-SEC 
Second Team honors at season’s end.
Though a far cry from the back-to-back 
SEC Pitcher of the Year honors she earned in 
2017-18, or the countless other elite awards 
collected over her four years in Gainesville, 
Barnhill’s ability to will her team to victory 
this season should earn her Athlete of the 
Year. – Jack Braverman
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org
Amanda Lorenz: There are many vari-
ables that go into selecting the best overall 
athlete at UF. Each of the candidates on this 
list are deserving of the award, but in my 
opinion, there is one player who stands out 
above the rest: Amanda Lorenz is my pick for 
alligatorSports Player of the Year.
The ﬁ  rst aspect of Lorenz’s game that made 
her so special this year was her ability to im-
prove on her already dominant play. Lorenz entered her senior year with two .400 average 
seasons in her career. She ﬁ  nished her senior 
season hitting a .422 clip, .021 points higher 
than her career average. No other player on 
this list displayed that level of improvement.
The outﬁ  elder/ﬁ  rst baseman also rarely 
made a mistake at bat or in the ﬁ  eld. Lorenz 
ﬁ  nished the season without grounding into 
a single double play and only registered 16 
strikeouts. Her ﬁ  elding percentage stood at 
.996, almost perfect.Lorenz’s ability to improve her game and 
maintain consistency throughout an entire 
season and career make her the alligatorS-
ports Athlete of the Year. – Dylan O’Shea 
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.org AWARDS,  from pg. 10Barnhill went 34 -14 in 2019 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Despite having the SEC's worst batting average, Florida went to the Women's College 
World Series in large part due to the pitching of Kelly Barnhill. The senior went 34-14 
with a 1.61 ERA .
2014, registered just 14 minutes through the three matches. 
She currently plays for Norwegian soccer club SK Trondheims-
Ørn.
Solaun was co-captain of the UF soccer team during her 
junior and senior years and was named All-SEC First Team in 2013 and 2014. She currently plays club soccer for Klepp IL 
in Norway.
The Canadian national team ﬁ  nished second (behind the 
Netherlands) in Group E with a 2-1 record in the group stage. 
It was eliminated by Sweden in the Round of 16 by a score 
of 1-0.
Rose played in one match during the World Cup for 15 
minutes. The midﬁ  elder from Alliston, Ontario, appeared in only 10 games for UF in 2018 due to her commitment to the 
Canadian national team.
Rose ﬁ  rst appeared for Canada when she was only 16 years 
old and received a bronze medal at the 2016 Olympics.
Leon, a forward who plays club soccer for West Ham United 
in England, played 54 minutes in the World Cup and failed to 
score a goal. Leon played for UF in 2012 after transferring from 
the University of Notre Dame and has played internationally 
for Canada since 2009.
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 10Solaun's goal was her irst for Jamaica
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYFOOD TRUCK
GRAND OPENING
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Craft Pints$6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Sam Adams Drafts
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueJULY 3RD & 4TH @ 8 P.M.
2pm - close
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS