We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Improving the unit
The town of Newberry is getting a new ambulance,  pg. 5
It’s alligator season
Alligators around the city are looking for mates,  pg. 5UF baseball defeats FSU, claims 
season series
Freshman pitcher Ben Specht got his first career 
win against Mike Martin’s Seminoles,  pg. 1 4WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 79
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Sick Tricks
Paul Austin, a 21-year-old UF veterinary medicine student, 
performs a trick on his skateboard Tuesday evening at Possum 
Creek Park, 4009 NW 53rd Ave. Austin works full time as the 
head assembly technician specialist at Fabco-Air, Inc. and 
takes classes online, but he said he tries to practice skating at 
least two or three times per week. “It’s my way to get out and 
be free, ” Austin said. “It’s like flying to me. ”
BUILDING TO OPEN  
BY SPRING 2020 
By Rachelle Westervelt
Alligator Contributing Writer
An increased budget and delayed finish 
date was not the original plan for the construc -
tion of the Herbert Wertheim Laboratory For 
Engineering Excellence. 
The construction was originally planned 
to be completed by Aug. 20, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said. The building is scheduled 
to be completed next Spring and the projected 
cost is running $20 million more than the origi -
nal budget. The building is located between 
the Reitz Union and Weimer Hall. 
This project is funded by a $50 million do -
nation from alumnus Herbert Wertheim. The 
budget is now expected to reach about $72.2 
million, Orlando said. The funding to pay off 
this new budget comes from various sources 
such as UF, Public Education Capital Outlay, 
the College of Engineering, Facilities Services for Infrastructure Upgrades and a donor. 
The engineering dean and the project man -
ager declined to comment and referred The Al -
ligator to Orlando to answer questions on the 
project.
“It took longer to design than we antici -
pated — which means that construction costs 
were going up as the design progressed,” Or -
lando wrote in an email.
One reason for the increase was because it 
was hard to estimate where costs would be by 
the time materials were purchased, Orlando said.
Other planned features include study rooms 
and labs. The main labs will be a state-of-the-
art biotechnology lab to study cancer, pro -
totyping labs to progress new ideas and the 
telepresence lab to improve networking skills, 
Orlando said.
In the engineering program, students’ class -
rooms are dispersed across campus, said Sean 
O’Reilly, a 19-year-old UF computer science 
sophomore.UF College of Engineering construction delayed
SEE ENGINEERING,  PAGE 4
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Daniel Joseph Sanetz’s serious face 
never changed as the guilty verdict for 
touching a young girl was called out. 
The former UF employee hugged 
his children and sobbing wife before 
being escorted out of Courtroom 3B 
on Tuesday. 
Judge William E. Davis at the 
Eighth District Circuit Courthouse sen -
tenced Santez, 47, of Gainesville, to 18 
months in prison for inappropriately touching a 14-year-
old girl in December 2017.
Sanetz was the associate director of human resources 
for UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine for 21 years. He 
was arrested on April 6, 2018. He was fired on April 18, 2018, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
The judge found him guilty of aggravated child abuse 
and aggravated assault with intent to commit a felony. 
Both families of the man and of the girl sobbed quietly 
as he was being sentenced.
He will also have to serve two years of house arrest 
and 10 years of probation with counseling for sexual de -
viance, alcohol and drugs. 
“Everyone who has been through this deserves jus -
tice, and this is mine,” said the girl, who was touched, 
at the hearing.
He pleaded no contest, which means he accepted the 
sentencing but did not admit guilt.  
On Feb. 1, 2018, the girl, who is now 15, told a child 
protection team that she and Sanetz and were laying in a 
tent in 2017 when he rubbed her hip and rested his hand 
on her knee. He then left the tent and returned about 15 Former UF employee found guilty 
of assaulting 14-year-old girl 
SEE GUILTY,  PAGE 4
THEY WILL BE LAST SHOW 
OF SEMESTER
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students may be seen shuf -
fling at Flavet Field on the last 
day of classes. 
Student Government Produc -
tions’ last concert of the semester 
will feature EDM artist RL Grime 
along with Lost Kings on April 
24, according to the group’s Face -
book post. 
RL Grime is a producer of trap, 
grime and bass music. Lost Kings 
is a DJ duo and will perform as 
the opening act, the post said. The show is 
free and open to 
both UF students 
and the public. 
Gates will open 
at 6:30 p.m. and 
the concert will 
begin at 7:30, 
the post said. 
Andrew Kel -
ly, SGP chair, did not comment in 
time for publication. 
The Alligator did not receive 
RL Grime and Lost Kings’ con -
tract with UF in time for publica -
tion.
Veronica Rogers, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology sophomore, be -
came interested in EDM through her friends and by listening to DJs 
on SoundCloud, she said. 
Although Rogers has never 
heard of Lost Kings, she has been 
a fan of RL Grime since 2014. 
“I love EDM and this DJ,” Rog -
ers said. “I hope he performs my 
favorite song, ‘Core.’”
Past artists that have per -
formed at UF include Young the 
Giant, Passion Pit, Chance the 
Rapper and Childish Gambino. 
21 Savage is scheduled to per -
form on April 15 at the O’Connell 
Center. 
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org EDM artist, DJ duo to perform at UF
RL Grime
Sanetz
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Vigil in Remembrance of Sophia 
Visent
When:  9 p.m.
Where:  Plaza of the Americas
What:  A celebration of life will 
be held for UF student Sophia 
Visent, an Uruguayan first-gen -
eration environmental manage -
ment senior, who died by sui -
cide last Wednesday. Candles to 
light and notes to send to Visent 
will be provided. 
THURSDAY
Accent Speakers Bureau 
Presents: Hasan Minhaj
When:  8-9 p.m.
Where:  Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What:  Hasan Minhaj, a come -
dian, host and creator of the 
weekly comedy show “Patriot 
Act with Hasan Minhaj,” will 
speak in a moderated conver -
sation. A 15-minute Q&A will 
follow. Minhaj also has a one-
hour Netflix comedy special 
“Hasan Minhaj: Homecoming 
King” and earned a Peabody 
Award in 2018 for his perfor -mance at the 2017 White House 
Correspondents’ Dinner. 
The Supreme Court of the United 
States (SCOTUS)
When:  6-7 p.m.
Where:  Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service
What:  UF alumni Robert Barnes 
has been a Washington Post re -
porter and editor since 1987 and 
has covered the U.S. Supreme 
Court since November 2006. 
Barnes will talk about what the 
court could likely face regarding 
immigration policies, LGBTQ+ 
rights, asylum and citizenship, 
and possibly the Affordable 
Care Act with a 5-4 majority. 
From the Brett Kavanaugh hear -
ings to the health of Ruth Bader 
Ginsburg, Barnes will offer 
an inside look at the Supreme 
Court.
Corrections:
In an article titled “Friends to 
honor 22-year-old UF student 
with vigil” that ran in Monday’s 
edition, Sophia Visent’s friend 
is Sara Hoffen. The Alligator re -
ported differently.
In an article titled “Conservative 
banner promoting gun 
rights vandalized” that ran in Monday’s edition, Dylan 
Finucan, a member of Young 
Americans for Freedom, said “I 
think it was antifa, or it was just 
an a--hat, who was just trying to 
start problems, but there’s a lot 
more people in antifa than just 
a--hats with spray paint.” The 
Alligator reported differently. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  63°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org . 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis -
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format -
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger,  jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 79WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
Inside
fl i
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
    To keep up on all things UF, get social: 
   
Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSThe UF Academy (for emerging leaders) and 
Advanced Leadership for Academics and Pro -
fessionals (for experienced leaders) are now 
accepting applications for their 2019–2020 
cohorts. 
If you’re looking to boost your leadership skills 
and expertise, you may be the perfect candidate 
for one of UFHR T raining & Organizational 
Development’s yearlong immersive leadership 
programs.
Applications for both programs are due Friday, 
May 3. Participants in both programs, which 
will begin in fall 2019, will be selected via a 
competitive application process. Which pro -
gram is right for you?
The UF Academy
The UF Academy was created for emerging lead -
ers at UF . Designed for exempt employees up to 
and including the director level as well as inter-
ested faculty, the UF Academy prepares employ -
ees for higher-level responsibilities at UF .
Applicants should either have two or more years 
of supervisory or decision-making responsibili-
ties at UF , be in a faculty position or be at the 
assistant director level or above. (The two-year 
supervisory requirement is waived for interested faculty and employees at the assistant director 
level or above.) There is a $500 fee to participate.
Advanced Leadership for Academics and  Pro-
fessionals
Advanced Leadership for Academics and Profes -
sionals (ALAP) is designed to support the on -
going development of faculty and professionals 
in leadership positions at UF . The program runs 
throughout the academic year with participants 
meeting six times, for one to two days each ses -
sion, along with two shorter evening meetings.
The program includes 360-degree and other as-
sessments, guest speakers, facilitated discussions, 
case studies, assigned readings and activities, in -
cluding a group project. An important element 
of the program is access to key leaders at UF . 
The program consists of two tracks—one for 
academic leaders and one for professionals (as-
sistant directors and above). Approximately 20 
faculty and professionals (10 per track) are se -
lected each year. The program is also appropriate 
for those making the academic-to-administrator 
transition. There is a $1,500 fee for this program.
Learn more about these programs, the UF Lead -
ership/Management Competency Model and 
other UF leadership development initiatives at 
leadership.hr.ufl.edu/programs.Two opportunities for faculty 
and staff to boost leadership 
skills and expertise
National Geographic Live: 
Ocean Soul
April 18, 7:30pm, Phillips Center 
3201 Hull Rd, Gainesville, FL 32611
Voyage across the oceans with one of Nation -
al Geographic’s most seasoned photographers 
and discover a vast, hidden world beneath the 
waves. Using his camera to communicate, Bri-
an Skerry has spent more than 10,000 hours 
underwater telling the oceans’ stories. His im -
ages celebrate the mystery of the depths and 
offer portraits of creatures so intimate they 
sometimes appear to have been shot in a studio.  Summer Camps Directory 
now available online
Starting the search for summer camps for 
your school-age children? You can find details 
about area summer camps on an online Sum -
mer Camp Directory, published this month.UFHR Communications and Worklife is 
pleased to provide this quick-and-easy ref -
erence for parents. To access the guide, visit 
worklife.hr.ufl.edu.
Skerry dives eight months of the year, often 
in extreme conditions beneath Arctic ice or 
in predator-infested waters, and has even 
lived at the bottom of the sea to get close 
to his subjects. *National Geographic Live 
is a night of exploration through film, pho-
tography, and discussion with acclaimed 
National Geographic photographers. Expe -
rience nature through the eyes, lenses, and 
words of the researchers, scientists, and 
storytellers that have made National Geo -
graphic an icon of global media.Both the College of Health and Human Per -
formance and UF Office of Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs are proud to announce their 
first informational event focused on physiolo-
gy and wellness in the transgender community. 
The event is made possible through the Human 
Physiology course taught by Joslyn Ahlgren, 
Ph.D. and the Inclusion Working Group at 
HHP . A combination of panel discussions, com -
munity expositions and presentations put on by 
HHP students will occur during the 90-minute 
symposium.
“T ransparency” got its start through one of Ahl-
gren’s physiology students, Stephen Marangi, a 
second year student majoring in applied physi-
ology and kinesiology. An email he sent to Ahl -
gren which asked why medical transitioning was 
absent from physiology textbooks set plans into 
motion.
Together, Marangi and Ahlgren designed a class 
project with small groups of physiology students 
researching the effects of medical transitioning 
on various organ systems. The public exhibition 
will share what students have learned will be pre -
sented as posters at the event.
In her human anatomy class, Ahlgren’s students 
were treated to a preview of some of the topics 
covered in the event by Billy Huff, Ph.D., Direc -
tor of LGBTQ Affairs at UF .
Huff answered student questions about transgen -
der physiology and informed students about the 
current problems facing underserved communi -
ties in healthcare. Social issues facing transgender 
communities such as housing discrimination and 
misidentification were also covered in his lecture.“The rising 
visibility of 
transgender 
individuals 
is a double-  
edged sword,”  
Huff said. “As  
more people 
feel comfort-
able enough 
to come out 
into the public eye, the more issues they might 
face.”
According to Huff, questions asked in the class -
room by future healthcare professionals can lead 
to more understanding of LGBTQ issues. In 
Ahlgren’s anatomy class, student curiosity helped 
them take many of these issues to heart.“How 
many students would say that they learned some-
thing new today that you will carry forward into 
your career?” said Ahlgren at the end of the pre -
sentation. An overwhelming number of students 
in the 120 seat lecture hall raised their hands.
During “T ransparency,” students will apply 
knowledge learned in their anatomy classes about 
transgender healthcare. Attendees will have the 
opportunity to participate in discussions and dis -
cover new information shared by LGBTQ com -
munity advocates during a panel discussion.
“Education is the best solution,” Huff said. 
“Whatever you learn in these walls, it works best 
if you take it outside and spread it.” The event 
is open to the public and community organiza -
tions are encouraged to attend and host a table 
before the panel. Details can be found at
 hhp.ufl.edu/transparency.Transparency: physiology,  
wellness & beyond in the  
trans community
APA looking for volunteers
The University of Florida Academic & Profes -
sional Assembly (APA) offers enrichment and 
relationship-building opportunities for more 
than 3,500 professional staff across campus. 
APA hosts monthly informal meetups, conver-
sations with high-level administrators, and tours 
of interesting areas of campus, with the goal of 
connecting staff with colleagues, resources and 
opportunities across UF . Our vision is for APA 
to contribute to the university’s goal of preemi -
nence through people by fostering community and collaboration among staff across campus, 
promoting inclusiveness, and increasing staff  
engagement and retention.
APA is currently seeking volunteers for leadership 
positions, committees, 
and representatives for 
2019–2020. To learn 
more or to apply, please 
scan the QR code or visit  
bit.ly/APA1920.
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
O’Reilly said he likes that the future en -
gineering building will include all the bran -
ches of engineering because it will be helpful 
to network with other types of engineering 
students. He is also eager to work with up-
to-date technology that the older buildings 
lack.
“The new building will provide a meeting 
place and a hub for me to grow as an engi -
neer and do my part to innovate,” O’Reilly 
said. “But, I bet I won’t even get to use it 
because it’ll probably be done the second I 
graduate.”
Across campus, other construction proj -
ects include La Casita and the Institute of 
Black Culture, which are scheduled to open 
in Fall at 1504 and 1510 W. University Ave. 
It is funded by UF Capital Investment Trust Fund and will cost about $9.9 million.
The northern half of the Commuter Lot 
on Gale Lemerand Drive will also become 
Garage 14, a $32 million project that will add 
2,000 new parking spaces by February 2020, 
according to the Transportation and Parking 
Services website.ENGINEERING,  from pg. 1Construction to cost $70 million
CONSTRUCTION ON 
CAMPUS
La Casita:  projected to open in Fall
Garage 14: projected to be finished in 
February 2020
Herbert Weirtheim Laboratory For 
Engineering Excellence:  projected to be 
finished next SpringIT WILL PUT RESTRICTIONS ON 
OWNERS, THEIR PETS
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County residents have asked the 
County Commission to respond to a slew of 
dog attacks since September. They finally got 
a change on Tuesday. 
The commission voted unanimously to 
pass an irresponsible owners clause which 
would create a new section in the Alachua 
County Animal Services code. It aims to pro -
tect citizens and animals from owners who fail to care for their pets. 
The public hearing and ordinance came af -
ter five dog attacks in Alachua County, begin -
ning in September.
The attacks began when Bella the beagle-
labrador mix was killed in September. The 
most recent attack was on March 22, when 
five pit bulls escaped and attacked a woman 
and her dog.
Commissioner Ken Cornell said he never 
thought this was an issue the county commis -
sion would have to address, but he is glad they 
could help as much as they can. 
“Whatever we need to do to prosecute 
those irresponsible owners who cannot take 
care of their animals, I want us to do,”  he said during the meeting. 
Under the clause, if a pet owner fails to care 
for their pets in any way, which includes a pet 
attacking someone else, they are placed on an 
irresponsible owners list, said Ed Williams, di -
rector of animal services, during the meeting. 
After at least three violations, the owner will 
be placed on the list of irresponsible owners. 
Owners on that list will be required to mi -
crochip and spay or neuter their pet in order to 
keep it, Williams said. If animal services take 
the pet and it is deemed dangerous, it will be 
euthanized.
“This would make the buck stop where it 
should when it comes to being a responsible 
pet owner,” Williams said. Adele Franson, a Gainesville resident, said 
she is happy that the county is addressing the 
issue but thinks the real issue is a dysfunc -
tional system. She said bringing an educa -
tional program to animal services would show 
owners how to handle an aggressive pet and 
would be better in the long run.
“I wish there was a different thought pro -
cess in the culture,” she said. “I think there’s 
a lack of understanding where these animals 
get killed without the possibility of rehabilita -
tion.”
@JoFuller24
Jfuller@alligator.orgCounty passes irresponsible pet owners clause after dog attacks
or 30 minutes later and touched her hip again 
and rubbed the small of her back.
Sanetz then slipped his hands into her 
pants and put his hand into her underwear. 
The girl turned away and forced his hands out 
of her pants. 
“I can confidently say that this has been the 
worst chapter of my life to date,” the girl said 
at the hearing.
Eleven days will be taken off his sentence 
because he spent time in jail, said Jeanne Sing -
er, chief assistant state attorney. If Sanetz vio -
lates his probation, he can face up to 30 years 
in prison.
Attorney Michael J. Barbarette, who repre -
sented Sanetz, and Sanetz’s family declined to comment.
During the hearing, family and friends from 
both Sanetz’s family and the girl’s family spoke 
about their relationship with Sanetz. The girl’s 
family had known Sanetz for years.  
“You took my daughter’s innocence,” said 
the girl’s mother during the hearing. “No 
amount of therapy will ever change the fact 
that her first sexual experience was with a 
46-year-old man.”
After Sanetz was sentenced, the families 
shuffled out of the courtroom with dried tears 
on their faces. 
“Danny is like her second dad,” the girl’s 
grandmother said about Sanetz. “It’s been a 
tough year. It’s just been so hard.” 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgGUILTY,  from pg. 1‘You took my daughter’s innocence’WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students won’t be the only 
gators looking for love this semes -
ter.
With alligator mating season 
just beginning, students could start 
to see more mobile alligators not 
too far from campus, said Kathy 
Russell, the general curator at the 
Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo.
Mating season typically begins 
in May as the weather starts to get 
warmer and goes into the summer 
months when alligators lay their 
eggs, Russell said. 
“The season is starting early be -
cause there were about three weeks 
in February where we had tempera -tures in the 80s,” Russell said. “But 
this is not uncommon in Florida.”
During this season, alligators 
become more active and territo -
rial, especially as they start to nest,  
she said. Even though alligators are 
more likely to be moving around 
during this time, they are not nec -
essarily more aggressive or more 
likely to approach people.
In Gainesville, Paynes Prairie 
Preserve State Park is a popular 
location for students and alligators 
alike, Russell said. During the com -
ing months, prairie visitors will be 
more likely to see young alligators 
basking on the banks while the 
older alligators remain in the water, 
Russell said. 
In fact, it is only in rare circum -stances that nesting is associated 
with conflict between humans and 
alligators, said Karen Parker, a 
spokesperson for the regional Flor -
ida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Commission.
Regardless of whether it is mat -
ing season, people should always 
be careful around alligators, Parker 
said. As the temperature continues 
to rise, alligators are more likely to 
take to land. But there are precau -
tions people can take if they see 
one.
It is important to remember 
that alligators are wild animals and 
should be treated as such, Parker 
said. People should avoid feeding 
them because this can cause them 
to associate people with food.“Whether it’s mating season or 
not, the best thing to know is to 
never, ever feed an alligator,” Park -
er said. 
Other precautions people can 
take include only swimming in des -
ignated areas during the day, as ga -
tors are most active in water during 
the night and keeping pets away on 
a leash, she said. 
Sydney Spence, a 19-year-old 
UF criminology sophomore, has 
already seen two alligators on cam -
pus but said she knows to keep her 
distance and what to do if one ap -
proaches her. 
“I would be scared if I saw one,” 
Spence said. “But I would zigzag 
run away. That’s what they told me 
in elementary school.”UNIT COST $950,000
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Newberry residents may have quicker 
emergency response times because of a new 
rescue unit.
Newberry Fire Department Station 28, at 
310 NW 250 Drive, put its 13th rescue unit, 
Rescue 28, into service Monday morning, said Jeff Taylor, the acting deputy chief of 
the Alachua County Fire Rescue.  
The unit will be in service all day, every 
day of the year, Taylor said. The rescue unit 
provides life support services and transports 
patients to a hospital.
The initial cost for the unit was $950,000, 
and the annual recurring cost will be 
$650,000, Taylor said.  
Fire Rescue obtained the new unit be -
cause of how long residents needed to wait to receive medical services in Newberry, said 
Newberry Fire Chief Ben Buckner. The aver -
age wait time is 18 minutes.
“In the rural areas, we want to be there in 
about 12 minutes. That’s our goal,” Taylor 
said. “We think that this truck will help us 
to reach that.”
Taylor said the rescue plans to ask for 
additional units next year as we to alleviate 
some of the strains on the system and crews. 
Fire Rescue receives about 42,000 calls annually, which is about 115 to 150 calls a 
day, Taylor said. The unit can respond to 
any call anywhere in the county if it is the 
closest unit.
“With the addition of Rescue 28, we’ll be 
there to answer any type of call that comes 
in,” he said. 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgNewberry Fire Department adds another rescue unit
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
A new bill in the Florida House of Represen -
tatives could make public records of university 
presidents difficult to get.
The bill, HB 7115, is titled “Public Records 
and Meeting/Postsecondary Education Execu -
tive Search.” If passed, it will allow public uni -
versities in Florida to be exempt from sharing 
the names and select information about appli -
cants for university presidents or provosts, ac -
cording to the file record. 
The bill would also exempt portions of 
meetings between the applicant and the uni -
versity in which the applicant is identified, the record said. 
Though the bill ensures the names of final -
ists must still be made public at least 30 days 
before the final vote, the names of the appli -
cants not chosen would no longer be public 
record. 
Those concerned about the bill worry it will 
give the public less input into the presidential 
selection process, said Frank LoMonte, the di -
rector of the Brechner Center for Freedom of 
Information, which is located in UF’s College 
of Journalism and Communications and works 
to promote and educate others on freedom of 
information laws and policies.
“If the searches are done entirely behind 
closed doors, nobody but the trustees gets a voice,” LoMonte said. 
Choosing the presidents in a closed process 
helps private executive search consultants who 
are increasingly the dominant voice in the se -
lection process, he said. 
Universities can spend upward of $100,000 
for these search consultants to bring them can -
didates and to advise them on who to pick, 
LoMonte said. 
Since Monday, the bill has been in educa -
tion committee. The bill was crafted by the 
State Affairs Committee and had 16 votes in 
favor and five against. 
State House Representative Chuck Clemons 
(R - District 21) was one of the voters in favor 
of the bill. Clemons said he supports the bill because it 
will help prevent applicants who were dropped 
from potential negative career impacts.  
“I believe in open government, but if 
there’s 100 people that apply for the univer -
sity’s president’s job, the public is really more 
interested in the ones that make the finals,” 
he said. “Why would you expose those other 
people who didn’t have a chance?”
If passed by the Florida legislature, the bill 
will be effective July 1. 
UF is not planning to make a statement on 
the bill, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said. 
Staff writer Mikayla Carroll contributed to 
this report.State House introduces bill to restrict university records
Alligators may roam campus during mating season 
THE ALLIGATOR’S TOP FIVE 
ALLIGATOR FACTS
1.  Most reptiles have three-
chambered hearts, but the heart 
of an alligator has four chambers.
2.   Alligators are classified as 
reptiles, but they are more closely 
related to birds.
3.   Alligators are most active when 
temperatures are between 82 to 
92 degrees Fahrenheit.
4.  Female alligators rarely grow 
beyond 10 feet in length, but 
males can grow much longer.
5.   For much of the winter, alligators 
are dormant.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsApril is the beginning of the end for major pop culture phe -
nomenons, namely “The Avengers” franchise (at least 
for now) and “Game of Thrones.” Both franchises have 
captured the attention of audiences across the globe and 
have facilitated conversations involving speculation and 
commentary. They have spawned parody skits, elevated people 
to A-list stars and created entire worlds people have spent hours 
recapping and analyzing. The franchises may have multiple 
spin-offs planned for both franchises, but we wonder if they will 
spawn the same fan response as their original predecessors.
Both “GoT” and “The Avengers” have shaped the pop cul -
ture of entire generations during a time when our country has 
only seemed to grow more divided. It’s easy to believe the U.S. 
has constantly conflicting ways of thinking, but these franchises 
have given people something to come together for. People have 
healthy arguments and conversations about these pop culture 
phenomenons on social media and in person, something that 
isn’t common when talking about things like politics or social 
issues. Granted, those topics are much heavier and hold real-life 
consequences. However, these series have given fans something 
to unite over for nearly the past decade.
Talking about popular movies and TV series gives people 
something to bond over, even if they have their political and so -
cial differences. Besides the nostalgia of it all, it’s sad to see the 
franchises go, and with them, something that has united people. 
The stories have their heroes and their villains that can teach us 
about people in general, but perhaps the best thing the series 
have taught us is comradery. There are major viewing parties 
every year for each episode of “GoT,” and every week there are 
a plethora of conversations over social media, even major news 
outlets like The New York Times join in on the conversation. 
“The Avengers” franchise has become a pop culture staple, 
with people donning expensive costumes while attending days-
long conventions. It has created characters people have grown 
to love and hate. And its original creator, Stan Lee, has become 
a beloved household name. The point is, these franchises aren’t 
just stories; They have become pure escapism from real-world 
problems. Both series have been able to take a society that is 
often politically and socially divided and turn it into a society that 
can all root for one character or against another. These franchises 
have created common threads of conversation that haven’t previ -
ously been seen on such a large scale in years. And we’ll miss it. 
Learning to let go of these beloved characters and their worlds 
is going to be hard for fans. However, most importantly, we can’t 
forget what these franchises have given us: the ability to commu -
nicate in a respectful way. We understand politics often involve 
heated discussions because they affect real people. However, that 
doesn’t mean we have to forget there are respectful ways to fa -
cilitate arguments. Just look to YouTube where fans will create 
hundreds of reaction videos for the premiere of “GoT” or to Twit -
ter, where entire threads will be created to talk about the fate of 
a single character. 
We are saying goodbye to pop culture phenomenons that 
have shaped how we perceive media. We have to remember to 
keep in mind the lessons we’ve learned from these franchises. If 
we can all come together to obsess over a TV show, why can’t 
we allow ourselves to see people aren’t that different in their likes 
and dislikes? At the very least, take the lessons of communication 
you’ve been learning for the past 10 years and bring it into real-
world conversations. A look back at our 
favorite series as they 
come to an end
“Blackfish” left a bad taste in my 
mouth for all animal captivity. 
After watching the documentary, 
I swore off all aquariums, zoos 
and things alike, until recently. I 
went on a trip to the Georgia Aquarium and I 
couldn’t believe my friends had tricked me into 
going to this installment of animal exploitation. 
How could I put money into the hands of these 
people who use the beauty of animals for the 
sake of human entertainment? Who had I become? I was 
a fraud, a fake animal-lover. But I had already bought my 
ticket, and everyone seemed excited to see the “fishies,” so 
I went. 
Of course, seeing all the creatures I would have never 
seen ignited my closeted feelings of seeing creatures that 
seemed otherworldly. I almost cried seeing a beluga whale 
for the first time. It was probably a combination of wit -
nessing their incredible cuteness up close and realizing they 
were trapped in a glass cage, never to see the freedom of 
the ocean. 
As I stared at the African penguin exhibit in the Georgia 
Aquarium, the scene from “Happy Feet” clouded my head. 
It was the part where free-spirited, grown-up Mumble finds 
himself in a zoo exhibit and essentially goes crazy (cue him 
smashing his head into the mural-painted wall). I thought 
how those silly little black-and-white creatures must be go -
ing crazy. But maybe they knew nothing else besides this 
captive lifestyle, so it made no difference to them. In ad -
dition, the enclosure does bring awareness to the animal 
conservation efforts, so maybe the captivity of an extremely 
small percentage of the species’ population does more good 
for the survival of the population as a whole. 
Who knew a trip to the aquarium would have me postu -
lating existential questions about what it means to be free 
and the sacrifices needed for the greater good? My opin -ion about zoos and aquariums slowly started 
to shift, but I felt like a fraud by beginning to 
see the philosophy behind installments like 
aquariums and zoos. Then, just when I needed 
it most, the voice over of the aquarium was like 
the voice of God, telling me I was not actually a 
fake but just miseducated. From the intercom, I 
learned the Georgia Aquarium is non-profit and 
partners with research organizations to help 
further understand and help the species kept in 
the aquarium’s care. 
After doing some research of my own, I found that the 
Association of Zoos and Aquariums accreditation is a good 
indication of an institution’s legitimacy, which is just one 
of the accreditations the Georgia Aquarium has. Next time 
you plan to go to a zoo or aquarium, check to see if it’s non-
profit and find out the conservation initiatives it partners 
with. Do a little research before buying your ticket. Make 
sure your money helps not only the animals you see, but 
also the animals in the wilderness in need of conservation 
and research efforts. 
I loved seeing all the animals, but a part of me still hated 
myself for it. Life was unfair. Who knows, maybe in anoth -
er life I’d be the beluga whale trapped in the tank, damned 
to a life of captivity for the sake of awareness and preserva -
tion. But I’m not a fish or a beluga whale (sadly). I’m hu -
man, and it’s humanity’s job to protect these animals any 
way we can. Whether it is through non-profit zoos, conser -
vation initiatives or simple practices to reduce our harm to 
the ocean, it’s our duty to do something, anything, to help. 
Because if you’re fortunate enough to see the beauty of a 
rare animal up close, you’re lucky enough to do something 
to protect them. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.My personal struggle with zoos and captivity
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 
Letter to the EditorAs an immigrant rights advocacy 
organization, UF Chispas has col -
laborated with Student Government 
to advocate for inclusive campus 
policies toward immigrant students 
at UF. Due to past cooperation with SG, our 
organization was shocked and disappointed 
to see the presence of U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement at Chomp the Vote’s 
Public Policy Career Day on March 21. We 
were also hurt by the way SG entities poorly 
handled our concerns. 
Chomp the Vote, a SG agency, hosted the 
event to promote professionalism and career 
opportunities and invited various govern -
ment and private agencies. Among them was 
the Department of Homeland Security, which 
aims to provide public security through anti-
terrorism efforts, border security, natural di -
saster prevention, etc. 
During the event, the Department of 
Homeland Security displayed a large banner 
bearing the name and seal of the ICE, a law enforcement agency in charge of the enforce -
ment of immigration laws in the U.S. Since 
its conception in 2003, the agency is the per -
petrator of racial profiling, harassment, vio -
lence and inhumane treatment that has led 
to the deportation of both documented and 
undocumented immigrants. 
The presence of ICE at an open event in 
the Reitz Union created, what we felt was, a 
hostile environment that goes against UF’s 
mission to provide an inclusive environ -
ment. For our community and allies, ICE 
symbolizes the systematic oppression that 
terrorizes the immigrant community. It is 
not uncommon for immigrants, particularly 
undocumented and first-generation students 
and faculty, to feel targeted and isolated on a 
predominantly white campus. 
Many students went to the event with 
hopes of learning new ways to advance their 
professional goals but instead were confront -
ed with an organization that could poten -
tially destroy their families and is a personal threat to their future and safety. For this rea -
son, ICE has no place at UF. 
These actions are especially disappointing 
coming from an SG administration that has 
claimed to be supportive of the immigrant 
community and even explicitly referenced 
the undocumented community in their plat -
form during the election season.
Instead of a public apology, we have 
experienced weeks of silence and excuses. 
Chomp the Vote informed us that Student 
Body President Ian Green was unavailable to 
meet with us, even after attending his office 
hours, for which he was not present. 
As members of Chispas, one of the only 
student organizations on campus that fo -
cuses on promoting immigrant rights, we 
feel it is our duty to hold Chomp the Vote 
and SG accountable for this “mishap.” It is 
our obligation to speak out for a community 
that is often forced to live in the shadows 
and in fear, in large part due to ICE’s cruel 
practices. For these reasons, we urge SG to fulfill our list of requests. Let it be clear that 
a hostile environment was created by ICE’s 
presence at Chomp the Vote’s event. We are 
hurt. We are angry. We feel betrayed. We 
feel used. 
We urge UF SG and Chomp the Vote to 
release a public apology to the affected com -
munity and take responsibility for the shock 
and pain this incident introduced to an al -
ready marginalized community. We ask they 
apologize to students involved for their lack 
of transparency and failed accountability, 
as well as to the students involved for their 
hostile and defensive response when the 
impact of their actions was brought to their 
attention. Finally, we ask all elected and ap -
pointed members to attend and complete Un -
docupeers training through the Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs Department. 
UF Chispas is an immigration advocacy 
group. 
If you have opened up 
Snapchat lately, you 
might have seen a few 
videos of people setting 
up their phone cameras, 
moving away from the screen 
and doing a quick dance 
move with their hands. This 
is called the Woah Challenge, 
and it has been spreading 
like wildfire.
The Woah is a dance move that was 
originally made popular by famous rap -
pers like Lil Uzi Vert and Drake. You 
put both of your hands in fists, one on 
top of the other, and move them around 
one time as if you are turning a steering 
wheel. Most Woah dancers accompany 
the hand motion with a funny face and a 
slight bend in the knee. The Woah Chal -
lenge has effectively turned this dance 
move into a meme.
The challenge will come and go the 
same way almost every viral trend does. 
Its 15 minutes of fame will last until the 
internet runs out of ways to keep the 
challenge exciting. For example, right 
now, people are propping their camera 
phones against elevator walls and using 
the stairs to catch up to the elevator on 
another floor, where they do the Woah 
when the doors open.
I am just as much of a sucker for ran -
dom comedy as anyone, but it’s hard 
not to wonder how bored we all must be 
to continue participating in “challenges” 
like this one. The Harlem Shake was 
thoroughly overplayed in 2013, and the 
Mannequin Challenge of 2016 stayed 
popular until the song “Black Beatles” 
went off the top charts. The Cinnamon 
Challenge ended when everyone real -
ized it was just plain dangerous. The 
Bottle-Flipping Challenge was one of 
my personal favorites that I don’t see 
around so much anymore.
The challenges provide new ways to 
stay entertained by technology. There is 
a level of interaction involved in doing 
these challenges with friends. They are 
fun to act out, but the real fun comes after they hit the web.  Peo -
ple post these videos for the 
same attention and satisfac -
tion that comes from posting 
anything on social media. 
For many social media users, 
there is something that feels 
good about getting “likes” 
and receiving positive com -
ments on any post, and chal -
lenges are not excluded from 
this. I wish I didn’t feel this validation 
from an online activity because I know 
it cannot truly replace tangible, in-per -
son validation.
These fads might best be categorized 
as some of the guiltiest pleasures of mil -
lennials and Generation Z. Most people, 
myself included, know the challenges 
are ridiculous, but we still participate in 
them anyway.
Sometimes, I feel too sucked into 
all of the social media trends and pop 
culture on the internet. In the long run, 
I know that all of these challenges are 
unproductive, but the short-term enter -
tainment value is hard for me to resist. 
I like being in the know about what is 
happening online, even though it might 
take away attention from more impor -
tant things. As soon as the Woah Chal -
lenge reached my social circle, a friend 
asked me what it was. I had no idea, 
and it piqued my curiosity.
It seems like these trends are here to 
stay. The best way to make these chal -
lenges worthwhile might be to connect 
them to a cause, like the ALS Ice Bucket 
Challenge, which raised awareness for 
Lou Gehrig’s disease, also known as 
ALS. However, most challenges will al -
ready go viral before I get wind of them. 
So long as I keep checking Snapchat, 
scrolling through Instagram and binging 
YouTube videos, I will probably keep 
wasting time on challenges against my 
better judgment.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.I hate that I love the Woah ChallengeColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s a beautiful April day. Beams 
of sunlight hit the tops of the shim -
mering bleachers surrounding me. 
A cool breeze comes through Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium every few min -
utes, just long enough for me to 
appreciate the fresh air. As a stu -
dent at UF, this is one of the many 
unique luxuries I am granted in 
return for the tuition check I slide 
over to the Bursar’s Office each semester. The 
stadium, known to the masses as The Swamp, 
is one of the most famous landmarks to grace 
our campus because of its notoriety in college 
football. However, many students only use it 
for its main purpose: attending UF’s nationally 
renowned football games. If you’re one of those 
Gators, I’m here to give you a wake-up call.
You may be asking, “What can you do at the 
stadium if you’re not watching football?” One 
function of the stadium, besides holding football 
games, is fitness-related. Those “stadiums” your 
friends are constantly complaining about are one 
of the most accessible and effective exercises 
available to those of us in Gainesville. The core 
of the stadium workout is the ascension of the 
bleachers, which sounds and looks easy com -
pared to the inescapable torture it actually is. 
However, there are a number of ways to work 
out in the stadium, like strength training that uti -
lizes the bleachers or no incline running around 
the edges of the stadium. In the warmer months, 
which are most of the months, the sun can be 
harsh and overwhelming. The weather can make 
things difficult, but the resistance makes for an 
incredible feeling of accomplishment as you 
stride out of the stadium. 
Stadiums are a characteristic of the UF experi -
ence and are probably not an unknown feature 
of The Swamp. What may be lesser known is 
the ability to study within its sacred walls. What 
some would consider a type of heresy, complet -
ing academic tasks in a temple of athleticism is 
actually very inspiring and effective. On week -
days, when most people in the stadium are the 
average student working up a sweat or tour 
guides displaying the pride and joy of the school 
to future Gators, a dedicated few sit in the shade 
with their laptop batteries burning and their neu -
rons firing. 
As sweltering as Gainesville can be, the shad -ed areas of the stadium provide a 
reprieve from the heat. Studying in 
those areas has the perk of contextu -
alizing your work. For a lot of people, 
football games and the stadium rep -
resent the tightest bonds they have to 
the university. They share the school 
spirit with thousands of alumni, stu -
dents and children. While I don’t 
personally identify much with the 
school, I still find myself in awe of the size of 
the stadium and the strength of the connection 
people seem to have to it. If a student chooses to 
study in the stadium, they will look out over the 
perfectly cut grass and relatively empty stands, 
possibly find it a bit easier to pour some extra 
effort into whatever they’re working on because 
it isn’t themselves they are working for, but the 
entire Gator Nation.
The last underutilized function of the stadium 
is enjoying the atmosphere. Attending UF makes 
us some of the luckiest people in the world be -
cause we have access to higher education, unlike 
many people in the world. We are able to partake 
in all of the benefits of college, which includes 
its on-campus. We need to take the time to ap -
preciate all UF has to offer. I would urge you all 
to go to the stadium. Maybe work out, study or 
both; but when you’re done, take 10 minutes 
to look around and take it all in. Gratitude has 
been shown to increase one’s quality of life. So, 
be grateful. Appreciate all of it. The jumbotrons, 
sometimes firing off with music and videos that 
rattle the bleachers like thunder when the sta -
dium is empty. The lights, turned off to save 
energy, that illuminate the hopes, dreams and 
football team of The Gator Nation. The vacant 
kiosks, concession stands and bathrooms that be -
come a river of people on game day. Bask in it all, 
because it is all yours.  
Gators, the stadium is more than just a place 
to police your friends on game days, making sure 
they don’t throw up on innocent fans. It is truly 
the sanctuary of the Gator Nation, intended to 
improve our bodies, minds and souls. Just use 
it. Don’t find yourself graduated and having not 
appreciated everything the stadium has to offer.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English freshman. 
His column normally appears on Mondays.Ben Hill Griffin Stadium is for more than footballColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.orgStudent Government allowed ICE 's presence at UF's Public Policy Career DayWEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
The podcast for your Zodiac
Find out which podcast you should tune in to based 
on your sign, pg. 10King Complex
Learn about the Gainesville band and their new single, pg. 9By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Only adults are welcome at the 
Hardback Cafe tonight. The audi -
ence should be ready for a show that 
combines hilarity with sexuality, 
while redefining femininity.
The touring and local burlesque 
performers will take the stage at 8 
p.m. with doors opening at 7 p.m.
“Tainted Cabaret” is a neo-bur -
lesque ensemble show featuring 
producer Ula Uberbusen, James & 
The Giant Pasty and Shirley Gnome. 
“Tainted Cabaret” will be perform -
ing along with local performers Jen -
ny Castle and Sally B. Dash. Their 
hilarious sexual dance performances 
will bring the audience to their feet.
Although the art is built on posi -
tivity, these performers cannot use 
their legal names in conjunction with 
this work. In the fields of burlesque, 
stripping, drag and adult cabaret, 
to “out” an artist is to immediately 
expose them to an extraordinary 
amount of sexual harassment on 
and offline, including the possibility 
of losing their day job, said Shirley 
Gnome.
The stars of “Tainted Cabaret” 
bring their own acts from past pro -ductions, solo shows and different 
ensemble shows. They also put to -
gether three group numbers with 
pantomime, burlesque and singing. 
“In a way, it’s a little bit different 
from a local burlesque show because 
we are able to work together to cre -
ate pieces together and make it into a 
whole unit of a show,” Gnome said. 
“We all have different skills and we 
all bring something different to the 
table.” 
Gnome, 35, said she started get -
ting involved in burlesque shows 
because she thought it matched her 
comedy style. As a musical come -
dian, she described her style as sex 
and body positive. 
James & The Giant Pasty, 35, 
watched his first burlesque show 
when he was 16. His uncle snuck 
him into the show on Coney Island, 
and he was fascinated by how enter -
taining and positive the performers 
were. 
“It was super powerful, and I was 
addicted,” James & The Giant Pasty 
said. “It took me a while after that to 
actually perform myself, but I fell in 
love with the art form.”
Unlike traditional theater, the 
neo-burlesque show interacts di -
rectly with audience members and encourages them to connect with 
the performers. 
“We talk to the audience di -
rectly, that’s the nature of caba -
ret,” Gnome said. 
It relies on us to truly ac -
knowledge the audience and in -
clude them as a part of the show, 
she said.
With six suitcases full of cos -
tumes, Pasty said the wardrobe 
is one of the best parts of the 
show. 
“One of the real fun parts 
about burlesque in general is 
you get to wear glitz and glam -
our, sometimes ridiculous, some -
times just really surprising and 
fun costumes,” Pasty said. “It’s 
such a huge part of the act.” 
He hopes the audience will be 
able to engage with sexual con -
tent in a positive, affirming way. 
With 30 shows in 29 cities, 
the six-week tour of “Tainted 
Cabaret” is their second national 
tour in the United States but their 
first international tour in Canada. 
Pre-show tickets cost $10, tickets 
cost $15 at the door and VIP tick -
ets are $25. 
@vanessablankie
vblankenship@alligator.orgShow preview: ‘Tainted Cabaret’
Uninhibited, undressed, unhinged 
THEATER
By Jackie De Freitas
Avenue Staff Writer 
“Yes means yes” and “no means 
no.” These are the terms we often 
use to define consent. But now, an 
added layer to the term takes con -
sent a step further. Introducing: en -
thusiastic consent. 
Enthusiastic consent is the con -
cept that consent not only means 
saying “yes” but also showing signs 
of enthusiasm. Megan Johnson, a 
health promotion specialist at Ga -
torWell, said there isn’t really a dif -
ference between “regular” consent 
and enthusiastic consent because it’s 
important that both people involved 
are excited.
“You can’t get consent without it being enthusiastic because that 
means that someone involved is not 
excited for it to be happening,” the 
28-year-old said. 
This added layer to consent helps 
prevent uncomfortable situations. 
People sometimes feel ashamed to 
say no when the gears are already 
turning. 
Enthusiastic consent makes it so 
there is an extra level of requirement. 
But this requires sexually active indi -
viduals to have a certain amount of 
emotional intelligence. It may seem 
obvious when someone is into some -
thing or not, but if someone does not 
have a high emotional IQ, he or she 
could miss the clear signs. 
“In order to have really great sex, 
everyone needs to be on board,” Johnson said. 
Never assume it 
is always going to be 
a yes. Make sure it’s 
clear that it’s a yes by 
getting verbal confir -
mation. In most cases, 
the most reliable way 
of knowing that your 
partner is ready to engage in sexual 
behavior is through verbal consent. 
But ongoing conversation is impor -
tant. “Is this OK?” “Is that OK?” “I’m 
not OK with this” and “Can we try 
this instead?” are just some of the 
ways to find clarity with your part -
ner.  
Ongoing conversations help get 
the guesswork out of the way. Even 
if it is just a hookup, it’s important to check in with your partner to make 
sure they agree with what is about to 
go down at every step. 
If there is time beforehand to talk 
about consent, try having the con -
versation through a “Will, Want, 
Won’t” list. Through this exercise, a 
discussion about what you are will -
ing to do, want to do and absolutely 
won’t do clears some of the vague -
ness that comes with sex. When it comes to consent, do not 
do any guess work. Consent needs 
to be enthusiastic, uncoerced, sober 
and clearly defined. Yes does mean 
yes, but pay attention to nonverbal 
signs and double check by making 
sure there are no misinterpretations. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.com
Graphic design by Ferna SimbulanSex in The Swamp: Consent 
There’s more to “yes means yes”
SEXCourtesy to  The Alligator
The stars of the show like to use theatrics to make audiences 
laugh while challenging their views on gender and sexuality.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
LOCAL DUO KING COMPLEX 
DISCUSSES NEW SINGLE
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer 
One of Florida’s most ominous bands is 
back with a single all about freedom of expres -
sion and doing what you like. 
On March 21, King Complex released their 
newest single “Do What You Like,” which 
member Cody Doss described as a song about 
being sexually attracted to someone and where 
that excitement can lead. 
Member Bracher Brown added his feelings 
to the track, primarily written by Doss. 
“It’s about expanding your comfort zone to 
places you wouldn’t normally go,” Brown said. 
The production-heavy track starts with a 
simple baseline and distorted, rough vocals be -
fore transitioning into a high falsetto hook, “Go 
on, baby, do what you like.” 
The majority of the track sounds very indie-
pop and resembles projects by bands like The 
Gorillaz before it reaches the end. At the end of 
the song, things get slightly twisted and darker.
This drastic switch at the song’s conclusion 
encompasses the band’s unique style, which 
leads to its cryptic label of electronic-rock mu -
sic. 
Brown and Doss said the labeling comes from their diverse musical backgrounds. 
“I think the place we landed musically is 
very cool because Brown comes from a pop 
background, and I come from a very weird 
background like Radiohead and things that 
have a lot more chord progressions,” Doss 
said. “Over time, I got more attracted to pop, 
and we landed in a place that combines pop 
sensibility with weirdness.”
Brown and Doss are working on their third 
EP together. Right now, they have a plan in 
motion for releasing a new single every month  
to preparation for the new release.
The duo said the move is strategic in order 
to create more buzz around their music and 
who they are as a group. 
“If we did a single or two then released [an 
EP], a lot would be overlooked,” Doss said. 
However, the members still intend to in -
clude all of the previously released tracks in 
their upcoming project. One aspect of the new 
music that excites the both of them is adding 
visuals to all of their songs. 
“King Complex has always been as visual 
as its been music,” Brown said. “Creating a 
universe is central to most of our releases. It 
just gives people more time to digest the mu -
sic.”
For the newest song, Doss said the piece 
was “essentially about finding someone you 
are sexually attracted to and finding out that the same excitement can lead you to places 
you don’t want to go.” 
In relation, he explained that he created 
a sexually ambiguous vision for this video. 
“We went on Google and found four 
faces of guys and girls who looked like they 
were having orgasms and have the images 
zoom in,” he said.  “The idea was to make 
it feel as sexual as possible without having 
any nudity — an ambiguous thing that is 
obviously about sex.”
The duo said their upcoming EP will 
be dance-oriented, but not as bright and 
cheery as it seems. 
Doss said the art behind the King Com -
plex masks as a part of their projects. The 
masks allow him to create a character for 
each project. He continued the motif for this 
song, in which his role will invite people to 
have the best time that they can.
As for the future of King Complex, the 
group has their sights set on performing in 
New York City. 
“We did 100 shows last year and found 
where our strengths lie,” Brown said. “I 
feel like we’re getting close to honing in on 
what we do musically.” 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.org‘Kings’ of their own genre show what’s behind the masks
Chris King/Alligator Staff
Bracher Brown, the band’s lead singer and guitarist, shreds to finish the set.
Chris King/Alligator Staff
Cody Doss of King Complex rocks the drums on the Heartwood Soundstage.
Chris King/Alligator Stafft
King Complex performs at the 2019 
Heartwood Music Festival on Feb.23.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern 
portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try our 
new specials! Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this add and get 10% off 
your order!BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on 
premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, 
ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english muffin or 
bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will be 
ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
Let your zodiac sign decide which podcast to tune in to 
By Jackie De Freitas
Avenue Staff Writer 
Aries: “Overdue” 
Since you’re always on the run, this is made 
for you. This podcast is about the books you 
should have read but never had a chance to. It 
provides literary insight without requiring you 
to give up your on-the-move mentality. 
Taurus: “The Dave Chang Show”
Learn about up-and-coming ingredients 
and cooking methods with chef Dave Chang’s 
podcast. Known for his “The Mind of a Chef” 
show and his Momofuku Noodle Bar and Milk 
Bar eateries, Chang is the perfect guide for a 
Taurus aiming to impress.
Gemini: “Hidden Brain”
A Gemini is ruled by Mercury, which mir -
rors the principles of mentality, communica -
tion and patterns of thinking, all of which this 
podcast encapsulates. Host Shankar Vedantam 
delves deep into the human subconscious to 
see what makes us tick, how we shape our re -
lationships and why we do the weird things 
we do. 
Cancer: “Everything is Alive”
Some of you may be expecting a romance podcast like “Modern Love” for a Cancer, but 
that would be too cliche. Instead, this podcast 
interviews inanimate objects and gets each ob -
ject’s backstory and resonates with a Cancer’s 
ability to connect with anything on this plane 
of existence. 
Leo: “Unf*ck Your Brain”
Some may think Leos possess the confi -
dence of a lion, but even the most confident 
deal with self-doubt and imposter syndrome. 
With master-certified confidence coach Kara 
Loewentheil in your earbuds, she teaches you 
to rewire your thinking to counteract your 
self-deprecation and instead pump up the self-
respect. 
Virgo: “Unladylike”
The perfectionist of the zodiac, Virgo could 
learn a thing or two from letting go and break -
ing the rules. In this podcast, Caroline Ervin 
and Cristen Conger tackle subjects like how to 
slay sexism like a professional. This podcast 
may not be the typical podcast Virgo wants, 
but it’s the podcast they need. 
Libra:  “99% Invisible”
A podcast about design and architecture 
peaks the intrigue of Libras, who value balance 
and beauty in all their endeavors. Libras love to charm the pants off everyone they meet, 
and this podcast helps them gain fancy talking 
points to impress the most snobby of counter -
parts.  
Scorpio: “My Favorite Murder” 
Scorpios enjoy the darker things in life, 
including everything about murders. In this 
podcast, Karen Kilgariff and Georgia Hardstark 
each pick a murder and discuss how it was car -
ried out. Done in a comedic fashion, “My Fa -
vorite Murder” satisfies Scorpios’ need to make 
light of tragedies.
Sagittarius: “Coffee Break” or “Travelogue”
Known for their love of travel and under -
standing other cultures, they will fall in love 
with both of these podcasts. The latter, by 
Condé Nast Traveler, explores and discusses 
travel hacks, travel plans for particular cities 
and explanations for travel dilemmas. The 
former, which has options in Spanish, Ital -
ian, German, Chinese and French, provides a 
20-minute lesson on the language of is or her 
choosing, perfect for a Sagittarius preparing for 
their next adventure. 
Capricorn: “Optimal Living Daily”
For Capricorns, efficiency is high on their 
list of priorities. Each short episode provides lessons on personal growth, productivity and 
organization from different authors. This pod -
cast was made for Capricorns due to its brevity 
— no need for long time commitment — and 
helpfulness in driving Capricorns closer to their 
personal development. 
Aquarius: “Stuff They Don’t Want You 
to Know”
Alien believers and skeptics of reality, an 
Aquarius loves to play devil’s advocate when it 
comes to the “truth” of history. With episodes 
like “Cell Phones, 5G & Cancer” and “Is There 
a Secret Funeral Monopoly?” this sign will be 
sucked into the podcast that asks and attempts 
to answer all the conspiracy questions on their 
minds.
Pisces: “Awful Grace, or The Tolling of 
the Void Bell” 
A nonconventional podcast that walks the 
line between ASMR and audiobook as it is a 
“non-narrated dream poetry.” With its ruling 
planet in idealist and illusionist Neptune, Pi -
sces’ dreamer-like aesthetic matches this rev -
erie of a podcast that transports listeners deep 
into their imagination. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.comBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Bintelli Sprint Scooter 49cc
2017, yellow, less than 100 mi, new battery. 
Req no motorcycle license. Comes w/car 
carry rack. $1500/OBO. Call 352-222-2226                
4-12-19-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. 
Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, 
love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. 
Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO 
CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before 
applying.     4-17-19-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. MOVIES: What kind of creature is 
Pumbaa in “The Lion King”?
2. ANATOMY: What is the smallest 
organ in the human body?
3. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the tiger in “The Jungle 
Book” by Rudyard Kipling?
4. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which 
author once wrote, “Rough winds do 
shake the darling buds of May”?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the 
world’s longest “motorable road”?
6. FOOD & DRINK: What is freekeh?
7. ACRONYMS: What does “AOL” 
stand for?
8. TELEVISION: Who hosted the 
1980s PBS series “Cosmos”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Who 
was the star of the video-game series 
“Tomb Raider”?
10. MUSIC: What is the only major 
musical scale that has no sharps or flats?
Answers
1. Warthog
2. The pineal gland near the center of 
the brain
3. Shere Khan
4. William Shakespeare
5. Pan-American Highway, stretch-
ing across the North and South Ameri-
can continents
6. Roasted green wheat
7. America Online
8. Carl Sagan
9. Lara Croft
10. C major
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 8, 2019King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatest
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: April 22, 2019 at 3:00 p.m.
PLACE: John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website at
www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida. 
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.        
4-10-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Jeff Stillman
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/10/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/10/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, April 10, 2019
ACROSS
1 Punk rock 
subgenre
4 Catches  
red-handed
8 Medieval stringed 
instruments
14 GoPro product, 
briefly
15 Many a 
homecoming 
attendee
16 Covent Garden 
offerings
17 All-Star pitcher
18 Controversial 
excavation 
method
20 Beach house?
22 Little biter
23 Bible book 
between Daniel 
and Joel
24 Biblical pronoun
25 Nursery cry
26 Form 1040 agcy.
28 Permanent 
sites?
30 Sounds of 
contentment
33 __ Fables
37 Criticize harshly
38 Beachfront 
property, often
41 Org. for netmen
42 “Barney Miller” 
star Hal
43 Linear
44 Biathlon weapons
46 __ Bund: Swiss 
newspaper
48 Skelton’s 
Kadiddlehopper
49 Merit badge org.
52 Tut-tutted
56 Scottish family
57 Breed of Tonto’s 
Scout
59 Handyman’s 
work suggested 
by the starts of 
18-, 20-, 38- and 
57-Across
61 Shortest 
surname in 
Cooperstown
62 Kin of jujitsu
63 Yours, to Yves
64 Once known as
65 Planted a red 
herring, say
66 Poolroom 
powder
67 Drop the ballDOWN
1 Cybermoney
2 Chinese 
gambling mecca
3 Forebodings
4 Sprint Cup org.
5 Utah ski resort
6 Break open
7 Word for word?
8 Tiber River 
capital
9 Center starter
10 Cincinnati player
11 “Happy Days” 
actress
12 Inhabitant 
of ancient 
Palestine
13 NCO rank
19 Work at, as a 
trade
21 Reason-based 
faith
25 Easter liturgy
27 One-piece 
dresses
28 Go through
29 Floored it
30 On __ with
31 Constitution 
section that 
creates the 
executive 
branch32 On-the-sly alcohol 
containers
34 Poetic time
35 Downcast
36 Bullfight cheer
39 K thru 6
40 Upper body
45 Soup legume
47 Cultural, as 
cuisine
49 Sheep’s cry
50 Occupy, as a 
desk51 Santa __ 
racetrack
53 Scandinavian 
coin
54 Fragrant 
compound
55 Discourage
56 Pull an all-nighter
57 Urge
58 Item in a kit
60 “__ to My Right 
Knee”: Rita Dove 
poem
1.  Type of modifier 
1.  New York capital5.  Myanmar, once
2.  Assorted6.  ____ nerve
3.  Type of broker7.  Off the path
4.  ComplexRADBVE
YLANBAAMRBU
PCTOI
RUSOVIA
RLARTOESYAART
KRITCYANSWERS: 1A-Adverb  5A-Burma  6A-Optic  7A-Astray
1D-Albany  2D-Various  3D-Realtor  4D-Tricky  B-Bavaria4-10-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the oldest and the 
largest state in Germany.
BONUS
By John Lampkin
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 “Star Wars” 
warrior
5 Treaded winter 
vehicle
11 “Proven,” in 
proofs
14 Laptop brand that 
sounds like a top 
tennis player
15 Pays homage to
16 Prefix with corn 
or cycle
17 *Employee 
insurance 
coverage, briefly
19 It may be 
bruised
20 Blight-stricken 
tree
21 Deceived
22 Lo __: noodle 
dish
23 Church officers
25 “Valley of the 
Dolls” author 
Jacqueline
27 Animal that 
can learn sign 
language
28 Parting site in 
Exodus
30 “Who’s there?” 
response
33 Rank above maj.
36 Makes an effort
37 Small store
38 Serious no-no
40 Poet Pound
41 Be under the 
weather
42 11 p.m. 
personality
44 Mentalist’s “gift”
45 Installs, as a 
minister
47 Sound like an 
ass
49 Blu-ray buy
50 Quick breaths
54 “To reiterate ... ”
57 Like sunset-
silhouetted 
scenery
59 Golfer’s goal
60 *Unmanned 
aerial attack
62 From __ Z
63 Shrek’s kiss 
made Fiona one 
for good
64 Hint of the future
65 Home in the 
woods
66 Treating kindly
67 Sunset directionDOWN
1 Ranted (at)
2 French school
3 Skin care prefix
4 Annoy
5 Sacred place
6 Carrots, for 
snowmen
7 Like one’s prized 
music collection, 
perhaps
8 Small water birds
9 Big name in 
canned meat
10 Baking soda amt.
11 *Hotel bed choice
12 Amtrak 
employees
13 “My Heart Will 
Go On” singer 
Celine
18 Flee to wed
22 Mexican mother
24 Sleep in a bag, 
maybe
26 Gig component
29 “Pronto” letters
30 Japanese golf 
great Aoki
31 Hardly the best
32 *Persist despite 
difficulty
33 Sounds like a 
crow
34 Docs who deliver35 Bausch partner
38 On a scale of 
one to __
39 Sculler’s need
42 “Please don’t bite 
me!”
43 Persistently 
worry
46 Symbolic 
Egyptian snake, 
which includes 
the start of a hint 
to the answers to 
starred clues48 Peter of Peter, 
Paul & Mary
51 Snail trail
52 Colorado’s __ 
Peak
53 Cardiologist’s 
implant
54 Apple tablet
55 Jason’s ship
56 Lawn mower 
brand
57 Take a load off
58 Exxon, formerly
61 Homer’s neighbor16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/Notices
 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators schedule last-minute women's tennis match
The Florida women's tennis team will play Savannah State on Saturday at 5 
p.m. at the Ring T ennis Complex. This will be its second match of the day,  as it 
plays South Carolina at 10 a.m. to close its SEC schedule.Midfielder Shannon Kavanagh  
(pictured) and defender Cara 
Trombetta  earned AAC player 
of the week awards in their 
respective positions. BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida State coach Mike Mar -
tin is the winningest coach in the 
history of Division I baseball, but 
he will finish his career with a 
losing record against Florida.
Martin has Kirby McMullen to 
thank for that.
Heading into Tuesday night’s 
game, Martin was 76-76 all-time 
against UF. With the game tied 
1-1 in the top of the ninth inning, 
McMullen came in to pinch hit 
with first baseman Kendrick Cali -
lao on second and right fielder 
Wil Dalton on first.
McMullen slapped a two-RBI 
triple down the right-field line to 
break the tie, and the Seminoles 
failed to respond in the bottom of 
the ninth.
The Gators completed the sea -
son sweep of FSU with a 3-1 win 
in Tallahassee, extending a pro -
gram-record 11-game win streak 
over their in-state rival.
“I’m obviously really excited. 
We played better tonight, num -
ber one, but all the games we’ve 
competed against Florida State 
over the years have been extra special,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said in a release. “And this has 
really been special tonight for a 
lot of different reasons.” 
UF (22-13) did little offensively 
through eight innings. The Gators 
scored just one run and totaled 
three hits prior to the final frame. 
That one run was more the result 
of Florida State’s mistakes in the 
field than Florida’s success at the 
plate.
UF shortstop Brady McConnell 
led off the fourth inning with a fly 
ball to center field that J.C. Flow -
ers could not come down with. 
Flowers’ error allowed McConnell 
to advance to second and a Jacob 
Young sacrifice bunt sent him to 
third.
FSU pitcher Conor Grady made 
his only mistake of the game in 
a passed ball while facing Nelson 
Maldonado, allowing McConnell 
to cross the plate for the first run 
of the game.
Grady (5-3) threw a career-
high seven innings. He allowed 
just two hits, one run, one walk 
and struck out a career-high nine 
batters.McMullen boosts Florida past FSU for series sweep
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Ben Specht earned his first win after throwing three scoreless innings in UF's 3-1 
win over FSU on Tuesday in T allahassee.
SOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Florida softball team hosts South 
Florida on Wednesday at 7 p.m., coming 
off a pivotal weekend sweep of then-No. 
14 Arkansas to return to .500 in SEC play.
Familiar faces
Wednesday’s game is the second time 
these teams have faced each other this 
season. The No. 6 Gators (32-9) beat the 
Bulls on the road 7-1 to close out the USF 
Opening Weekend Invitational on Feb. 
10. 
USF struck first against pitcher Kelly 
Barnhill in that game, scoring a run in the 
first inning. From there, she and fresh -
man Elizabeth Hightower, who made her 
collegiate debut, shut down the Bulls. 
They didn’t allow a hit the rest of the 
game and struck out a combined 15 bat -ters. 
UF’s offense hit three home runs, in -
cluding a grand slam by second baseman 
Hannah Adams in the fourth inning to 
give the Gators a 5-1 lead.
Getting to know the opponent
The Bulls have gone 28-10 since the 
Feb. 10 game and stunned then-No. 7 
Arizona with a 4-1 win on Feb. 15. They 
have one other win over a ranked oppo -
nent, a 7-1 win over then-No. 23 Wiscon -
sin on March 8. USF has also won six in a 
row ahead of Wednesday’s game. 
South Florida sits in a three-way tie 
for first place in the AAC with UCF, 
whom Florida shut out 5-0 last month, 
and Tulsa. 
The Bulls’ pitching staff boasts the 
third-best ERA in the AAC (2.14) and is 
anchored by sophomore Georgina Cor -Gators prepare to host 
USF on WednesdayAn empty bucket and a crum -
pled-up lineup card. 
These objects are examples of 
UF softball coach Tim Walton’s 
frustrations. 
Walton kicked a bucket in the 
dugout during the Gators’ 2-0 loss 
to Florida State on April 3. He said 
after the defeat that he doesn’t dis -
play his displeasure often, and he 
has limited it to booting the thankfully empty 
bucket as well as crushing a lineup card earlier 
in the season.  
The offensive struggles are plenty reason 
for Walton to be frustrated. His team hit just 
1 for 12 with runners on base against Florida 
State’s All-ACC pitcher Meghan King. UF lost 
despite out-hitting the Seminoles 6-4. 
The No. 6 Gators haven’t found any con -
sistency outside their first three batters. They 
won’t get late-season, series-winning hits if 
they can’t find another reliable bat. 
Amanda Lorenz and Kendyl Lindaman are 
both All-Americans, and their continued suc -
cess is undeniable. 
Leadoff batter Jade Caraway strung togeth -er a nine-game hitting streak be -
fore going hitless over the week -
end against Arkansas. However, 
she did manage to score twice in 
the three-game series against the 
Razorbacks. 
The main constant among 
these three batters is that they’ve 
had success in the past. 
Lorenz is one of the most pro -
lific offensive players in program history. Lin -
daman belted 40 home runs and 131 RBIs in 
two seasons for Minnesota. Caraway knocked 
72 hits her freshman year at North Carolina 
State and led off during both her campaigns 
there.
Spots four through nine are all question 
marks, and nobody in that part of the lineup 
has experience producing offensively on a sea -
son-long basis. 
Florida’s clean-up hitter, Sophia Reynoso, 
is there for her ability to get on base, sacrifice 
bunt and provide long, gutsy at-bats. She’s 
there because she can be trusted, not for her UF softball isn't a WCWS team right now
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Mark My Words / Opinion
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejrSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15 
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida’s and Michigan’s women’s tennis teams 
couldn’t be any more different.
The Wolverines are 13-4. The Gators are hovering 
around .500 at a 10-9 record with only three matches 
remaining in the regular season. Michigan has a roster 
full of veterans, while Florida has a roster that returns 
only three players from 2018.
But the biggest difference between both teams is 
where they win on the court. The Wolverines have the 
most success on the first three courts. UF struggles every -
where but Court 1. 
These differences will be present when they face off 
on Thursday at 5 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex in a 
match Florida may need to win to keep its postseason 
hopes alive.
If the Gators don’t finish the season at a .500 record, 
they will not qualify for the NCAA Tournament. A loss 
to Michigan puts UF at an even record with matches 
against Savannah State and South Carolina coming up 
this weekend.
Michigan senior Kate Fahey leads the Wolverines on 
Court 1 with a 12-1 record. The trio of senior Brienne Mi -
nor and juniors Chiara Lommer and Giulia Pairone have 
anchored the rest of their upper courts to a 25-8 record.
Florida sophomore Ida Jarlskog will have a tough test 
when she takes on Fahey. Jarlskog has won 11 matches 
on the main court, but has lost three as well.“She did make one adjustment in her style of play,” 
coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release following Flor -
ida’s 4-2 win over Auburn on Sunday. “I thought she 
was crowding the ball too much, trying to hit the ball too 
hard in the first set, and then she started to let the game 
come to her. This really made all the difference for her.”
The Gators will need to win at other positions on the 
court if they want to take the match against the Wolver -
ines.
Michigan is not particularly strong in doubles play. 
Its Court 1 duo of Fahey and Minor are undefeated this 
season, but the Wolverines struggle on the other two 
courts. Florida could take advantage to jump out to an 
early lead.
Should Courts 1, 2 and 3 be a problem for the Gators, 
they will need to see production from the latter half of 
the starting lineup. The match is a first-to-four-points af -
fair, so winning the doubles point and gaining victories 
in Courts 4, 5 and 6 will take pressure off the top of the 
lineup.
With the season nearing its end, Florida is trying to 
avoid finishing with a losing record for the first time in 
program history. If it can do that, it will have a chance of 
qualifying for an NCAA Tournament bid.
“We talked about that in the locker room,” Thorn -
qvist said, “and it’s really going to be a mini playoff type 
scenario going down the stretch.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators prepare for tough battle against Michigan
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Ida Jarlskog holds an 11-3 record on Court 1 
this season. She will likely face Michigan’s Kate Fahey on Thursday.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s tennis team is 
tied for the highest-ranked team in 
their respective sport at UF.
It is ranked No. 3 and has won 
13 matches in a row. It is 19-2 over -
all and 11-0 in SEC play. That’s its 
best start since 2005, which was 
the last time it won the SEC reg -
ular-season championship until it 
clinched at least a share of the title 
with the 6-1 win over Auburn on 
Sunday. 
Florida can now win the sole 
crown if it beats South Carolina 
this Sunday.
The Gators are on pace to have 
their best regular-season finish 
since 1977. That was the most re -
cent time they finished the season 
with less than four losses.
Despite all of this season’s ac -
complishments, one thing has 
plagued them: doubles play.
UF is 14-7 when it comes to the 
doubles point this season. While 
that may not sound terrible, it’s 
not great for a team that has as re -
cently as March 5 had a pair, junior 
Johannes Ingildsen and sophomore 
Brian Berdusco, ranked in the top 
10. In the Gators’ loss to then-No. 
5 USC at the ITA National Team 
Indoor Championships on Feb. 15, 
winning the doubles point would 
have made the difference as UF fell 
4-3.
Florida couldn’t take the dou -
bles point against any of the four 
highest-ranked teams it has played. 
It lost the doubles point to then-No. 10 Mississippi State, then-No. 2 
Wake Forest and then-No. 7 Texas 
A&M. In all of those matches, and 
the other three matches against 
FAU, Tennessee and LSU where 
the doubles point was lost, the 
Gators recovered thanks to their 
sensational singles play.
It’s hard to overstate how good 
Florida has been in singles. You’d 
have to go back to Feb. 17, the last 
time the Gators lost a match, to 
then-No. 10 Stanford, to find when 
they lost more than two of the six 
singles matches they played in. 
Singles play is led by No. 11 
sophomore Oliver Crawford, who 
could leave to go pro after the sea -
son. Crawford is 13-7, and that is 
all from the No. 1 spot. That means 
he has beaten the top player on op -
posing teams, including a win over 
then-No. 2 Petros Chrysochos of 
Wake Forest on March 13.
Other players highlighting the 
effort for UF include No. 47 fresh -
man Sam Riffice, who is 17-3 and 
has won 11 matches in a row, and 
No. 96 sophomore Duarte Vale, 
who is 12-1 this season and has 
10 wins in a row. Both players are 
also undefeated in conference play.
In regards to doubles, Riffice is 
confident that the Gators will im -
prove before the SEC and NCAA 
tournaments.
“We’ve struggled a little bit with 
that, especially recently,” he said. 
“But we’ve been putting in a lot of 
work, so I know we’ll improve.”
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida finds success 
despite doubles troublesLACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s lacrosse team has had the 
fourth-toughest schedule in the nation this season, ac -
cording to the NCAA.
It started the 2019 campaign by playing 11 straight 
non-conference opponents, seven of which were 
ranked in the top 25: Colorado (No. 18), Maryland (No. 
2), Loyola (No. 17), Syracuse (No. 4), North Carolina 
(No. 3), Princeton (No. 10) and Stony Brook (No. 19).
Now, the No. 18 Gators will finish their non-con -
ference slate against Jacksonville on Thursday night at 
7 at the Jacksonville Lacrosse Center. UF holds a 5-6 
record against teams outside of the American Athletic 
Conference this year.
Florida (7-6) and the Dolphins (10-2) have squared 
off seven times in the past, with the Gators winning 
every meeting.
However, Jacksonville comes into the contest on a 
nine-game winning streak thanks to a high-powered of -
fense and stingy defense.It sports the third-ranked scoring offense (17.33 
goals per game) and 12th-ranked scoring defense (8.58 
goals allowed per game) in the nation.
Attacker Hayley Ciklin leads the team with 26 goals, 
while four other players have scored 20 times or more.
UF will need to rely on sophomore defender Sabrina 
Cristodero to shut down Ciklin.
In Florida’s 18-9 victory over Vanderbilt on Satur -
day, Cristodero man-marked attacker Sophie Furlong, 
the Commodores’ leading goalscorer, and held her 
without a point.
Cristodero also stymied UNC attacker Jamie Ortega 
on March 16. 
Ortega came into the game tied for fifth in the nation 
in goals but found the back of the net only once against 
the Gators.
The Dolphins are active on defense, causing the 
seventh-most turnovers per game in the nation (11.92).
Four Jacksonville players have caused 10 or more 
turnovers, including midfielder McKenna Rushford, 
who ranks first on the team with 41 draw controls.
Rushford will be seeing plenty of sophomore mid -
fielder Shannon Kavanagh, Florida’s primary draw 
taker.
Kavanagh and Cristodero have performed well in 
the draw circle for the Gators, winning 55 and 54 draw 
controls, respectively.
If Cristodero controls a draw against the Dolphins, 
she will break the program record for consecutive 
games with a draw control (27).
UF has won four straight games after losing three 
straight against Syracuse, North Carolina and Princeton 
in mid-March.
Senior midfielder Sydney Pirreca acknowledged 
Florida’s difficult start to the season but is confident 
about her team entering Thursday’s game.
“We’re peaking at the perfect time and finding our -
selves,” she said. “The past is the past, and we’re just 
moving forward at this point.”
@bmatamoros
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUF travels to Jacksonville for 
last non-conference game
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida defender Sabrina Cristodero recorded a 
draw control in 27 straight games.16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect 
WEDNESDAYS 
 
$4 Yuengling Pitcher
$6 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSrick. 
Corrick, who did not 
pitch in the Feb. 10 game, 
started in USF’s upset over 
Arizona and held what is 
currently the nation’s sixth-
best offense in runs per 
game (7.46) to just one run 
in seven innings. She has a 
16-2 record this season with 
a 1.10 ERA. 
“We just got to be ready to 
go no matter who they pitch, 
and (we) faced them already 
one time this year … (we’re) 
familiar with their lineup as 
they are with ours,” coach 
Tim Walton said.
USF will need a simi -
lar performance from Cor -
rick or senior Nicole Doyle 
against the Gators, as the 
Bulls struggle to put runs on 
the board. The team scores a dismal 3.44 runs per game, 
which is 231st in the country 
and, ranks 198th in batting 
average (.256). 
Utility player AnaMarie 
Bruni is the only starter in 
the lineup with a batting av -
erage above .315 or an on-
base percentage over .400. 
No batter has hit more than 
four home runs, and catcher 
Macy Cook is the only one to 
reach the 30-RBI mark. 
USF’s tepid offense is a 
major disadvantage for the 
Bulls against Florida’s strong 
pitching staff, which ranks 
14th in the nation in ERA. 
USF will likely have to once 
again face either Barnhill or 
Hightower, who won SEC 
Freshman of the Week for 
her shutout against Arkan -
sas.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Corrick has a 16-2 record with a 1.10 ERA 
ability to drive in runs. 
Reynoso hasn’t batted over .300 in any 
of her three seasons at UF or eclipsed 27 
RBIs. The only offensive category she leads 
the team in this year is hit-by-pitches (18). 
Jaimie Hoover, Hannah Adams and Jor -
dan Roberts are shaping up to be the fifth, 
sixth and seventh hitters, in no particular 
order. 
Hoover hit fifth on Sunday but has been 
in and out of the lineup all season. 
Adams is batting .307 with 18 RBIs and 
10 extra base hits, decent but not dangerous 
numbers for a mid-lineup option. 
Roberts packs a lot of power, but she 
also leads the team in strikeouts (31).
At the bottom of the order is either Jor -
dan Matthews, Alex Voss or Hannah Sipos. 
We know Matthews for her walk-off 
home run against Texas A&M in the 2018 
NCAA Super Regionals, but she’s hitting a 
modest .229 in 2019. 
Voss, a senior center fielder, and Sipos, 
a freshman third baseman, are primarily de -
fensive options and batting .257 and .145, 
respectively. 
The UF offense did look better in the 
sweep of Arkansas, but it benefitted from 
suspect defense behind Arkansas’ top 
pitcher, Autumn Storms. All six of the runs 
Storms allowed in her two starts were un -
earned thanks to four errors. 
The Gators can’t completely rely on their 
pitching even though they lead the SEC in 
earned run average (1.76). 
There’s hardly a better option than two-
time All-American Kelly Barnhill, but she’s 
susceptible to giving up home runs and has 
yet to find her best stuff in 2019. 
Behind her is freshman Elizabeth Hight -
ower, who won her first SEC game against 
the Razorbacks on Saturday. 
If Florida is going to beat a quality oppo -
nent in the Super Regionals, it’ll need better 
run support for its pitchers.  
    Mark Stine is a sports writer. Follow him 
on Twitter @mstinejr or contact him at 
mstine@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill threw a complete game in Sunday's 3-1 victory over 
Arkansas. She allowed two hits and struck out eight batters.
But his strong performance was erased in 
the ninth when Chase Haney gave up the 
go-ahead triple to McMullen.
The Seminoles (19-13) responded in the 
fifth inning. Nander De Sedas led off with 
a walk and Matheu Nelson followed with 
a single. They stole second and third dur -
ing Mike Salvatore’s at-bat, who struck out. 
With runners in scoring position, Alec San -
chez drove in De Sedas on a groundout to 
first and tied the game at one.
While Florida State leaned on Grady from the mound throughout the game, UF had a 
three-pronged pitching attack. 
David Luethje got the start and went four 
innings. He allowed five hits and one run. 
He also had one strikeout and a walk. Lu -
ethje was followed by Justin Alintoff, who 
threw two scoreless innings, allowed two 
hits and struck out two batters.
Ben Specht was the last arm out of the 
bullpen and earned his first career win af -
ter three scoreless innings. He allowed just 
one hit and finished with a career-high five 
strikeouts.
Florida’s offense has been lackluster as 
of late, and that offensive drought did not necessarily end on Tuesday. The Gators to -
taled just five hits and struck out 10 times, 
but McMullen’s heroics were enough to beat 
Florida State and complete the sweep of the 
Seminoles for the third season in a row.
“He always does everything he can to 
help the other guys be successful on the 
bench, and he’s always in the game whether 
he has a chance to play or not,” O’Sullivan 
said. “For him to come up and get a big hit 
like that in the (ninth) inning was obviously 
huge.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Florida had five hits and struck out 10 times