We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF STUDY SHOWS 31.5 PERCENT OF 
STUDENTS EXPERIENCE FOOD INSECURITY
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Dalice Betterson-Smith grew up in a single-parent 
household and said her mom did everything to give her 
children the best life possible. 
Credit and debit cards were regularly declined at 
stores and restaurants, and PB&J sandwiches consti-
tuted a typical meal in her house. 
Despite this, Betterson-Smith worked hard in school 
and got into UF. But that’s when the real struggle began. 
“I had no ﬁ  nancial aid my ﬁ  rst year of college, so I had to pay for everything out of pocket,” said Betterson-
Smith, a 20-year-old family, youth and community sci-
ences junior. 
Betterson-Smith also commuted to and from school 
from her home in Starke, Florida, and was always on 
the go. She didn’t have the time nor the money to eat 
properly, she said. 
Some days she wouldn’t eat. Others, she would buy 
a bag of chips and other cheap snacks at grocery stores 
and call it a meal. 
Betterson-Smith was experiencing food insecurity, 
an issue faced by college students across the country. A 
study by Aseel El Zein, a 26-year-old UF human nutri-
tion doctoral student, showed at least 31.5 percent of 
,
EVALUATING UF’S QUARTERBACKS
Feleipe Franks has brought stability to 
the football’s most important position,
pg 11
UPD K-9 retires after over 8 years
Rocky, a 10-year-old German shepherd, retired on May 14 from 
his duty as explosive detection dog, pg 3
UF librarian arrested for DUI
Jana Smith Ronan was arrested by deputies on Monday, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 95
FORTY NEW APPOINTMENTS 
WERE MADE AND TWO 
RESOLUTIONS WERE PASSED
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
UF’s Student Senate approved 
the ﬁ  nal group of the executive 
nominations during Tuesday night’s 
Senate meeting.  
The appointments, which were 
the subject of controversy at the 
Senate’s last meeting on May 28, 
included the approval of cabinet 
directors and executive secretaries. 
Cabinet director appointments in-
cluded Sarah Bartolomei for Finance 
& Affordability, Chloe Parrish for 
Women’s Affairs, Mason Brooke for 
Veterans Affairs and Brandon Birsic 
for LGBTQ Affairs. 
Executive secretary appoint-
ments included Zion Brown for 
Diversity Affairs, Juan Baralt for 
Campus Safety and Anjelica Jones for Press. 
At the start of the meeting, an In-
spire Party caucus member, Senator 
Zachary Amrose, expressed to the 
56 senators present that the party 
would be objecting to Student Body 
President Michael Murphy’s nomi-
nees for several cabinet director 
and executive secretary positions. 
Amrose said the nominees lacked 
proper qualiﬁ  cations based on the 
application material they provided.
Amrose said one of the most 
prominent examples of a nomi-
nee who lacked qualiﬁ  cations was 
Brooke, who was chosen to be the 
Cabinet Director of Veterans Affairs 
over Gregory Caudill, who is a vet-
eran and previously ran for Alachua 
County Commissioner in 2018.  
The nominees were voted on in 
a block, meaning all 34 nominees 
would be voted on at once instead 
of being considered individually, a 
special rule established prior.Student Senate approves 
executive nominations 
SEE FOOD INSECURITY ,  PAGE 4
SEE SG, PAGE 4‘It’s not a resource that runs on its own’: 
Hunger pangs felt throughout campus
THIS IS THE FIRST FINANCIAL SUPPORT 
FROM THE UNIVERSITY SINCE 1973
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
The UF College of Journalism and Communications 
is providing $100,000 annually for the next two years 
to The Independent Florida Alligator. 
The Alligator will receive the money on or before 
July 1 each year, according to a press release from the 
CJC. 
The money is coming from the Ofﬁ  ce of the Pro-
vost, which provides the college with money to support 
student professional experiences, said Diane McFarlin, 
dean of the CJC, in an email. 
This agreement makes it very clear the newspaper’s 
independence is not affected in any way, McFarlin said. 
The Alligator will remain independent from the univer-
sity, as it has since 1973.
“CJC and The Alligator have always been closely 
aligned,” McFarlin said. “I think this will deepen that 
mutual respect — The Alligator is a big part of our heri-
tage and has played an outsized role in the career paths 
of so many of our most outstanding students.”
The Alligator is experiencing the same ﬁ  nancial 
challenges as other community newspapers, McFarlin 
said. However, the major difference is most local news-
papers can fall back on revenue from subscriptions. “The Alligator is free, it doesn’t have that option,” 
McFarlin said. “As a key stakeholder, we might have 
stepped in sooner, but there was a reluctance to do any-
thing that might appear to compromise The Alligator’s 
independence.” 
Rick Hirsch, Alligator board member and managing 
editor of the Miami Herald, said an experience like The 
Alligator is difﬁ  cult for a school to replicate. 
“There is no environment that the universities can 
provide that gives students the opportunity to bear 
complete decision-making responsibility for how they 
do news,” said Hirsch. 
Alligator board member Aaron Sharockman, the ex-
ecutive director of PolitiFact, said he is excited UF and 
McFarlin recognize the value of The Alligator.
Sharockman said student-run newspapers such as 
The Alligator are great “learning labs” for students 
who are not only looking to get into journalism, but for 
students interested in photography, social media and 
video production. 
“The Alligator is a great resource that the school, 
quite frankly, beneﬁ  ts from, and I am just so thrilled 
that the university is recognizing that and is willing to 
support The Alligator so that it can continue to be an 
important part of the university fabric,” Sharockman 
said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgUF to allocate $200,000 to The Alligator
Courtesy of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences
A food-insecure student takes food from the Field and Fork Pantry. 
Students who utilize the pantry remain anonymous. T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  87° LOW  71°
Zine Night at CMC
The Civic Media Center will fea-
ture queer zines Wednesday as 
part of the Pride zine display. 
Guests are invited to make a 
zine to take home and contrib-
ute to a collective zine about 
queer "firsts." There will be 
zines from the Travis Fristoe 
collection, snacks to share and 
books to check out from the 
library collection. All are wel-
come, including families, but 
the organizers warn some zines 
may require adult supervision.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 95
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Meagan DiPolo
Noura Al-RajhiKatherine MooreKaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) Liu The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. 
and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator 
sign located in the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 4 p.m. 
THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and selections by the Board of 
Directors will be held at the Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the 
public on Friday, July 26th (time to be announced). Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given 
to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
NEW
NEW
NEW
STUDENT
STUDENT
STUDENT
STUDENT
STUDENT
STUDENT
STUDENT
EDITION
EDITION
EDITION
2019
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 2nd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready 
for business in the New Student Edition!
RUN DATE:
August 12th 2019
Welcome
Edition
Welcome
Edition
Back
Welcome
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
for business in the New Student Edition!
RUN DATE
MONDAY, AUGUST 19
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 9
Save 5% on your advertisement
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
Advertise in theROCKY HAS BEEN WITH 
THE K-9 UNIT FOR 8.5 
YEARS
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
K-9 Ofﬁ  cer Rocky rode in the 
backseat of his partner’s vehicle for 
nearly a decade. University Police 
said goodbye to him as he moved into 
retirement May 14.
Rocky, a 10-year-old German 
shepherd, had been working with his 
partner, Ofﬁ  cer Sam Sexton, for 8.5 
years.
Sexton made the decision in No-
vember to eventually retire Rocky 
from service in order to not exhaust him physically as he became older. 
Rocky was the department’s third K-9 
and the oldest on the team at the time 
of his retirement.
“Rocky has done everything I’ve 
ever asked him to do, every time, 
without fail, perfectly,” Sexton said.
Rocky is an Explosive Ordnance 
Detection K-9 who served to ﬁ  nd any 
explosive material that could cause 
harm to the campus or students, 
Sexton said. The K-9 Unit’s primary 
function is inspecting venues for large 
events, such as football games, before 
they take place.
Sexton said the team also respond-
ed to any bomb threats in the city or 
county that got called into the depart-
ment. They worked 12-hour shifts together with Rocky riding in the ve-
hicle behind Sexton’s shoulder.
“I can easily say I spend more 
time with Rocky than I spend with 
anybody in my entire family,” Sexton 
said. “You’re with your working K-9 
partner much more than you are with 
your children, with your spouse. It’s a 
very unique position to be in.”
Rocky was a well-known ofﬁ  cer 
throughout Gainesville and Alachua 
County, Sexton said. He and Rocky 
have gone to elementary schools 
throughout the county to conduct 
demonstrations, answer questions 
and allow children to pet and interact 
with Rocky.
During the demonstrations, Sexton 
used a piece of training material that contained the ingredients of 
explosives Rocky was trained to 
look for and about ﬁ  ve 2-gallon 
buckets with holes in the lid. The 
training material is placed in one of 
the buckets, which are then shufﬂ  ed 
around for Rocky, who sniffed out the 
material every time.
“He’s been fantastic,” said Ofﬁ  cer 
Dale Holmes, who works on the K-9 
Unit with his partner Boomer, a black 
Labrador retriever. “He’s the most 
consistent dog out there.”
Rocky is now fully retired and 
adjusting to his new life as a pet and 
staying home, while Sexton goes to 
work every day. Sexton said the tran-
sition has been difﬁ  cult for both him 
and Rocky.“I’ve had a few days where I’m 
struggling, you know, him not being 
in the vehicle behind my shoulder, 
just about 24 inches behind me,” 
Sexton said. “The routine has been 
so speciﬁ  c and so exact for nearly a 
decade.”
Sexton said the plan is for him to 
continue in the K-9 department, and 
he is currently in the process of look-
ing for another dog to work with.
“I’m trying to ﬁ  nd the perfect dog 
to follow Rocky,” Sexton said. “It’s 
going to be big shoes to ﬁ  ll for what-
ever dog I ﬁ  nd.”
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgUPD K-9 Officer Rocky retires after years of service
Courtesy of Ofﬁ  cer Sam Sexton
German shepherd and UPD K-9 Rocky, 10, is retiring after 8.5 years of service.
Reverend Cathy Harrington, 67, 
rings a bell Wednesday after 
reading aloud the name of a Pulse 
shooting victim as part of the 
49 Bells event at the Unitarian 
Universalist Fellowship of 
Gainesville. This event was one 
of many held around the world 
as part of the Orlando United 
Day: A Day of Love and Kindness. 
Bells were rung manually at noon 
local time at each participating 
location to honor the victims. 
Harrington said hosting this event 
aligned perfectly with the tenets 
of the church. “Our ﬁ  rst principle 
is to honor and afﬁ  rm the inherent 
worth and dignity of every human 
being, ” she said. “Unitarian 
Universalists have been ﬁ  ghting 
for LGBTQ rights and it’s just who 
we are. We couldn’t not do it. ”
Chris Day / Alligator Staff4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
Charlie Daffron / Alligator Staff
UF SG Budgets and Appropriations chair Cooper Brown ex-
plains budget revisions to the Senate during Tuesday’s meeting.
Inspire Party members tried to 
overturn the special order so each 
candidate could be voted on individu-
ally, but the motion failed to pass.   
All of the nominees were voted in 
by a majority of the Senators present. 
They will start their new positions 
immediately, said Senate President 
Libby Shaw. 
The executive branch’s nominees 
for Supervisor of Elections, Chief Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court and Asso-
ciate Justices of the Supreme Court 
were approved unanimously.
The Senate also unanimously 
passed amendments for the 2019-20  
ﬁ  scal year budget. These included 
decreasing student assistant salaries, 
increasing the copy center budget, 
increasing staff salaries and increas-ing  the Student Legal Center Program 
budget. 
The senate also unanimously 
passed revisions to two SG codes and 
two resolutions — one resolution cel-
ebrating Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander Desi 
American (APIDA) Heritage Month 
and one celebrating Pride Month 2019 
and LGBTQ+ Students.
The code revisions and budget will 
go through second readings at next 
week’s meeting before they can be 
moved forward, Shaw said. 
The resolutions will go into effect 
once they have the proper signatures 
from SG ofﬁ  cials.
Senator Rebecca Ragan, who 
helped write the resolution celebrat-
ing APIDA Heritage Month along with 
three other senators, said she was ex-
cited to see the resolution get passed.
She said UF normally celebrates 
APIDA Heritage Month in April, but it is nationally recognized in May. 
Similarly, UF organizations host 
Pride Awareness Month in April and 
there are various Gainesville Pride 
celebrations in October during nation-
al LGBT+ History Month, but June 
is nationally recognized as LGBT+ 
Pride Month. 
The passed resolutions were made 
to recognize and encourage students 
to celebrate both APIDA Heritage and 
Pride during their nationally recog-
nized months. 
“I was really happy to see full Sen-
ate support for something that is so 
important to me and part of my per-
sonal identity,” Ragan said.
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG,  from pg. 1
the 899 UF students surveyed in Fall 2017 were 
food insecure. This included both graduate and 
undergraduate students, she said. 
Food insecurity is deﬁ  ned as not knowing 
where one’s next meal is coming from, El Zein 
said. 
The research conducted by El Zein was 
comprised of two studies. One looked at col-
lege freshmen from eight universities, includ-
ing Syracuse University, Auburn University 
and UF, while the other focused entirely on UF 
students. 
The recent study that surveyed 855 fresh-
men from eight universities found 19.1 percent 
were food insecure. An additional 25.3 percent 
were found at risk for food insecurity, meaning 
they experienced anxiety about food, but there 
was not sufﬁ  cient evidence of food shortage or 
low food quality. 
The results also showed 21.7 percent of the 
244 UF freshmen surveyed were food insecure. 
The study explained food insecurity can 
result in poor sleep quality, higher perceived stress and a GPA below a 3.0.
El Zein is encouraging university adminis-
tration to start looking for food-insecure stu-
dents early. Risk is heightened with factors like 
race, off-campus housing, low parental educa-
tion and absence of a meal plan, she said. 
El Zein’s UF-focused study also found that 
70 percent of students experiencing food inse-
curity were aware of the Field and Fork Pantry, 
but only 15.6 percent had used it. 
The main barriers preventing UF students 
from entering the pantry are social stigma and 
underestimating their need for the pantry, ac-
cording to results from El Zein’s study.  
“Students reported that they may be embar-
rassed and kind of intimidated to enter some 
sort of pantry,” she said. 
El Zein suggested turning the pantry into a 
hub where students can come and take cook-
ing classes as well as changing the name of the 
pantry so it sounds less intimidating.  
Despite research results, the Field and Fork 
Pantry has a different stance.
As of Friday, the pantry had completed 
39,809 transactions and distributed 251,064 pounds of food and supplies since it opened in 
August 2015, said Ambre Hobson, assistant di-
rector of the Care Area at the Dean of Students 
Ofﬁ  ce. The pantry is open to anyone with a 
valid UFID, though they do not keep a record 
of who uses it. 
The pantry is currently expanding and is 
expected to be completed by Fall 2019. The ex-
pansion, which will more than double the size 
of the current pantry, will also create a space 
for storage, processing donations and a cook-
ing demonstration area.
“It’s not a resource that runs on its own,” 
Hobson said. “We are very much dependent 
on the support and kindness of others.” 
Jackie Shannon, a 21-year-old UF nutrition-
al sciences senior, is the president of the Food 
Science and Human Nutrition Club. 
Shannon helped organize a few collabora-
tions with the Field and Fork Pantry, such as 
tabling at the pantry’s annual Fresh Off the 
Farm event, she said. 
“It was a beautiful evening on the farm 
where various organizations came together to 
promote local and sustainable food choices,” 
Shannon said. “It was a lot of fun, very infor-
mative and there were some delicious food 
samples available as well.”
Shannon is not the only one supporting the pantry. Betterson-Smith is as well. 
Despite Betterson-Smith’s past struggle 
with her own food insecurity, she volunteered 
25 hours at the pantry as a requirement for a 
class in spring, she said. 
The pantry is a “valuable” resource for both 
students and faculty, she said. However, Bet-
terson-Smith said she did not use the pantry 
while she was struggling with food insecurity, 
because she didn’t know it existed until she 
volunteered. Although she still struggles ﬁ  nan-
cially, her food insecurity was alleviated by 
living at the Cooperative Living Organization. 
Here, a chef cooks ﬁ  ve days a week, a which is 
included in her $400-per-month rent, she said. 
Despite not personally using the pantry, 
Betterson-Smith encourages people to be open 
about their struggles and said no one should be 
afraid or nervous to use the pantry. 
“Do not be afraid,” she said. “There are fel-
low students there to assist you with the pro-
cess. Do not feel as if you are less than because 
you use the pantry. We are all Gators, no mat-
ter your ﬁ  nancial situation. You matter.”
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgFOOD INSECURITY,  from pg. 1Only 15.6 percent used the pantryTHURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THERE WILL BE 
6 TO 7 ZONING 
AND LAND USE 
DECISIONS 
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
The Gainesville City 
Plan Board will have 
their monthly meeting 
on June 27 at 6:30 p.m. 
at the City Hall Audito-
rium to discuss future 
zoning and land use de-
cisions.
Andrew Persons, the 
interim director of the 
city’s Department of Do-
ing, says the goal for the 
meeting is to open the 
ﬂ  oor to public discus-
sion about requests for 
zoning changes, regula-
tion changes and special 
use-permits.
“Overall, the goal is to be able to advise the 
City Commission on is-
sues of land use and 
planning,” Persons said. 
One issue set to be 
discussed at this meet-
ing is increasing the 
number of apartment 
units that are being built 
per square acre at Mid-
town, Persons said. In 
addition, six to seven 
other issues will be 
outlined in greater de-
tail when the agenda is 
available online within 
the next week.
The particular dis-
cussion to be addressed 
is in reference to a new 
apartment complex in 
Midtown, which will 
be located where The 
Swamp restaurant cur-
rently stands, as well as 
a block north of it. This 
complex will also be 
considered a mixed-use area, as it will contain 
both businesses and res-
idential areas, Persons 
said. 
“The reason for in-
creasing an area’s resi-
dential density is pri-
marily a ﬁ  nancial one,” 
Persons said. “That 
way, landlords can have 
more residential units to 
rent out.” 
For citizens who may 
want to express their 
opinion on this issue at 
this meeting, Persons 
said staff reports will be 
accessible in addition to 
the agenda through the 
city’s website. 
Anyone who wants 
to know more informa-
tion beforehand is wel-
come to talk with city 
staff members in per-
son, or via phone, email 
or the interactive chat 
function on their web-site, Persons said. 
“These meetings are 
really just meant to re-
view and make approv-
als that are consistent 
with both the city’s ordi-
nances and its values,” 
Persons said. 
David Haas, a 
20-year-old UF biomedi-
cal engineering junior, 
questioned whether it 
would even be worth it 
to focus on expanding 
the number of apart-
ments in this particular 
area. 
“I imagine it’ll be 
expensive to live there 
either way,” Haas said, 
“but if people are will-
ing to pay for it, I guess 
it’s a good idea.”  
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgCity Plan Board to have a meeting 
about Midtown development
, · CRIME ROUNDUP ·
NOBODY WAS KILLED OR 
INJURED
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies 
responded to an anonymous tip Tuesday 
evening of shots ﬁ  red out the front door of 
a residence at The Palms of Archer commu-
nity.
The caller told dispatch they saw a white 
male open the door of a residence, 7117 SW 
Archer Road, and ﬁ  re approximately two 
shots out the front door. The caller believed 
it was a handgun but was unsure, according 
to the police report.
The man reportedly left in a silver Volvo 
and headed toward Southwest Archer Road. 
He was stopped shortly after by a deputy 
and was said to be 48-year-old Matthew 
Emerson Corsbie. A criminal history check revealed Corsbie is a con-
victed felon in Florida for 
battery or assault on a 
law enforcement ofﬁ  cer. 
He was arrested at the 
scene for driving with a 
suspended or revoked 
license, according to the 
report.
Deputies performed a protective sweep of 
Corsbie’s residence to ensure no injured peo-
ple remained inside. While no people were 
found, deputies found two riﬂ  es, what was 
believed to be a ﬂ  are gun and three shotgun 
shells, two of which had been expended.
Corsbie was charged with possession of 
a weapon by a convicted felon, a second-
degree felony. He was released Wednesday 
afternoon on his own recognizance.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgTHE WOMAN IS LISTED AS THE 
CHAIR OF LIBRARY WEST
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce depu-
ties responded to a report of a woman 
sleeping behind the wheel of her car 
around 7 p.m. Monday.
Jana Smith Ronan, 64, was asleep at 
the wheel of her vehicle, while it was still 
running, on the side of Southwest Willis-
ton Road. A witness told deputies Ronan, 
who is listed as the chair for UF’s Library 
West, attempted to drive away when she 
awoke, according to a police report. 
The witness said she yelled at Ronan, 
who stopped the vehicle, and took the key 
to prevent Ronan from leaving. The wit-
ness told deputies she saw Ronan drink 
“ﬁ  ve to six gulps” of whiskey from a bottle while still in the driver’s 
seat before tossing the 
bottle out of the window, 
according to the report. 
When deputies ar-
rived, Ronan was sitting 
in the passenger’s seat 
of the witness’ vehicle. 
Deputies noted she had 
bloodshot, watery eyes and slurred speech 
while they talked to her. She agreed to 
complete a ﬁ  eld sobriety test but was un-
steady on her feet and staggered when ex-
iting the vehicle, according to the report.   
Ronan was charged with driving un-
der the inﬂ  uence, a second-degree mis-
demeanor. She was released on her own 
recognizance Tuesday. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgShots ﬁ  red at The Palms of Archer UF librarian arrested for DUI
Ronan
 Corsbie
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Patrons dine in the courtyard of The Swamp on April 18.  Gainesville’s City Plan 
Board will discuss an apartment building that could replace the restaurant. 
NEW HARVESTING 
PROCESS OF AN 
AMINO ACID MAKES A 
DIFFERENCE
By Sarah Morton
Contributing Writer
Mom says to use sunscreen, but 
could it actually be harmful?
UF College of Pharmacy re-
searchers hope a new amino-ac-
id-harvesting method will make 
sunscreen less harmful and more 
environmentally friendly.
According to National Geo-graphic, commercial sunscreens 
often wash into the ocean, bleach-
ing coral and hurting marine life 
with harsh chemicals. The College 
of Pharmacy also found sunscreen 
is potentially harmful to the hu-
man reproductive system.
Yousong Ding, principal inves-
tigator of the ﬁ  ve-person team, 
said an amino acid called shino-
rine could help.
Chemical ﬁ  lters in sunscreen 
— while protecting us from the 
sun’s ultraviolet  rays — cause 
environmental damage. Amino 
acids, on the other hand, can be natural ﬁ  lters, Ding said. Accord-
ing to the National Center for Bio-
technology Information, shinorine 
is exceptionally good at absorbing 
UV rays. 
After ﬁ  ve years of research, the 
team found a fast and practical 
way to grow shinorine, improving 
upon time-consuming processes.
Manyun Chen, a UF graduate 
student working on the project, 
said shinorine has been harvested 
from red algae. However, algae 
grows slowly, and environmental 
changes can affect the amount of 
shinorine produced.“Although I am not sure if this 
is the major reason why it has not 
been available to the general pub-
lic, overproduction of shinorine in 
a well-controlled manner will deﬁ  -
nitely decrease the cost of produc-
ing this compound,” she said in an 
email.
In January, the UF researchers 
found a model cyanobacterium 
called Synechocystis, which al-
lows them to grow shinorine more 
quickly. The shorter production 
time makes it more possible for 
the environmentally friendly sun-
screen to be sold in stores, Chen said. The new method has been 
patented.
The team is trying to get a com-
pany to invest in the research to 
get the ball rolling toward selling 
the sunscreen. Ding said the goal 
for any researcher is to have their 
product available to help the pub-
lic.
“Our researcher program is 
very interested in ﬁ  nding some vi-
able solutions to address some of 
the important problems our soci-
ety is facing, be that health, pollu-
tion, agriculture and environmen-
tal,” Ding said.UF researchers develop environmentally friendly sunscreenThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnColumn
“They want us dead”
Three years ago, 49 people were mur-
dered in Pulse nightclub. This week-
end, the Revival Baptist Church in the 
suburb of Clermont, Florida, is capi-
talizing on the city’s grief to promote 
its homophobic agenda in its Make America 
Straight Again conference.
Patrick Boyle, the pastor hosting the 
event, said the conference was planned to coincide with 
Orlando’s Pride week. Thankfully, he seems to have 
been misinformed because that does not take place until 
October. However, it’s even more reprehensible to have 
it on the Pulse anniversary.
The six pastors leading the conference are all-stars 
of LGBTQ+ hatred and many have publicly praised the 
2016 massacre, with Roger Jimenez going as far as say-
ing the “tragedy is more them didn’t die” and Steven 
Anderson calling for the death of all homosexuals. 
I don’t want to be writing about these repugnant 
men. I wish we could do want Zapulla suggested in his 
Tuesday column and starve them of attention. 
But these people are dangerous.
One pastor, Tommy McMurtry, told his congregation 
to pray “if they do any protests, that it gets violent” 
because he said Florida’s stand-your-ground law means 
they’re “allowed to ﬁ  ght back.” Pride month started with a protest. Fif-
ty years ago, patrons of a New York City 
gay bar were fed up with systematic dis-
crimination and fought back with riots in 
the streets. Our community is vibrant and 
strong and refuses to accept oppression. Al-
though the organizers have not yet released 
the conference’s location, a Facebook event 
for a protest already has 175 people marked 
as interested or going. If you wish to protest, 
please bear in mind the organizers are hop-
ing for an excuse to be violent. Make America Straight 
Again is not a call for mass-scale conversion therapy: 
Boyle quotes Ecclesiastes 1:15 saying, “What is crooked 
cannot be straightened” in the conference’s promotion-
al video. They want us dead.
Is your safety worth standing up to these bigots? Not 
for their sake; they aren’t going to change their minds. 
But unchecked vitriolic hatred can be perilous, especial-
ly when these men have thousands in their collective 
captive audiences each week soaking in their messages. 
I won’t tell anyone whether or not to show up in 
this space. I think it’s incredibly brave to demonstrate 
resistance and love in the face of hate. Maybe though 
it’s enough to simply do that day-to-day. Maybe that’s 
the purpose of showing pride.
Lindsey Breneman is The Alligator engagement editor. 
She’s proud to be the B in LGBTQ+. It is no secret that our Student Govern-
ment’s majority party likes to tout its close 
ties to Israel and the American Israel Public 
Affairs Committee.
This week, I would like to talk about an 
anti-Semitism resolution that almost passed in 
Senate and all the behind the scenes shennan-
gans that highlight the disfunction of majority 
party senators.
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Senator 
Zachary Amrose, as well as some other Jewish 
senators, took the time to write a comprehensive “Resolu-
tion Condemning Anti-Semitism” that was sent to the Senate 
Judiciary committee in early April. The committee failed the 
resolution, citing reasons such as not having enough spon-
sors from the community (which is a dubious reason to fail 
legislation based off of the set criteria they are supposed to 
evaluate legislation off of, but as we all know, no one cares 
about the rules in SG). Amrose decided to work on getting 
more sponsors after that meeting.
“Magically,” a “Resolution Standing Against Anti-Semi-
tism” with completely different authors, this time from the 
majority party, was sent to the Judiciary committee not too 
soon after. The fact it was Passover when the original au-
thors found their resolution had been ripped off didn’t make 
it any better. The new resolution contained not only phras-
es (and errant punctuation) directly lifted from the original 
resolution, but also language that was obviously similar to 
the original resolution but altered a little so it wasn’t a direct 
copy and paste.
According to Amrose, it also appeared that during the 
committee hearing for the second resolution, one of the au-
thors admitted she had changed up the old resolution to cre-
ate the new one.
Without much success talking to the majority party au-
thors, Amrose had me send a document with all the instanc-
es of plagiarism as well as some other details to the full Sen-ate. The Senate has an email list, but those who 
control it haven’t always been very forthcoming 
with letting emails through, so I had gone ahead 
and manually compiled the emails of everyone.
During public debate at the next Senate meet-
ing, some of the authors aired their grievances 
against the majority party senators. So did I. I 
talked about how plagiarism has unfortunately 
been rather common in my experience with SG. I 
talked about how if the majority wants to claim it 
is being bipartisan angels, it shouldn’t be stealing 
the language of minority party legislation, passing it off as 
their own and then excluding us as authors.
It was actually at this point that I made a mental note to 
write a column series about all the plagiarism-related wrong-
doing that I had seen in my time in the Senate, so that’s why 
I ﬁ  nd it ﬁ  tting to ﬁ  nish off the series with this story. This is 
not to say this is the last instance of plagiarism I can talk 
about (not even close), but I do want to move on to talking 
about other areas of malfeasance and misfeasance in SG.
There was no denying the majority party looked horrible 
when it was called out that meeting; there really wasn’t much 
of a defense it could put up. The Majority Party Leader at the 
time moved to “table” the resolution back to the Judiciary 
committee, where it was procedurally withdrawn between 
the spring and summer semester.
I think it’s a little sad that, between a group of actually 
Jewish people and Christians who align themselves with 
AIPAC (kinda weird but alright), we couldn’t even pass an 
anti-Semitism resolution because of unprofessionalism and 
disrespect.
But is anyone really surprised?
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His 
column appears on Thursdays. Read the entirety of his 
column on alligator.org/opinion. Plagiarism in Student Government, part 4 It’s the weekend, or at least your deﬁ  nition of it, as you 
only have class three days a week. It’s road trip time, so 
you set your coordinates to someplace south of here and 
burn the dinosaur fuel to get there. But instead of hitting 
rain, your car comes into contact with something superi-
orly worse: lovebugs, aka one of the plagues not mentioned 
in Exodus. You must have killed a hundred a minute driving 
on the highway, and when you reach your destination you 
see your damage. “Weird…,” you think to yourself. The bugs’ 
dead bodies seem to spell something out….
Darts & Laurels
Wednesday, Hong Kong police set off tear gas and shot rub-
ber bullets into a mass of over 200,000 protesters, according 
to Hong Kong police. A dart goes out to this excessive use of 
force. A bill that would allow the government to hand over sus-
pects to China sparked the protests. It was supposed to be voted 
on Wednesday, but protests got in the way. Instead, it will be 
voted on next week. Hong Kong is supposed to be completely 
autonomous until 2047, so this bill feels like too much way too 
soon. Critics of the bill fear it will make it so China can punish 
political objectors in Hong Kong. 
Famed late night talk show host Jon Stewart put a Judiciary 
subcommittee to shame on Tuesday. But it wasn’t with his usu-
al comedic style. This time there were no jokes, one-liners or 
sarcasm, only rage. A laurel goes to Stewart for slamming the 
subcommittee for only ﬁ  ve of the 14 members for showing up 
to the hearing to permanently fund the September 11th Victim 
Compensation Fund. The fund provides 9/11 ﬁ  rst responders 
with healthcare and would expire next year. The committee 
unanimously passed the bill Wednesday. Now it goes to a vote 
in the House. It’s safe to say Stewart left his mark. 
The Cleveland Cavaliers hiring Lindsay Gottlieb, better 
known as the University of California, Berkeley women’s head 
coach, to be an assistant coach on John Beilein’s staff has us go-
ing, “Yay sports!” This is historic. She is the ﬁ  rst women’s col-
lege head coach recruited to an NBA staff, according to ESPN. 
We’re giving a laurel to the Cavs for the hiring decision and 
Gottlieb for being a trailblazer in the NBA. 
Animal Recovery Mission, a Florida-based animal welfare 
group, released heart-breaking footage of extreme abuse to 
calves at the Fair Oaks Farm in Fair Oaks, Indiana. The video 
went viral, with many on social media sharing the graphic video 
of workers punching, throwing and even beating calves with 
steel rebars. Some online users are calling for a boycott of the 
Coca-Cola milk company. Just when the shivers from the video 
left our spine, ARM released another video Wednesday. This 
video focused on adult cow abuse on the farm’s milking carou-
sel. Like the previous video, this one is egregious. With the pla-
centa still visible, cows are milked just hours after giving birth. 
A dart goes to the abuse of these animals and to the individuals 
who chose to senselessly inﬂ  ict harm on helpless animals. 
The mainstream media has failed the hundreds of Sudanese 
people who have been injured and reported 118 people who 
have been killed. A dart goes out not to only the paramilitary 
forces that opened ﬁ  re on protesters, beat civilians and sexually 
assaulted women, but also to the news cycle that has neglected 
these people. Little media spotlight has been shown on this at-
tack on humanity. Celebrities like Rihanna and George Clooney 
have called for more support, but it’s sad that celebrities are do-
ing a better job at bringing attention to this than the mainstream 
media. We hope we have not brainwashed ourselves to think 
massacres in other less-developed countries are unnewsworthy 
and normal. Because it’s not. 
And lastly, Kylie Jenner. Over the weekend, she threw a 
Handmaid’s Tale-themed party for her most recent best friend. 
The A.V. Club’s Dan Neilan said it best, “Nothing says ‘happy 
birthday’ like a recreation of a dystopian society in which wom-
en’s rights have been systemically and violently ripped away.” 
Yep. Dart-worthy, to say the least. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORLindsey Breneman
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Position-by-position: 
Evaluating UF’s quarterbacks
Pg 11Aspiring rapper GUFF returns to Gainesville
The UF alumnus is performing his debut album “Carpe Noctem” 
at The Range GNV, pg 8
Barbara Solis, 18, said her current style is wearing 
shorts because of the intense heat. The incoming  
microbiology and politicial science sophomore, walks 
to the bus and wears graphic T-shirts and shorts on 
most days to minimize sweat. She picks which T-shirt 
she will wear by grabbing whatever she has not worn 
recently. When it rains, she likes to wear a black 
poncho that she has. Solis describes her style as comfy 
and casual.
Anna Lanzino, 20, is seen wearing two signature 
clothing items no matter if it’s 100 degrees or 
pouring outside: jeans and a motorcycle jacket. 
The computer science junior tossed her shorts 
aside for items that make her feel protected 
when she is on her bike. Lanzino’s friends 
describe her style as almost grunge but not 
completely. Lanzino is just glad to have some 
sort of style at all. carefree person when it 
Student 
Fashion 
Spotlight:
Gators dress for all 
kinds of weather
Julia Salt, 22, is a sustainability studies 
graduate student who works as a receptionist 
in the University Auditorium. She has to bring 
a change of clothes for work since she bikes to 
school every day. She normally wears neutral 
colors, workout pants or ﬂ  owy bohemian 
dresses, but for work, she wears slacks and a 
blouse. Now that it rains more often, she wears 
a raincoat and to keep true to her style, no 
matter the weather.
Wen Jiang, a psychology freshman, beats the 
heat by wearing a short-sleeved shirt. The 
19-year-old always brings a jacket with her 
to conquer the freezing death trap that is the 
Regional Transit System bus. Jiang doesn’t 
worry about rain because permanently tucked 
away in her backpack is an umbrella. When it 
comes to style, Jiang has a laissez-faire mood, 
putting on whatever looks nice as an outﬁ  t.    Hannah Sirlin, 18, only has one class this 
summer, so she takes her chances when it 
comes to preparing for the weather. The 
second-year history sophomore brings no 
jacket or umbrella when she comes to class.
Because it’s summer, she wears shorts and a 
tank top or T-shirt, and she usually brings a 
sweatshirt to warm herself against the wintry 
RTS bus air conditioning.DOES WEATHER IMPACT UF 
STUDENT FASHION CHOICES?
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.org8  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
‘I STARTED TO GET A LITTLE 
JADED AND DECIDED TO DO 
SOMETHING ABOUT IT. ’
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
Rows of food surrounded the 
edges of the arena in the O’Connell 
Center on Sunday night all for one 
purpose: to do something greater. 
The Executive Director of the 
Taste of Greater Gainesville, Scott 
Costello, said he was tired of going 
to events where money was spent on 
embellishments rather than on what 
mattered to him: charities dedicated 
to bettering the lives of kids. 
“I attended over 300 events a 
year,” Costello said. “I started to 
get a little jaded by what I saw and 
decided to do something about it.”
Costello created the Taste of 
Greater Gainesville, an annual 
fundraising event, in 2009 and has 
raised over half a million dollars for 
local charities close to his heart. The 
team at Taste hoped to add another 
$100,000 to that number this past 
Sunday.
“We expect after 10 years [for the 
money raised] to be over $600,000,” said event coordinator, Christy 
Angerhofer.
Organizations like Child 
Advocacy Center of Gainesville, 
Tyler’s Hope for a Dystonia Cure, 
PACE Center for Girls Alachua and 
Ronald McDonald House Charities 
of North Central Florida all receive 
donations from the fundraiser. 
These four charities were chosen 
by the Taste of Greater Gainesville 
staff because two of the organizations 
hold personal meaning for Costello. 
Costello served on the board for 
the Child Advocacy Center, which 
he said desperately needed funds 
and awareness. He also coached 
Sammy Staab, a child living with 
generalized dystonia, a disorder 
marked by painful muscle spasms. 
Dystonia can leave a child very 
disabled and unable to lead a normal 
life, according to Tyler’s Hope. 
“I watched her battle dystonia, 
which is the fourth largest 
neurological muscle disorder in the 
world, and no one knew about it,” 
Costello said. 
It was evident by the scads of 
people present Sunday that raising 
awareness and fundraising for 
these causes was important to the Gainesville community as well as 
Costello.
Over 1,500 people of all ages 
moved from table to table, tasting 
the smorgasbord of food laid out by 
the 40 local vendors. 
The participating restaurants 
donated all the served, which ranged 
from sushi and poke bowls to savory 
barbecue and hot wings.
During the event, Costello  took 
the time to thank the restaurants for 
their generosity over the speakers at 
the O’Connell Center.
“They’re more than just a 
restaurant,” Costello said. “They’re a 
part of a community,” 
The food tasting was followed 
by an iron chef competition, set in 
the center of the arena with each 
competitor at their own workstation. 
The chefs battled in making dishes 
that included the secret ingredient: 
black trufﬂ  es. Judges including 
Angie Shaghaghi, who appeared on 
Food Network’s “Chopped,” scored 
the meals on presentation, taste and 
use of that secret ingredient. 
“I’ve seen a lot of people really 
excited about the competition, about 
tasting all the food, about the great 
wine and just the cause [of] why we’re here,” Angerhofer said.
Those interested can visit Taste 
of Greater Gainesville to learn more 
about the cause and to do something 
greater like Costello and the team at Taste did 10 years ago. 
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comGainesville community rallies in support of one man’s vision of hope
LIFESTYLE
THE ST. PETERSBURG-BASED 
RAPPER AND UF ALUMNUS 
IS PERFORMING HIS DEBUT 
ALBUM “CARPE NOCTEM” 
AT THE RANGE GNV
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Zach Gufford’s journey into 
making music began nearly 12 
years ago, while on a trip to 
Gainesville.
“I was in the backseat with my 
boy Ty, and we were riding up to 
Gainesville to go to a Gator game, 
and I was like ‘I’m gonna write a 
rap,’” Gufford said.Now the 24-year-old UF alum-
nus, who performs under the name 
GUFF, is returning to the swamp to 
play at The Range GNV June 21 af-
ter releasing his ﬁ  rst studio album 
“Carpe Noctem” in April.
While the St. Petersburg-based 
rapper’s music has a strong South-
ern rap inﬂ  uence, Gufford ex-
plained that he doesn’t want to be 
limited to any particular style.
“I want you to ﬁ  nd a song no 
matter what mood you’re in. That’s 
why I don’t want to be deﬁ  ned by 
a genre, because I make music in 
different moods that shine through 
every single time,” Gufford said.
Gufford said his biggest inﬂ  u-
ence when creating music is not a speciﬁ  c musical style or artist, 
but rather his own life. He said his 
years in Gainesville were inﬂ  uen-
tial in his development as a both a 
person and a musician and helped 
solidify his desire to make music.
“[Gainesville] helped me be-
come who I am, and that shines 
through my music,” Gufford said. 
“It inﬂ  uenced where I wanted to 
go with music, and I realized that I 
was going to stop making fake mu-
sic and make music that I thought 
sounded good.” 
Gufford’s upcoming perfor-
mance is the culmination of years 
of work. He began writing the 
songs for “Carpe Noctem” two and 
a half years ago, with most of the 
production and writing being com-
pleted over the past year.
He has only played live a hand-ful of times, and his show at The 
Ridge GNV will be his ﬁ  rst head-
lining performance.
GUFF’s album “Carpe Noctem” 
is available on iTunes and Spotify, 
and tickets for his June 21 perfor-
mance are available for purchase 
on Eventbrite. Tickets cost $10 and 
doors open at 10 p.m.  
Gufford said he is excited for 
the opportunity to ﬁ  nally show-
case his talents.
“Everyone says ‘Give me the 
opportunity and I’ll show out,’ and 
I have the opportunity now, so I 
feel more motivated than ever,” he 
said.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgAspiring rapper GUFF returns to Gainesville
MUSIC
Harley Smith / Alligator Staff
T aste of Greater Gainesville 
attendees sample sushi provided 
by T aste, a local restaurant that 
serves Pan-Asian cuisine.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Guff has garnered almost 15,000 
streams on his Spotify page.THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1050/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard,
large closets, pets welcome, no application
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100        8-13-19-24-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Friends don’t let friends be driven home 
by drunk drivers1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 12 Autos 13 Wanted
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
How to Place a 
Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classiﬁ  ed@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online: w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
See alligator.org for more information
ANSWER ON PAGE 10
ANSWER ON PAGE 10
ANSWER ON PAGE 10
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
ANSWER ON PAGE 10
10  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-20-19-
12-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Did you know Nobel Prize winner Niels Bohr was 
given a perpetual supply of beer piped into his house?
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/13/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/13/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, June 13, 2019
ACROSS
1 Story trajectories
5 Wild pig
9 Pulitzer columnist 
Maureen
13 Winter expense
14 Soothing 
botanical
15 Great Lake 
bordering four 
states
16 Data-entering 
devices
19 Brouhahas
20 Semi unit
21 Document 
to protect 
confidential info: 
Abbr.
22 “Really?”
24 Like bread knives
26 Sinful habit
27 Chin-up targets, 
for short
29 Brontë heroine
30 Creative writing 
deg.
31 [I’m shocked!]
32 Dim sum go-with
34 August Wilhelmj’s 
arrangement 
of a movement 
from Bach’s 
“Orchestral Suite 
No. 3”
40 Scheduled to 
arrive
41 “Really”
42 Pigeon sound
43 Prefix meaning 
“god”
46 Einsteinhaus 
locale
47 Zebra’s mother
48 Part of the Texas/
Oklahoma border
51 Concert venues
53 “__ the Walrus”
54 Peeples of “Pretty 
Little Liars”
55 Horse-and-buggy 
group
56 Layered lunch 
orders ... or a hint 
to 16-, 24-, 34- 
and 48-Across
60 Sicily’s tallest 
mountain
61 Word with fishing 
or party
62 Con’s room
63 Many profs
64 Usually choppy 
expanses
65 Guessing gameDOWN
1 Tuna at sushi 
bars
2 Enterprise 
enterprise
3 “Breakfast at 
Tiffany’s” author
4 Virile dudes
5 Night fliers
6 “Bravo!”
7 Main arteries
8 Do more lawn 
work
9 Scout group
10 Like a bad spray 
tan
11 Not as tame
12 Marquis of note
17 “You missed it”
18 Suffix with 
elephant
22 “Homeland” 
rating
23 Old audio 
system
24 Pearly gates 
greeter
25 Sweetie
28 Cigar remnants
31 Serengeti 
antelope
32 Word on an 
“evacuation 
route” sign33 Sorbonne 
summer
35 Trash barge 
emanation
36 Boxer’s warning
37 “Let me give you 
a hand”
38 Screenwriter 
Ephron
39 “Here __ nothing”
43 __ dips: upper-
arm workout
44 Toast topic45 Mountaineer 
Hillary
46 Head-hugging 
brimless cap
47 Blends well
49 Seat winners
50 Lab containers
52 “Now and Then” 
actress
55 Bowls over
57 __-relief
58 Genetic letters
59 Underhanded
By Tim Schenck
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, June 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 WCs
5 Rope fiber plants
10 Shell game, e.g.
14 Hodgepodge
15 Wedding
16 Somewhat, in 
music
17 Blockhead
18 Ulan Bator 
residents
20 Electrical unit
22 “Citizen Kane” 
director
23 Fill with love
24 Flower part
26 Philosophy suffix
28 Antediluvian
29 Talk, talk, talk
32 Drive away
36 With the bow, in 
music
38 “__ Lisa”
39 Share good 
fortune, as 
suggested in four 
sets of circles
42 Ore bed
43 Multivitamin 
ingredient
44 Compare
45 Fielder’s strong 
throw
46 Cultural 
Revolution leader
47 Recede
49 Does some 
mending
51 Disaster area 
thief
56 Gauguin’s island 
retreat
59 Bayou critter
61 Wedding party 
member
63 Inevitable 
outcome
64 What Benjamin 
Button did 
backward
65 Not windy
66 Side squared, for 
a square
67 Like Santa’s 
cheeks
68 Eyelid woes
69 Metallica 
drummer Ulrich
DOWN
1 Age of 
Enlightenment 
philosopher
2 Do-or-die Texas 
Hold ’em bet3 String quartet 
instrument
4 City destroyed in 
Genesis
5 Caters to
6 Carbon 
compound
7 Freebies near 
the register
8 Faddish ’90s 
disc
9 Road 
maintenance 
vehicle
10 Mop target
11 Shade of black
12 Proactiv+ target
13 What some 
proverbial stones 
don’t gather
19 Detective’s need
21 “And there you 
have it!”
25 Epoch in the 
Cenozoic Era
27 __ of honor
29 Egg part
30 Get the pot 
going
31 Madeline 
of “Blazing 
Saddles”
32 “Let us know if 
you’re coming” 
letters33 Duel tool
34 Uptight type
35 Bard’s nightfall
37 Density symbol, 
in physics
38 __ tai
40 Nin and Frank
41 Macaroni shape
46 Pal at the barbie
48 Turbine parts
49 One of Sean 
Combs’ stage 
names
50 Hair-raising52 Butcher shop 
byproduct
53 Sparkly crown
54 Perfume 
compound
55 Relatives of 
emus
56 Lift up the slope
57 Golden Fleece 
ship
58 Goes quickly, 
quaintly
60 Ascend
62 Bumped into
06/11/19
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
Stickelers Answer from pg. 9
Answer from pg. 9
Answer from pg. 9Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Shortstop Brady McConnell 
(pictured) and DH Nelson 
Maldonado were named 2019 
All-Americans by the National 
Collegiate Baseball Writers 
Association on Wednesday.Four UF lacrosse players named All-Americans
Senior Lindsey Ronbeck earned First T eam All-American honors from the 
Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association. Sophomore Shan-
non Kavanagh was named to the second team , while senior Sydney Pirreca 
and junior Cara Trombetta were named to the third team.FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Every Thursday until the end of the 
summer, alligatorSports will analyze 
a position on Florida’s football roster 
and identify strengths and weakness-
es. We’ll start the series by taking a 
look at quarterbacks.
What a difference a year makes.
At this time last summer, Feleipe 
Franks was in the midst of a quarter-
back battle between himself, redshirt 
sophomore Kyle Trask and freshman 
Emory Jones.
Franks, who was inconsistent at 
best in eight starts as a redshirt fresh-
man in 2017, eventually won the job. 
He took a big step forward in 2018, 
and for the first time in a long time 
the Gators won’t have a quarterback 
battle going into a season.
Franks improved in virtually all 
categories last season. He threw for 
2,457 yards, up from 1,438 in 2017. 
He threw 24 touchdowns, 15 more 
than he did in 2017, and cut down on 
interceptions (six vs. eight). His quar-
terback rating improved from 113.3 
to 143.3, and he also ran for seven 
touchdowns in 2018 after not rushing 
for any the year prior.
His season wasn’t without hiccups, 
however. The low point came against 
Missouri in early November, when he 
was benched during a blowout loss 
and booed off the field. Franks re-
bounded from that performance, how-
ever, throwing eight touchdowns and no interceptions as Florida reeled off 
four straight wins to end the season.
Franks probably isn’t going to win 
a Heisman, but there’s reason for op-
timism. He was the first Florida quar-
terback since 2010 to start every game 
in a season (John Brantley), and if he 
can build off the success he had at the 
end of last season there’s no reason 
why he can’t manufacture another 
solid year.
UF has some stability behind 
Franks, as well. The most exciting 
prospect is Jones, a redshirt freshman, 
who is presumably the quarterback of 
the future once Franks leaves. The 
former four-star recruit played spar-
ingly last season but showed flashes 
of promise, especially against the 
Idaho Vandals, where he completed 
12 of his 16 attempts for 125 yards. 
Now that his redshirt status has been 
exhausted, look for Jones to be a big-
ger factor this year in a wildcat role.
Trask should be a serviceable depth 
piece as the third string, but barring 
catastrophic injury it’s unlikely that 
he’ll see the field in games that aren’t 
blowouts.
Florida will be without a fourth 
quarterback this year because of the 
loss of freshman Jalon Jones, who 
was accused of sexual battery against 
two UF students last month before 
transferring to Jackson State.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgPosition-by-position: Evaluating UF’s quarterbacks
MENS BASKETBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
There are 146 days until UF men's basketball 
takes the court against North Florida to open the 
2019 season. When it does, it’ll have six new faces.
According to 247Sports, the Gators have the sev-
enth-best recruiting class in the nation. It consists of 
two five-star recruits, one four-star and two three-
stars. The class will also gain one transfer.
The two headliners of coach Mike White’s 2019 
class come in its two five-star recruits, Scottie Lew-
is and Tre Mann.
Hailing from Eatontown, New Jersey, Lewis’ 
prowess at the shooting guard position has earned 
him plenty of accolades. He was named a Third-
Team Naismith All-American and participated 
in the McDonald’s All-American game in March, 
where he went 4-of-7 from the field and netted 10 
points and four steals. Lewis is 247Sports’ No. 7 re-
cruit for 2019.
UF’s other five-star in Mann won’t have to travel 
far to get to Gainesville, as he attended The Villages 
Charter School in The Villages, Florida. Mann was 
also a part of the McDonald’s All-American Game, 
though he didn’t perform as well as Lewis: the 
point guard went 2-of-7 from the field with just five 
points, but he did manage to nab three rebounds.
Regardless, the two should play important roles 
on the offensive side for Florida rather quickly, and 
the guards can complement the young returning 
pair of Andrew Nembhard and Noah Locke.
UF’s four-star recruit is another Florida native. 
Omar Payne, a 6-foot-9 forward from Kissimmee, will join a roster that benefitted from a relatively 
successful freshman season from forward Keyontae 
Johnson last year. Payne is ranked No. 46 in the 
247Sports rankings, and he netted a double-double 
in the 2017 state semifinals with 10 points and 10 
blocks.
Florida’s three-stars aren’t as highly decorated, 
but they could still have plenty to offer a team com-
ing off an early exit from the NCAA Tournament.
Ques Glover, a point guard from Knoxville, 
Tennessee, was the MVP in Tennessee’s state tour-
nament and averaged 21 points per game as a se-
nior. Jason Jitoboh, a 6-foot-11 center from Abuja, 
Nigeria, averaged 10.1 points and 5.6 rebounds 
on the Nike EYBL circuit last year and helped his 
high school, Hamilton Heights Christian Academy, 
hit No. 25 on MaxPreps final Top 100 high school 
rankings.
Finally, Florida will have a new addition with 
college experience to cap off its incoming class of 
new recruits. Anthony Duruji spent his freshman 
and sophomore years at Louisiana Tech, where 
he averaged 9.7 points and 5.1 rebounds and also 
amassed 85 blocked shots in 65 games. Duruji en-
ters UF as one of its three upperclassmen, and he 
should provide a veteran presence for the wave of 
young recruits the Gators will add to the roster for 
the upcoming season.
Florida failed to meet high expectations in 2018, 
but with a top-10 recruiting class and added veteran 
presence, the Gators will hope to make a deeper run 
into the tournament come next March.
 
@riverhwells 
rwells@alligator.orgFlorida's top-10 class pairs 
youth with experienceChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks had a breakout season last year, throwing for 2,457 
yards with 24 touchdowns and six interceptions. He also rushed for seven scores.
Alligator File Photo
UF men's basketball coach Mike White will have six new weapons at his disposal 
next season, including two five-star recruits, one four-star and two three-stars.
12  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!The Associated Press
Warriors small forward Kevin Durant limps off the court after rupturing his 
Achilles in Game 5 of the NBA Finals on Monday night. 
River Wells / Alligator Staff
Kevin Durant was back for 
12 minutes.
The Golden State War-
riors small forward re-
turned from a lower-calf 
injury for Game 5 of the NBA Fi-
nals with his team down 3-1 to 
Toronto in the series. He had been 
out since May 8 after he suffered 
the injury in the Western Confer-
ence Semiﬁ  nals against Houston.
The Warriors were on the brink 
of elimination, and they needed 
their hobbled superstar back to ﬂ  ip the script. 
So, Durant, who was far from 100% healthy en-
tering tip-off on Monday, stepped on the court 
in Toronto to attempt to extend the series.
Durant’s presence was the ultimate boost for 
Golden State. He sank a trio of three-pointers 
to contribute to his 11 points in the opening 
quarter-plus of the game.
Looking to drain another from behind the 
three-point arc, Durant pushed up against Rap-
tors forward Serge Ibaka to gain space.
Pop.
Right Achilles ruptured.
Durant was down, play was suspended and 
Toronto fans cheered Durant’s misfortune, 
much to the disgust of both Warriors and Rap-
tors players.
As Durant sat on the edge of the hardwood, 
legs fully extended, he massaged the back of 
his right ankle as his teammates began to sur-
round him.
Durant was helped up, handed over to team 
physicians and disappeared into the visitor’s 
tunnel with a look of shock and devastation on 
his face.
The shock Durant and the Warriors were 
feeling permeated through my computer screen 
as I watched Game 5. I felt it, too. 
This shock left me with a few questions. Did 
Durant return from injury too soon? Did he feel 
the month-long pressure to play after analysts 
and fans questioned his dedication to Golden 
State? Why was he cleared to come back, and 
who speciﬁ  cally cleared him? 
After all, Durant is a free agent this sum-
mer. He’s due for a massive payday, and NBA franchises like the Knicks and Nets 
are in line to offer him supermax 
contracts come June 30. Even if he 
opts back into a contract with the 
Warriors, he’ll be due $31.5 mil-
lion.
Why should he care about one 
game with the rest of his career in 
front of him? 
I’ll tell you why: Kevin Durant 
loves basketball and his team.
On Wednesday, Durant took to 
Instagram to bring the public into 
his world of recovery.
“What’s good everybody (sic) I wanted to 
update you all: I did rupture my Achilles. Sur-
gery was today and it was a success,” he said. 
“Basketball is my biggest love and I wanted to 
be out there that night because that’s what I do. 
I wanted to help my teammates on our quest for 
the three-peat.”
Based off of Durant’s emotional statement, a 
few conclusions can be made regarding some of 
the questions I had. 
Yes, Durant did return from injury too 
quickly. He wanted to help his teammates so 
badly that he put his own physical and ﬁ  nancial 
health on the line. He was not healthy enough 
to play, but he went out there anyway. I believe 
he felt the pressure to return.
Outside of his own desire to come back, Du-
rant also received clearance from his team doc-
tors and general manager Bob Myers to return 
to the court.
“I don’t believe there’s anybody to blame, 
but I understand this world,” Myers said in a 
post-game press conference. “If you have to, 
you can blame me. I run our basketball opera-
tions department.”
While the decision to throw Durant back out 
there was a mistake, I do support what he and 
the Warriors staff decided to do. Golden State’s 
season was on the line, and Durant wanted to 
be a part of the reason the Warriors won or lost 
a championship.
Sadly, Durant’s decision cost him, and he 
may miss all of next season because of it.
He still made the right call.Kevin Durant made the right 
decision to play in Game 5O’Shea Can You See
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK
Dylan O’Shea
twitter: @dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.org