We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF football holds spring scrimmage
Feleipe Franks was one of four quarterbacks to 
take the ﬁ  eld on Thursday, pg. 14Trouble at Krispy Kreme
A stabbing was reported at the shop in Gainesville, pg. 10
Honoring Vietnam Veterans
A celebration is being held this weekend, pg. 9FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 74
By Romy Ellenbogen
Special to The Alligator
A woman strips down. The stage lights 
glow blue and red, bouncing off the dozens of 
rhinestones attached to her jeans, shoes and 
underwear. 
She is dressed as Marty McFly and peels off 
each layer of the character’s clothing to hollers 
from the crowd. Her red-painted lips stretch 
wide as she mouths along to Cyndi Lauper’s 
“Time After Time.” On beat with the music, 
she grabs her breasts or butt cheeks as she lip-
syncs. 
With her pants off and only sparkling un-
derwear and a red T-shirt left, she turns away 
from the crowd and pulls the top over her head. 
When she spins around, there are two large 
clock-shaped rhinestone pasties secured over 
her nipples, the stage lights hitting each rhine-
stone like a ﬂ  ash. The song fades out with its 
last line, “time after time,” while the crowd 
hollers. 
Sally B. Dash, 37, has been practicing bur-
lesque for about six years but has been per-
forming and clowning around all her life. In 
Gainesville, she helped build the local bur-
lesque scene, which was nonexistent before 
a few women started the now-defunct Manic 
Menagerie troupe in 2013. After it dissolved, 
the Mischievous Madams Burlesque Troupe, 
which Dash is part of, became the main group 
in town. 
She also produces her own burlesque show, 
Sally B.’s Dashing Revue, and helps new per-
formers get their start in the scene with her 
“Noobie” show, with the most recent being 
Red lips, rhinestones and the risqué  FEATURE FRIDAY
By Romy Ellenbogen
Meet burlesque dancer Sally B. Dash
SEE BURLESQUE,  PAGE 8Chris King / Alligator Staff
Burlesque performer Sally B. Dash performs her ﬂ  ying monkey routine 
during Sally B’s Noobie Reveal event Saturday night at the Hardback Cafe. 
The reveal showcased new performers, as well as longtime performer 
Dash, and about 50 people attended the performance.UF IS HOME TO 273 MARJORY 
STONEMAN DOUGLAS HIGH 
SCHOOL ALUMNI
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Responses from Florida public univer-
sities have differed following the suicides 
of two Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School mass shooting survivors and the 
father of a Sandy Hook Elementary School 
mass shooting victim.
Florida State University offered pro-
fessional services in a schoolwide email 
Wednesday. That same day, UF sent out 
an email only to the MSD alumni at UF 
that was “checking in” but did not men-
tion speciﬁ  cs about the high school or the 
recent deaths.
Six weeks ago, the MSD community 
at UF remembered the 17 lives that were 
lost in a mass shooting at the Parkland, 
Florida, high school on Feb. 14, 2018, by 
way of a candlelight vigil on the Plaza of 
the Americas.
Since then, three people tied to mass 
shootings have died by suicide.
Sydney Aiello, a senior at MSD last 
year, dealt with post-traumatic stress 
disorder in the wake of the shooting and 
died by suicide on March 16, according to 
The Associated Press. Another individual 
who died by suicide on March 23 was not 
identiﬁ  ed, but it was conﬁ  rmed that he at-
tended MSD.
Jeremy Richman, the father of Avi-
elle Richman, who was shot and killed in 
the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School 
shooting, was also found dead from an ap-
parent suicide on March 25, according to 
AP.
UF is home to 273 MSD alumni, Heath-
er White, the Dean of Students, said.
The UF Dean of Students ofﬁ  ce reached 
out to MSD alumni at UF after the shoot-
ing last year and encouraged them to con-
tact UF’s Counseling and Wellness Center, 
Meggen Sixbey, the CWC associate direc-
tor, said. MSD alumni at UF took advan-
tage of the CWC resources, but Sixbey was 
unable to provide an exact number of how 
many.
There were also ﬂ  oor meetings held in 
dorms for those affected, Sixbey said.
“We are conﬁ  dential and want to re-FL universities 
react to deaths 
of MSD survivors
SEE MSD,  PAGE 3AN IRRESPONSIBLE OWNER 
CLAUSE MAY BE IMPOSED
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Six months. Five dog attacks. No action 
from local government. Yet. 
The Gainesville City Commission will 
meet Thursday for the ﬁ  rst time to discuss 
the increase in dog attacks, three which 
were in the city, and how to address it. 
City Commissioner David Arreola said 
he’s concerned any time someone is in-
jured by a violent attack, but he doesn’t 
believe a breed ban is the answer. “It seems silly to try and legislate the 
behavior of animals, but we can legislate 
the behavior of the owners,” he said. 
Alachua County Animal Services is 
working on strengthening its ordinances 
to prevent this from happening again.
Ed Williams, the director of animal ser-
vices, said the department hopes to create 
an irresponsible owner clause and update 
other ordinances. 
The irresponsible owner clause would 
ﬂ  ag owners whose dogs have gotten loose 
or have been involved in attacks. Animal 
services would then monitor the owners 
who have been ﬂ  agged.
Animal services is currently advertis-ing this solution to residents who call and 
ask about what solutions are being done 
to prevent attacks, Williams said. Once it 
solidiﬁ  es a plan, it will send it to the Ala-
chua County Commission for approval. 
“We’ve been steady trying to beef up 
our ordinances and bring them into mod-
ern times and do whatever we can to try 
and further address irresponsible pet own-
ers,” Williams said. 
The string of dog attacks began in Sep-
tember when Bella the beagle-Lab mix 
was killed, and her owner, Linda Swin-
burn, was injured by three pit bulls. 
In December, Fred the pug/beagle mix Animal services to make changes after dog attacks
SEE ANIMALS,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING
TODAY
The 56th Annual VISA Talent 
Show: Journey Through Time
When: 6-9 p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: The Volunteers for 
International Student Affairs will 
present different talents from 
cultures worldwide in their an-
nual show. This year, compet-
ing teams will share their stories 
on stage to win the top prize 
and rights as the champion of 
the VISA Talent Show. The 
show will feature UF Chinese 
American Student Association, 
UF Filipino Student Association 
Wolfpack, Genesis Dance Crew, 
Sabor Latino Dance Team, Vertax 
Diabolo Performance Group, 
UF Japanese Club dance team, 
Anomaly Dance Crew and UF 
Indian Students Association. No 
tickets are required for the free 
show. Bus routes 20, 118, 126, 
117, 125 and 119 will bring at-
tendees to the Cultural Plaza. 
Parking is lifted if attendees plan 
to drive.
Gay Movie Night
When: 7:30 p.m.
Where: Pride Community 
Center, at 3131 NW 13th St.
What: The movie playing is “He 
Likes Guys.” This will showcase 
some of the best short films from 
the gay and lesbian film festival 
circuit. Highlights include “Silver Road,” a summer vacation dra-
ma, “Waiting for Yvette,” starring 
Wendie Malick and “Babysitting 
Andy,” a comedy. Gay Movie 
Night is on the last Friday of 
each month and is free from the 
Pride Community Center of North 
Florida. A $2 donation is asked 
for snacks. 
 
Juke Night
When: 10 p.m.-2 a.m.
Where: Civic Media Center, at 
433 S. Main St.
What: Tickets can be found on-
line at https://23rdesque.com/
DIONDIA or can be purchased at 
the door. There will be a pop-up 
shop and food by Soul Spice.
SATURDAY
Fallen Heroes 5K
When: 7:30-11:30 a.m.
Where: Depot Park, at 874 SE 
Fourth St. 
What: People interested in partic-
ipating in the race can register on-
line at active.com or on race day 
starting at 7:30 a.m. Registration 
on the day of the race ends at 
8:50 a.m. The race will begin 
at 9:15 a.m. Funds raised will 
support UF Navy ROTC in help-
ing the Gainesville Fisher House 
Foundation, a non-profit orga-
nization that offers shelter and 
support during a medical crisis 
for members of the armed forces, 
retirees, veterans and their fami-
lies while the member is hospital-
ized at the Malcom Randall VA 
Medical Center. The race will also 
honor two UF graduates, Petty Officer Second Class James Suh, 
U.S. Navy SEAL and Lt. Thomas 
Fouke and anyone else who has 
died in service. 
Dance Marathon
When: Saturday at 11 a.m. to 
Sunday at 3:15 p.m.
Where: O’Connell Center, at 250 
Gale Lemerand Drive
What: This will be Dance 
Marathon at UF’s 25th-anniversa-
ry event, which is free and open 
to the public. Opening ceremo-
nies begin at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
For 26.2 hours, more than 800 
students will stand for those 
who can’t. Closing ceremonies 
begin at 1:30 p.m. Sunday. The 
third annual Miracle Gala will 
also take place in the Holloway 
Touchdown Terrace at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. Tickets can be 
found at floridadm.org/miracle-
gala. The gala will include a re-
ception hour at 6 p.m., optional 
tours of the main event at 7 p.m. 
and dinner with keynote speak-
ers at 8 p.m. People can donate to 
Dance Marathon UF at floridadm.
org/donate.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  55°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
Corrections:
In an article titled, “UF SG president-
elect paid to attend pro-Israel confer-
ence” in Wednesday’s edition, Michael 
Murphy attended the first day of the 
annual American Israel Public Affairs 
Committee conference on Sunday, and 
he will attend the Passages trip with 
UF Gators for Israel later this year. The 
Alligator reportedly differently after 
Murphy provided unclear information 
over email and did not respond to fol-
low-up questions.  
In an article titled, “Anti-hazing bill moves through state legislature” in 
Wednesday’s edition Andrew Coffey is 
the correct spelling of the Florida State 
University student who suffocated from 
hazing in November 2017. 
In an article titled, “GPD’s SWAT team 
returns” in Wednesday’s edition, Lt. 
Michael West is 50 years old. 
In an article titled “Students choose be-
tween luxury, affordability, ” in Friday’s 
edition, Sydney Jamieson is the vice 
president of operations at Swamp 
Rentals. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 74FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.main a safe space that allows students 
to act autonomously,” Sixbey said.
The Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce contact-
ed MSD alumni at UF last year follow-
ing the shooting and around the time of 
the one year anniversary, according to 
emails obtained by The Alligator.
In the email, White encouraged 
students to seek resources available 
through U Matter We Care and the 
CWC and assured them the university 
stands with them.
White also sent an email to MSD 
alumni at UF on Wednesday with the 
subject line “UF Dean, Just Checking 
In.” 
She declined to share its contents, 
but The Alligator was shared on a copy 
of the email, which did not explicitly 
mention MSD or mental health resourc-
es available at the university.
It mentioned students are “not in 
this alone” and that “there are staff 
here to help and support you — wheth-
er it is academically or personally.”
“Coupled with everything going on 
in the world and the news, life can feel 
stressful and overwhelming,” White 
wrote.
She concluded: “Our UF community cares for one another and you are so 
valued here.”
March for Our Lives Gainesville de-
clined to comment, saying they wanted 
to take time to grieve the loss of the 
MSD survivors.
Robert Schentrup, a University of 
Central Florida sophomore and a 2017 
MSD alumnus, who lost his sister Car-
men in the shooting last year, identi-
ﬁ  ed UCF as a common landing spot for 
graduates of the high school.
The university’s registrar ofﬁ  ce was 
unable to provide an exact number of 
how many attend UCF.
Schentrup said UCF reached out to 
students from MSD in 2018 after the in-
cident in regards to mental health.
He conﬁ  rmed that the Dean of Stu-
dents Ofﬁ  ce also started a conversation 
about mental health with MSD alumni 
at UCF.
“It highlights a need to make sure 
that mental health resources are avail-
able to alumni of Stoneman Douglas,” 
Schentrup said. “Even though time 
passed, not everyone is OK and not ev-
eryone has the ability to reach out and 
not everyone knows how to do it.”
Schentrup said he was not aware of 
any motion made by UCF to reach out 
to students following the recent sui-cides.
In an email obtained by The Alli-
gator, Victoria Dobiyanski, the Dean 
of Students at Florida State Univer-
sity, contacted the entire student body 
Wednesday, addressing, “the recent 
tragic deaths of three individuals with 
close ties to mass shootings.” The email 
had the subject line “Support for Stu-
dents Following Recent Tragic Events.”
Dobiyanski referred affected stu-
dents to professional services the uni-
versity offers, including the FSU Uni-
versity Counseling Center, the Dean of 
Students Department’s Case Manage-
ment team and the Victim Advocate 
Program, according to the email.
“Let us know if you or someone 
you know needs support,” she wrote. 
“Your FSU community is here to help 
in any way we can.”
MSD alumni at FSU who were al-
ready seen for other matters were con-
tacted by the UCC, said Donald English, 
the UCC associate director. Otherwise, 
the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce reaches 
out to ﬂ  ag students who may not have 
been already ﬂ  agged.
“Those that we’re not aware of, our 
doors are open, of course,” English 
said.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgMSD,  from pg. 1FSU sent an email universitywide
If you or someone you know is in distress, here are some 24/7 resources:
The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. There is also a 24/7 
chat with a counselor at suicidepreventionlifeline.org
The UF Counseling and Wellness Center hotline: 352-392-1575
The Alachua County Crisis Center: 352-264-6789was killed on a walk by a pit bull. In February, Tico 
the chihuahua was killed by two pit bulls. In March, 
a 2-year-old boy was killed by two dogs. On March 
22, ﬁ  ve pit bulls escaped and attacked a woman and 
her dog.
Loraine Marie Anderson, 59, was walking Tico 
when the two pit bulls attacked. Anderson was 
mauled by the dogs, who had escaped from a hole in 
a fence, and Tico was killed. 
She says ﬂ  agging owners isn’t enough and suggest-
ed that something should be done about the breed. 
“These dogs can be extraordinarily dangerous. 
They can kill kids,” she said.
She said if she had not been a victim of a dog at-
tack, she might think addressing the owners would 
ﬁ  x the problem, but her time spent in the hospital 
recovering has changed her mind. 
Swinburn believes a ban on the breed is neces-
sary to stop these attacks. After suffering two broken 
ﬁ  ngers, bruised ribs and post-traumatic stress, she 
wants a ban on pit bulls.
“How many more killings will there be until the 
city bans these killer dogs?” she said. 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgANIMALS,  from pg. 1Some call for ban
Recent dog attack incidents
Sept. 22, 2018: Bella the dog mauled to death
Dec. 22, 2018: Fred the puggle mauled to death
Feb.  25: Tico the chihuahua mauled to death
March 8: 2-year-old boy mauled to death
March 22:  A woman and her dog attacked by ﬁ  ve dogs de-
scribed as pit bulls 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019UF REQUESTED $38.1 MILLION 
FOR INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
UTILITIES IMPROVEMENTS
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF may find out if it can fund 
a new building for the School of 
Music when the legislative session 
concludes on May 3. 
The university has lobbyed at 
the Florida House of Representa-
tives to receive funding since the 
start of the legislative session on 
March 5, said Samantha Sexton, 
UF’s director of government rela-
tions. 
As a part of lobbying, UF files 
appropriations project requests, 
which request funding for univer-
sity projects. The funding is then 
approved or denied by the state 
legislature, Sexton said. 
“UF’s government relations of-
fices are responsible for champi-
oning the university’s mission and 
priorities,” she said. “Every invest-
ment in UF is an investment in our 
students and faculty.”
A request for P.K. Yonge De-velopmental Research School asks 
for $10 million to build a second-
ary school facility, Sexton said. The 
money was requested from the De-
partment of Education.  
The school is affiliated with the 
university’s College of Education 
and was established in 1934, ac-
cording to the request record.
This funding will complete 
phase II, crucial facility needs for 
grades 6-12, of its master plan, Sex-
ton said. Phase I, which upgraded 
the elementary school, was fin-
ished in 2011.
Phase II will remove 10 out-
dated buildings, fix roofing issues, 
remove 62 old air units, resolve 
plumbing issues, remove 14 tem-
porary buildings and complete oth-
er repairs, according to the record.
UF also filed a request to im-
prove campus infrastructure. 
UF requested $38.1 million from 
the State House for utilities and 
infrastructure improvements for 
campus, Sexton said. The funding 
would go toward priority improve-
ments, which are facilities with the 
most need.  
According to the request record, the average UF facility is 36 years 
old, which the document notes is 
the oldest average in the state uni-
versity system. 
“This would allow the Universi-
ty of Florida to start to tackle some 
of our deferred maintenance,” Sex-
ton said.
The request was first read on 
March 5. The legislature may fund 
less than was requested, Sexton 
said.  
UF also requested $500,000 be-
fore the start of session to increase 
the College of Veterinary Medicine 
class size, Sexton said, but with-
drew the request prior to its intro-
duction for more time to plan. 
The university is looking for 
funding to construct a new School 
of Music building. 
UF received $5.9 million in the 
2017-2018 fiscal year for renova-
tions for the UF School of Music 
building, Sexton said. But the uni-
versity decided it would be more 
cost efficient to request funding for 
a new building.
UF then returned the $5.9 mil-
lion, and the money was reappro-
priated, she said. This year, UF asked for $13,327,338 for a new 
building, which includes the $5.9 
million and an additional $7.4 mil-
lion. 
“UF decided it would be more 
fiscally responsible to actually con-
struct a new music building than 
trying to do very costly repairs,” 
she said.
Currently, the House has not 
indicated it is interested in funding 
the music building but has given 
UF the $5.9 million, Sexton said. 
Christa Verbsky, a 20-year-old 
UF music composition sophomore, is a euphonium player in the UF 
Fightin’ Gator Marching Band and 
the university’s wind symphony 
She said having a space to practice 
is a main concern of hers.
Although renovations have 
been made, she said a new build-
ing is much needed. 
“It would just be really neat to 
have a building that was solely 
designed for the School of Music,” 
she said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgTHE PROGRAM ENDED 
IN 2008 DUE TO THE 
ECONOMIC RECESSION
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Korean language program will return 
to UF in the Fall after not offering classes for 
11 years and students petitioned to bring it 
back.
The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
program will offer three levels, from begin-
ning to advanced, for a trial year, said Akin-tunde Akinyemi, the chair of the UF languag-
es, literatures and cultures department. 
The classes cap at 25 students each but 
need at least 20 students per class registered 
for the program to break even, Akinyemi 
said. 
“We are starting on a small scale and, if 
the interest continues, we hope to keep the 
program going,” Akinyemi said.
The first beginning-level Korean section 
is full with more than 20 students registered, 
Akinyemi wrote in an email. The department 
will continue to add sections as they fill up. 
The program will be funded by the college and is seeking to hire one adjunct lecturer 
for the trial period, Akinyemi said. If the pro-
gram does well after a year, the department 
will seek grants to hire permanent faculty. 
The cost of the program will not be deter-
mined until the department identifies a fac-
ulty member to teach the classes, which the 
department plans to do this summer. 
Korean has not been offered at UF since 
Fall 2008, when the language department 
was downsized due to the economic reces-
sion. 
Thirty-eight students were enrolled in the 
beginning level, 19 were enrolled in the inter-mediate level and eight were enrolled in the 
advanced level during Fall 2008, Akinyemi 
said. 
Faculty in the Chinese and Japanese pro-
grams were also reduced during this time, 
Akinyemi said.
Bringing back the Korean language pro-
gram wasn’t a priority until students made it 
one, Akinyemi said. 
The program was still listed on the web-
site because the department hoped to bring 
the program back eventually, Akinyemi said. 
If taken down, it would take at least two 
years to bring back as all programs listed on 
the website need to go through an approval 
process by the state government.
“Bringing the Korean language program 
back wasn’t really on our radar,” Akinyemi 
said. “But, with the students’ effort, they 
made it happen.” 
Avery Chambers, a 19-year-old UF Chi-
nese freshman came from Delaware to UF 
with an interest in registering for Korean 
courses. When she applied to UF in 2017, the 
program still appeared on the website.
She used the printer in her dorm to create 
flyers with “Interested in learning Korean?” 
written on them to put around campus. In the 
Fall, she made a petition to show interest in 
the program from students. 
Fifty students signed the petition and 
133 responded to the online poll. Chambers, 
along with the Korean Undergraduate Stu-
dent Association, then took these numbers to 
the languages department.
“The website was really misleading,” 
Chambers said. “And I know I wasn’t the 
only one who thought that because even at 
my Preview in July 2018, I met other students 
who were surprised, too.”
Chambers is already registered for the 
class for Fall. 
“I almost feel kind of smug at how quickly 
the first class filled up because, at the begin-
ning, so many people said it wouldn’t work,” 
Chambers said. “It panned out exactly how I 
wanted it to.” Korean language program to return to UF in Fall semester
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
BUTTERFL Y BROTHERS
Jaxon Wyatt (left), 6, Colton Guthrie, 7, Paxton Wyatt, 9, and Maddox Wyatt (right), 8, look at the butterflies Thursday in the Butterfly 
Rainforest at the Florida Museum of Natural History. They are from Columbus, Georgia, and visited Florida while on vacation.
New music building, infrastructure updates: What UF is lobbying for
Appropriations requests by the university
P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School 
Amount: $10,000,000 from Department of Education
Why? To build a middle/high school facility
UF: Utilities/Infrastructure Improvements
Amount: $38,100,000 from Department of Education
Why? To attend to priority facility improvements
UF: New School of Music building
Amount: $13,327,338 from Department of Education
Why? To construct a new School of Music buildingFRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student IDSTUART NEWMAN WAS A 
LEADER IN THE SOUTH FLORIDA 
PUBLIC RELATIONS INDUSTRY
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
An Independent Florida Alligator sports 
writer, a World War II veteran and a public 
relations agency entrepreneur.These are only a few of Stuart Newman’s 
roles throughout his life.
Newman, just weeks away from his 97th 
birthday in April, died Sunday after a month-
long struggle with his health. Newman spent 
three weeks in the hospital after going into 
respiratory and cardiac arrest about a month 
ago.
Newman was inducted into the UF Col-
lege of Journalism and Communications 
Hall of Fame in 1994, said Randy Bennett, 
the executive dean of the college. This ac-
colade honors distinguished alumni from the 
college. He is also believed to have been the 
oldest College of Journalism and Communi-
cations alumnus.
“I have never seen another person in my 
life with more tenacity,” said his son, Andy 
Newman. “He didn’t feel pain.”
Newman was a lifelong Gator, Andy New-
man said. He attended UF and graduated in 
1946 with a degree in journalism. 
However, Newman’s college education 
was put on pause when he decided to enlist 
in WWII in May 1942 while he was still in 
Gainesville. He was 20 years old at the time.
Newman was a part of the Army Air 
Corps before it became known as the U.S. 
Air Force. He went on to become a public 
affairs ofﬁ  cer, which allowed him to segue into the ﬁ  eld of public relations, said Andy 
Newman. 
Newman launched his own public rela-
tions agency, Stuart Newman Associates, 
now known as NewmanPR, in 1946, said 
Andy Newman. 
Seeing an opportunity in South Florida 
for tourism, he embraced the fact that there 
were not many other public relations prac-
titioners at the time, Andy Newman said. 
Newman would later work side by side with 
his son.
“My father gave me his blessing, and 
allowed me to take over what he started,” 
Andy Newman said.
Outside of his work, Newman enjoyed 
sport ﬁ  shing off the Florida Keys, Andy said. 
So much so, in his living will he asked that 
his ashes be scattered off Islamorada in the 
Florida Keys.
“He was a great friend and an avid sup-
porter of the college,” said Diane McFarlin, 
Dean of the College of Journalism and Com-
munications. “He has a wonderful career 
history as one of the earliest practitioners of 
public relations in the state.”
Newman went to football games yearly 
and visited UF frequently, McFarlin said. 
Three years ago, a conference room in 
Weimer Hall was named in his honor be-cause of the support he has given the college 
over the years.
Newman created three funds at UF, Mc-
Farlin said. A scholarship fund that gives 
$1,000 annually for public relations students 
and two others to support faculty in the pub-
lic relations department.
“When we know someone cares this 
much about the college and cares enough to 
invest in what we’re doing and the future of 
our students, it’s indescribable how mean-
ingful that is,” McFarlin said. “He wanted to 
support us in any way he could.”
The scholarship for faculty allowed fac-
ulty members to expand their programs and 
undertake ventures that required additional 
investment, McFarlin said.
“He was always a gracious man, and so 
interested in what we were doing at the col-
lege,” McFarlin said. “He wanted to support 
us in any way he could.”
Newman continued to run his business 
until his death. At age 96, he was still un-
stoppable, McFarlin said.
“He simply continued to do what he en-
joyed doing,” McFarlin said. “He did not let 
age or physical issues that emerge at that age 
slow him down at all.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF College of Journalism Hall of Fame inductee dies at 96
Courtesy to The Alligator
Stuart Newman visits the World War II 
Memorial located in Washington D.C. 
in late October 2018. Newman was a 
WWII veteran. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
This week we have to start with some major U.S. news: 
the Mueller Report. Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller 
III submitted a 300-page report on Russian interference 
in the 2016 election. On Sunday, U.S. Attorney General 
William Barr released a four-page statement explaining 
that Mueller’s report found no evidence that President Donald 
Trump had colluded with Russia in the 2016 election. This 
means Mueller found no evidence of a conspiracy between the 
Trump campaign and Russia to undercut the fairness of the 
election. The report took two years to complete. We appreci-
ate that the ﬁ  ndings of the investigation have been released; 
however, a dart goes to the U.S. government for not allow-
ing a faster release of the 300-page report. The document has 
to go through a series of examinations before it’s released to 
Congress, so as to not let out any sensitive government infor-
mation, whatever that may be.
We are giving a laurel to the U.S. Supreme Court after it 
ofﬁ  cially denied an appeal by gun rights advocates to end a 
Trump administration policy banning the use of bump stocks. 
Bump stocks are used as attachments to guns that allow for 
rapid ﬁ  ring. Machine guns are largely illegal in the U.S., and 
bump stocks create a mechanism that allows guns to act like 
machine guns, the Justice Department said. The ban took ef-
fect on Tuesday. It was created after a gunman used a bump 
stock to kill 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017. It’s a welcome 
change to gun laws in the U.S., but those laws are still in 
need of drastic changes. As we’ve seen in the weeks since the 
New Zealand Christchurch shooting, if a country truly wants 
to implement stricter laws, it can be done in a timely fashion.
A laurel goes to Florida’s state attorney ofﬁ  ce after it 
cleared the convictions of two men, Clifford Williams, 76, and 
Hubert “Nathan” Myers, 61. This comes a year after the state 
attorney’s ofﬁ  ce in Jacksonville ﬁ  rst began its initiative of re-
viewing claims of wrongful convictions. The two men were 
convicted and sentenced to life in prison after they were found 
to have shot and killed Jeanette Williams and attempted to 
murder her girlfriend, Nina Marshall, in 1976. The men were 
exonerated after 42 years in prison after it was found that the 
testimony of Nina Marshall, which was the entire basis of the 
case, was found to be wrong. There was no physical evidence 
linking the men to the scene. We hope Florida continues right-
ing its wrongs and continues to look into wrongful convictions.You sit anxiously in front of your laptop watching the tiny 
numbers at the edge of your screen. You are waiting for the 
hour mark to hit 8 a.m. Sheets of papers are strewn out in front 
of you with highlighted phrases slashed across each page. You 
do your best to organize your thoughts because it’s almost go 
time. It’s almost time to pick your classes. A virtual tug of war 
awaits. You know you are going to have to ﬁ  ght for the classes 
you want.
 You stretch your arms out in front of you and lace your ﬁ  n-
gers together, creating a satisfying crack in your knuckles. You 
take a long sip of your coffee and watch as 7:59 turns to 8. You 
quickly dive into One.UF and start searching for your classes. 
You have become a pro after all these semesters ﬁ  nessing your 
way into classes, but this time the stakes are high. There is 
a class you need desperately. You quickly type in the course 
code and go searching for an empty seat. You ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nd it, 
with one seat available in the class. You release a sigh of relief 
as you hit the “Add Course” button. You look at your new, 
pristine Fall 2019 schedule. Situated perfectly in the middle of 
the week was the one class you truly needed…
Darts & Laurels
Church and state: How I have come to terms with both
I find myself ﬁ  dgeting with this gold cross 
necklace my grandmother gave me when 
I’m thinking or nervous. It’s relaxing. 
Usually, religion provides me with a com-
forting sense of safety and guidance. Of-
tentimes, I ﬁ  nd my progressive political views 
clashing with the church’s stances on contro-
versial topics. I’ve struggled with my identity 
as a Catholic and a progressive. I’ve recently 
started to understand that these two aspects of 
my personality don’t need to confuse me. I can be a devout 
Christian and a progressive. Let me explain how I have rec-
onciled my beliefs. 
I follow my heart, and I use the major principles of Chris-
tianity when approaching inﬂ  ammatory topics. The most 
important principles in my faith are loving God and loving 
my neighbor. All of the other readings and prayers are minor 
details, and they can be followed back to these two over-
arching ideals. Don’t get me wrong, I love details as much as 
the next writer, and I know they’re important. I don’t let my-
self get too caught up in the complex rules and teachings of 
the church. I personally forget the whole point of the smaller 
things: to facilitate the love of God and others. It’s easy to 
get lost in the rules of the church and to use them to judge 
other people’s actions or lifestyles, but these just evoke judg-
ment, hostility and anger. I trust my instincts, my gut and 
my heart. I use compassion, kindness and love when form-
ing my opinions and beliefs. I let these two principles, my 
heart and my research guide my opinions on the world.
I’m a member of a religious group on campus, and I’m 
also a columnist here at The Alligator, where I often write 
about my views on politics and current events. It can be 
nerve-wracking talking to my religious friends who feel dif-
ferently than I do because I love my friendships. I can’t help 
but worry about our differing views creating a rift between 
us or causing them to doubt my faith. I’m afraid of creating a confrontation. I’ve found that the only way 
to alleviate these fears is by giving my friends 
a chance to dispel them. Just as I don’t judge 
my friends for their political beliefs, I need to 
trust my friends to respect my opinions, too. 
I’ve slowly started facilitating honest, respect-
ful conversations with my religious community 
about my personal beliefs. Taking that leap of 
faith has bolstered my relationships because 
it has taught me people can respect each oth-
er’s opinions without agreeing. I used to think there was 
no gray area in life. That there is a clear right and wrong. 
I’ve learned, however, sometimes there isn’t a clear right or 
wrong. People have different opinions and that’s okay. My 
opinion doesn’t have to always match my friends’ opinions.  
Lastly, and most importantly, I draw the line between 
church and state. I’m not blind to the fact that the church 
sometimes disagrees with the progressive agenda. While 
this disagreement may leave me personally conﬂ  icted about 
which entity my soul aligns with, these disagreements don’t 
interfere with how I vote. One of the things I love about the 
United States is its identity. We are a nation of immigrants 
that was founded partly in search of religious freedom. We 
have no national religion. We aren’t governed by religion; 
we are governed by the Constitution. I believe it’s my re-
sponsibility as an American citizen to respect and uphold 
these founding principles ﬁ  rst and foremost, despite their 
contradictions with the church. 
In short, I’m Catholic, and I am very devoted to my reli-
gion. But I’m also progressive and I’m very passionate about 
my political beliefs. I don’t ﬁ  t into just one mold of a sweet 
Catholic girl or an outspoken progressive writer. I’ve learned 
that there is a way to be both. 
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism freshman. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
It’s my ﬁ  nal semester of college, 
and it may be yours, too. You’ve 
most likely been reﬂ  ecting on your 
time here in Gainesville, and you 
may have been left with some bit-
tersweet feelings. The last four years 
of your life are behind you. They’ve 
become the past without you even re-
alizing it. If you’re like me, it makes 
sense that you’re feeling uneasy about 
the future. It doesn’t matter if you’re gradu-
ating with a job, starting graduate school or 
if you have no idea what your next step is, 
graduation can still be scary. At some point, 
you may ﬁ  nd yourself experiencing some-
thing I like to call the “senior funk.”
The senior funk is a feeling graduating se-
niors get when it’s time to leave university. 
These feelings encompass many different 
things. The most common can be fear. For 
the past four years, you have spent your days 
conforming to a schedule you’ve created for 
yourself. You have always had a class to get 
to, homework to do, a club meeting to attend 
and a social life to maintain. But all of that, 
in a sense, is ending. Your year won’t be bro-
ken up into semesters anymore and breaks 
will no longer be scheduled. What will you 
do? If you’re anything like me, you’ll have a 
few mental breakdowns over the course of 
your quickly ending senior year. Adapting to 
a new life can be scary, but at the same time, 
it’s OK to be afraid. It means something ex-
citing could be around the corner. Don’t shy 
away from the fear, follow it.
You may also be excited. For some of 
you, the end of your undergrad career means 
the end of school. There will be no more all-
nighters in Library West, no more advising 
meetings to attend and no more 3-hour-long 
classes to sit through. This is something to 
be celebrated. Although you’re scared about 
what you’ll be doing next, you should be 
happy you have tackled this phase of your 
life. You did it. You may not have done it 
with ﬂ  ying colors, but who cares? You’ve got 
your degree, and you are graduating. Don’t 
let anything dull your excitement. Celebrate!
Another part of the senior funk is the sad-
ness that goes along with it. You can’t help 
your gloom when thinking about all of the 
wonderful people you have met while in col-lege and will eventually leave 
behind. You have fond memo-
ries and have built wonderful 
connections. It won’t be the 
same once you leave, and that 
can be upsetting. As crazy as it 
seems, it can also be sad leav-
ing Gainesville. It’s a place 
you have started to call home. 
There’s a familiar pang in your 
chest when you think about what you’re let-
ting go. When this happens, keep in mind 
you’re not really letting anything go. Florida 
and your loved ones will still be there for 
you once you leave. Think about it like this: 
You’re simply starting a new chapter of your 
life. No one said your friends can’t be part of 
that new chapter.
Now that you are aware of your senior 
funk, here are a few ways to ﬁ  ght it while 
starting the next phase of your life. Senioritis 
is real. Once you graduate, it can be hard 
to ﬁ  nd a routine. However, don’t get lazy. 
You should create and stick to a schedule. 
Graduating with your undergrad degree does 
not mean it’s time to get lazy. If anything, 
it’s time to prove yourself. You should show 
your ambition in your new job or if you 
aren't working, use your new freedom to be 
productive. 
Next, don’t stay in your apartment all 
day and night. Put yourself out there. You 
need to get outside and meet new people. 
You can go for a walk or run. You can join 
a local ﬁ  tness group or a book club. It can 
be hard to make friends as an adult. Find a 
hobby you’re interested in, and join a group 
involving that hobby. Get to know your new 
neighborhood, and interact with new people. 
Lastly, don’t forget about your loved 
ones. When we start our new life after un-
dergrad, it can be easy to just focus on that. 
But don’t forget the promise you made to 
keep in touch with your college friends and 
give your family a call from time to time. 
Don’t let the senior funk get the best of you. 
If you ﬁ  nd yourself feeling funky, snap out of 
it. Remember you’ve adapted once, and you 
can do it again. 
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.So there I was, reconsidering my life 
decisions at a 7 a.m. Senate Judiciary 
Committee meeting when the topic of 
blue lights came up. There was a reso-
lution, speciﬁ  cally a “Resolution Rec-
ommending Installation of Emergency Blue 
Light Phones Along and Adjacent to Frater-
nity Drive.” Apparently, there are not many 
blue lights around Fraternity Row, which is 
slightly concerning because we all know what 
can happen around there.
Something that came up in the proceed-
ings was the effort to get a new blue light in 
the Graham Area. The committee asked if the 
authors had met with Student Body Treasurer-
elect, Santiago Gutierrez, and former Graham 
Area senator, Mackintosh Joachim, to talk 
about the resolution. That irked me because 
it reminded me of a past incident last month.
I take real issue with some of the people 
in SG sometimes. A lot of them are clueless 
sheep, but calling them just “sheep” would be 
awfully generous. These people just swallow 
up whatever talking points or “facts” from 
their superiors they’ve been given and then 
spew them out without taking some time for 
fact-checking or critical thought. Some other people in SG are just purely mali-
cious, concocting lies for political 
gain. The common issue for me 
and other honest folk is trying to 
tell the clueless people spreading 
lies apart from the malicious peo-
ple creating them, because some 
of these malicious people are pret-
ty clueless, too.
Two good examples of this 
took place during the last elec-
tion season.
During the presidential debate, Student 
Body President-elect Michael Murphy at-
tacked my involvement in street lighting 
around Inﬁ  nity Hall using what appeared to 
be a talking point from current Student Body 
President Ian Green: “My opponent said he 
did the lights at Inﬁ  nity Hall, but in fact that is 
a lie. Former Impact Student Body President 
Susan Webster did that.” 
Little did Murphy know that because 
Green had already spilled the beans on this 
in his poorly-written letter to the editor, I had 
already contacted the City of Gainesville and 
conﬁ  rmed I was indeed the individual respon-
sible for requesting the new lighting around Inﬁ  nity Hall. I had the email print-
ed out and everything, but Mur-
phy decided to double down on 
his lie when faced with conﬂ  icting 
evidence. Or was it a lie? A lie hints 
at intentional deception, but I’m 
pretty sure Murphy, and possibly 
also Green, were clueless.
Also surfacing in the de-
bate was the topic of blue lights. 
Murphy took the time to attack 
Joachim, saying, “Mack’s key ac-
complishments that he tells on the campaign 
trail are actually projects that were completed 
by the Impact Party. Not only was an emer-
gency blue light in Graham Hall brought to 
campus by our party, but it was completed 
by someone on this stage, Mack’s opponent, 
Santiago, who actually worked with other Im-
pact members and agency heads for months 
on this project, and actually ﬁ  lled out the SAR 
to secure funding.”
But did that actually happen? According 
to emails derived from a public records re-
quest, Gutierrez’s involvement appears to be 
limited to solely the Student Activity Request 
(SAR), essentially the funding form. Amus-ingly, Gutierrez initially put down the incor-
rect vendor within the request, a mistake that 
was pointed out by a housing ofﬁ  cial and was 
later corrected. The submitted project request 
to the UF Planning, Design and Construction 
ofﬁ  ce lists the SG ﬁ  nance manager, Gary Bry-
ant, as the ﬁ  scal contact instead of Gutierrez, 
which, to me, only further highlights how un-
important Gutierrez was to the actual project. 
To easily ﬁ  gure out who was really behind 
the blue lights effort, just consider the intend-
ed location of the blue lights: Graham Hall, 
the area which Joachim represented. Joachim 
also has provided me with emails that detail 
his role in making the project a reality. 
Now I suppose the majority party fools 
realized this wasn’t a particularly sustainable 
lie, so they softened up on it. Two days after 
the debate, the SG Facebook page posted a 
graphic announcing the incoming blue lights. 
It read: “Big thanks to Santiago Gutierrez and 
Mackintosh Joachim for their hard work on 
this project.”
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science ju-
nior and Murphree Area senator. His column 
appears on Fridays.
UF does its best with 
providing the services 
students need across 
a variety of issues. 
The Career Connec-
tions Center gives students a 
head start in preparing to en-
ter the workforce. GatorWell 
helps spread awareness of 
student health to make sure 
students know what resources 
they may have. But the service that is 
vital for students in a world of growing 
anxiety, the UF Counseling and Wellness 
Center, isn’t keeping up with its monu-
mental task: the maintenance of the 
mental health of UF’s students.
In August 2017, UF approved 12 new 
full-time mental health counselors, mak-
ing a one-1,253 ratio of counselors to 
students, which is recommended by the 
International Association of Counseling 
Services, Inc. However, not every stu-
dent goes to the center, which is good be-
cause it would otherwise be impossible 
for such a small staff to see everyone at 
UF. There are still some issues that can 
be attributed to an overloaded staff, how-
ever, like waitlists and a limited number 
of free visits. 
Students have had difficulties with 
scheduling appointments. In some cases, 
there is a waitlist for students to even 
have an appointment to assess what the 
best next step would be for them. The 
staff numbers still don’t reach a recom-
mended level of 1 staff member to 1,000 
students, and this isn’t just a UF issue. 
Eight out of 12 Florida universities don’t 
meet that ratio either.
But in a world where trying to build 
up that institutional care is difficult and 
there are several hoops to get through, 
how can we, as a student body, work 
together to make sure every Gator feels 
taken care of?
Student-led support groups can be one of many ways to provide ac-
cess to students. Having stu-
dents of similar backgrounds 
can be a huge boost to help-
ing not only students who may 
be facing emotional distress or 
mental health issues, but also 
to addressing the lack of peo-
ple of color in supportive roles 
and spaces like mental health 
care. The specific experiences 
and cultural values that make up peo-
ple’s lives can play a role in the way they 
go through life. Having other people who 
are working off the same foundations in 
life can be a benefit. People are gener-
ally more willing to open up if they know 
they won’t be misunderstood while ex-
plaining why they feel a certain way.
Outside of formal groups, informal 
friend groups can be a way to make sure 
you’re keeping up with your journey 
and making sure you aren’t falling into 
negative habits. Organizing group activi-
ties or dedicating a day to have friends 
help each other out with errands not only 
makes those who can feel isolated less 
alone, but also helps make people more 
accountable. 
My informal group has provided great 
breaks from mental blocks that kept me 
in a bad mood. I live in a dorm, and my 
neighbors on both sides are constantly 
getting together to watch movies, catch 
up on shows, and even work out. The 
hallway has become a communal liv-
ing space, where we can bounce around 
rooms, talking and catching up while 
studying together or heading out for a 
few grueling hours at the gym. I can safe-
ly say I am in a better mood thanks to the 
people I live around. For me, it’s proof 
everyone can be a part of something that 
makes them feel welcome and included. 
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism soph-
omore. His column appears on Fridays.Graduation is upon us and so is the senior funkStudent Government: lies, street lights and blue lights
When the system fails, we need each otherColumnColumn
Column
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Anede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
this past Saturday. When Dash started per-
forming, she had lots of opportunities to 
be on stage, but she said newer performers 
don’t always get the same chance. By host-
ing shows for newcomers, she hopes to give 
them a leg up and add more diverse bodies 
to the burlesque scene.  
Her own career in burlesque began when 
a friend wanted to start the Manic Menag-
erie troupe and contacted all the theatrical 
women she knew. Dash figured she’d try it 
out. 
“I have pretty much always been trying 
to find ways to get out of my clothes,” Dash 
said. 
Dash, the character, was born from a 
last-minute Halloween costume for a party 
in 2012. The party asked guests to combine 
two costumes, so she rifled through her al-
ready extensive costume closet and found 
half of a Sally Bowles costume, from “Caba-
ret,” and half of a Rainbow Dash costume, 
from “My Little Pony.”
“I feel so much like myself right now,” 
Dash said she thought. 
She said nobody was surprised stripping 
down would be her next step, including her 
parents, who go to her shows. 
When she gets on stage, Dash likes to 
be sexy but also to make people laugh. It’s 
why she often plays characters like Dolores 
Umbridge from the “Harry Potter” series, a 
tortoise dueting with a hare or a 1970s deb-
utant discovering the joy of masturbation. 
At the end of her most recent performance, 
she played a flying monkey with a penchant 
for touching its bedazzled vagina, stuck on 
a fur-like pair of underwear. 
But this year, Dash is challenging her-
self to do a no-jokes, straight-up-sexy per-
formance. She’ll still perform as a strip of 
bacon, though, based on a lucky thrift store 
find. 
Years of theater in Georgia at Wesleyan 
College and performances at the commu-
nity playhouse contributed to a bursting 
costume closet in Dash’s house. Felt, tulle, 
satin and velvet peek out in different col-
ors and patterns when the unicorn-printed 
curtains are pulled back. Two-gallon buck-
ets are stacked beneath the hanging clothes, 
labeled with what costume pieces are inside and what character they belong to. There’s 
a system to it, a skill Dash also uses in her 
other job as a professional home organizer. 
Most of her pieces are found from lo-
cal thrift stores up and around Sixth Street, 
which she alters. Some of her bottoms are 
brand-new granny panties, which she slices 
fabric away from to create criss-cross pat-
terns or peek-a-boo holes — she avoids 
thongs. A dance background taught her 
things should be tucked in. Plus, she knows 
her assets. 
“I’m a boob girl,” Dash said. 
The pride of her collection is an emerald 
green corset for her tortoise costume, which 
Dash meticulously jeweled into a pattern 
using different green and white rhinestones. 
For the bottoms, she had a friend and fellow 
burlesque performer make her custom un-
derwear. The two tweaked the fit together. 
“You have to do the funniest things 
in burlesque, like, ‘Is my vagina hanging 
out?’” Dash said, bending over like she 
would during a fitting. 
At the places Dash and other women 
perform, full nudity isn’t allowed because 
of the city’s restriction on mixing bare flesh 
and alcohol, she said. Places that do allow it 
don’t serve drinks. 
Dash doesn’t shy away from the com-
parison with club strippers, like at Cafe Ris-
que. Other than the money collected at the 
night’s end, it’s the same, she said. 
“Burlesque dancers makes costumes; 
strippers make money,” Dash said. 
Dash said she wants to get more indi-
viduals of different races and genders per-
forming. Helping other people see their own 
body type on stage makes a difference, she 
said. 
“It means something to people to be able 
to see a body type they recognize on stage,” 
she said. 
Along with her Noobie shows, she also 
does the work of organizing her regular 
shows. After Market Street Pub closed down 
at the end of 2016, Dash decided to keep 
the burlesque shows normally hosted there 
continued as Sally B.’s Dashing Revue, now 
normally held in High Dive, 210 SW Second 
Ave. 
The shows have a live band, Swing The-
ory. 
Dan Neal, the band director, said Dash 
gave the group its first gig back in 2015 when it performed at Market Street Pub. 
He said he wanted his band to have an-
other gig, so he talked her into doing live 
music. 
“Sally is a complete professional,” he 
said. “I wish she was working with me at 
my regular job. She cracks the whip and 
gets stuff done.”
For Kitty LaTush, a burlesque dancer 
who joined the Mischievous Madams 
Burlesque Troupe a year ago, Dash in 
action was a force to be reckoned with. 
When LaTush was only beginning at 
burlesque, LaTush worked the door for 
one of the earlier burlesque shows Dash 
produced. At the end, after all the per-
formances, Dash didn’t make herself the 
star, LaTush said. She quickly acknowl-
edged she had done the work of organiz-
ing the show, but she stepped aside and 
let the other performers get their praise. 
LaTush said it was great to see a selfless 
performer. 
“She doesn’t really care about all 
that. She cares about putting on a good 
show,” LaTush said. “I think she epito-
mizes what we want our community to 
be like.”
It doesn’t mean Dash doesn’t like the 
feeling of a crowd enjoying themselves. 
As a performer, Dash said she likes to 
hear people respond. With stripping, the 
applause keeps coming. 
“Hearing a crowd cheer because they 
like something you did is one of the best 
feelings ever,” she said. 
Dash works hard to give other peo-
ple a leg up. She quietly does the back-
ground tasks needed to make the mul-
tiple burlesque shows she produces or 
performs in a year run. 
She is humble about this. 
But at the end of the day, 
Dash loves the stage.
She also likes what 
comes after — people 
coming up to her saying 
how they loved seeing a 
woman with a normal 
body being sexy, con-
fident and in front of a 
crowd. 
“Sally B’s not my alter 
ego,” Dash said. “She’s 
my ego.”BURLESQUE,  from pg. 1Her character was formed from ‘Cabaret,’ ‘My Little Pony’
Chris King / Alligator Staff 
Burlesque performer Andromeda Rose “summons her inner goddess” onstage during Sally B’s Noobie 
Reveal Saturday night at the Hardback Cafe. 
Chris King / Alligator Staff 
Burlesque performer Willow Delacour performs her 
burlesque routine Saturday night at the Hardback Cafe as 
part of Sally B’s Noobie Reveal. 
Chris King / Alligator Staff 
Burlesque performer Leo Celeste glances at the 
crowd during his burlesque routine Saturday 
night during Sally B’s Noobie Reveal at the 
Hardback Cafe. 
ABOUT 75 STUDENTS 
ATTENDED THE 
FREE EVENT
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Edward Zambrano said he was 
raised in a Latino household where 
his father said to never show fear, 
serve as a protector of his sisters 
and be a household figurehead.
But when one of the 23-year-old 
UF political science senior’s sisters 
shared her experience on social me-
dia for the #MeToo movement, he 
came to a realization.
“That’s when it hit me the most 
that I have to do my part,” Zam-
brano said.
On Thursday night in Turling-
ton Hall, Sigma Lambda Beta, a 
UF Latino-based cultural fraternity, 
partnered with Sexual Trauma In-
terpersonal Violence Education by 
GatorWell to facilitate a discussion 
titled “No es No,” talking about 
rape culture on college campuses. 
The hour-long forum was the 
third event in the organizations’ 
three-day series of events to bring 
attention to the issue and its roots in 
machismo culture, or an aggressive 
masculine pride often presented in 
Latino culture, said Zambrano, who 
is the president of UF Sigma Lamb-
da Beta.
“I hope, above all, men under-
stand that the issue of sexual assault is a men’s issue, too,” Zambrano 
said.
About 75 students attended the 
free event. The audience was most-
ly women, with about 15 men pres-
ent. 
The discussion started by defin-
ing what consent is and then cov-
ered topics, such as rape culture’s 
presence within our societal norms 
and what people can do to change 
it. Students then engaged in an open 
conversation about rape culture and 
ways to change it.
The event was funded by the 
Panhellenic Council, the Black Stu-
dent Union, the Asian American 
Student Association and Sigma Sig-
ma Rho Sorority Incorporated.
Olivia Thalassinos, a 19-year-old 
UF management freshman, said she 
came to the event because she’s 
dealt with uncomfortable instances 
on campus before.
“There have been times when 
a guy will ask me for my phone 
number when I’m out, and I’m too 
scared to say no,” she said.
Nicholas Wong, a 21-year-old UF 
business administration junior, said 
he learned a lot about women’s per-
spective on the matter.
“It’s heartbreaking to hear how 
deeply it affects women lives,” 
Wong said. “From being scared to 
walk home alone at night, carrying 
pepper spray and locking the doors 
immediately when they get in the 
car. Those are things I never think 
about doing.”FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
THE FREE EVENT STARTS 
AT 11 A.M. SATURDAY
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
When Vietnam War veterans 
came home from the war in the 
1960s, they weren’t all met with 
cheers. They got picket signs.
Alachua County will hold its 
first Vietnam War veterans me-morial event Saturday to give vet-
erans the appreciation they didn’t 
receive.
The tribute will take place at 11 
a.m. at Veterans Memorial Park, at 
7400 SW 41st Place. The free event 
will be hosted by Alachua County 
Veteran Services and the North 
Florida/South Georgia Veterans 
Health System, said Daniel Henry, 
public affairs officer for North Flor-
ida/South Georgia Veterans Health System.
“This is our opportunity to say 
to our veterans in North Florida 
and South Georgia and surround-
ing areas, ‘Hey, thank you. We 
love you. You’re a part of our com-
munity,’” Henry said. 
A motorcycle parade will start 
at 9:30 a.m. and will ride from 
Malcom Randall VA Hospital to the 
park, Henry said. 
At the park, there will be live music, food trucks and a virtual 
exhibit of images of the Vietnam 
Veterans Memorial Wall, said Kim 
Davis, the Alachua County Veter-
ans Services director. 
The tribute was funded by or-
ganizational and private donations 
that totaled $6,500, she said. 
Forest Hope, a 72-year-old Viet-
nam War veteran and the Vietnam 
Veterans of America Gainesville 
chapter president, was surprised by the county holding a tribute be-
cause of Gainesville’s anti-war sen-
timent in the 1960s.
“I don’t want that happening 
to those who come back from Af-
ghanistan. I don’t want them to go 
through what we went through,” 
he said.
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgAlachua County Vietnam veterans to be honored with first tribute eventSam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Adrian Cruz, a 21-year-old UF engineering junior, participates in a forum Thursday during the No Es 
No: Dissecting Rape Culture on Campus event in Turlington Hall. The discussion encouraged students 
to speak about topics including sexual assault, toxic masculinity and gender stereotypes by asking 
different questions and allowing audience members to give their perspectives.
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Audience members were offered free condoms, buttons and pizza 
Thursday during the No Es No: Dissecting Rape Culture on Campus 
event in Turlington Hall. About 75 students attended the event, which 
was presented by Sigma Lambda Beta International Fraternity and 
Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education by GatorWell.
‘No es No:’  Dissecting rape culture on college campuses
Alachua County Victim Services And Rape Crisis Center
Location: Main Office at John Henry Thomas, M.D. Center, at 218 SE 24th St.
24 Hour Sexual Assault Helpline: 352-264-6760
UF Office of Victim Services
Phone: 352-392-5648 (Mon-Fri, 8 a.m.-5 p.m.)
Phone: 352-392-1111 (after business hours and on weekends)
STRIVE at Gatorwell Interpersonal Violence Prevention Training
Location: 655 Reitz Union Drive Suite 1100 
Phone: 352-273-4450 or gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/contact
UF Counseling and wellness center (confidential resource)
Location: 3190 Radio Road
Phone : 352-392-157510   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
THE MAN ACCUSED OF THE 
STABBING WAS CHARGED 
WITH ATTEMPTED MURDER
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
An argument over how to make 
doughnuts led to a stabbing behind a 
Krispy Kreme Wednesday night.
The argument 
started when Krispy 
Kreme worker Julius 
Jacolby Irving, 32, of 
Gainesville, started ar-
guing with a co-worker 
on how she was mak-
ing a doughnut at the 
store, at 306 NW 13th 
St., according to a 
Gainesville Police press release.
The co-worker called her boyfriend to 
pick her up, police said. When he ar-
rived, he confronted Irving who then 
took a swing at the man. The two began 
to fight.
The fight quickly ended and the man 
tried to walk away. When he turned his back, Irving took out a pocket knife 
with a 4-inch blade and went after him, 
according to a Gainesville Police arrest 
report.
Irving then stabbed the man in his 
torso, the report said. The man tried to 
defend himself and walk away, but Ir-
ving continued to follow him with the 
knife.
Police found the man on the ground 
in front of the store, the report said. He 
had two stab wounds to his chest, one 
to his back and another in his right hip. 
He was taken to UF Health Shands Emer-
gency Room.
He was rushed to surgery and is alive, 
the press release said.
Irving had a knife when police arrest-
ed him, the report said. He told police he 
fought the man and stabbed him.
He was charged with attempted mur-
der, the report said.
Irving remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $500,000 bond.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgMan stabbed behind Krispy Kreme
HE HAS A $656,000 BOND
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of driving into anoth-
er county with a missing child to escape 
from deputies Wednesday. 
At 4:37 p.m., a dep-
uty was looking for a 
stolen Dodge Charger 
and a missing 14-year-
old when they saw Ca-
leb Joseph Green, 19, 
of Live Oak, Florida, 
driving the car south 
on US 441 near O’Leno 
State Park, at 410 SE 
Oleno Park Road, according to an Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest re-
port. 
The deputy chased after him, the 
report said. Green passed cars in no-
passing zones, drove on the wrong side 
of the road and ran four stop signs, the 
report said. Green drove into Union County and then south back into Ala-
chua County where he was stopped.
The missing child was found in the 
car along with three other passengers, 
the report said. The passengers told 
deputies they repeatedly told Green to 
stop driving and let them out. 
When searching the car, deputies 
found a sandwich bag with an ounce of 
marijuana, the report said. Green had 
traded two stolen guns for the marijua-
na. Deputies also found two small bags 
of methamphetamine in Green’s wallet. 
Green was charged with ﬂ  eeing an 
ofﬁ  cer, kidnapping an adult, grand theft 
of a vehicle, dealing in stolen property, 
abuse of a child without great bodily 
harm, possession of amphetamine and 
possession of three grams or less of dan-
gerous drugs. 
He remained in the Alachua County 
Jail Thursday in lieu of a $656,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgMan accused of driving away from 
deputies, trading guns for drugs
Irving
Green
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
1 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT- 
THE OAKS SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM 
APARTMENT WITH BALCONY FOR RENT. 
WALK TO OAKS MALL, RESTAURANTS- 
CALL 404-323-9338     3-29-5-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St
PLEASE APPLY IN PERSON
4-1-19-5-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
Rockycreek Paintball
In Gainesville, now hiring PT, Sat & Sun.
Call 352-371-2092     3-29-19-3-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
PT JOB - 12 - 15 HRS / WK
Pleasant, upbeat & energetic person for light 
office work in a chiropractic office.
Mon, Wed, & Fri afternoons
 $12.50 / hr. text or call 352-215-5060    4-1-
19-3-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 Cashiers, Gate Attendants and Grounds 
Staff (High Springs) Ginnie Springs Outdoors  Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy work -
ing with the public. High energy and low dra -
ma is a must! Must be at least 18 years old. Must have your own transportation and avail -
ability to work nights, holidays and week -
ends. Seasonal employment. Apply in per -
son ONLY 9am - 4pm weekdays. NO phone calls! GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. High Springs, Florida 32643     4-8-19-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The Florida International Rally & Motorsport Park has a cool p/t track position open. Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before applying.     4-17-19-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
●LOCAL
●TARGETED
●EFFECTIVE
●ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By David Alfred Bywaters©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 03/29/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/29/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 29, 2019
ACROSS
1 Result of littering, 
maybe
4 Recipe direction
8 Round paths
14 Airport info15 Minorca, por 
ejemplo
16 Promote17 Frantic activity at 
a clothing sale?
19 How some insults 
are veiled
20 Luster21 Electric guitar 
effect
23 Meh24 Comedy bit26 Wooden bird 
sculpture?
28 Recreational walk31 European relative 
of aloha
32 Financial claim33 Heroic poetry35 Scheming wife of 
Augustus
40 With 42-Across, 
white-collar crime ... and a hint to four Across answers
42 See 40-Across44 Mongol invader45 “__ Tired”: 
Beatles “White Album” song
47 Long-gone time48 Plant with 
therapeutic sap
50 Ball VIPs52 Cereal maker’s 
storage building?
56 Longtime NBC hit57 Drive-in need58 Ivan IV, from 
1547 to 1584
60 Passageway64 Theater company66 Dispassionate 
bivalve?
68 Fairy tale sibling69 Logician’s adverb70 “Really? Me?”71 Tired72 Precious73 Favorite
DOWN
1 Coat holders2 Wasatch Front 
state3 Opposite of 
embiggen
4 Traffic stopper, 
perhaps
5 Leb. neighbor
6 Diamond 
concern
7 Spicy sauce8 Capital NNW of 
Albany
9 Cheer syllable
10 Euphoria11 “You don’t need 
to tell me”
12 Home of the 
Drillers of Class AA baseball
13 Watch 
surreptitiously
18 Colorful tropical 
flower
22 Middle 
management issues?
25 Cheer27 Satchmo’s 
birthplace, briefly
28 Narrow opening29 Turner with 
numbers
30 Enjoy an easy 
chair
34 Monastic leaders36 Charmingly 
pastoral
37 Member of a 
Baroque consort
38 Memo heading39 Survey range 
components
41 Meh43 Takes badly?46 Threatened49 These days51 Charm52 Spa features53 Like much of 
Oregon
54 Make amends55 “I give up!”59 Uncommon61 Open-handed 
blow
62 Unconvincing, as 
an excuse
63 Put out65 Energy67 NY airport named 
for a mayor
By David Alfred Bywaters©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 03/29/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/29/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 29, 2019
ACROSS
1 Result of littering,
maybe
4 Recipe direction
8 Round paths
14 Airport info15 Minorca, por
ejemplo
16 Promote17 Frantic activity at
a clothing sale?
19 How some insults
are veiled
20 Luster21 Electric guitar
effect
23 Meh24 Comedy bit26 Wooden bird
sculpture?
28 Recreational walk31 European relative
of aloha
32 Financial claim33 Heroic poetry35 Scheming wife of
Augustus
40 With 42-Across, 
white-collar crime ... and a hint to four Across answers
42 See 40-Across44 Mongol invader45 “__ Tired”:
Beatles “WhiteAlbum” song
47 Long-gone time48 Plant with
therapeutic sap
50 Ball VIPs52 Cereal maker’s
storage building?
56 Longtime NBC hit57 Drive-in need58 Ivan IV, from
1547 to 1584
60 Passageway64 Theater company66 Dispassionate
bivalve?
68 Fairy tale sibling69 Logician’s adverb70 “Really? Me?”71 Tired72 Precious73 Favorite
DOWN
1 Coat holders2 Wasatch Front
state3 Opposite of
embiggen
4 Traffic stopper,
perhaps
5 Leb. neighbor
6 Diamond
concern
7 Spicy sauce8 Capital NNW of
Albany
9 Cheer syllable
10 Euphoria11 “You don’t need
to tell me”
12 Home of the
Drillers of ClassAA baseball
13 Watch
surreptitiously
18 Colorful tropical
flower
22 Middle
managementissues?
25 Cheer27 Satchmo’s
birthplace, briefly
28 Narrow opening29 Turner with
numbers
30 Enjoy an easy
chair
34 Monastic leaders36 Charmingly
pastoral
37 Member of a
Baroque consort
38 Memo heading39 Survey range
components
41 Meh43 Takes badly?46 Threatened49 These days51 Charm52 Spa features53 Like much of
Oregon
54 Make amends55 “I give up!”59 Uncommon61 Open-handed
blow
62 Unconvincing, as
an excuse
63 Put out65 Energy67 NY airport named
for a mayor
1.Sloping
1.Bickered5.____ seed
2.“Frasier” star6.Gourd
3.Fifth Greek letter7.Grumpy
4.Square root of 400GLADEN
UDRAGERASGS
MNLOE
ERRMGAM
ISNOPELNKRAYC
EWTTNYANSWERS: 1A-Angled  5A-Grass  6A-Melon  7A-Cranky
1D-Argued  2D-Grammer  3D-Epsilon  4D-Twenty  B-Natural gas3-29-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The U.S. is the world’s leading 
producer of ____ ____.
BONUS
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators tennis teams face SEC foes this weekend
The Florida men's team will play LSU on Friday at 5 p.m. and T exas A&M on 
Sunday at noon. The women's team will travel to Baton Rouge, Louisiana to 
play the Tigers on Friday at 5 p.m., then visit College Station, T exas, to face 
the Aggies on Sunday at 1 p.m.Florida swimmer Kieran Smith was 
tabbed a First-T eam All-American 
after finishing eighth in the 200 IM 
at the NCAA Championships on 
Thursday in Austin, T exas.FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida cornerback Brian Edwards 
braced himself as receiver Josh Ham-
mond came near. Hammond caught 
a pass from quarterback Kyle Trask 
moments before meeting his defen-
sive teammate near the end zone.
Edwards didn’t tackle Hammond 
like normal, instead hitting the re-
ceiver in the helmet with his own 
and drawing a loud “oooh” from 
the players on the sideline. Edwards 
was penalized for targeting and was 
subsequently pulled by coach Dan 
Mullen for the the next few drives, 
simulating what would happen if the 
penalty were to happen in a regular 
game.
The Gators football team held a 
scrimmage at Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-
um on Thursday that featured plenty 
of highs, like the play of the quarter-
backs, and some lows, like Edwards’ 
targeting. 
Positive: The Quarterbacks
Perhaps one of the biggest upsides 
of the day was the performances of 
Florida’s four main quarterbacks. 
(Sidenote: all the stats that are 
mentioned in this article are unof-
ficial. They come from 247Sports’ 
Thomas Goldkamp and GatorCoun-
try’s Nick de la Torre.)
Let’s start with Feleipe Franks.
The redshirt junior completed 
eight of his 16 passes, good for 138 
yards, a touchdown and an intercep-tion. He also ran for seven yards and 
a another touchdown. He looked 
confident in the pocket and meshed 
well with his receivers, hitting them 
in stride and completing big recep-
tions.
He made mistakes (every quar-
terback did) that resulted in the lone 
interception of the day by Brad Stew-
art, but his poise and command of 
the offense makes him the favorite 
to start next season.
Trask had the most yards on the 
day (143 yards), but also threw the 
ball more than any other quarterback 
(11 of 21 with two touchdowns). 
Redshirt freshman Emory Jones 
looked shaky in the passing game, 
going 6 of 17 for 76 yards and a 
touchdown. His specialty was on the 
ground, rushing for 64 yards on eight 
carries. 
Freshman Jalon Jones went 2 of 
5 for 55 yards and a rushing touch-
down.
Positive: Zachary Carter
The Gators needed someone to 
replace former defensive lineman 
Jachai Polite now that he is turning 
pro.
They might have found one in 
Zachary Carter.
The redshirt sophomore was a 
monster on the line, recording any-
where from four to five sacks and 
some more quarterback hurries. 
(Again, unofficial stats. Players can’t 
hit the quarterbacks, they have to 
wrap around. It’s hard to determine just how many sacks Carter had.)
Expect Carter to see some signifi-
cant playing time next season.
Negative: The Offensive Line
If Carter’s sacks were a positive, 
the unit that gave them up has to be 
listed as a negative.
Florida’s offensive line took a massive hit following the 2018 cam-
paign. Four starters either left to go 
to the NFL or graduated. That leaves 
a serious gap in experience with the 
talent.
It showed on Thursday.
Defensive linemen easily broke 
through and put pressure on the 
quarterback. They recorded at least six sacks during the scrimmage. 
Franks could handle it, but Trask, 
Jones and Jones all struggled. 
The O-line will be a serious issue 
for the Gators going into the 2019 
season and will force Franks to have 
to make plays on his own with lim-
ited time.Scrimmage showcases quarterbacks, struggling O-line
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks threw for 173 yards on 13-of-23 passing and a touchdown in UF's 
Peach Bowl win over Michigan in Atlanta on Dec. 29. 
SOFTBALL BASEBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The UF softball team has an impor-
tant series with Ole Miss this weekend 
after its first two SEC series against 
Tennessee and LSU ended in defeat. 
The No. 6 Gators have an opportu-
nity to get back on track in conference 
play. They’ll use a new batting order, 
which features North Carolina State 
transfer Jade Caraway in the leadoff 
spot, to try to take down a strong Mis-
sissippi pitching staff. 
Scouting Ole Miss 
The No. 22 Rebels provide a diffi-cult challenge for UF. They’re 12-1 at 
home this season. Their only loss came 
against No. 13 Arkansas on March 9. 
Mississippi (22-8, 3-2 SEC) has also 
played well against top-25 opponents 
of late. It won its series with the Ra-
zorbacks, swept two games with No. 
21 Oklahoma State and split two at No. 
16 South Carolina.
The Rebels’ biggest strength is their 
pitching staff, led by left-hander Molly 
Jacobsen, a transfer from Des Moines 
Area Community College.  
Jacobsen has the lowest earned-run 
average (1.04) of any SEC pitcher, and 
UM has a team ERA of 1.79 (third in By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team’s success in 2018 
was consistent with recent expectations for the 
program.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan’s squad rattled off 49 
wins (the most in the conference) en route to an 
SEC title and a fourth-consecutive trip to the Col-
lege World Series.
Paramount to that team’s postseason run 
were the arms that rounded out its weekend ro-
tation and those behind them in the bullpen.
The core of that pitching staff is gone.
Brady Singer (12-3, 2.55 ERA, 114 strikeouts), 
Jackson Kowar (10-5, 3.04 ERA, 115 strikeouts) and Michael Byrne (3-1, 1.61 ERA, 64 strikeouts, 
16 saves) all departed from UF to pursue their 
MLB dreams. In their wake, they left behind a 
depleted pitching staff devoid of a true ace and 
apt to be exposed by elite SEC offenses.
The dominant trio of Singer, Kowar and By-
rne was replaced by sophomores Jack Leftwich, 
Tommy Mace and junior Tyler Dyson.
Dyson (3-1, 5.34 ERA, 21 strikeouts in 2019) 
earned a spot in the weekend rotation last year 
and began this season as the Friday night starter. 
He struggled in that role early on (two no-de-
cisions against Winthrop and Miami) and was 
eventually relegated to his former role of Sunday 
starter ahead of the start of SEC play.Gators travel to Ole Miss 
for weekend seriesFirst to worst: UF’s pitching staff 
deserves share of blame for struggles
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
ESPORTS
By Dylan Rudolph and  
Alanis Thames
Sports Writers
Chris Cantrell’s love for playing began with 
innocent card games with his sister, Catelyn.
Simple Pokemon battles soon turned to in-
tense Madden competitions with his friends, 
and Chris became absorbed with a passion for 
playing sports.
It wasn’t dressing in the football gear or 
kicking a ball into a net that drew his interest. 
It was perching in front of his bedroom TV 
and immersing himself in the virtual world of 
sports.
He’d come home from high school in Jack-
sonville and rush straight to his television, 
where he’d stay for six-to-eight hours playing 
video games.
His PlayStation and controller became his 
football and basketball gear. And after years 
of developing his craft, Chris found himself 
climbing the ladder in the professional gam-
ing community rung by rung.
NBA 2K was Chris’ sport of choice, though 
he had little knowledge of basketball before 
then.
He’d become acclimated with the esports 
world from watching popular organizations 
like FaZe Clan and OpTic Gaming battle in 
Call of Duty Tournaments.
“I was like, ‘Dude, these guys are playing 
video games for a living,’” he said. “At the 
time, I was like, ‘That’s not gonna be me.’”
Chris (gamertag “KontruL” when playing 
NBA 2K) got into the competitive scene in 
2016 when he qualified for a $250,000 tour-
nament called “The Road to Finals.”
He didn’t win the tournament, but at that 
point, he realized the magnitude of the gam-
ing world, and that it was something he could 
seriously compete in.
“I realized like, I’m pretty good at the 
game,” Chris said, “but I still didn’t think 
there would ever be a league or anything like 
they got now.”
His career began to take off after that. He 
continued to put hours into the game and 
started winning tournaments. 
In 2018, he got the chance to travel to New 
York City to take part in the inaugural NBA 
2K League Draft. 
He had been on a plane just once in his life when he moved from Hawaii, where his dad, 
Tim, was stationed in the Navy, to Jackson-
ville as a 3-year-old. 
He now found himself alone and heading 
to a new city, only bringing with him a love 
for gaming and hope for an opportunity to 
propel his career.
On the night of the draft, Chris sat ner-
vously in his black-cushioned seat in the Hulu 
Theater at Madison Square Garden, waiting 
for his name and photo to flash across the 
jumbo screen.
He expected to go late in the first round 
or the second round, so when NBA Commis-
sioner Adam Silver called his name, announc-
ing he’d been picked eighth overall by Magic 
Gaming, everything about the gaming world 
that once seemed like a dream became a real-
ity.
“I thought about all the time I put into the 
game,” Chris said. “I realized it actually is 
paying off now. That there is actually a career 
path for putting in hours for videos games. It’s 
not just pointless playing just for casual fun. 
It’s more than that now.”
Chris played six-to-eight hours a day in 
preparation for his first season as a profes-
sional gamer.
He lived with two of his teammates in a 
three-bedroom apartment in Orlando, Florida. 
They  trained and traveled to their events to-
gether.
Once the season started, their competitions 
took place weekly in New York from May to 
August of 2017. They were, on average, at-
tended by about 200 people while simultane-
ously being watched by thousands more at 
home on the Twitch streaming service. 
He averaged 14.4 points per game in his 
first season with Magic Gaming, and the team 
went 8-6. 
One of his favorite memories from the sea-
son was sitting courtside at the final Orlando 
Magic home game of the 2017-18 season.
He met some of the players, including 
rookie center Mo Bamba, and couldn’t believe 
how far video games had taken him.
“I didn’t realize how tall they were. (Bam-
ba) towered over me, ” Cantrell said laughing. 
“But he was so down to earth. It was just so 
fun talking to him and meeting him.”The NBA 2K League added four more 
teams during the summer of 2018, and Chris 
was selected by Lakers Gaming with the fifth-
overall pick in the September expansion draft.  
With the excitement of joining a new team 
came the startling realization that he’d have 
to leave his family and the comfort of Florida 
to move across the country for the upcoming 
season.
But Chris remained optimistic, under-
standing that he had the chance to join one of 
the biggest brands in sports.
“Los Angeles, there’s so much to do 
there,” he said, “and there’s a lot of opportu-
nity there, so I was super excited when I saw 
that I was picked to LA.”
And as a journalism major at the Univer-
sity of Florida who is graduating in Decem-
ber, Chris has to find a balance between his 
gaming and school schedule. He takes three 
online classes and does his work late into the 
night after practice.The new season starts on April 4 in THE 
TIPOFF Tournament at 9 p.m. against the 
Celtics Crossover Gaming, and he said he 
knows his team will be a playoff contender.
But for Chris, this is still just the beginning 
of the journey.
He expects that in five years, gaming will 
be one of the biggest entertainment industries 
in the world. Esports has already drawn the 
interest of younger generations, and if Chris 
has anything to do with it, the gaming world 
will change the way people look at sports.
“I just want to be involved with the league 
as long as I can,” he said. “I want to see it 
grow. Whatever position I am with the league, 
I just want to be involved for as long as pos-
sible. I just want to see it grow.”
athames@alligator.org
drudolph@alligator.orgKontruL: How Chris Cantrell paved a career in NBA 2K
Courtesy to the Alligator
Chris Cantrell, also known by his gamertag KontruL on Playstation, was drafted by 
Magic Gaming with the eighth pick in the inaugural 2018 NBA 2K League Draft. 
TRACK AND FIELD
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
The Pepsi Florida Relays was 
Cameron Mahorn’s first home 
meet. 
The freshman from Wellington, 
Florida, came off the blocks in the 
200-meter dash at James G. Pressly 
Stadium as the only Gator in the 
event. He finished in 21.76 sec-
onds, his season-best, which was 
only good enough to place No. 66 
among all of the heats. 
Mahorn struggled, and his age 
could be a reason why. Six of the 
seven other UF athletes that com-
peted in the Pepsi Florida Relays on Thursday were underclassmen. 
Most of the big names on the track 
and field team are juniors and se-
niors, and all of them except one, 
redshirt junior Autumn Bartlett, 
will wait until Friday or Saturday 
to compete in the three-day meet. 
Thursday was a rare day in track 
and field for the Gators. A team that 
just won the NCAA Men’s Indoor 
Track and Field Championships 
and placed sixth in the women’s 
championship only had one athlete 
finish in the top 10 of an event on 
Thursday. 
That is likely to change when 
the bigger names, like junior Grant 
Holloway and seniors AJ McFar-land and Yanis David, compete. 
For now, UF hasn’t impressed at its 
only home meet of the season. 
Sophomore Dawson Guil-
lory represented the Gators in the 
400-meter dash. He finished his lap 
in 48.87 seconds and placed 38th. 
Three UF women ran in the 
5,000-meter race: redshirt sopho-
more Sophie Ebihara, freshman 
Sophia Piniella and Bartlett. The 
freshman outdid her older team-
mates, as Piniella placed No. 30 
with a time of 17:41.30. Ebihara 
finished just two spots behind her 
with a time of 17:43.38. Bartlett, at 
19:05.73, came in at No. 42. 
Freshman Cavan Wilson ran the 5,000-meter race on the men’s side. 
He was No. 39 on the board with a 
time of 15:15.54.
Redshirt sophomore Jacob 
Stanko had the best performance 
of the day for the Gators. He placed 
sixth in the javelin throw, reaching 
62.25 meters, his best throw ever. 
He has set a personal record two 
weeks in a row, as he threw the 
javelin 60.37 meters at the FSU Re-
lays on March 22. 
Holloway will participate in his 
best event on Friday in the 110-me-
ter hurdles. He will also run the 
200-meter dash with teammates 
Ryan Clark, Hakim Sani Brown 
and Chantz Sawyers. On Saturday, the gun will go off at approximately 
3:10 p.m. for the men’s 4x100 re-
lay. The team of Holloway, Sani 
Brown, Clark and junior transfer 
Raymond Ekevwo is currently 
ranked No. 1 in the country. 
David will also compete in her 
final meet in Gainesville on Sat-
urday when she competes in the 
event she won the NCAA Indoor 
Championship in: the triple jump. 
The jumper from Lamentin, Guade-
loupe, will celebrate her senior day 
along with twelve other athletes. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgGators’ underclassmen compete in Day 1 of Florida Relays •   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •Leftwich (4-2, 4.65 ERA, 30 strike-
outs) and Mace (4-2, 3.99 ERA, 34 strike-
outs) were promoted to full-time week-
end starters this season.
The 2018 team was second in the 
SEC in ERA (3.46), ﬁ  rst in opposing bat-
ting average (.234) and fourth in strike-
outs (607).
A year later, those standings in the 
conference are inverted.
The 2019 team is 13th (out of 14 
teams) in ERA (4.54), 14th in opposing 
batting average (.257) and 14th in batters 
struck out (208).
UF has been outdueled on the mound 
in all but one of its SEC games. The 
Gators’ ERA in conference games jumps 
up to 8.47 and opposing batting aver-
age up to .329 — both dead last in the 
conference.
The starting trio was buoyed early on 
by an offense that took advantage of a 
relatively weak non-conference week-
end schedule — besides Miami — to the 
point that none of them lost a start until 
SEC play began.
In their 20 non-conference games, the 
Gators average 8.24 runs per game. But 
in its six SEC games, UF averages just 
3.66 runs per game, hardly enough to 
make up for subpar pitching outings.In Dyson’s six starts, he averages just 
4.78 innings per start. Leftwich is slightly 
better with 5.16 innings per start, and 
Mace leads the team with 6.38. Mace’s 
durability is likely one of the reasons he 
supplanted Dyson on the bump on Fri-
days.
When Leftwich, Mace or Dyson strug-
gle, O’Sullivan is forced to call upon an 
inexperienced bullpen earlier in the game 
than UF’s opponents often do.
The four arms that have seen the most 
time out of the bullpen are sophomore 
Justin Alintoff, freshman Nolan Crisp, 
freshman Christian Scott and redshirt 
freshman Hunter Ruth.
Of the 12 Florida pitchers with the 
most innings pitched this season, only 
one is an upperclassman (Dyson), and 
six are true freshmen.
Florida’s offense has shown explo-
siveness (two 20+ run outputs against 
Florida State and Winthrop), but its in-
consistency has been evident (ﬁ  ve games 
scoring fewer than three runs). That 
streakiness puts ample pressure on the 
rotation to pump out quality starts just to 
stay aﬂ  oat in the SEC, which is home to 
eight top-25 teams outside of Gainesville.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019
the SEC). She threw 9.1 scoreless innings 
in her team’s two wins over the Razor-
backs and hurled a complete-game shut-
out in an eight-inning thriller against the 
Gamecocks. 
Ole Miss’ offense is at the bottom of the 
conference. Its .290 batting average is last in the SEC, but it found success lately be-
hind leadoff batter Kylan Becker. 
The senior from Miami, Florida, is hit-
ting .473 and has an on-base percentage of 
.533. She also enters this weekend’s series 
on an eight-game hit streak and poses a 
threat to steal every time she’s on base. 
Becker has stolen 18 bases on 21 at-
tempts, and the Rebels are second in the 
SEC in stolen bases with 71. The Importance of UF’s leadoff spot
Florida (28-6, 2-4 SEC) has a hidden 
gem in its batting order, and her name is 
Jade. 
Jade Caraway has a ﬁ  ve-game hitting 
streak for Florida, and she has done the 
bulk of her damage from the leadoff posi-
tion, where she hit during her ﬁ  rst two col-
legiate seasons at NC State. 
“It’s what she’s done her whole life,” 
UF coach Tim Walton said about Caraway 
batting leadoff. “I think just being able to 
see the success she has had now in this 
uniform is building conﬁ  dence.”Caraway came around to score in the 
ﬁ  rst inning in each of the Gators’ last two 
games and provided speed around the bas-
es for the power hitters in Amanda Lorenz 
and Kendyl Lindaman who follow her. 
Friday’s matchup with Ole Miss will be 
her ﬁ  rst in the leadoff spot against an SEC 
opponent this season. 
“The vibe I think is the biggest differ-
ence,” Caraway said about playing in the 
SEC. “Every weekend is just a big weekend.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Caraway: ive-game hit streakChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida Sunday starter Tyler Dyson is averaging 4.78 innings per start this season. He holds a 
3-1 record through six starts, has a 5.34 ERA and has recorded 21 strikeouts in 2019.
BASEBALL,  from pg. 14UF has 8.47 ERA in the SEC
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!