We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators complete season sweep of JU
Brady McConnell hit a leadoff home run in the 
first inning of the UF baseball team’s 8-4 victory 
over the Dolphins, pg. 14
What goes into a $20,000 SG banquet 
Shrimp and grits skewers and potted palm trees are on the 
receipt,  pg. 4
A new restaurant in town
A seafood restaurant is coming to Celebration Pointe, pg. 5  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 82
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis made his first stop 
at UF since his election Tuesday morning.
He spoke to a crowd of about 50 on the 
Steinmetz Hall courtyard about his strate -
gies to target environmental concerns and 
about his recent appointment of Thomas 
Frazer, the director of the UF School of 
Natural Resources and Environment, as 
the state’s first chief science officer. 
“Dr. Frazer has a very good reputa -
tion as being a leading environmental re -
searcher in the state,” DeSantis said in his 
speech. “He understands our state well 
and the actions that we must take.”
In this new role, Frazer will work with 
both the governor’s office and the Florida 
Department of Environmental Protection to 
provide scientific advice so the state can 
best address these environmental challeng -
es, DeSantis said.
“This is part of our environmental roll -
out where we said, ‘We want to be in -
formed about what works on this stuff,’” 
DeSantis said.
DeSantis also spoke on his environmen -tal goals for the state’s water quality, the 
Everglades, coral reefs, last year’s harm -
ful red tide algal outbreak and Florida’s 
springs. 
DeSantis also spoke on his environmen -
tal goals for the state’s water quality, in -
cluding establishing a new board for the 
South Florida Water District. He also dis -
cussed creating a blue-green algae task 
force following last year’s harmful red tide 
algal outbreak.
In his speech, DeSantis said the state is 
on track to receive $625 million this year 
for projects on water quality and Ever -
glades restoration. This comes as part of a 
billion dollar increase ordered by DeSantis 
over the next four years for these projects.
If the state continues with this momen -
tum, then over the next four years it would 
allocate $2.5 billion to these critical needs, 
DeSantis said.
“The legislature is going back-and-forth 
with the budget, but I think this is going 
to be something that has brought agree -
ment,” DeSantis said. “I’m really, really 
happy that we’re going to be able to do Gov. DeSantis speaks at UF about environmental goals
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis spoke about the environment to a crowd of about 50 
people Tuesday on the Steinmetz Hall courtyard. 
 SEE DESANTIS,  PAGE 3
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer 
While it may never be known 
if 21 Savage ate his chicken 
wings, UF students definitely saw 
him perform. 
About 6,000 people watched 
rapper 21 Savage, who request -
ed 50 wings in his contract with UF, perform Monday night at the 
O’Connell Center. 
The performance was first 
scheduled for Feb. 27 in honor of 
Black History Month. However, 
it was rescheduled due to the de -
tention of 21 Savage, whose legal 
name is She’yaa Bin Abraham-
Joseph, by U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement on Feb. 3 for overstaying his U.S. visa. 
Rapper Yung Garzi, who was a 
UF plant science student for two 
years, opened for 21 Savage, per -
forming a 40-minute set in pink 
and white socks. 
“I used to go here,” Garzi told 
the crowd. “UF, turn the f--- up.”
21 Savage came out at about 
8:40 p.m. and performed for about an hour, including his 
songs “rockstar,” “Savage Mode” 
and “a lot.” The performance in -
cluded fire and smoke cannons.
“Gainesville, I’m in savage 
mode,” 21 Savage said in his per -
formance.
Several students leaving the 
concert said it wasn’t too viva -
cious, which they said was ex -
pected considering it was a school 
event.
Students were able to return their $10 tickets for a full refund 
because of the schedule change, 
said Student Government Produc -
tions Chairman Andrew Kelly.
“I’m sure [students] are defi -
nitely not going to forget to -
night,” Kelly said. “There’s a lot 
of work and effort that went into 
the show, not only by myself but, 
of course, the entire team.”
The O’Connell Center offered 
refunds until the start of the show ‘I’m in savage mode’: Rapper 21 Savage finally performs at UF 
About 6,000 people attended the concert
HE MAY HAVE TRIED TO 
GET AN EGG
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua man who was killed 
by a cassowary bird Friday may 
have been trying to get an egg, 
deputies said.
Marvin Hajos, 75, died from 
his injuries Friday after he was at -tacked by at least 
one of his two 
cassowaries in 
Alachua County.
The species is 
considered the 
world’s most 
dangerous bird, 
according to the 
San Diego Zoo. 
While the exact sequence of 
events is unknown, Hajos is be -lieved to have gone inside the pen 
to get an egg from the birds and 
was then attacked, said Lt. Brett 
Rhodenizer, an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office spokesperson. 
Hajos was able to get out of the 
enclosure and call 911 himself, 
Rhodenizer said. 
“In considering livestock, we 
have farmers and ranchers in our 
community that can be and are 
hurt in working with other large animals,” Rhodenizer said. “While 
this is a fatal injury, and a tragic 
injury, for the man and his family, 
there are risks associated with in -
teractions with large animals.”
Hajos was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital, where he died 
from his injuries.
Cassowaries are flightless birds 
native to Australia and New Guinea. 
They can grow up to 6 feet tall. 
They have black body feathers and an at least 4-inch-long claw on 
each foot.
Cassowaries are classified as 
class II wildlife, meaning experi -
ence and cage requirements must 
be met in order to possess the 
birds, according to the Florida Fish 
and Wildlife Conservation Com -
mission website.
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgMan killed by cassowary bird may have entered its cage SEE SAVAGE,  PAGE 3
Casuarius casuarius
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  60°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger,  jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
UF Hillel
 2020 Univ. Ave
Gainesville, FL
UFHillel.org
Happy Passove r
Join us for our
Passover Seder.
April 19th,7:00pm
Free for students.
TODAY
Science: Unsilenced
When:  1:15-3 p.m.; 5:30-7 p.m.
Where:  Smathers Library 
Room 100; College of Public 
Health and Health Professions 
Room G-101
What:  This week-long series 
of events is devoted to free 
speech in science. These events 
will start campus conversa -
tions about free speech and 
censorship. Speakers include: 
Christine Arena, the creator 
and executive producer of “Let 
Science Speak,” a documen -
tary to help defend America’s 
environmental scientists; 
Connie Bersok, a former 30-
year employee of the Florida 
Department of Environmental 
Protection and alumni of the 
UF Howard T. Odum Center for 
Wetlands who was suspended 
for her memo against a wet -
lands permit; Joel Clement, an 
Arctic Initiative Senior Fellow 
at Harvard’s Kennedy School 
who was an executive at the 
U.S. Department of the Interior 
for seven years before he re -
signed for disclosing the im -
pacts of climate change; and 
Sonja R. West, Otis Brumby 
Distinguished Professor in 
First Amendment law at the 
University of Georgia, who will 
lecture to UF Health on doctors 
and freedom of speech. Today, 
there will be a lecture from Arena, the filmmaker of “Let 
Science Speak,” in Smathers 
Library Room 100. The film 
will begin at 1:15 p.m. and 
the interview will start at 2 
p.m. There will also be a pan -
el on physicians and the First 
Amendment with West, where 
they will discuss free speech 
issues involving doctors, and a 
roundtable with UF physicians 
in the College of Public Health 
and Health Professions Room 
G-101 at 5:30 p.m.
International Student 
Internship Panel and 
Workshop
When: 3-5 p.m. 
Where:  Career Connections 
Center: Connection Room on 
the ground floor of the Reitz 
Union
What:  The International 
Student Affairs Cabinet is col -
laborating with Volunteers for 
International Student Affairs 
and the Career Connections 
Center to host a career and in -
ternship panel and workshop 
event to help with the applica -
tion process for international 
students seeking job opportu -
nities in the U.S. International 
students can learn how to 
grow their network and imple -
ment job search strategies. 
Additionally, the workshop 
will include a panel of current 
international students who will 
share their job experiences and 
give advice on how to stand out as applicants. There will also be 
a networking session along with 
light refreshments. The first 30 
people to attend will get free 
padfolios. If you have any ques -
tions about the event, contact 
international@sg.ufl.edu.
Correction:  In an article titled 
"Gainesville Grows: Where new 
businesses will call home?" that 
ran in Monday's edition, Thomas 
Whitman, the Opus Coffee logis -
tics manager, said "We love be -
ing in the old part of Gainesville." 
The Alligator reported differently.
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org . 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis -
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format -
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 82WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
that.”
DeSantis said he also supports restora -
tion efforts of the Florida springs, which 
he plans to put at least $50 million toward.
“Florida springs are really somewhat of 
a hidden treasure,” DeSantis said. “Not a 
lot of tourists who come really understand 
how nice our springs are, and the springs restoration program is something that I 
support.”
After DeSantis presented, Noah Valen -
stein, the secretary of the Florida Depart -
ment of Environmental Protection; Tom 
Kay, the executive director for the Alachua 
County Conservation Trust; and Frazer 
each spoke.
“I look forward to transitioning into 
the role of chief science officer and, again, 
bringing the best science that we possibly can to bear on these issues,” Frazer said. 
“It’s an aggressive agenda set forth, but I 
think it will do good things.”
Constance Darrisaw, a 21-year-old UF 
entomology and nematology senior, said 
she came to the conference after hearing 
about it from her professor. She thought it 
would be important to hear what the gov -
ernor had to say about the environment.
Darrisaw was glad DeSantis addressed 
the issues of last summer’s red tide out -break, which killed tons of marine life and 
the impact it had on Florida’s rivers and 
springs, she said.
“I really appreciate the dedication that 
he seems to have toward our environment, 
especially our local issues here in Florida,” 
Darrisaw said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgDESANTIS,  from pg. 1He spoke about water quality, Everglades, coral reefs and red tide
and only issued 10 refunds through the box of -
fice until then, said Renee Musson, the associ -
ate director of the O’Connell Center. 
The box office did not have information on 
how many tickets were refunded electronically 
through Ticketmaster, and all refunded tickets 
were resold, she said.  
Student Government officials, including SG 
President Ian Green and SG President-elect 
Michael Murphy, received invite-only meet-
and-greet passes, according to the rapper’s 
contract.
The rapper was released on bond a little 
more than a week after his detention, but the 
status of his UF performance was unknown 
until Feb. 20. 
21 Savage, who was brought to UF by Stu -
dent Government Productions and the Black 
Student Union, was paid $110,000 to perform. 
Mac Baxter, a 23-year-old UF mechanical 
engineering senior, said he admits he isn’t the 
biggest 21 Savage fan but went to the show 
because some of his friends were going.
However, after the schedule change, many 
of his friends could no longer go, even though 
he did.
“The delay affected me because a third of 
the people I knew couldn’t come, and I ended up sitting in better seats because everyone was 
giving their tickets away,” he said. 
The concert was what he expected for 
a school event, but he said he was not too 
thrilled with 21 Savage’s performance.
“He kind of just, like, sang over his own 
songs. It was borderline lip-syncing,” he said.
Sarah Dominique, the director of UF’s Black 
History Month, attended the concert with her 
friend Zjara Wilson.
“He’s my husband. You can quote me on 
that,” Wilson, a 22-year-old UF telecommu -
nication senior, said about the rapper. “So, 
that’s why I’m here — supporting my man.” 
Wilson, who knew all of 21 Savage’s songs, 
said that even though the concert was resched -
uled from February, which is Black History 
Month, it still holds special value.
“[His situation] just brings a highlight to 
just how different African Americans are treat -
ed in this country,” she said. “It’s just really 
refreshing for him to still be able to come per -
form, share his art with us and share a part 
of our culture with the University of Florida.”
Staff photographer Chris King contributed to 
this report.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgSAVAGE,  from pg. 1He was paid $110,000 to perform  
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Rapper 21 Savage performs to a crowd of about 6,000 people Monday night at 
the O’Connell Center. The performance was originally scheduled for Feb. 27, but 
it was rescheduled after the performer was detained by immigration services.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
ANNUAL BANQUET WILL BE HELD 
TODAY AT CHAMPION’S CLUB
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Shrimp and grits skewers, security guards 
and potted palm trees are only a few compo -
nents of a more than $20,000 UF Student Gov -
ernment banquet to be held today.
SG will host its annual banquet at 6 p.m. 
at the Champion’s Club in Ben Hill Griffin Sta -
dium to celebrate the outgoing administration 
and swear in the new Student Body president, 
vice president and treasurer, Student Body 
President Ian Green wrote in an email. 
Here are four things to know about the 
banquet, including cost, guests and revenue 
sources:
Who is on the guest list?
There were 213 people invited, but only 
170 accepted their invites, Terence “Terry” 
Delahunty, Green’s chief of staff, wrote in an 
email. There is no waitlist. 
The guest list includes university officials, 
SG agency heads and local leaders. The guest 
list only includes one Inspire-affiliated sena -
tor, Mackintosh Joachim. 
Ashley Grabowski, the Senate minority 
party leader (Inspire, Graduate), was not in -
vited to attend Wednesday’s event. The ma -
jority party leader, Tony Emmett (Impact, District B), is invited. 
When asked why Grabowski was not in -
vited, Delahunty said guests were chosen 
based on whether they won an award, col -
laborated on an initiative or are “leaders on 
campus who made a positive impact on cam -
pus and within Student Government itself.” 
The invitations are ultimately up to Green.
Green said he chose a bigger venue to ac -
commodate more guests. Last year’s banquet 
was held at the O’Connell Center.  
“While there are 35 Inspire senators, there 
are over 800 SG positions that need to be con -
sidered,” Green said. 
How much does it cost? 
The event cost $20,646, according to a 
public records request.
The most expensive portion of the event is 
the food, which cost $10,521.
The reservation for the Champion’s Club 
in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium cost $2,500 and 
the awards cost $2,624. 
Security officers, who will oversee the cash 
bar and check-in, cost $504. Decorations, in -
cluding potted palm trees and royal blue and 
orange tablecloths, cost $3,137. 
Both Green and SG advisor James Tyger 
said the banquet is typically $20,000 annu -
ally.  
Where does the money come from? 
The money for this event came from out -
side revenue, which is not generated by the 
activity and service fees, that UF students pay $19.06 per credit hour for, Green said.
Neither Green nor Delahunty could specify 
where the money for the banquet came from 
but said it stemmed from programs like the 
Housing Fair, Young Leaders Conference and 
the Florida Student Government Institute. 
Could the money for the banquet have 
been donated?
Grabowski said she cares more about the 
cost of the banquet than the invitation list, 
even though she didn’t get an invite. 
“Just because it’s external revenue doesn’t 
mean that the money can’t be used to help 
students,” Grabowski said.
Zachariah Chou (Inspire, Murphree) was 
invited to the SG banquet his freshman year 
but he did not attend. An invitation was sent 
out through the Senate email list and people 
registered on a first-come, first-serve basis. 
Chou was not invited this year. 
Chou said having a banquet that celebrates 
everyone would be fine, but the exclusivity 
and amount of money spent is problematic. 
“We could use that money to fund projects 
that actually matter,” Chou said. 
Delahunty and Green said they were only 
aware of one occasion in which the banquet 
funds were donated, and that was in 2008. 
They cited Alligator archives.
Green said he chose to have the banquet 
because he worked to better utilize SG’s bud -
get across campus this year. 
Grabowski said that the money for the banquet could be better spent on programs 
like more comprehensive sexual assault train -
ing for employees or larger testing facilities for 
the Disability Resource Center to accommo -
date more students.
Grabowski said a survey could be sent out 
to students to determine how the money is 
spent.
“Wouldn’t that have been an awesome 
opportunity to give constituents a voice?” 
Grabowski said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgFour things to know about Student Government banquet
MENU
Charcuterie station: $950
Shrimp and grits with candied 
bacon skewer: $437.50
Carving station with chicken and 
brisket, jackfruit sliders, maca -
roni and cheese, collard greens, 
mashed potatoes, salad and rolls:  
$4,198
Mini trifle key lime pie and peach 
cobbler: $200
Banana pudding: $129.50
SHE SPENT $1,600 ON 
ONE CARD 
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman used two elderly peo -
ple’s credit cards without permis -
sion and spent $1,600 on one of the 
cards, deputies said.
Jazzmine Green, 22, of 
Gainesville, was arrested on a war -rant for stealing 
from the elderly 
on two separate 
incidents. 
Between Dec. 
10, 2017, and 
Feb. 6, 2018, 
Green spent 
about $1,600 on 
a credit card she 
stole from an 87-year-old woman, 
according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Office warrant affidavit. 
Green used it multiple times to pay 
off a Sprint bill and purchase other 
items. 
The woman’s husband told The 
Alligator Green was a caretaker of 
the victim for a couple of months. 
“We were really surprised and 
dismayed when we found out that it 
was Jazzmine who had done this,” 
the husband said. 
On March 28, 2018, a sheriff’s of -fice deputy questioned Green at her 
home about her being a suspect in 
another fraud case, the affidavit said. 
Green told the officer she know -
ingly used the woman’s credit card 
between Sept. 27, 2016, and Dec. 28, 
2016, to purchase items without her 
knowing, the affidavit said. 
Green was charged with fraudu -
lently using the ID of an elderly 
victim, exploitation of the elderly, 
illegally using credit cards and two counts of grand theft, the affidavit 
said.
She was released from the Ala -
chua County Jail on her own recog -
nizance Tuesday afternoon.
Green’s cell phone number on the 
affidavit was invalid, and she could 
not be reached for comment.
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgACSO: Woman uses elderly people’s credit cards without permission
Green
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
IT WILL OPEN THIS SUMMER
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville will be getting a taste of Key 
West this summer. 
The Keys, a locally-owned seafood restau -
rant, bar and music venue, will come to Cel -
ebration Pointe, just west of Interstate-75, late 
this summer, said Celebration Pointe spokes -
person Phillip Bergman.
The restaurant will be about 5,000 square 
feet, with inside and outside seating and will 
be co-owned by three local business owners, Bergman said.
It is the latest announcement to come to the 
Celebration Pointe mixed-use center. Other re -
cent announcements include a Dave and Bust -
ers, which will open next year. 
The project is a partnership of Tony Espe -
tia, the former owner of Rum Runners and Fat 
Tuesday in Gainesville; Brad Heron, the own -
er of Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar; and Diego 
Ibanez, one of the owners of Emiliano’s Cafe, 
Bergman said. 
“I’m looking forward to bringing a differ -
ent vibe that I don’t think another Gainesville 
restaurant delivers,” Espetia said. 
The restaurant will feature a fresh seafood 
menu including crab fondue, conch ceviche and Florida lobster cakes. Espetia said the res -
taurant will offer a variety of oysters and signa -
ture drinks like daiquiris and margaritas. 
The menu is not finalized, but custom -
ers can expect sandwich prices to range from 
about $10 to $13 and entrees from about $17 
to $25.
Most restaurants in Key West have live en -
tertainment and outdoor seating to enjoy the 
weather, Espetia said.  
 “We wanted to bring that to Gainesville,” 
Espetia said.
Opening the restaurant in Celebration 
Pointe allows for a more central location for 
people living in West Gainesville, Espetia said. 
He said people who live in areas like Haile Plantation have to drive far to go downtown 
for good entertainment. 
Joel Garland, 31, who is from Gainesville, 
said he is a big seafood fan and plans on visit -
ing the new restaurant. He works in Celebra -
tion Pointe and hopes to see it grow as busi -
nesses fill the open spaces. 
“It’s a nice place to spend a few hours after 
work,” Garland said. “I’d love to see more stuff 
come in here and have this become more of a 
downtown scene.” 
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgNew seafood restaurant to open at Celebration Pointe
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Margot Winick, the UF director 
of strategic communications and 
marketing, has resigned. 
“Friday was my last day at UF 
Communications. On to my next 
chapter,” Winick wrote in a tweet  
Sunday.
She linked to a YouTube video 
titled “Peggy Olson walks into 
McCann Erickson like a bada--,” 
which features a short clip from 
the TV series “Mad Men” of a char -
acter named Peggy Olson walking 
into her new job at an advertising 
firm.
Winick did not state her future 
plans but wrote in the tweet that 
details will come.
She declined to comment.
Winick oversaw UF’s integrated 
communications and national me -dia outreach, according to the UF 
communications website. 
In January of last year, Janine 
Sikes, the UF assistant vice presi -
dent of public affairs, resigned.
Sikes worked at the university 
for more than 10 years and her sal -
ary was $102,617.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said Winick’s decision to leave was 
voluntary, and that he will be the 
interim director of communica -
tions. 
He declined to comment further.
The Alligator put in a public 
records request of Winick’s resig -
nation date, hire date and position 
protocol as well as a request for 
Winick’s employee personnel file. 
Neither were received in time for 
publication.
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgUniversity director of 
communications resigns
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Virginia Brissette Hirshik wanted one thing during a 
Tuesday night neighborhood meeting: an apology from 
Alachua County Animal Services Director Ed Williams. 
“Are you sorry this is happening in our neighbor -
hood?” Hirshik, 51, asked Williams. “I want to hear you 
say I am sorry your neighborhood had to live through 
this hell.” 
Williams apologized and said he did not come to 
this discussion to get bullied; he came to help. 
The neighborhoods of Northwood Pines and 
Northwood Oaks have experienced a series of dog 
attacks over the last eight months. Tempers flared 
as about 25 members of the neighborhood met with 
Williams, Gainesville Police officers and Gainesville 
City Commissioner Harvey Ward to discuss changes 
already made and what is still left to do.
On April 9, the Alachua County Commission passed 
the Irresponsible Owner Clause that aims to protect 
citizens and animals from owners who fail to care for 
their pets.
If a pet owner fails to care for their pets in any 
way, which includes a pet attacking someone else, 
they are placed on an irresponsible owners list, Wil -liams said. After three violations, owners will be pe -
nalized. 
Questions ranged from what will be done to own -
ers of aggressive pets, how these cases will be fol -
lowed up on and what rights the neighbors have 
when it comes to protecting themselves.
At times, the discussion became more of an argu -
ment with residents yelling questions over each other 
and cutting off officials when they tried to answer. 
Multiple residents voiced concerns about a lack of 
urgency when calls are made about aggressive animals.
Williams said the delay in action is due to residents 
not reporting their concerns.
Gainesville Police Captain Jaime Kurnick said an -
other meeting will be scheduled in two weeks to an -
swer remaining community questions.
Elizabeth Carrillo, 56, lives in the area and said she 
is afraid to walk her dogs. She expressed issues of try -
ing to call authorities without receiving help and lack of 
care from irresponsible owners.  
“I was basically told, ‘Unless the dog is doing some -
thing bad at this moment, don’t call us,’” she said. 
“Some of these dogs scare the sh-- out of me.” 
@jofuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgTempers flare at neighborhood 
meeting about recent dog attacksThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsIf you’re a student at UF, you received an email from UF Presi -
dent Kent Fuchs encouraging students to fill out a campus cli -
mate survey on sexual assault and misconduct. It’s a survey 
that attempts to better understand sexual assault and sexual 
misconduct on college campuses. There are 33 universities 
conducting the survey, which is being conducted by the Associa -
tion of American Universities, including UF. 
The Alligator previously reported it did not know how many 
participants the survey has or will have, but a similar survey from 
2015 had a 17 percent participation rate. The survey is fairly in -
tensive, which is appropriate considering the topic of sexual as -
sault can be hard to define and understand. Two out of the four 
members of the editorial board decided to take the survey (both 
of us being women). As we were going through it, we began to 
understand the underlying importance of it. The purpose of the 
survey is to begin to try to remedy the problem of sexual assault 
on college campuses, but that goal is far off in the future. For 
now, the survey can serve a different purpose: It can be a way for 
you to look back on past experiences and understand how and 
why they may have affected you.
We chose to take the survey, and while going through the 
questions, we found ourselves clicking a box frequently that said 
something along the lines of “I didn’t find it important enough 
to report,” after being prompted to say how we handled certain 
situations. They usually involved what we would consider events 
that aren’t particularly significant. For example, they were events 
that often included a lewd comment or an unprompted touch, but 
ultimately, we didn’t feel they needed to be reported to anyone. 
The survey made us think back to situations that we felt uncom -
fortable in, and it made us see harassment and assault a little 
differently than we had before. When the survey asked about 
harassment, we realized that they were situations that weren’t 
uncommon in our lives, and most likely in other women’s lives, 
especially on a college campus. 
Nearly every day, we hear stories from roommates or friends 
about how they experienced something that made them feel un -
safe, yet they chose not to report it. It’s up to a person’s discretion 
whether or not they want to report their experience. Unfortu -
nately, it’s common that catcalls from a random person on the 
street, or a touch that lingers too long in the club, aren’t reported. 
What’s important about this survey is that it allows you to re -
flect on your experiences at UF and understand what you’ve been 
comfortable or uncomfortable with. It made us reflect on the 
culture of sexual assault and harassment on campus, and many 
of the questions asked were about situations we hadn’t previ -
ously considered reporting because they were situations where 
we weren’t physically or mentally harmed and didn’t involve 
someone we personally knew, but we still felt were inappropriate 
comments or actions. However, there are various forms of sexual 
assault, and they can happen anywhere and with anyone, even 
someone you trust. 
Answering the survey questions, we did not necessarily feel 
any worse about our experiences, but frankly, it made us upset 
to think we live in a world where unwarranted comments, ques -
tions and touching are a part of most women’s everyday life. This 
isn’t to say only women experience sexual assault or harassment. 
Others do as well, which is just another reason to take the survey. 
Everyone should understand the effect sexual assault or harass -
ment has on his or her life. For us, it made us realize there have 
been situations where we may have been passive when it came 
to certain forms of harassment directed at us, and that’s not OK. 
We encourage everyone to take the survey. Take it to understand 
how you’re feeling in regards to your own mental health. It could 
give you a new understanding of your experiences. A reason to take the 
sexual assault surve y
National Girlfriend Day. National Boy -
friend Day. National Ex-Spouse Day. 
The list goes on and on. It seems to 
me that in recent times these “holi -
days” have grown in popularity 
thanks to the online societies unasked for 
and organic decision to use them as a reason 
to post. These are days when your feed is 
full of people posting about their significant 
others, whom they love and appreciate, but 
it has become an excuse to post a picture that you have 
had saved in your camera roll. 
Undoubtedly existing for some time, these “Insta -
gram holidays” reveal that people will find any good 
reason to post a decent picture. And I argue social me -
dia companies and brands are smart enough to know 
that. These holidays aren’t universally known, but they 
are an excuse to run a campaign ad or start a hashtag. 
Nearly every year, Dunkin’ Donuts gives out a free 
doughnut on National Doughnut Day with, of course, a 
purchase of any beverage. Likely every Snapchat story 
will be those cute pictures with a doughnut sitting on a 
cup of iced coffee. It’s a cute picture and a good deal, 
but it’s also marketing. 
It used to be that the Hallmark holidays, like Valen -
tine’s Day or Mother’s Day, were the way to get people 
to spend money on dumb trinkets they don’t need. But 
now, the value in screen time, clicks and piqued inter -
est may mean more than whatever plastic space-taker-
upper you could have bought. Clicks and screen time 
are a hot commodity. The more people post, the more 
people stay on their social media outlets. If I had to 
guess where all the “Instagram holidays” are coming 
from, it would be none other than the Illuminati itself: 
Google, Facebook, Walmart or whatever other company that implants the latest internet trend into 
our brain. They are geniuses, after all, and 
know how to use fake holidays to their ad -
vantage. 
National Coffee Day? An excuse for you 
to buy that latte and post about it. National 
Pet Day (which is not to be confused with 
National Puppy Day or National Dog Day) is 
an excuse for you to buy, wait for it...a pet. 
All jokes aside, although these days create a 
nuisance to those who, frankly, don’t really care about 
whatever mundane day it is, they reveal something 
about us. Some people celebrate the little things in life 
using these recently created national holidays. Even if it 
may just be a farce to get us to post, if it makes it easier 
for some portion of the population to get through the 
day, it might not matter if it’s all a ploy. 
Yes, these holidays existed before social media. But 
thanks to social platforms and brands pushing certain 
days that bring attention to their products, they have 
increased in prominence. Before, no one cared about 
National Bagel Day, or let alone knew which day of the 
year it took place. It’s not really about the coffee, pizza 
or ice cream that is commemorated on those days, but 
rather hooking you into a giant, glorified ad. There is 
no need to cast blame for taking advantage of a fake 
holiday to post a cute picture of your dog or a trendy 
Instagram story of your siblings and you. The days were 
created to be celebrated and, in part, to be exploited, 
so you might as well take the “Instagram holidays” for 
what they’re worth and just know they are not real holi -
days.  
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.This is the reason for the creation of Instagram holidays
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 This upcoming weekend is often a time 
for religious celebrations or even just 
a time to spend with our families. 
People all over the world will come 
together with their loved ones to ob -
serve Easter and Passover. 
Growing up, I always celebrated Passover 
with a big family gathering. We would sit 
down around the dining room table for two 
nights of Seder, a Passover ceremonial din -
ner. We would pray, read and sing for what 
felt like hours before we could start eating. 
All of the cousins, grandparents, aunts and 
uncles came to town, so we could all cel -
ebrate together. We were never religious, 
and the Hebrew passages that I could not 
understand never meant much to me. But 
celebrating the big holidays like this one was 
important to my family – it had more to do 
with tradition than religion.
Many of my friends are the same way 
with their families. I knew people who would 
get dragged to church for Easter when they didn't attend all year. To many 
of my friends, their faith never 
meant much to them, but they 
didn’t complain about attending 
church once a year because they 
wanted to appease their parents. 
The sense of community that 
comes with religion has always 
felt nice, and the feast always 
made the day worth it.
Now, in college, I still make it 
a point to be with my family for Passover. It 
is a special feeling to be able to come togeth -
er with them, and I do not have to travel far 
to do it. However, I know a lot of students 
don’t have the same privilege. Finals season 
is approaching, and it is getting harder to 
miss a weekend that could be spent study -
ing. For others, getting home is difficult; 
some struggle for rides, while others have to 
deal with the high price of flights.
Going home for Passover this weekend, 
or any holiday you may celebrate, might not be worth it for the students who 
have been brought up by their 
parents to celebrate certain holi -
days. However, there is no reason 
for anyone to feel guilty about 
how they celebrate this weekend, 
if they even choose to celebrate 
at all. Young adulthood is a time 
to make personal decisions about 
your belief systems. In fact, this 
weekend might be the best time 
to reevaluate how you will continue to prac -
tice religion in your life.
Religion is one of many personal choices 
that we can take ownership of once we leave 
our homes and move away from our adoles -
cent lives. It is crucial to forming our own 
opinions about religion, in the same sense 
that we form our own opinions about poli -
tics. It is not uncommon for those opinions 
to be the same as the ones your parents hold, 
but no one should feel guilty if their opinions 
do not always align.In Gainesville, there are many places of 
worship for people of all religions. If you feel 
inclined to attend services or go to a holiday 
dinner here without your family, you can 
easily do so. College is a place for new op -
portunities, and if you choose to, you can 
find a religious community that offers you 
support. You may feel welcomed and loved 
in this new religious community, and you 
may find yourself more connected to your 
religion in your young adult life than you 
did when you were in high school. Celebrat -
ing holidays with friends can bring you even 
closer to them. Whether or not you choose 
to celebrate a religious holiday is ultimately 
your choice. Now is the time to find your 
footing in a world full of beliefs and to find 
what feels best to you. 
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sopho -
more. Her column appears on Wednesdays.You do not need to feel guilty about how you celebrate this weekendColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Earlier this year, I 
wrote a column 
about how I owned 
a pair of fake Air -
Pods. Well, I would 
like to write I have got -
ten a second pair that is 
much closer to the actual 
product. A trip online to 
an Asian wholesale web -
site, a few extra dollars 
for express shipping and six days of 
waiting brought another pair of fake 
AirPods to my dorm. They came in a 
box with the same minimalist Apple 
style, a lightning cable that works for 
my phone and even some stamps. 
My first pair of imposters cost me $2 
and were honestly a hassle. These 
fakes, however, have changed the 
game for me.
In a world where designs and pro -
duction are becoming easier to copy, 
it becomes harder and harder for in -
dustries to maintain control of these 
components of a business. Apple is 
constantly finding copycat phones 
hitting the market, either physical 
phones or even modified versions of 
their own products. For example, the 
Asian market has a higher demand 
for phones with two SIM cards, some -
thing Apple does not normally offer 
in its own phones. Therefore, grey 
market designers, designers who le -
gally manufacture and sell with the 
consent of a brand owner outside 
of the brand’s stores, and producers 
can fill that demand with iPhones 
that do have those functions. Should 
those designers and producers be 
celebrated for meeting the needs of a 
market? Normally, the answer is yes, 
but corporations would rather keep 
their designs within their own walls 
and keep as much money as possible 
rather than letting the market flow.
Intellectual property is a mine -
field people are constantly chal -
lenging when they want to create 
and produce products for others to consume. If I wanted to 
create the next big straw 
craze, once I started to sell 
those straws they could 
be produced by almost 
anyone and then sent to 
a manufacturer and sold 
at a cheaper price. How 
we tackle the issue of 
copyrights and intellec -
tual property will need to 
change in the future because the 
controversy has the possibility to in -
fringe on the company’s rights and 
ownership. For example, musicians 
can make music, but hackers can 
also gain access to the same record -
ing tools and distribute that music 
without any funds directed to artists, 
making artists unable to make a liv -
ing with their music.
Online programs like Adobe Pho -
toshop and other Adobe software 
can be downloaded to recreate logos. 
Platforms like SoundCloud, Spotify 
and Apple Music have abstracted 
music ownership through bundling 
access, but that music can be shared 
or downloaded off of other people 
with no cost except time. The inter -
net is built up into a huge central da -
tabase with information that tends to 
be copied and redistributed.
Ideas want to be spread, but they 
are the intellectual property of com -
panies and people. The internet gives 
us the tools to share powerful infor -
mation and the ability to reach out 
and to speak to others. It is a net -
work for innovation, but it needs to 
be better policed. Of course, the in -
ternet cannot be taken away, and it 
should not be. However, there needs 
to be a better way to spot copycats of 
products and to allow for the creators 
of products to receive the credit and 
monetary gain from their products. 
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism 
sophomore. His column normally ap -
pears on Fridays.‘Fake’ is in the eye of the beholderColumn
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org I am not a history buff, but I imagine 
that in the past it was easy, or at 
least easier than today, to discern 
when a child became an adult. 
There were rituals, or rites of pas -
sage, that set clear limits. Plus, a child 
had to pass through those rituals much 
sooner in life than we do. My fiancee’s 
grandmother, for instance, was mar -
ried at 18 years old and was a moth -
er at 20. Marriage has often been considered a 
marker of adulthood. She and many others from 
her generation had, from our perspective, clipped 
childhoods and prolonged adulthoods.
That is because the boundary lines that divide 
childhood from adulthood are ambiguous. What 
does it mean to be an adult, and how can you 
know you have entered into adulthood? I’m not 
completely sure, but I think it has something to 
do with independence and the ability to be re -
sponsible for and take care of yourself. Nobody 
suddenly looks around and says, “Wow, I’m 
grown up.” Even still, living on your own, earn -
ing your own wage and making your own deci -
sions seem to be necessary features of adult life.
Why am I writing about this? Well, this ques -
tion of when a child suddenly becomes an adult is 
something I’ve been questioning myself. My oth -
er graduating senior peers may have this question 
as well. Some of us may have found it difficult to 
visit home freshman year or even adjust to living 
at home again. We tend to change as people. Per -
sonally, I did not like being treated by my parents 
as if things had remained the same. Being parent -
ed like I was still a teenager didn’t feel right any -
more. College brought out a new sense of liberty 
and freedom that I had never experienced before.
And yet, our generation might be the least 
adult generation in history. For legitimate rea -
sons, a lot of us move back home after college 
and remain dependent on our parents. But even 
for those of us who won’t do that, I have noticed 
a lot of ways in which we tend to still depend 
on our parents. Who else do we call when we 
have car trouble or have to make a big purchase? 
To us, this seems normal. But for some context, 
a little less than a hundred years ago, my great-grandfather was running a farm in 
Pennsylvania when he was only 20.
The generational progression is 
strange but logical. We have moved 
from a generation of highly mature and 
independent people to a generation of 
not-so-independent people. And we all 
feel the complications this causes. We 
are at a point in our lives when young 
adults have usually moved into adult -
hood. We are supposed to want independence 
and to become adults we are meant to be. But 
our parents haven’t quite left the picture yet.
When college debt is still affecting most of 
us, and we all seem to be suffering from career 
choice anxiety, how could our parents not still be 
firmly planted in our lives? On the one hand, we 
want to be adults. But on the other, we have not 
attained adult status yet. A lot of psychological 
and sociological work has been done on wheth -
er a person’s 20s are just another extension of 
adolescence. Unlike past generations, people are 
getting married later and remaining in school for 
much longer.
In other words, responsibilities like marriage, 
parenting and working, which have traditionally 
defined adult life, are being done at a much lat -
er point in our lives compared to our parents or 
grandparents. There is greater freedom in not be -
ing “tied down” until much later. However, there 
is possibly a greater cost.
The longer we are free or not tied down, the 
longer we depend on our parents for finances, 
housing or emotional support. Delaying work 
and marriage may be construed as trophies of our 
autonomy and individuality, but they are actu -
ally a hindrance to complete independence. This 
creates a paradox: Those who delay the respon -
sibilities of adulthood tend to have to depend on 
their parents or guardians. On the other hand, if 
you take up those socially recognized milestones 
of adulthood, you no longer depend on your par -
ents. Therefore, more work means more indepen -
dence. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His col -
umn appears on Wednesdays.Do more responsibilities qualify us as 
adults, or are we still figuring things out? Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Fashion Art Threads pop-up exhibition
UF alumni Hannah Lewis displayed wearable art last 
Friday night to highlight body positivity, pg. 9Florida Players’ “Rough Magic”
See magic onstage at Constans Theatre this weekend, pg. 9THEY WILL TAKE THEIR TALENTS  
TO SOUTH BEACH 
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Five musicians, one journey and infinite possibilities. 
Gainesville native band The Hails will bid a “farewell for 
now” to the birthplace of their alternative music. They 
will perform one last show at High Dive on Friday.  
The Hails formed three to four years ago, according to 
lead singer Robbie Kingsley, and played their first show 
in January 2016 at the same bar. Kingsley, 24; Zachary 
Levy, 24; Franco Solari, 21; Dylan McCue, 21; and Andre 
Escobar, 24, met during their time at UF. Now that Mc -
Cue and Solari are graduating, the entire group can make 
the big move.   
The group is moving to Miami to expand their hori -
zons and to search for new influences.  Nevertheless, 
Gainesville will always hold a special place in their 
hearts. 
“I think it’s bittersweet for me personally because 
we’ve built such a great fan base here,” Levy said. “We’ll 
come back and play more shows, though. It’s not the 
end.”  
Salori said Gainesville inspired their vision for what 
they wanted to be. 
“I look at Gainesville fondly because this is where we 
had the time to develop with no pressure,” Salori said. 
“We could take the time to figure out who and what we 
wanted to be.”The Hails recently released their newest single, “Cab -
aret,”  a slow, smooth song with dynamic instrumentals 
and poetic lyrics about human connections. Kingsley 
said he writes songs based on his observations. 
“I think a lot of what we talk about is relationships 
and relationship building,” Kingsley said. “That’s the 
human experience. If you don’t connect with people, I 
don’t know how you have a life.” 
Members agree that one of the most exciting aspects 
of the transition will be developing new relationships 
with other musicians as well as their metropolis sur -
roundings. 
“I think location always has a huge impact on the 
music,” Solari said. “Your environment definitely im -
pacts your influences and your creativity. Our house in 
Gainesville, for example, is the home of so many of our 
songs because we’ve collaborated so much here.”    
The Hails played at several venues around town in -
cluding High Dive, The Atlantic Nightspot, Heartwood 
Soundstage and The Wooly. The band has made a musi -
cal and cultural imprint that will last for a long time in 
the Gainesville community.  
Music has the ability to change people’s way of think -
ing — something The Hails tend to capture in the po -
etry of their songs. Kingsley and Solari said when they 
collaborate on songs, they want to make stories out of 
everyday events. 
“I love writing about life experiences and making the 
ordinary seem interesting,” Kingsley said.   
Sonically, The Hails’ inspiration stems from their 
diverse backgrounds and influences. Solari said their 
product comes from the tension of different interests and 
influences. 
Solari and Kingsley typically start off with a riff and 
jam and allow it to develop into an idea, which allows 
the song to take shape as they refine the chords, dynam -
ics and lyrics.
The Hails’ evolution has stemmed from each mem -
ber’s artistic growth. They love the idea of constantly 
evolving, and they look forward to continuing their jour -
ney to South Florida.  
“I think we’re always evolving because a lot of our 
songs sound so different from each other,” Kingsley 
said. “I think a new place will be good for our songwrit -
ing process.”
Kingsley said he had no idea how to construct a song 
when he started college. Unable to possess his own 
drum set at the beginning of the band’s journey, Levy 
spent time playing percussion on pillows and cushions 
until he developed stronger technique on a drum set he 
borrowed from another musician. Solari raised his stan -
dards of quality and has developed true discipline in his 
work. 
“I’m at the point where I don’t want to do anything 
that I’m not completely in love with,” Solari said.   
Something The Hails want audiences to take away 
from their shows are great moments and a change in 
music taste. They all truly value the life experiences they 
have had in their time in Gainesville and want to provide 
moments to connect to and songs that give perspective. 
“Everything you do is burned inside of your identity,” 
Levy said. 
The Hails will give their last performance at 9 p.m on 
Friday at High Dive. 
@emmamcavoy1  
emcavoy@alligator.orgThe Hails bid Gainesville farewell   
MUSIC
Chris King/ Alligator Staff
Robbie Kingsley, the band’s lead singer, and Andre Escobar, 
the bassist, perform during the 2019 Heartwood Music 
Festival on Feb. 23.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Andre Escobar, the bassist, performs during the band’s live set 
recording following the release of their new single “Cabaret. ”
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Franco Solari, the guitarist and backup singer, sings 
“Empty Castles” at Heartwood Soundstage.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
UF ALUMNA HANNA LEWIS 
DISPLAYS ART FOR ALL SIZES 
By Priya Dames
Avenue Contributing Writer
At 7 p.m last Friday, something special was 
brewing at 4Most Gallery & Studio on Southwest 
Fourth Avenue. Hannah Lewis, a former UF cre -
ative photography student, hosted a solo exhibi -
tion called “FAT: Fashion Art Threads.” Lewis 
created the display of wearable art to shed light 
on plus-size women in fashion.
Decals of “Venus of Willendorf,” a female 
figurine, lined the front glass walls of the gal -
lery. Stepping into the small and intimate space, 
guests are immediately greeted by Lewis’s warm 
personality. Lewis stood tall in her black, heeled 
boots, checkered skirt and crisp white shirt 
completed with a hot pink ascot. With her bold 
style, it is obvious she lives by the message of 
her art pieces. 
Colorful and wildly creative pieces lined 
the walls. Lewis described her love of using all 
things tacky in her designs. She incorporates 
delightfully gaudy elements into all her pieces 
from plastic gemstones to neon to holographic 
vinyl. Among the clothing, kitschy items from 
all decades were piled on top of and inside dis -
play cases. 
Some pieces were sculptural, such as a blaz -
er with candy-colored plastic parrots resting on 
the shoulder pads. Others utilized different fab -
rics and textures in order to leave an impres -sion on the viewer, like the glitter-sleeved cream 
sweater with pom-poms lining the neckline.
Lewis created these pieces using vintage and 
thrifted clothing. She then reconstructed them 
in order to fit a size range of 14-28. Lastly, she 
added her personal touches using craft supplies 
and found items. The process speaks to Lewis’s 
resourcefulness and commitment to expanding 
the options available to plus-size women. 
Lewis graduated from UF with a degree in 
creative photography in 2016. After graduation, 
she realized that her passion was in sculpture 
rather than photography. Lewis also saw a 
need for fun, expressive clothing for plus-size 
women. These factors led her to create Fashion 
Art Threads (FAT), “a collection of wearable art 
designed specifically with the plus-size person 
in mind.” 
Lewis’s collection is especially relevant in the 
context of today’s body positivity movement. 
It has swept through all of social media with 
hashtags, photos and proclamations of proud 
plus-size women. Lewis is inspired by women, 
like BuzzFeed’s Jazzmyne Robbins, who are 
bold in their style despite the negative attitudes 
surrounding plus-size women and the lack of 
young, colorful clothing that is offered to them.
Lewis looks forward to continuing to promote 
plus-size women in fashion with her exhibition. 
She also has an Etsy store called timecapsulevin -
tage where she sells her clothing. For women 
who would like to contribute to the movement, 
Lewis encourages them to try it. Her message is 
clear: “If I can do it, anyone can.”FAT exhibit empowers women
FASHIONLEARN ABOUT SEA TURTLES AND  
RED TIDE OVER A BEER
By Adrian Casaretto
Avenue Contributing Writer
Enjoy a local beer and learn how scientists care for Florida’s 
sea turtles amid the effects of red tide.
The Florida Museum of Natural History and the UF Thomp -
son Earth Systems Institute are hosting the yearly Science on 
Tap: Sea Turtles and Red Tide event at First Magnitude Brew -
ing Company, at 1220 SE Veitch St., from 6:30 to 8 p.m. on 
Thursday, April 25. 
The event will have special guest, Justin Perrault, director of 
research at Loggerhead Marinelife Center. 
Perrault said he has worked with sea turtles for 13 years and 
published papers on red tide, toxicology and marine life health. 
He said the goal is to talk about red tide and how it affects 
Florida’s sea turtles. Turtles can become lethargic, have twitch -
ing fits and other health problems. 
Stranding — when a sea turtle finds itself stranded ashore 
— is one of the biggest problems that sea turtles face from red 
tide, Perrault said. 
“Everyone’s blaming the government for the red tide’s ef -
fects, but that’s not the case,” Perrault said.
Perrault is looking forward to an active discussion with the 
audience where everyone can share their thoughts and opin -
ions freely.
The purpose of this event is to have a casual conversation 
with a scientist in an informal environment, said Rebecca Bur -
ton, communications manager at the UF Thompson Earth Sys -
tems Institute.
Other local organizations will be participating in the event 
such as the Loggerhead Marinelife Center and other similar 
nonprofit organizations dedicated to Florida’s ocean and ma -
rine life conservation.
There will also be food trucks, according to Burton.
Perrault will start the audience discussion at 7 p.m. and it 
will last an hour.Science is on tap
NIGHTLIFE
WHICH PORTRAYAL REIGNS 
SUPREME?
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
On the night of June 14, 2015, Mis -
souri sheriffs responded to a call from 
neighbors that led them to find Dee 
Dee Blanchard face-down on her bed 
in a pool of blood. 
That night, neighbors were wor -
ried because there was no sign of Dee 
Dee’s daughter, Gypsy Rose, who ap -
parently suffered from leukemia, asth -
ma, muscular dystrophy and several 
other chronic conditions and had the 
“mental capacity of a 7-year-old due 
to brain damage” she received during 
her premature birth.
After further investigation, police 
found that Gypsy was not missing or 
kidnapped. She instead fled with her 
boyfriend, Nicholas Godejohn, who 
killed her mother. 
The details of Gypsy’s life and her 
story went from a trending crime story 
to a infamous tale of a mother’s twist -
ed love and her daughter’s revenge 
when HBO released the documentary 
“Mommy Dead and Dearest” on May 
16, 2017. 
Two years later, this sparked the 
creation of two other television pro -
grams. Lifetime released its movie 
“Love You to Death” based on the in -
cident in January this year.  Later, on 
March 20, Hulu premiered its original 
true crime series “The Act,” an eight 
episode miniseries based on Michelle 
Dean’s 2016 BuzzFeed article.
Now, there is so much content 
about the same story that it can be 
hard to know what to watch and 
which story to trust. While the Life -time movie and Hulu series are based 
on the same tale, their portrayals are 
vastly different.
Hulu plot structure
The Hulu show does what the 
name suggests: It shows the act Dee 
Dee and Gypsy Rose Blanchard kept 
going for years, toward both the com -
munity and each other. In this dra -
matized depiction, Gypsy is shown to 
be suspicious and then aware of her 
mother’s lying, but she stays because 
she feels she has no way out. 
Dee Dee, no matter how sinister 
we may think she is, seems to have an 
internal conflict, which would make 
sense due to her mental illness — 
Munchausen syndrome by proxy. Ev -
erytime she yells at Gypsy, we see Dee 
Dee either reach the brink of or actu -
ally breakdown. However, it seems 
she only feels bad because she does 
not want Gypsy to run, rather than re -
gretting her actions. 
Lifetime plot structure
One of the largest differences be -
tween these two fictional portray -
als is the Lifetime picture only uses 
the Blanchard story as the basis for 
their story. In the film, the two main 
characters have different names, but 
it deals with the same situational 
conflict. Esme, the Lifetime Gypsy, 
has a tumultuous relationship with 
her mother, Camille, who forces her 
to pretend she is handicapped and 
fraught with multiple ailments. 
Relationship differences
An interesting difference between 
the two productions is the depiction 
of the relationship between the moth -
er and daughter. In her description of 
her life, Gypsy balances a lot of inter -
nal turmoil and anger with her love 
for her mother.In Lifetime’s movie, the relation -
ship between Camille and Esme esca -
lates quickly and seems to resemble a 
hostage situation. In the trailer alone, 
many of the scenes show Esme and 
her mother in verbal and sometimes 
physical altercations. It seems like 
most of the time the two are angry 
with each other and do not have the 
bond that was presented to the public. 
However, the Hulu miniseries 
shows more of the relationship’s evo -
lution, which is that Gypsy loved her 
mother and her mother started her 
abuse out of love too. Although the 
story turned dark and twisted, Gypsy 
trusted her mother because she truly 
felt they shared a loving bond.
Final Review 
The two interpretations have 
sparked a bit of controversy because 
the Lifetime movie sought the approv -
al of Gypsy Rose herself. Some critics 
believe the Hulu interpretation took 
too many creative liberties in their 
depiction of her relationship with her 
boyfriend.
The Hulu series retelling of the 
Blanchard story is superior to the Life -
time movie because it took the time to 
look through the lens of multiple char -
acters. Rather than solely displaying 
Gypsy’s or Dee Dee’s perspectives, the 
series is all-encompassing. The writ -
ers took time to show one doctor be -
coming suspicious of the false health 
claims and trying to rescue Gypsy. 
If you are looking for the most 
thorough fictional depiction, watch 
Hulu’s “The Act.”
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgGypsy Rose’s story: Hulu vs. Lifetime 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gainesville residents came to 4Most Gallery & Studio last Friday night to 
appreciate Hannah Lewis’ unique wearable art exhibit.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern 
portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try our 
new specials! Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this add and get 10% off 
your order!BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on 
premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, 
ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english muffin or 
bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will be 
ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer 
While the first episode of the final season 
was released Sunday, a photo from Vogue cir -
culated through Twitter assigning “GoT” char -
acters zodiac signs. Here is why they fit, along 
with possible other matches.
Daenerys Targaryen: Aries
Fire sign for the Mother of Dragons? An 
obvious choice. Aries are natural leaders but 
known to be impulsive and aggressive.
Possible Aries: Ellaria Sand
This Dornish beauty refuses to be ignored 
and does not fear insulting her enemies. 
Varys: Virgo 
Our favorite master of whisperers, Varys is 
a purist at heart: He works for the greater good 
of the realm. 
Possible Virgo: Shireen Baratheon
She was one, if not the only, pure soul on 
the show. 
Brienne of Tarth: Sagittarius 
One of the most loyal characters in “Game 
of Thrones,” Brienne travels all over Westeros 
to protect Lady Stark’s two living daughters. 
Like a true Sagittarius, Brienne lets no one 
push her around, and is unfailingly loyal.
Possible Sagittarius: Tormund Giantsbane
The man is borderline crazy and a ride-or-
die friend. Arya Stark: Libra 
Interesting that Vogue would pick the dip -
lomat of the signs for someone so stubborn. 
Balance rules Libra: Her fighting style mirrors 
the sign’s obsession with symmetry. 
Possible Libra: Petyr Baelish
Petyr Baelish, the charming (yet slightly 
creepy) character, is so cunning. He runs po -
litical circles around everyone in Westeros. 
Jon Snow: Taurus 
Tauruses are headstrong and hardwork -
ing. As we’ve seen with his dedication to the 
Knights Watch — even when it wasn’t what he 
expected — Jon stands by his duties. 
Possible Taurus: Gendry
When introduced, Gendry is a hardworking 
blacksmith who brings beauty to his work.
Night King: Aquarius 
Night King’s emotionless tendencies are 
probably the reason for this match. There 
seems to be no rhyme or reason to his actions, 
which can sometimes be the case for an Aquar -
ius who is often described as the loner of the 
Zodiac. 
Possible Aquarius: Bronn
This sarcastic, skillful sell-sword fights for 
whoever is in his best interest, no emotions at -
tached. 
Jaime Lannister: Gemini
Often described as two-faced and symbol -
ized by twins, Gemini may match Jaime’s kingslayer past and identity as a twin. Ruled by 
the communication planet of Mercury, Gemi -
nis wits and social skills often save them.
Possible Gemini: Missandei
Her passion for communication and overt 
kindness make her the ideal Gemini. 
Jaqen H’ghar: Pisces 
The faceless man who taught Arya to be a 
skilled assassin has true Pisces qualities: his 
illusive and surreal existence. Jaqen does not 
seem real, and this fits Pisces, who give off 
dreamlike vibes. 
Possible Pisces: Podrick Payne
In the show, Pod is known for having a 
“magic cock” and being a bit clueless when it 
comes to cooking and fighting: two character -
istics most mirrored by Pisces.
Tyrion Lannister: Capricorn
Known for his smarts and alcohol toler -
ance, Tyrion’s ability to overcome hardships 
matches Capricorn. Not only that, but Tyrion’s 
troublemaker tendencies and fixation on pro -
fessional advice pair up with the sign.  
Possible Capricorn: Davos Seaworth
Davos speaks his truth to power and never 
goes against his morals. 
Melisandre: Scorpio 
Scorpios radiate with mysterious and mys -
tic energy. Our red priestess, Melisandre, is no 
different. She mirrors Scorpio stereotypes, ex -
cept she’s missing emotional passion. Possible Scorpio: Jorah Mormont
Jorah Mormont has been a glorified emo -
tional support dog for our girl Dany throughout 
almost the entire show. That dedication and 
borderline emotional obsession is something 
only a Scorpio is capable of. 
Cersei Lannister: Leo 
With House Lannister’s sigil a golden lion, 
Cersei as a Leo is another obvious choice. 
She’s fearless, overconfident and devoted only 
to those she loves (the rest can burn in hell for 
all she cares). 
Possible Leo: Oberyn Martell 
This man was so confident in his fighting 
abilities it got him killed, but his tenacity to en -
act revenge on his sister’s killer was a level of 
loyalty only a Leo could possess. 
Sansa Stark: Cancer 
In the beginning, Sansa was one of the 
most emotional characters. Her ideas of ro -
mance clouded her judgment, something Can -
ceresque. After so much treachery against her, 
she has grown a hard shell, as a Cancer would.
Possible Cancer: The Hound (Sandor 
Clegane)
The Hound wears a hard exterior, but we 
all know inside he’s just a big “sad boi.” 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.org‘Game of Thrones’ characters categorized by zodiac signsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds4/2 House For Rent In Historic Golfview 
Neighborhood. Available August 1st.
This house features a huge living room with 
pool table, patio with gas grill, washer/dryer, 
2 carports & is on a double lot adjacent to a 
2.5 acre wooded preserve. Located between 
the University Golf Course & Law School. 
Walk to campus. $2,200 a month.
Call John Ryan 954-258-5900.
4-22-19-5-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1500/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100      4-24-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY● ● ● LOVE MOTORSPORTS? ● ● ●
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. Must 
be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, love  of 
motorsports. Email: Management@GoRally.
com to apply. NO CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM 
learn more before applying. $12 / HR     4-17-
19-10-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. U.S. STATES: Which state is 
home to the V olcanoes National Park?
2. HISTORY: When did the Deepwa-
ter Horizon oil spill occur in the Gulf 
of Mexico?
3. MOVIES: Who sang “Beauty and 
the Beast” in the 1991 movie of the 
same name?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Which one of 
Japan’s islands is the largest in size?
5. RELIGION: Who was the first 
Roman emperor to convert to Chris-
tianity?
6. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the land featured in the sev-
en-novel fantasy series written by C.S. 
Lewis?
7. MATH: What is the name of an 
angle that is less than 90 degrees?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What was Mahatma Gandhi’s profes-
sion before he became an activist for 
nonviolent civil disobedience?
9. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident popularized the phrase “The 
Silent Majority”?
10. INVENTIONS: Who is credited 
with inventing Coca-Cola?
Answers
1. Hawaii
2. 2010
3. Angela Lansbury
4. Honshu
5. Constantine
6. Narnia
7. Acute
8. Lawyer
9. Richard Nixon
10. Dr. John Pemberton
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 15, 2019King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
★HIRING FOR JANITORIAL CLEANERS ★.
The positions: FT & PT include both heavy 
& light cleaning at a commercial business. 
MUST have transportation. APPLY NOW!! 
Call 352-258-1357                 4-24-19-6-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  Atomic number 27
1.  Flinch, draw back5.  Frozen structure
2.  Gold ____6.  Perfect
3.  Large female feline7.  In ____
4.  Type of cotton fabricBLCATO
ENCRGIOGIOL
IADLE
UONLLBI
SONESILSIOUNN
ILMSUNANSWERS: 1A-Cobalt  5A-Igloo  6A-Ideal  7A-Unison
1D-Cringe  2D-Bullion  3D-Lioness  4D-Muslin  B-Raging Bull4-17-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Joe Pesci was an unknown actor until his 
appearance in this Oscar-nominated film.
BONUS
By Jeff Stillman
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/17/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/17/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, April 17, 2019
ACROSS
1 Another name for 
hopscotch
6 Naysayer
10 West Coast 
salmon
14 Curly-tailed guard 
dog
15 Brought into 
being
16 Intl. oil group
17 Develop hives
20 Golden years 
group
21 Wedding invite 
request
22 Wedding vow 
word
23 Tablecloth 
material
25 Snake, 
periodically
26 Part with a 
gesture
31 Red __
32 Inexperienced, as 
a recruit
33 “I should add ... ”
37 Easter 
beginning?
38 Glittery bit on a 
dress
42 Uber info
43 Like Tommy, in 
the rock opera
45 “That hurt!” cries
46 Swell up
48 Be a second-
stringer
52 Eucharist plates
55 Hops-drying 
oven
56 Protestant 
denom.
57 Close buds
59 Spanish hors 
d’oeuvre
63 2002 Spielberg 
film ... and a 
hint to the start 
of 17-, 26- and 
48-Across
66 Cuatro times dos
67 Red Sox star 
Big __
68 Phased-out Apple 
messaging tool
69 Takes in
70 Vane spinner
71 Lecherous looks
DOWN
1 Bygone 
sunscreen 
ingredient
2 Fried side with a 
po’boy3 Organization 
chart level
4 Fastening 
gadget
5 Chatter
6 One taking 
advantage of 
privilege
7 Rule during 
homework time, 
perhaps
8 Word with road 
or side
9 Traveler’s rest
10 Toyota compact
11 Dizzying 
pictures
12 State bordering 
Bavaria
13 Orangy-yellow
18 Seal predator
19 Object of a mil. 
search
24 Siesta hrs.
25 Cry weakly
26 Beauxbatons 
Academy coat of 
arms symbol, in 
Harry Potter
27 With 28-Down, 
hand lotion 
ingredient
28 See 27-Down
29 Dadaist Max
30 Bit of a tail flip
34 Boxer Spinks35 Legato’s 
opposite, in mus.
36 Hand-on-the-
Bible promise
39 Vanilla 
containers
40 Leave 
dumbstruck
41 Drops off
44 Paintings on wet 
plaster
47 Salad green
49 Go very slowly
50 Go on foot51 “Slow down!”
52 Rio Grande 
tributary
53 On the double
54 10% donation
57 Steady guy
58 Places for patches
60 Yoga aftereffect, 
perhaps
61 Carson 
predecessor
62 Little scurriers
64 Rd. efficiency stat
65 Engine need
By Lee Taylor
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 “The Big Bang 
Theory” network
4 Uncertain
8 Peek at someone 
else’s test 
answers, say
13 River to the 
Caspian
15 Where to find a 
hero
16 Rental document
17 Opera songs for 
one
18 Part of
19 Ready for action
20 Farewell 
performance
22 Award-winning 
sci-fi author __ 
Ellison
23 Chess match 
finale
24 Summer camp 
craft
25 Neuter
26 Squinter’s 
wrinkles
30 Done with 
employment: 
Abbr.
32 Cathedral recess
33 Go off course
34 Lively Irish 
dances
37 “Steppenwolf” 
writer Hermann
39 Lyre-playing 
emperor
40 “Much __ About 
Nothing”
41 Broadway partner 
of Rodgers
42 Reuben bread
44 Hidden danger
47 Honey-colored
51 Big rigs
52 Track’s inside 
track
54 Songs of praise
56 Easy-peasy task
57 Sports stadium
58 Jellystone Park 
bear
59 Actor Miller of 
“Justice League”
60 Watchful period
61 Keen
62 Sets eyes on
63 Lawn-trimming 
targets64 Ballpoints
65 Banned 
insecticide
DOWN
1 Used “colorful” 
language
2 “Doctor My 
Eyes” singer 
Jackson __
3 Light lunches
4 Strong suit or 
weak sauce
5 African desert fox
6 Criticize harshly
7 Yang 
complement
8 Purify
9 Find out about
10 Keen-sighted 
sort
11 Between ports
12 Seagull kin
14 Won’t go away, 
as an odor
21 __-Coburg: 
former Bavarian 
duchy
22 Mooring rope
24 Foes of robbers
27 Many a reggae 
artist
28 Corn serving29 Romantic dinner 
complement
31 “To clarify ... ”
34 Quick punch
35 Swearing-in 
words
36 Big fat zero
38 Drops the ball
39 Formidable 
opponents
41 Church books 
with many notes
43 Sudden pull45 Small skullcap
46 Connect to an 
outlet
48 Drank to excess
49 Hardened (to)
50 Dinner, say
53 Corrosive 
compounds
54 Cover with asphalt
55 Like the Mojave
56 Jackknifed into 
the pool, say
58 Chatter14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 22 TicketsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Louisiana T ech forward announces transfer to Florida
Sophomore forward Anthony Duruji announced that he will transfer to UF 
in a Twitter post on Monday. Duruji averaged 12.2 points per game and 6.2 
rebounds per game last year. He may have to sit out the 2019-20 season due 
to NCAA transfer rules.Florida third baseman Hannah 
Sipos  was awarded SEC Player 
of the Week on Tuesday for 
her performance against T exas 
A&M, in which she went 7 for 
10 on the weekend.BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team let 
up a rare first-inning run to Jack -
sonville on Tuesday night.
It responded with a vengeance.
Shortstop Brady McConnell led 
off the bottom of the inning by 
taking JU’s Austin Temple deep 
over the bleachers in left field to 
tie the game at one. McConnell’s 
team-leading eighth home run 
was followed by five consecutive 
UF batters safely reaching base. 
The Gators hit through the order 
in the first inning and tallied five 
runs on five hits.
The Dolphins had a three-run 
rally in the eighth inning thanks 
to a pair of home runs, but never 
overcame their first inning pum -
melling.
Florida defeated Jacksonville 
8-4 at home behind its first in -
ning outburst, marking its fourth-
straight win over the in-state op -
ponent.
“It’s important for us to get out 
to an early lead, especially with 
all the young pitchers we got to use in the midweek,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said.
The Gators (25-14) have al -
lowed a total of 11 runs in the 
first inning all season long. Jack -
sonville (21-16) scored its first-
inning run Tuesday on a sacrifice 
fly. Center fielder Ruben Someil -
lan began the game with a single 
off UF’s pitcher Nolan Crisp. 
Shortstop Scott Dubrule followed 
suit with another single. Third 
baseman Angel Camacho sent a 
fly ball to deep center field, allow -
ing Someillan to tag up and score 
the first run of the game.
Crisp struck out the next batter 
he faced and forced a groundout 
to get out of the jam.
After McConnell’s homer, 
left fielder Austin Langworthy 
reached first on a throwing error, 
first baseman Kendrick Calilao 
was hit by a pitch, and desig -
nated hitter Jordan Butler singled 
to load the bases for right fielder 
Wil Dalton. He hit an RBI single 
to score Langworthy and give UF 
its first lead of the night.
Third baseman Cory Acton Florida completes sweep of JU behind 5-run first inning 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Shortstop Brady McConnell went 1 for 3 in UF's 8-4 win over Jacksonville on Tuesday at Alfred A. 
McKethan Stadium. He began the Gators' five-run first inning with a home run. 
GYMNASTICS SOFTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
There will still be Gators under the lights 
in Fort Worth, Texas, on Friday.
There will still be hardware to bring 
home. There will still be plenty of glory to be 
sought after at the NCAA Championships.
For the 2019 Florida gymnastics team, 
though, it’s a little bit different.
Only four Gators will make the trek to 
the NCAA Championships as individual 
competitors after UF was knocked out of the 
tournament at the NCAA Corvallis Regional.
“Obviously, it wasn’t the outcome we 
were looking for,” freshman Trinity Thomas 
said on Tuesday. “It’s difficult, but some -
times things don’t go your way.”
Thomas will join sophomore Alyssa Bau -
mann, freshman Savannah Schoenherr and 
senior Alicia Boren as Florida’s representa -
tion. Thomas will be on the uneven bars 
and floor, Baumann will be on the balance beam, Schoenherr will be on the vault and 
Boren will compete in the all-around. 
The gymnasts earned the right to compete 
as individuals by either scoring the highest 
or winning the tiebreaker in their respective 
events during the Corvallis Regional.
While they may not compete as a team, 
coach Jenny Rowland is confident in their 
ability to bring home a medal.
“In the evening session, the rotations that 
they’re in, it’s just going to bode well for 
them,” Rowland said. “As long as they take 
full advantage of that opportunity, I believe 
they’re going to have some great success.”
When the quartet competes in Fort 
Worth, it’ll rotate with teams that made the 
NCAA Championships. For most of the gym -
nasts, that team will be the Georgia Bull -
dogs, UF’s SEC rival and only regular-sea -
son conference loss. The exception is Boren, 
who will rotate with Oregon State.
For Baumann, rotating with Georgia By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Florida softball team faces No. 4 
Florida State (38-7) on Wednesday, the 
first game of a brutal stretch of its sched -
ule where it plays four games in four days 
against top-five opponents. The Gators 
(36-9) are coming off a sweep of Texas 
A&M and are on a seven-game winning 
streak. 
Gators have big night at NPF Draft, 
win SEC honors
There have been plenty of individual 
honors for UF in the past couple of days. 
Pitcher Kelly Barnhill was selected with 
the first overall pick of the National Pro 
Fastpitch College Draft by the Chicago 
Bandits, while teammate Amanda Lorenz 
was picked second by the USSSA Pride. 
It was the first time that the first two 
picks were from the same school since 2015. Fittingly, Barnhill and Lorenz were 
regarded by FloSoftball as the No. 1 and 
No. 2 recruits coming out of high school. 
“I’m just thankful that we get to be rep -
resentatives of the Gators, and we get to be 
one and two for the University of Florida,” 
Lorenz said. 
Third baseman Hannah Sipos also 
earned SEC Player of the Week. Sipos, who 
struggled at the plate this season, exploded 
against Texas A&M. She hit her first career 
home run in the first game of the series 
and hit 7 for 10 with three RBIs this week -
end.
“It just shows you, again, she’s not do -
ing anything different,” coach Tim Walton 
said. “It wasn’t anything at all that we did 
before the game or after the game. It’s re -
ally about confidence.”
Florida facing Florida State at the 
right timeFour UF gymnasts prepare 
for individual competitionGators look to even score 
against FSU after busy week
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15 
MEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team knows it 
can’t pass up the opportunity to win the 
SEC Tournament as the host after earning 
the conference regular season champion -
ship.
That has only happened once in the last 
26 years, by co-champions Texas A&M in 
2016. 
Now the No. 3 Gators, who are on a 16 
home match winning streak dating back to 
last year, will defend their home court this 
weekend.
“Our guys love playing here, in front of 
our boosters, our fans and their families,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said. “This is such a 
comfortable feel for our guys to play on 
these courts.”
Florida’s home success isn’t because it 
was blessed with an easy schedule. It’s the 
opposite.
UF has played nine matches against 
teams in the top 20, and five of those were 
at home. If the No. 1-seed Gators (20-2, 
12-0 SEC) make it to the SEC Tournament 
final, their opponent would most likely be 
No. 2-seed Mississippi State or No. 3-seed Texas A&M. Florida beat both at home 5-2.
The crowds for those matches were 
among the best the Gators have seen this 
season and junior Johannes Ingildsen said 
it will be great again for the tournament.
The two matches Florida lost this sea -
son were at neutral sites to then-No. 5 USC 
(4-3) on Feb. 15 and then-No. 10 Stanford 
(4-1) on Feb. 17, both at the ITA National 
Team Indoor Championships in Chicago.
Florida isn’t a bad road team. It has beat -
en six top-30 teams away from Gainesville 
this season, and Shelton is grateful for the 
road success.
“I think the players have done a great 
job of being tough on the road,” he said. 
“That has given us the opportunity to play 
more matches at home in the postseason.”
The NCAA allows first, second and 
round of 16 matches to be played in one 
place. UF is expected to host all three 
rounds.
That advantage was evident during its 
last match, a 6-1 win against then-No. 18 
South Carolina on Sunday. 
Shelton knows it won’t be easy, despite 
UF hosting the tournament.
“We play in one of the toughest confer -
ences in the country with some of the best coaches and athletes,” he said. “It’s going 
to be some great matches throughout the 
week, and I hope the community comes out and supports this tournament.”
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida hosts SEC Tournament after undefeated conference season
Alligator File Photo
Coach Bryan Shelton led the Gators to the No. 1-seed in the SEC T ournament. They 
have won 16 straight home matches dating back to last year.
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s golf team remembers 
how the 2018 SEC Championships played out.
It lost 3-2 against Arkansas in the match 
play quarterfinals, preventing the Gators from 
repeating as conference champions.
Now, No. 10 UF can reclaim the SEC title 
on Wednesday when it travels to Birmingham, 
Alabama.
Florida enters the 2019 SEC Championships 
as the No. 4 seed, behind Vanderbilt, Arkansas 
and Tennessee, after ending the regular season with two team titles, two individual titles and 
seven top-five finishes.
“I think this is the first year I can remember 
where there isn’t a clear favorite in the league,” 
coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “But there 
are a number of really solid teams, so it will be 
a fight to the finish.”
Juniors Marta Perez and Sierra Brooks, who 
both took part in the inaugural Augusta Na -
tional Women’s Amateur from April 3-6, will 
return to the lineup after resting during the Liz 
Murphy Collegiate Classic last week.
Perez leads the Gators with four top-10 and 
six top-25 finishes this season. Her 72.8 stroke average is the best mark on the team.
Brooks had a strong regular season as well.
She won the individual title at the Cougar 
Classic in September with a score of 17 under, 
seven strokes ahead of second place. Brooks 
finished the year with a 72.9 stroke average, 
good for second on the team.
Freshman Clara Manzalini, sophomore Ad -
die Baggarly and redshirt sophomore Elin Es -
born round out the starting five.
Manzalini did not miss a round of any tour -
nament throughout the 2018-19 campaign — 
the only player to do so — and finished in the 
top 10 twice and in the top 25 five times.The 2019 SEC Championships will be 
played over the course of five days, separated 
by three rounds of stroke play (Wednesday 
through Friday) and two rounds of match play 
(Saturday and Sunday). The top-eight teams at 
the conclusion of stroke play advance to the 
quarterfinals on Saturday, with the opportu -
nity to take home the title on Sunday.
“We feel we have as good a chance as any -
one if we keep good attitudes and play smart 
golf,” Glaser said.
@bmatamoros
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators aim for second conference title in three years
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Excitement filled the Gators’ 
locker room as coach Roland 
Thornqvist and the Florida wom -
en’s tennis team finished packing 
for their trip to College Station, 
Texas, for the SEC Tournament.
The Gators are coming off ar -
guably their hottest three-week 
stretch of the season, where they 
defeated three top-25 teams and 
lost a tight 4-2 match to No. 5 
South Carolina at home. 
No. 24 Florida plays Ole Miss in 
the second round of the SEC Tour -
nament on Thursday at 11 a.m. 
UF (11-10, 7-6 SEC) enters the 
tournament as the No. 7 seed, the 
lowest it has ever ranked in the 
conference tournament’s 31-year 
history. Though the Gators sit in the middle of the pack, they still 
earned a first round bye on No. 2 
South Carolina and No. 3 Vander -
bilt’s side of the bracket. 
“I think we are getting better 
and getting tougher,” coach Roland 
Thornqvist said. “The SEC Tourna -
ment is house money, really. We 
are going to compete our butts off, 
and we are going to do some things 
with doubles and focus on that 
more than anything.”
Focusing on doubles is essential 
for the Gators, who enter postsea -
son play with a 6-8 doubles record. 
Last time Florida played Ole Miss, 
it defeated the Rebels 4-1.
UF kicked off its SEC season 
with a victory on the doubles court 
from transfer tandem Ida Jarlskog 
and Tsveta Dimitrova over Anna 
Vrbenska and Tereza Janatova 
6-3, while Anastasia Kharitonova and Marlee Zein clinched the point 
with a 6-1 win over Alexa Bortles 
and Cameron Kriscunas. 
With the return of Victoria 
Emma, who was injured for the 
match, the Gators will likely start 
No. 42-ranked duo Emma and 
McCartney Kessler, Jarlskog and 
Dimitrova, and Zein playing along -
side freshman Sydney Berlin. The 
doubles win was the second of a 
five-match streak where the Gators 
clinched the point.
UF holds three singles players 
ranked in the ITA’s Top 125 with 
No. 15 Jarlskog, No. 35 Kessler and 
No. 124 Emma, while Ole Miss has 
none. 
In the last match between the 
two, the Gators fell in singles just 
once, on Court 5, when Dimitrova 
lost to Janatova. Zein and Khari -
tonova won their matches, and Jarlskog clinched the match victory 
over Sabina Machalova to give the 
Gators their first of seven confer -
ence victories.
Florida enters the SEC Tour -
nament with a 77-11 all-time re -
cord, claiming 20 championships 
in program history and 27 overall 
appearances in the conference fi -
nal. This will be the first time the 
Gators have played in the second 
round of the tournament, only be -
ing bounced before the semifinals 
once in program history. 
Zein collects SEC honors 
again
The freshman out of Sugar 
Land, Texas, took home her second 
SEC Freshman of the Week title 
after posting two singles victories 
and a doubles win over Michigan 
and South Carolina. Zein earned her first top-50 vic -
tory of the season when she defeat -
ed Michigan’s No. 45 Chiara Lom -
mer on Thursday in Florida’s 4-3 
win. She also collected her second 
conference doubles victory — and 
fifth overall — alongside fellow 
freshman Berlin when they picked 
up a crucial victory to clinch the 
opening point. 
She enters her first SEC Tourna -
ment holding 10 wins, the second 
player to reach double-digit vic -
tories for Florida this season after 
Jarlskog. She is projected to play 
on Court 4. 
“Our freshmen aren’t freshmen 
anymore,” Thornqvist said. “We 
are going to be ready for whatever 
comes our way.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgNo. 7-seed UF opens SEC tournament against Ole Miss16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect 
WEDNESDAYS 
 
$4 Yuengling Pitcher
$6 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSbrings a reunion with her sister, Rachel.
“It’s going to be weird to be with my sister, 
especially in the same group and rotating with 
them,” Alyssa said, “but I’m excited, because I 
don’t think I’d want to be with another team.”
Boren, meanwhile, said that she would have 
to let Oregon State know exactly the type of 
vibe she likes whenever she’s doing a routine.
“They don’t know what I need here and 
there, what I like with cheering,” she said. “It’ll 
be an experience. I’ll just have to adjust.”
Boren has competed at NCAAs before, but 
this meet will be the last of her college career. 
For the class of freshmen coming to UF next 
year, she has a single mantra of advice:
“Don’t take anything for granted,” Boren 
said. “Take it day by day.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14Alicia Boren set to compete in final collegiate meet
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Freshman gymnast Trinity Thomas will compete on the bars and floor 
events at the NCAA Championships in Fort Worth, T exas, on Friday.
Arguably the lowest point this season 
for the Gators was their 2-0 loss at home 
to Florida State on April 3. 
Florida was coming off three straight 
SEC series losses to No. 8 Tennessee, 
No. 9 LSU and No. 22 Ole Miss, and the 
loss to its in-state rival was its third loss 
in a row. 
UF hasn’t lost since and has seen of -
fensive improvement as well. Florida 
has scored eight runs three times in its 
seven-game winning streak and scored 
20 runs in the three-game series against 
the Aggies, the most it has scored in an 
SEC series all season. 
The offense hasn’t needed to score 
a lot because the Gators have pitched three shutouts in their winning streak 
and have allowed three or fewer runs six 
times in that span. 
While UF comes into this matchup 
playing some of its best softball this 
season, the same can’t be said for the 
Seminoles. 
Florida State has lost four of six 
games since beating the Gators, includ -
ing two straight ACC series to North 
Carolina and Louisville.
Still, the Seminoles are poised to 
give Florida’s bats trouble again. Pitcher 
Meghan King, who was selected with 
the 11th overall pick in the draft by the 
Cleveland Comets, is one of the best 
pitchers in the country. The senior has a 
1.69 ERA this season with a 20-5 record 
and seven shutouts. Producing runs against top-10 teams 
has been a problem for the Gators. UF 
has scored just 20 runs in its 11 games 
against teams currently in the top 10. The 
offense is the primary reason that Flori -
da has a 4-7 record in those games. The 
pitching staff has allowed 3.73 runs per 
game against those teams and has only 
given up more than four runs three times. 
“It’s always fun to play somebody 
when you’re playing well, but I’d much 
rather be playing well at the end of the 
season than playing well at the begin -
ning of the season,” Walton said. “I like 
struggles because struggles tells you 
kind of who somebody really is.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14UF won seven straight, FSU lost four of last sixthen hit a two-RBI single to put Florida ahead 
4-1. Second baseman Jacob Young concluded 
the first-inning scoring with another RBI single, 
which brought Acton home.
After a high-scoring first inning, Florida went 
scoreless for the next four innings, and Jackson -
ville for the next six.
The Gators added a run in the sixth inning 
when center fielder Jud Fabian hit a single to 
score Dalton, who singled earlier in the inning.
Jacksonville put another run on the board in 
the eighth, when Camacho hit a solo home run 
off relief pitcher Kris Armstrong to left field to 
bring the score to 6-2.
JU first baseman Jacob Southern singled after 
the homer, but Armstrong retired the next two 
batters. He could not escape the inning, how -
ever, before Cory Garrastazu went yard to right 
field for a two-run homer to make it a two-run 
game.
Young delivered a two-RBI single in the eighth 
with two outs to negate those home runs that cut 
into Florida’s lead. His three hits tied a career-
high, and he finished the night with three RBIs.
Crisp went three innings, striking out two bat -
ters and allowing one earned run off four hits. He 
took a line drive to the knee in the third inning, 
but walked it off and remained in the game.
Relief pitcher Nick Pogue closed the game and 
earned the first save of his career, striking out a 
batter in 1.1 innings.
“It was a good kind of boost for us,” Young 
said. “We needed something kind of, I think to 
turn the corner, especially with a big LSU series 
coming.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Nick Pogue earned 
the first collegiate 
save of his career