We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaGainesville to host gun buyback event
It will be held at Gainesville Fire Rescue Station 3, 900 NE Wal-
do Road, on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., pg 5
Breaking down UF’s funding grants
The university released where all of its $776.2 million from the 
2019 fiscal year came from and was allocated too, pg 6EVALUATING UF’S LINEBACKERS
Florida has an inexperienced linebacker corp 
entering the 2019-20 season, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTHURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 108
Alligator File Photo
UF defensive back John Huggins did not play in five games last year after he was 
accused of choking a tutor. Huggins has been absent from fall camp as well. 
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Kevin Nguyen, president of the Vietnamese Student Organization, 
speaks during the public comment part of the UF Student Government 
Senate meeting Tuesday evening. 
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer 
Sophomore UF defensive back John Hug-
gins was accused of choking a female tutor 
in October, according to a UPD report uncov-
ered this week by the Tampa Bay Times.
The alleged incident happened after the 
tutor took Huggins’ phone to ensure he 
wouldn’t leave early, according to the Times. 
The 19-year-old student filed a police report 
but did not elect to press charges.
Huggins — who played sparingly last sea-
son — quietly missed the next five games af-
ter the report was filed. His absence and the 
reason behind it went unreported at the time.
“That (the alleged incident) was part of 
it,” UF coach Dan Mullen said about Hug-
gins’ absence. “I don’t know if that was all 
of it, but that was, you know, with all those 
games... I mean, he was a true freshman, so 
he was only going to play in certain games 
anyway.” 
Huggins has also been away from the team in training camp this year, which UF 
has repeatedly blamed on a family issue. 
When pressed at Tuesday’s press conference, 
Mullen reiterated the alleged choking inci-
dent was unrelated to Huggins’ current ab-
sence, saying he has “great clarity” on when 
Huggins will return and the alleged incident 
has already “been handled.” He did not elab-
orate on when Huggins will return to team 
activities. 
When Mullen was asked if he was happy 
with how Huggins has handled himself since 
October, he replied, “some things yes, some 
things no.” 
The absence of Huggins would be a blow 
to an already thin secondary if it continues 
into the regular season. He figures to play 
a bigger role this season due to Chauncey 
Gardner-Johnson’s move to the NFL in ad-
dition to teammate C.J. McWilliams’ season-
ending Achilles tear. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgUF football player was accused of choking woman last year
THE PROGRAM WAS 
STARTED IN 2003
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
Emma Sanchez didn’t realize that 
the highlight of her freshman year 
was attending a small weekend trip 
to Camp Weed.
Through the activities and pre-
sentations, she learned an extensive 
amount about social identities on this 
trip, otherwise known as Gatorship. “To put it simply, Gatorship was 
a social justice retreat,” the 19-year-
old international studies sophomore 
said. “It was a huge eye-opener for 
me, and I met so many incredible 
people.”
On Monday, William Atkins, asso-
ciate dean of students and senior di-
rector of Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs at UF, released a letter about 
changing Gatorship at UF. 
In the letter, Atkins indicated a  
new 2019-2020 academic year plan. Gatorship to move away 
from campus retreats
SEE GATORSHIP,  PAGE 6THE SG FUNDING SYSTEM FOR 
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS 
UNDERWENT LARGE CHANGES 
FOLLOWING YAF LAWSUIT
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer 
The system for student orga-
nization funding will be restruc-
tured following a lawsuit from 
the Young Americans for Free-
dom, which settled the suit for 
$66,000 with UF. 
At least 70 students came out 
to Tuesday night’s Student Sen-
ate meeting to protest the new 
funding system for student orga-
nizations.
Representatives from Black 
Student Union, Asian American 
Student Union, Pride Student 
Union and some of its sub-orga-
nizations spoke in front of the 
Senate during public comment. 
For an organization to re-
ceive funding from SG, it must:
• Register, or be in the pro-
cess of registering with 
the Department of Student 
Activities and Involve-
ment
• Be a sponsored organi-
zation, which means it receives support from an-
other university entity or 
faculty/staff member
• Not charge membership 
fees
• Have at least 10 active 
members
If all qualifications are met, 
the organization can contact SG 
Finance to begin the funding re-
quest process.
The major change from the 
previous structure is that all of 
the big organizations with mul-
tiple sub-organizations under-
neath them were forced to break 
up. This means the sub-organi-
zations will also have to apply 
for funding, whereas before it 
was allocated through the over-
arching organization.
Asian American Student 
Union and Black Student Union 
will not have enough money to 
fund their welcome assemblies 
this year. 
Eliana Guerrero, president of 
Asian American Student Union, 
said the organization  gets its 
funding request for the welcome 
assembly turned in early enough 
because it was partnering with 
Asian American Student Assem-
bly and its Freshman Leadership Program to fund the event.
However, the Asian Ameri-
can Student Assembly and the 
Freshman Leadership Program’s 
new member approval forms for 
funding were not approved un-
til July 17, and the Allocations 
Committee ran out of funding 
for requests on July 15.
They received a phone call 
Thursday informing them their 
Welcome Assembly request 
couldn’t be funded.   
Guerrero said Asian Ameri-
can Student Union started a 
GoFundMe to help pay for the 
Welcome Assembly.
“We feel there’s such a huge 
lack of communication from 
Senate, and we feel that our 
needs weren’t heard,” Guerrero 
said.
Asian American Student 
Union and Black Student Union 
are not the only big organiza-
tions that felt the effects of the 
change.
Pride Student Union previ-
ously funded The Queer Cultiva-
tion Program, Pride Awareness 
Month and Out in STEM from its 
budget each semester, but now 
each sub-organization needs to Student unions can’t fund welcome  
assemblies under 2019-20 budget
SEE BUDGET,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasHIGH  93° LOW  75°
Social Media Strategist
The Alligator is hiring
The Independent Florida 
Alligator is currently accepting 
applications for editors, writers, 
photographers, copy editors, 
a videographer and a graphic 
designer. Any UF or Santa Fe 
student is welcome to apply. 
Applications are due tonight by 
11:59 p.m. You can access them  
through ifla.news/FallApps.  
National Frozen Custard Day
Sweetberries Eatery and Frozen 
Custard, 505 NW 13th St., will 
offer its frozen custard for $2 
per scoop instead of the typi-
cal $3.20 and an additional fla-
vor today to celebrate National 
Frozen Custard Day. 
Student Services relocates 
Student services for Admissions, Registrar, Student Financial 
Affairs and the Bursar will 
be relocated from Criser/
Peabody Halls to 100 Smathers 
Library, 1508 Union Road, 
from Aug. 12 to Aug. 30. It 
will be open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. UF 
said this location has been 
designed for students’ conve-
nience during Fall peak time.  
Jay Rogue & The Stoges
Tonight at High Dive, 210 
SW 2nd Ave., the alternative 
Gainesville band Jay Rogue and 
the Stoges will be taking the 
stage after a months long hia-
tus. The Reinhards and Static 
Haze will open. Tickets are $6. 
Doors open at 9 p.m. and the 
show will begin at 9:30 p.m.Striking  Down High  Utility  Bills
The Community Weatherization 
Coalition is a community coali-
tion attempting to improve en-
ergy efficiency for low-income 
households. On Aug. 21, it will 
hold its fourth annual bowl-
ing fundraiser from 5:30 p.m. 
to 8:30 p.m. at Alley Gatorz 
Bowling Center. The organiza-
tion asks attendees for a sliding 
scale donation of $15 to $30, 
which will cover shoe rental, 
unlimited bowling, two raffle 
tickets and light snacks. All 
ages are welcome. There will be 
a team competition for a trophy 
and another for the top individ-
ual score and contests includ-
ing best blind-folded bowler. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 108
Corrections: 
In an article titled "Meet the 
Gainesville woman behind the 
viral toad" that ran in Tuesday's 
edition Savannah Mikell, the 
toad's photographer, attended 
Bronson Elementary School. 
The Alligator reported other-
wise on Tuesday.
In an article titled "Florida The-
ater to receive $1 million reno-
vation" the budget for the reno-
vation has yet to be determined.THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
Congratulations to our
2019 Gator Graduates!
Your hard work. Your dedication. Your vision.  
You’re what makes the Gator Nation great. 
Now  you’ll join more than 400,000 Gators around  
the globe who are doing their part to solve the world’s  
toughest challenges. As we celebrate how far you’ve  
come, we look forward to seeing how you will shape  
a greater tomorrow.
#UF194   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass:  Sat. 5:30 pm
 Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
          1:30 pm (españ ol)
           5:30, 7:30
 M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Pentecostal
Prevailing Word  
Bible Church, Inc.
Sunday Worship: 9 am
 Friday: 7 pm
4908 NW 34th BLVD Suite #9
Pst. Olabode Ogedengbe, Resident Pastor (352)231-9031
Helping ordinary people to 
become passionate followers 
of God! The Church you can 
belong to before you believe!
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service
@6:35 pm
in Trinity Chapel
Sunday services:
9:30 & 11:00 am
352-376-6615
TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City 
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
GUIDE
WORSHIP
GUIDE
WORSHIP
Contact Alligator Advertising:
352.376.4482AMENDMENTS RANGE 
FROM SIMPLE WORD 
CHANGES TO ENTIRE 
REWRITES OF THE GOV -
ERNING DOCUMENTS
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer 
Tuesday night, the final Stu-
dent Senate meeting of the Sum-
mer began with the Impact party 
losing three members and ended 
with a significant change to the 
Senate Rules and Procedures.
A controversial resolution 
amending the Rules and Pro-
cedures followed by the Senate 
passed in a vote of 49-16 last 
night. 
Following public comment, the 
Senate was set to vote on 11 new 
resolutions and hear second read-
ings on six bills introduced during 
last week’s meeting. 
Before any of the legislation 
items could be presented, Major-
ity Party Leader Branden Pear-
son (Impact, Jennings) stood and 
made a series of motions to ap-
prove 16 out of 17 of the items on 
the agenda.
In the span of about 3.5 min-
utes, Pearson moved to have the 
16 bills approved by unanimous 
consent, leaving the most contro-
versial piece of legislation, a reso-
lution amending the Rules and 
Procedures of the Senate, for last.
The changes contained in the 
55-page list of amendments range 
from simple adding and subtract-
ing of words to completely rewrit-
ing sections of the rules.  
Notable changes include:• Granting the Senate President 
the right to issue warnings to 
senators who exhibit disrup-
tive conduct
• Senators who receive two 
warnings in one meeting will 
be considered absent. This 
makes the “constructive ab-
sence” procedure, which be-
came a topic of much debate 
after two Inspire senators lost 
their Senate seats because of 
it, official.
• Allowing special rules to be 
added to the agenda either 
from the Senate floor or by 
the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee
• Changing the signup pro-
cedure for public comment 
from a signup sheet at the 
beginning of each meeting to 
an online request form that 
must be sent to the Senate 
President and secretary in ad-
vance of the meeting with the 
subject the speaker wishes to 
speak on
• Restructuring the rules for 
public comment, so each 
speaker is allotted five min-
utes and must direct their 
comments toward the Chair 
of the Senate; otherwise, they 
will be issued warnings and 
ultimately forced to yield 
their time  
• Changing the rules of the mi-
nority report, so it can only 
last a maximum of five min-
utes and can only be issued 
by one speaker
Pearson, one of the authors of 
the resolution, said this is the first 
major revision to the Senate Rules 
and Procedures since 2013.“During the writing process, 
we worked to align our Senate 
Rules and Procedures with rel-
evant local, state and federal prac-
tices to ensure our Senate operates 
more effectively and efficiently,” 
Pearson said. 
Deputy Minority Party Leader 
Nikolas Bindi (Inspire, Liberal 
Arts and Sciences) and members 
of his caucus were against the 
new amendments. They believe 
the changes will strip away rights 
from minority party senators, in-
dependent senators and students.
“The Resolution amending the 
rules and procedures is, in the 
best way of saying, an interesting 
piece of legislation,” Bindi said. 
“In the worst way, it is absolutely 
disgusting.”
The resolution will take effect 
immediately.
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG Senate approves first major Rules 
and Procedures amendment since 2013
submit its own funding request. 
Nate Quinn, president of Pride 
Student Union, said he too re-
ceived a phone call Thursday. Al-
locations Committee Chairwoman 
Sam Girschick told him the budget 
for the Fall semester had run out.
Girschick said any event re-
quests submitted after July 15 
would not receive funding. 
Quinn said this meant that Pride 
Student Union cannot fund its guest 
speaker for Pride History Week in 
October because one of the Pride 
Student Union’s co-organizations, 
The Queer Cultivation Program, 
that was supposed to help sponsor 
the event didn’t get their event re-
quest in before July 15.
The speaker the union was try-
ing to bring to UF was Schuyler 
Bailar, who was the first openly 
transgender Division One athlete. 
“I am doing everything I can to 
make this still happen, but I’m no 
longer hiding who the speaker is, 
due to how important it is,” Quinn said. “Then other people can see 
what kind of opportunities are be-
ing lost due to this change.” 
Girschick said the committee al-
located about $200,000 for event 
requests from organizations for the 
Fall semester, and because organi-
zations tend to host bigger events 
in the spring, the budget for the 
fiscal year is split about 41 percent 
and 59 percent between Fall and 
Spring semesters.
She said student organizations 
were allowed to start making bud-
get requests on July 1 and fund-
ing is given on a first-come, first-
served basis.
Girschick said she is looking 
into other options for allocating 
more money to try and accommo-
date organizations that need it.
“I will be discussing with the fi-
nance manager if there are any op-
tions for this semester,” Girschick 
said. “Otherwise, I will be looking 
to the Spring semester to see if any 
changes could be made.”
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgBUDGET,  from pg. 1
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Nandini Goel announces her disaffiliation from the Impact Party at Tuesday’s SG Senate meeting.THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Gainesville authorities want to 
make sure schools are safe and gun-
free this year by having a gun buy-
back event with no questions asked. 
The gun buyback will be held on 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. be-
hind Gainesville Fire Rescue Station 
3, located at 900 NE Waldo Road. 
Anyone who is in possession of a 
gun illegally can turn in their weap-
on with immunity during the event. 
The event is hosted by People 
Against Violence Enterprises, Inc. 
(P.A.V.E.) partnered with Gainesville 
Police, the State Attorney’s Office 
and the Alachua County Christian 
Pastors Association, Inc. (ACCPA). 
“The purpose of the event is to 
clean the streets of stolen guns, par-
ticularly by minors,” said the Rev. 
Karl Anderson, president of P.A.V.E. 
and ACCPA.Anderson said in addition to 
cash, Xboxes are offered in exchange 
for guns turned in during the event, 
in order to appeal to a younger de-
mographic.
Darry Lloyd, spokesperson for the 
State Attorney’s Office, said funds 
from the cost of previous prosecu-
tions paid by defendants are used 
for prevention activities like the buy-
back. 
Depending on the condition and 
type, a person who turns in a gun 
will receive between $50 to $300 or, 
if they choose, an Xbox. Gun locks 
will be available for gun owners, 
Lloyd said.
“We’re all coming together to 
work on a problem, this is a piece 
of it,” Lloyd said. “Some folks say, 
‘This doesn’t work.’ Well, doing 
nothing doesn’t work.”
@rgizaguirre
rgizaguirre@alligator.orgGainesville gun buyback 
to promote school safety
LIMITED XBOXES AND CASH WILL BE OFFERED 
IN EXCHANGE FOR GUNSTHE INCIDENT TOOK PLACE ON I-75 
JUST OUTSIDE OF GAINESVILLE
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer 
A Georgia man was charged by Florida Highway 
Patrol in the city of Alachua for brandishing a gun 
during a road rage incident Monday. 
Shortly after noon, 27-year-old William Thorpe, 
of Warner Robins, Georgia, was driving southbound 
on Interstate 75 near mile marker 412, several miles 
outside Gainesville city limits. According to a Florida 
Highway Patrol report, Thorpe pointed the pistol at 
a vehicle with three passengers during the incident.
FHP responded to a Circle K gas station, 16080 
NW Highway 441, where law enforcement had de-
tained both Thorpe and his passenger.  The three passengers of the opposing vehicle 
were brought to the scene. They identified Thorpe 
as the person who pointed the weapon, according 
to the report. Under questioning, Thorpe admitted 
to handling the weapon during the incident due to 
safety concerns.
Thorpe was charged with aggravated assault 
with a deadly weapon without intent to kill, which 
is a felony, improper exhibition of a firearm and 
knowingly driving with a suspended or revoked li-
cense, both misdemeanors.
Thorpe remains in Alachua County jail in lieu 
of a $30,000 bond. He was appointed a public de-
fender who was unable to be reached for comment 
on Thorpe’s behalf.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgGeorgia man charged with brandishing gun
HE WAS ALSO 
CHARGED WITH 
POSSESSION OF 
COCAINE
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer 
A Gainesville man was 
charged by Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Office deputies Sunday with 
robbery after pushing a woman 
to the ground. 
Reinner Omar Lee, 34, report-
edly approached the woman on 
Southwest 13th Street Sunday 
afternoon and snatched her cell-
phone and approximately $23 in cash. Lee pushed the woman to 
the ground in the process, ac-
cording to the police report. The 
woman suffered minor injuries 
after her fall.
Lee left the scene but was ap-
prehended a short distance away. 
Under investigation, law enforce-
ment found several small baggies 
of cocaine that were tested with a 
field kit, according to the report.
The woman identified Lee 
during his arrest. Video surveil-
lance corroborated the woman’s 
narrative of the incident. The 
woman told police Lee was an 
acquaintance of hers, but she 
wanted to press charges against him.   
Lee was charged with bat-
tery of the second or subsequent 
offense, a third-degree felony, 
cocaine possession with intent 
to sell, a second-degree felony, 
robbery by sudden snatching, a 
third-degree felony and posses-
sion of drug equipment, a misde-
meanor.
Lee remains in Alachua Coun-
ty Jail in lieu of $165,500 bond. 
He was appointed a public de-
fender who was not able to be 
reached for comment.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgLocal man charged with stealing phone 
Map courtesy of Google Maps 
Location of the gun buyback: 900 NE Waldo Road.
Gainesville
Fire Station6   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
RECENT YEARS HAVE 
SEEN A “SIGNIFICANT 
INCREASE” IN CASES
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer 
Physicians have noted an increase 
in cases of hepatitis A both in Florida 
and nationwide. 
The number of cases has been in-
creasing over time, but it has been the 
most significant within the past few 
years, said Dr. Kartik Cherabuddi, a 
UF Health board-certified infectious 
disease physician. 
Though the disease has been es-
pecially prominent in Florida’s Citrus, 
Orange and Marion counties, it has 
not become as much of an issue in 
Alachua County yet, Cherabuddi said. 
Because many people who have 
had this illness describe it as “similar 
to a stomach bug,” residents should 
watch out for fever, diarrhea, nausea 
and fatigue, Cherabuddi said. Addi-
tional symptoms include a loss of ap-
petite, abdominal pain, jaundice and, 
in rare cases, dark-colored urine. 
The disease is spread through con-
tact with bodily fluids, and it is impor-
tant to seek medical care if you are 
experiencing symptoms, Cherabuddi 
said. 
“There isn’t an antibiotic for this, 
so treatment is more about making 
sure you’re hydrated and that the 
symptoms that are addressed and also 
that the people that you’re living with 
don’t get exposed to it,” he said.
People at high risk for hepatitis A 
include intravenous drug users, peo-ple who have sex with men and first 
responders and other medical pro-
fessionals who come in contact with 
emergency room patients frequently, 
Cherabuddi said. 
“If you are finding it difficult to get 
a vaccine through your health care 
provider or from certain pharmacies, 
probably the best place to reach out to 
is the Florida Department of Health for 
your county,” Cherabuddi said.
Cecilia Luna, a spokesperson for 
UF Health, notes because a hepatitis 
vaccination is one of UF’s immuniza-
tion requirements, most students  are 
vaccinated for this disease. However, 
those out of Gainesville for the sum-
mer should take precautions as they 
return to campus life, she said. 
There is currently no evidence the 
outbreak has spread to UF, but stu-
dents must still remain vigilant, Luna 
said. 
“Especially on a campus as large as 
UF’s, where over 50,000 people are in 
one place, it’s really important to keep 
common areas clean and practice 
good hygiene,” Luna said.
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgGainesville physicians warn 
residents of hepatitis A 
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Funding for UF Research broken down
$776.2 Million T otal 
All 16 colleges received money. 
• $283.9 million to the College 
of Medicine in Gainesville 
• $161.3 million to IFAS 
• $89.5 million to the College of 
Engineering 
• $40.4 million to the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences 
• $33 million to the College of 
Education
• $168.2 million across all 
other colleges
Breakdown:
• $526.8 million from federal 
government 
• $41.2 million from the state 
• $54.4 million from industry 
(varying business communities) 
• $99.1 million from 
foundations and nonprofit 
organizations THE COLLEGE OF MEDICINE IN 
GAINESVILLE WAS THE LARGEST 
RECIPIENT WITH $283.9 MILLION
By Meleah Lyden 
Staff Writer
UF received $776.2 million from research 
grants for the 2019 fiscal year, which ended 
on June 30, said UF research communications 
director Joseph Kays. 
About 68 percent of this money, or $526.8 
million, came from the federal government, 
he said. Another $41.2 million came from the 
state, $54.4 million from industry and $99.1 
million from foundations and nonprofit orga-
nizations. 
All 16 UF colleges received money, Kays 
said. However, the College of Medicine in 
Gainesville received the most at $283.9 mil-
lion, while the Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences came in second with $161.3 
million. IFAS won’t have a breakdown of research 
statistics for the 2019 fiscal year until Sep-
tember or October, said Mary Anne Sanders, 
spokesperson for the IFAS Office of the Dean 
for Research. 
After IFAS, the Herbert Wertheim Col-
lege of Engineering received the third-most at 
$89.5 million, followed by the College of Lib-
eral Arts and Sciences with $40.4 million and 
the College of Education with $33 million, 
Kays said. The rest of the colleges received a 
total of $168.2 million. 
Within the 2019 fiscal year, UF received 
100 awards of $1 million or more, Kays said. 
For example, the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture gave a $4.9 million grant to IFAS for 
the development of irrigation systems which 
can safely use a combination of fresh and re-
cycled water.
Although faculty is the driving force be-
hind research impacts, money is what makes 
it possible, said Robert Gilbert, IFAS dean for 
research and director of the Florida Agricul-tural Experiment Station. 
“Support from federal, state and local in-
dustry provides the resources our scientists 
need to tackle challenges such as food secu-
rity, invasive species and water quality and 
conservation,” Gilbert said. 
Gilbert also said the money reflects the re-
searchers. 
“Our researchers are incredibly entrepre-
neurial when pursuing support for their pro-
grams, which is reflected in funding received 
in fiscal year 2019,” he said. 
The university predicts more financial 
support in the future, said David Norton, UF’s 
vice president for research. 
“In 2019, we built on our strengths in 
health, agriculture, engineering, education 
and other fields,” Norton said. “We anticipate 
even more public and private support in the 
future.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgUF received $776.2 million for research in 2019  
Symptoms:
• Fevers
• Diarrhea
• Nausea 
• Fatigue
• Loss of appetite
• Abdominal pain
• Jaundice
• Dark-colored urineCourtesy of Emma Sanchez to The Alligator
Emma Sanchez, a 19-year-old UF international studies sophomore, attended the fourth 
weekend of Gatorship in Spring 2019. The program will stop offering overnight retreats.
As of now, the program will 
continue, but it will not host 
overnight retreats, he said in 
an email.
Gatorship was started in 
2003 through the Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs at UF. It 
has been an off-campus week-
end retreat that enhances stu-
dents’ knowledge on diversity 
and learning about social jus-
tice.  
According to Atkins, he has 
been talking with current Ga-
torship directors about the pro-
gram for this upcoming year.
“Their leadership is impor-
tant, and I’ll continue to share updates as decisions are being 
made,” Atkins said. 
Sanchez attended Gatorship 
in Spring 2019. In her retreat, 
75 participants explored differ-
ent parts that make up a per-
son’s identity, she said.
“It was disappointing to 
see [Atkin’s] letter, because 
it sounds like they’re going 
to start watering down Gator-
ship,” Sanchez said. 
She explained the letter 
talks about wanting to remove 
things like the fees and make it 
more accessible to all UF stu-
dents from all demographics. 
However, she said she feels the 
cost is a small part and should 
not be a deal breaker. “When you think about di-
versity, people always think 
of things like race and gender, 
but Gatorship really took it 
further,” Sanchez said. “They 
even addressed socioeconomic 
status, sexuality and that’s 
things that people don’t neces-
sarily think about.”
Sanchez said a retreat like 
Gatorship could not be held on 
UF’s campus. 
“They take us out an hour 
away from Gainesville to this 
really nice camp area,” San-
chez said. “Stuff like that is so 
important.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgGATORSHIP,  from pg. 1Retreats were offered since 2003THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Darts and Laurels
A note to our number neighbor pg . 8
NBA stars need to recognize importance of T eam USA
Players shouldn’t be afraid to represent their country pg. 11By Alexa Spicer
Contributing Writer 
In seventh grade, Brandon Shenk 
began an almost decadelong journey 
to overcome an eating disorder.
Shortly after moving to 
Gainesville, Shenk began restricting 
his food intake and compulsively 
binging and purging. He said he be-
came skeleton-like before he over-
came the disorder at 22.
Shenk, now a 34-year-old writer 
and director, decided to create a film 
loosely based off his experiences to 
address what could happen if an 
eating disorder goes too far.
“Portrait of a Young Man,” a 
small-budget indie film, began film-ing in Gainesville Tuesday.
“Everybody’s choosing their 
own personal battles,” Shenk said. 
“I wanted it to be very obvious that 
these characters love each other, 
but their love is kind of misplaced 
at times, and they make decisions 
with good intentions that have rough 
consequences or ramifications.”
While actors continue to flood 
into Gainesville, Shenk said he’s 
focusing on logistics such as catering 
and actor accommodations to make 
a smooth transition into a full filming 
schedule. To meet their target end 
date of Sept. 1, he said the crew 
needs to work about 14 hours a day. 
Shenk said they’re still putting to-
gether a list of potential background actors for the film, although the main 
actors, including Jackson Kelly, who 
will play the main character, have 
been hired. Background actors are 
not being paid.
Most of the filming will take 
place around an Airbnb house on 
43rd Street. Yining Xu, the film’s 
producer, said the house was chosen 
based on its accessibility and the 
team’s vision for a lower-middle-
class family home.
“The film is about a high school 
boy’s struggle with this identity and 
eating disorder as his family is at-
tempting to heal past wounds and 
nurture future hope,” Xu said.
Although the house mostly fit 
the family dynamic Shenk pictured, he said the production design 
team is painting the walls blue and 
cream, moving around furniture 
and swapping decorative items. 
The owner of the house signed a 
location agreement stating the owner 
is not responsible for any damages 
or accidents that may occur during 
filming.
“It is definitely a lot of work and 
time,” Xu said. “The production 
design team needs to wait until the 
director comes up with a shot list 
so they know which angles of the 
house they will be seeing in the film, 
so they will put their effort and time 
into those angles.”
In total, the budget for the film 
is around $100,000 but may change depending on equipment, gas and 
other necessary costs that come up. 
Xu said most of the money came 
from campaigns in the U.S. and 
China, which each raised about 
$35,000. Xu and Shenk covered the 
rest of the funding needed.
Xu joined the project in July 2018. 
Shenk first mentioned the idea after 
Xu and Shenk graduated from the 
same film program at Florida State 
University.
Once the film is edited and 
completed in March, it will be 
submitted to a variety of festivals 
where Shenk hopes a film distributor 
will show interest.
“This movie is a slice-of-life film,” 
Shenk said.Gainesville indie director starts filming in the city
THE BAND IS PREPARING TO 
RELEASE ITS FIRST SINGLE SINCE ITS 
MOVE HOME
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville favorite flipturn is in a state of 
change.
After deciding to move from Gainesville back 
home to Fernandina Beach, the band has been 
busy touring the country and making new music. 
We spoke with flipturn bassist Madeline 
Jarman about the band’s recent tour, coming back 
to Gainesville to play at the Heartwood on Aug. 
31 and its soon-to-be released single “Eleanor.”
Nick Hudson: What was your favorite show 
on your last tour?
Madeline Jarman: Our show in Nashville 
was really awesome. Nashville is such a cool city, 
and we have a couple of friends that live there, 
and it’s always really fun when we get to go to 
Nashville. The energy was really good, and the 
people were super nice. That was one of my fa-
vorites for sure.
Detroit was really cool, too. None of us had 
ever been there before. It was a big surprise. 
We had a lot of people come out to see us. The 
venue was really neat, too. They had super cool 
projectors on the wall. The venue was called the 
Magic Bag, so everything was magic themed. It 
was a really cool place to play.
NH: Do you have any plans to visit any other 
region of the country soon?
MJ: We hope to make it out further west. We 
haven’t played in Texas before, and we hope to 
make it out there soon and maybe more of the 
Midwest area. Maybe as far as California one day. 
We really hope to make it out there. We have 
plans to move further away from the East Coast, 
too.
NH: What was your best experience on the 
tour?
MJ: We had a couple days off after playing in Buffalo because we were going up to Toronto. We 
decided to go to Niagara Falls. We did the Maid 
of the Mist, the boat that gets you super close to 
Niagara Falls. It was super pretty and really awe-
some, and I loved that. That was the best experi-
ence outside of the music.
NH: I saw you’re coming back to Gainesville 
at the end of the month to play at the Heartwood. 
How are you feeling about returning to your for-
mer city?
MJ: We’re all super stoked. Heartwood is such 
a cool venue, and the people that work there are 
super nice. It’s going to feel great because we’re 
all a little sad to be moving away from Gainesville. 
It’s going to be super fun to see everybody. We’re 
friends with all the bands in the lineup, so it’s go-
ing to be cool to reconnect with them and be in 
Gainesville again.
NH: What’s it like to play these hometown 
shows where the audience is also your friends?
MJ: It’s awesome! I have this one friend who 
will always come and stand right in front of me. 
It’s really cool that all of us have such supportive 
friends. It’s nice that they come and see us time 
and time again. I’m really thankful for them.
NH: You’re releasing a new single “Eleanor” 
on Aug. 30. What can people expect from this 
new song?
MJ:  This song is a little bit different. We re-
corded it in a different way. Our last recordings, 
we focused on live recordings. For these, we fo-
cused on doing things in the studio.  It definitely 
has a different feel but it’s still us. It has a fun 
beat, yet the message is not as happy and bubbly 
as the song may sound.  
NH: Do you have any other projects in the 
works?
MJ: We are working on more music. We’ve 
been in the studio, so expect more music to be 
rolling out. We’re doing another tour soon, so 
we’ll be back on the road.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgw/Madeline Jarman 
of flipturn 
Lauren
Insense and Peppermint
Mount Everest
Clones
Kids
The Less I Know the Better
Toast
Unemployedsong title artistAvenue Weekly Playlist
Prince Daddy & The Hyena
Strawberry Alarm Clock
Labrinth
Tierra Whack
MGMT
Tame Impala 
Koffee
Tierra WhackCredit to Brittany Lewis
Flipturn performs at Rough Trade in Brooklyn, New York on July 15. 
As summer comes to a close, this Avenue staff has prepared its final weekly playlist. The 
following songs show the personality of our staff writers and include some of the songs that 
got us moving. Make sure to follow the Avenue on Spotify to see more of our music updates.Q&A THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
ColumnColumn
Last week, I talked about how Senate 
meetings have traditionally been canceled 
while senators were in Israel and our over-
all never-formally-explained coziness be-
tween many SG officials (who happen to 
be Christians) and Israel.
I received positive feedback as well as cri-
tiques; I think everyone can agree that a complex 
topic deserves a follow-up.
One of my Jewish buddies reached out to me 
after last week’s column and asked if we could 
chat over coffee. We met at Marston and talked 
for almost an hour and a half on what felt like everything: 
the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), the 
embassy in Jerusalem, Passages to Israel, Birthright, Fact-
finders, anti-semitism, Zionism, Christians and so on.
He asked me to reiterate some points he felt I had not 
made clear in my original column, and I shall.
I’m not anti-Semitic, and I greatly appreciate several of 
my Jewish friends for preemptively defending me as they 
shared my column. I do think people should be able to 
engage in justified critiques of Israel’s policies, much like we 
do all the time for our other allies, for the sake of driving 
the peace process forward while respecting the identities and 
lived experiences of our peers who have cultural and ethnic 
ties to the land.
What I did not clearly explain in my column is my issue 
lies with the fact that our Senate leadership is paid thousands 
of dollars to run our Senate meetings, but at times in the past, 
leaders abroad on trips (that would have otherwise constitut-
ed unexcused absences) have resulted in canceled meetings.
Some readers also commented saying I was making too 
big of an assertion of linking Christian Zionism to our own 
Student Government and state government (though a for-
mer SG vice president did comment saying he was “a Chris-
tian, a Zionist, a democrat”). Maybe I was; maybe I wasn’t. 
Frankly, if anyone from Student Government wants to write 
from their own perspective as a Christian Zionist, I would welcome that.
As my friend explained to me, AIPAC reaches 
out to Christians to help advocate for them on 
Israeli issues, and SG is typically dominated by 
Christians. We both agreed it’d be much better 
if Jewish students simply had more representa-
tion in higher leadership positions such as the ex-
ecutive ticket, but that’s for the majority party to 
figure out. While they may serve as advocates in 
some way for Israeli issues, these officials don’t 
really talk about it openly, I feel, which leaves a 
lot of people confused when they just see pictures 
online of their representatives overseas.
While those SG officials find their voice, I would, how-
ever, like to share my own little bit of insider info. I received 
screenshots of a Google Sheet titled “Meeting Times With 
Karli” that was shared with the Senate Information and Com-
munications Gmail and features evaluations of many Student 
Government officials by Katie Hernandez, former Allocations 
Committee Chairwoman who interned with AIPAC this sum-
mer. I think it was meant for the group Gators for Israel.
Emily Dunson, the Senate Pro Tempore, is evaluated as “I 
know you have met her but next year SBP.” 
Cooper Brown, the current Budget Committee Chair, is 
evaluated as “Expected SBP in two years, has been on edge 
with going to AIPAC events and Israel trips (he is interested 
but hasn’t prioritized going on our trips).” 
By the way, SBP stands for “Student Body President.” 
Senator Tyler Kendrick’s many affiliations are listed 
before being identified as “Freshman (being looked at for 
ticket in three years).” They sure start them off young!
I know some people were really calling me out for 
pedalling conspiracy theories, but let me just say, there’s a 
whole lot going on behind the scenes as well. Good luck, 
Emily, Cooper and Tyler!
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.When news broke that bars along 
University Avenue across from 
campus would be torn down to 
make room for new luxury apart-
ments, most students weren’t hap-
py. While some may have been upset about 
the loss of their favorite gameday hangout 
spots, many were frustrated with what would 
be replacing the storefronts.
Luxury apartments are nothing new to 
the Gainesville area. At least seven luxury apartment 
complexes have been built since 2009, and by 2020 
there will be six more built. One of the most well-known 
luxury apartments is The Standard, a 10-story building 
across from campus. The monthly rental prices here are 
$650 to $1,200. 
These prices are fairly steep, even for middle-class 
families. Many students will look for more affordable 
housing options. While there are options out there, 
there is one common theme among them: they’re old. 
With older buildings come many problems. Students 
have experienced things such as water shooting from 
their toilet and a roof collapsing. 
Things friends and I have experienced living in older 
apartments include rats, mold, hot water not working 
for over a week and pipes bursting. 
You can argue you get what you pay for and yes, to a 
certain degree, that’s true. However, students, like my-
self, who can’t afford to live in new luxury apartments only have so many affordable options when 
living in Gainesville. Students are forced 
into a position where they have to live 
somewhere they know will have problems 
because they simply can’t afford luxury. 
There are very few apartments in 
Gainesville I would consider “middle-of-the-
road” when it comes to affordability and 
quality of housing. This leaves most stu-
dents living in either of the two extremes: 
luxury or subpar housing. 
So this all brings me back to the new luxury apart-
ments being built along University Avenue. While creat-
ing new housing options close to campus is great, they 
don’t need to be luxury apartments. 
Ultimately, building more luxury apartments is great 
— if you’re a student who comes from a high-income 
household. You get more options to choose from, most 
of which will be way beyond your needs as a college 
student. But this leaves middle- and low-income stu-
dents with a smaller range of options. Few, if any, af-
fordable housing options are being built in the near fu-
ture, resulting in many students staying in apartment 
complexes that are only getting older and more run-
down over time.
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn appears on Thursdays. To read her full column, go 
to alligator.org/opinion.
So what’s up with SG and Israel? (part 2)Gainesville doesn’t need more luxury apartments 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Move out day is here. The cardboard boxes clutter your 
room in a claustrophobic way. You start to see the appeal in 
minimalism as you cram the umpteenth box with the ump-
teenth useless piece of junk. The floors are bare. The walls 
lack personality. It is time to say goodbye to your favorite cor-
ner of the apartment where all the spiders hang out. You take 
one of the Comfort Color T-shirts that now serves you no use 
and cry into it. After five minutes of bawling your eyes out, 
you lift your head and look into the shirt. You don’t remember 
what function you got it from, but the tear stains spell some-
thing out...
Darts and Laurels
The Boy Scouts of America has kept a list of known 
predatory behavior and pedophilia by scoutmasters 
since 1944. The BSA called the list “ineligible volunteer 
files,” but it was popularly called “perversion files.” In 
April, news broke about the list, which revealed more 
than 7,800 scout leaders were suspected of sexually abusing 
boys since 1940, and 12,000 survivors were identified. Accord-
ing to the Skimm, this is more than six times the number the 
BSA told the court in 2012. New allegations from 800 men 
across the country have come forward with a group of lawyers 
representing them called “Abused in Scouting.” According to 
NPR, one of the men filed a suit in Philadelphia on Monday. 
A laurel goes to the “Abused in Scouting” lawyers who came 
together to take action against this cover up. 
Award-winning novelist and essayist Toni Morrison died 
Tuesday. She was 88. Morrison is known for writing about the 
black experience and identity in America. A laurel goes to her 
and her memory. In 1993, she became the first African Ameri-
can woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. According to 
The New York Times, her prose mirrored that of the black oral 
tradition, and “are dreamlike and nonlinear, spooling back-
ward and forward in time as though characters bring the entire 
weight of history to bear on their every act.” If you want to 
become a better writer, read her books. If you want to become 
a better person, read her books. 
Saturday, American professional skateboarder Mitchie 
Brusco became the first person to ever land a 1260 at the X 
Games. A laurel goes out to the 22-year-old for his three-and-
a-half revolutions in the Big Air competition and landing in the 
record books. 
North Carolina became the first state in the south to ban 
state funding for conversion therapy for minors on Friday. A 
laurel goes to this initiative as it is a step in the right direc-
tion to stop this ineffective, manipulative practice. Gov. Roy 
Cooper signed the executive order. After he signed the order, 
Cooper tweeted, “Conversion therapy has been shown to pose 
serious health risks, and we should be protecting all of our 
children, including those who identify as LGBTQ, instead of 
subjecting them to a dangerous practice.”
The recent internet trend of texting your “number neigh-
bor,” the phone number one off from yours, has us giving a 
dart to our respective phone number neighbors. Why haven’t 
you texted? All it takes is adding or subtracting 1 from the last 
digit of your phone number, and voila: you could be talking 
to one of us. What gives? We want to post our funny, totally 
not staged text message conversation on the interweb to get an 
obscene amount of shares. Come on number neighbor, it’s just 
one digit! Please, send the text. 
And the final laurel of this semester goes to you, the read-
er. Yeah, we didn’t want to get emotional or meta either, but 
some things must be done. If you’ve been with us all along, 
thank you. If it is your first time reading, thank you. Without 
you, we’d be screaming into a void. So thanks for reading. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Cassidy Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgMATTRESSES!
TWIN SETS $69 FULL$99
QUEEN$149 KING$199.
352-376-0953              8-23-19-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
COMMUNITY GARAGE SALES (+30 
households) throughout Suburban Heights 
neighborhood on Saturday, 8/10. Enter from 
NW43rd St between NW13th and 19th ave. 
We have everything at our annual sale!     
8-8-19-2-10
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church 
need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, 
windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews 
and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com     8-8-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-141For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Location, Location, 1bed 1 bath condo, 
ground floor, 2 miles to UF on bus route, 
walk to shopping, restaurants, etc. Must see. 
$75,000. Call or text for more info. 352-301-
2403. By appointment only.     8-12-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1. What group appeared at the San 
Francisco’s Cow Palace on Aug. 19, 
1964?
2. Name the member of TLC who 
burned down her boyfriend’s house.
3. Paul Williams wrote a song for 
The Carpenters, but they rejected it. 
Name the future hit song.
4. Which group released “Are You 
Lonely for Me”?
5. Name the song that contains these 
lyrics: “Should I bring him down, 
should I scream and shout, Should I 
speak of love, let my feelings out.”
Answers
1. The Beatles, in their first U.S. 
tour. The small 17,000-seat venue was 
chosen because promoters feared the 
event would not sell out. Fans were 
so berserk by the end of the half-hour 
show that the Beatles were hustled 
away by ambulance.
2. Lisa “Left Eye” Lopes. She put 
his shoes in the tub, sprayed them 
with lighter fluid, and set them on fire. 
3. “An Old Fashioned Love Song.” 
Three Dog Night picked up the song 
in 1971 and took it to the top of the 
charts.
4. The Rude Boys, in 1991.
5. “I Don’t Know How to Love 
Him,” by Yvonne Elliman, 1970. The 
song was included in the soundtrack 
for the rock opera “Jesus Christ 
Superstar.” It was originally entitled 
“Kansas Morning.”
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
August 5, 2019
ANSWERS ON PG. 10
ANSWER ON PG. 10 ANSWERS ON PG. 10
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza on Tower Road is 
now hiring delivery drivers, pizza makers and 
phone personnel. Day shift and nightshift 
available, full time and part time positions. 
Please apply in person at 600 NW 75th St     
8-8-19-5-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is excited 
to announce counselor openings for em-
ployment in our extended care programs. 
Interested applicants need to have availabil -
ity most weekdays from 2:30-6:00. Oak Hall 
believes in generational hiring seeking those 
with a love of children who can enrich our 
program with creativity and enthusiasm. Visit 
www.oakhall.org to complete an application. 
8-8-19-3-14
Baby Sitter wanted to help drive my kids to 
and from activities. Car needed. youngest 
is 10 and oldest is 16. Primarily after 2 PM 
up to 7 PM. $15/hr. Email rosenson@ufl.edu      
8-19-19-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.     8-8-1-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com     8-8-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-1914 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/08/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/08/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, August 8, 2019
ACROSS
1 Shelves for 
cooking
6 Image problem, 
briefly
11 Navy letters
14 Muscat native
15 Catherine of 
“Best in Show”
16 Water source
17 Annual e-tail sale 
event
19 Good Grips 
gadget brand
20 Distrustful
21 Any of six classic 
Clue cards
23 “I kissed thee 
__ I killed thee”: 
“Othello”
25 Expensive gift
28 Folded snack
30 Put away
31 Shock, in a way
32 Sliced very thin
35 Substantial
38 Old West 
wanted poster 
figure
41 Soprano Fleming
42 Log on to
45 Barely go 
(through)
48 Like a favored 
project
50 Govt. workplace 
watchdog
51 Apollo craft
56 “The 
Fountainhead” 
author Rand
57 Build up
58 Raptor’s grabber
60 E’en if
61 Ideal deck-
shuffling goal ... 
and a hint to a 
hidden word, and 
how it appears, 
in the four other 
longest answers
66 Call someone by 
the wrong name, 
e.g.
67 Outrage
68 Small change in a 
small bank
69 Catch
70 City on the 
Rhone
71 Ham it upDOWN
1 Big bird of myth
2 Adams of HBO’s 
“Sharp Objects”
3 Iconic San 
Francisco 
transport
4 Tot’s perch
5 Fathered
6 “Take that!”
7 “Kung Fu” actor 
Philip
8 Pops
9 Decapod on a 
menu
10 Like starfish
11 Ideal place
12 Battle of Hastings 
combatants
13 Dish cleaner
18 Orthopedist’s pic
22 Like the Empire 
State Building
23 Presumed UFO 
crew
24 Cheering word
26 Transgression
27 2016 Tony 
winner Leslie 
__ Jr.
29 Like a bogey
33 Romano cheese 
source34 Singer 
Fogelberg
36 Mauna __
37 Fortune rival
39 Seized wheels
40 Ambiguous 
response
43 Short
44 Japanese title of 
respect
45 Roofing pieces
46 Trick-taking card 
game47 Recital bonus
49 Private teachers
52 Like much of 
Idaho
53 Nasty type
54 Hightail it
55 Hitch on the fly
59 Utah city on I-15
62 Private aid prog.
63 Spot for a 
recliner
64 Tolkien creature
65 Manhattan liquor
By Mark McClain
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/07/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/07/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, August 7, 2019
ACROSS
1 “__ your age!”
4 Many 4WD autos
8 Oafish
14 Feel badly about
15 Slightly
16 100-lawmaker 
group
17 *Secret stage exit
19 Gets ready to 
drive
20 Tempe sch.
21 Out of the wind
23 A, in many orgs.
24 Frosts, as 
cupcakes
25 *Forte of Savion 
Glover and 
Gregory Hines
28 Comes clean?
30 Persuaded
31 Northern Iraqi city
32 Indian flatbread
34 Botch the job
35 *Impractical hope
39 Brief writer, 
briefly
42 Blew away
43 Pick up the tab
47 Low-cost product
50 Midsize Chevy
51 *Pass/fail 
metaphor
54 Cruise stopover
55 Night in Paris
56 Array in a British 
pantry
57 Lobster dinner 
accessory
58 Become fond of
60 ’70s covert 
White House 
intelligence group 
... and, in a more 
conventional 
sense, a hint 
to the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues
63 Singer who was 
15 in 2009 when 
his debut EP 
“My World” was 
released
64 “Downton Abbey” 
title
65 Droop
66 Passions
67 Salon colors
68 “Inside the NBA” 
networkDOWN
1 Sotheby’s 
showing
2 Liqueur named 
for an island
3 Dollhouse dishes
4 Downcast
5 WWII subs
6 It’s tuned an 
octave higher 
than a cello
7 Penicillin target
8 Omaha winter 
hrs.
9 Womack of 
country
10 Worldwide 
cultural org.
11 Enormous
12 Major upset, say
13 Slangy “Sure”
18 Pecs builder
22 Name of eight 
English kings
24 PC pioneer
26 Tops
27 Watchdog 
warning
29 New Haven 
collegian
32 Most recent
33 Fruit drink suffix
36 Pliers unit37 Bill-filled device
38 Onetime Dr 
Pepper rival
39 Apt. coolers
40 Vanishing point?
41 Like many 
veteran 
professors
44 Least 
challenging
45 High-fiber 
Kellogg’s cereal
46 __ kwon do48 With hands on 
hips
49 Wizard with a 
scar
50 Confident reply
52 Cleaned with a 
cloth
53 Woodwork pattern
58 Fighters’ org.
59 “Grey’s Anatomy” 
sets, briefly
61 D.C. United org.
62 Police dept. rank
08/06/19
1. What group appeared at the San 
Francisco’s Cow Palace on Aug. 19, 
1964?
2. Name the member of TLC who 
burned down her boyfriend’s house.
3. Paul Williams wrote a song for 
The Carpenters, but they rejected it. 
Name the future hit song.
4. Which group released “Are You 
Lonely for Me”?
5. Name the song that contains these 
lyrics: “Should I bring him down, 
should I scream and shout, Should I 
speak of love, let my feelings out.”
Answers
1. The Beatles, in their first U.S. 
tour. The small 17,000-seat venue was 
chosen because promoters feared the 
event would not sell out. Fans were 
so berserk by the end of the half-hour 
show that the Beatles were hustled 
away by ambulance.
2. Lisa “Left Eye” Lopes. She put 
his shoes in the tub, sprayed them 
with lighter fluid, and set them on fire. 
3. “An Old Fashioned Love Song.” 
Three Dog Night picked up the song 
in 1971 and took it to the top of the 
charts.
4. The Rude Boys, in 1991.
5. “I Don’t Know How to Love 
Him,” by Yvonne Elliman, 1970. The 
song was included in the soundtrack 
for the rock opera “Jesus Christ 
Superstar.” It was originally entitled 
“Kansas Morning.”
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
August 5, 2019
FLASHBACK TRIVIA
ANSWERS FROM PG. 9
ANSWER FROM PG. 9PUZZLEANSWERS1. Against which pitcher was Hall 
of Famer Hank Aaron’s first major-
league home run?
2. Who replaced Casey Stengel as 
the manager of the New York Mets in 
1965?
3. Since 2009, how many times has 
a Stanford football player finished as 
the runner-up for the Heisman Tro-
phy?
4. When was the last time before 
2018 that the Minnesota Timber -
wolves made the playoffs?
5. Name the last NHL team to ral-
ly from a 3-0 deficit to win a playoff 
series.
6. Who was the last NASCAR driv-
er before Brad Keselowski in 2019 to 
lead at least 446 laps at a NASCAR 
Cup race?
7. When was the last time before 
tennis’ 2019 French Open that the top 
four men’s seeds reached the semifi-
nals of a Grand Slam event?
Answers
1. St. Louis’ Vic Raschi, in 1954.
2. Wes Westrum. 
3. Five times (Toby Gerhart, 2009; 
Andrew Luck, 2010 and 2011; Chris-
tian McCaffrey, 2015; Bryce Love, 
2017).
4. It was 2004.
5. The Los Angeles Kings, in 2014.
6. Kyle Petty led 484 laps in a race 
in 1992. 
7. It was the 2013 Australian Open 
(Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer, 
Andy Murray, David Ferrer).
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
August 5, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1. Against which pitcher was Hall 
of Famer Hank Aaron’s first major-
league home run?
2. Who replaced Casey Stengel as 
the manager of the New York Mets in 
1965?
3. Since 2009, how many times has 
a Stanford football player finished as 
the runner-up for the Heisman Tro-
phy?
4. When was the last time before 
2018 that the Minnesota Timber -
wolves made the playoffs?
5. Name the last NHL team to ral-
ly from a 3-0 deficit to win a playoff 
series.
6. Who was the last NASCAR driv-
er before Brad Keselowski in 2019 to 
lead at least 446 laps at a NASCAR 
Cup race?
7. When was the last time before 
tennis’ 2019 French Open that the top 
four men’s seeds reached the semifi-
nals of a Grand Slam event?
Answers
1. St. Louis’ Vic Raschi, in 1954.
2. Wes Westrum. 
3. Five times (Toby Gerhart, 2009; 
Andrew Luck, 2010 and 2011; Chris-
tian McCaffrey, 2015; Bryce Love, 
2017).
4. It was 2004.
5. The Los Angeles Kings, in 2014.
6. Kyle Petty led 484 laps in a race 
in 1992. 
7. It was the 2013 Australian Open 
(Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer, 
Andy Murray, David Ferrer).
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.August 5, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which city will host the 2022 Winter 
Olympics?
2. ANATOMY: What is a human’s 
body temperature in Celsius?
3. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is rep-
resented in the condition called spec-
trophobia? 
4. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the only 
large major city built on two conti-
nents?
5. MATH: The Roman numbers 
MMXIX translate to what in Arabic 
numbers?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of lemurs called?
7. LITERATURE: The character of 
Miss Moneypenny appears in which 
novels?
8. TELEVISION: Which animated 
series features the character Stewie 
Griffin?
9. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
yards are in a mile?
10. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Latin phrase “ars gratia artis” mean?
Answers
1. Beijing
2. About 37 C
3. A fear of mirrors
4. Istanbul — Europe and Asia
5. 2019
6. A conspiracy of lemurs
7. James Bond novels
8. “Family Guy”
9. 1,760
10. Art for art’s sake
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.August 5, 2019King Features Weekly Service1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which city will host the 2022 Winter 
Olympics?
2. ANATOMY: What is a human’s 
body temperature in Celsius?
3. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is rep-
resented in the condition called spec-
trophobia? 
4. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the only 
large major city built on two conti-
nents?
5. MATH: The Roman numbers 
MMXIX translate to what in Arabic 
numbers?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of lemurs called?
7. LITERATURE: The character of 
Miss Moneypenny appears in which 
novels?
8. TELEVISION: Which animated 
series features the character Stewie 
Griffin?
9. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
yards are in a mile?
10. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Latin phrase “ars gratia artis” mean?
Answers
1. Beijing
2. About 37 C
3. A fear of mirrors
4. Istanbul — Europe and Asia
5. 2019
6. A conspiracy of lemurs
7. James Bond novels
8. “Family Guy”
9. 1,760
10. Art for art’s sake
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 5, 2019King Features Weekly Service
ANSWERS BELOW ANSWERS BELOWSPORTS QUIZ
ANSWERS
TRIVIA TEST
ANSWERS
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida DB C.J. McWilliams 
will miss the entire season 
with a torn Achilles, coach Dan 
Mullen announced Tuesday. Florida announces 2020 football schedule 
The Gators' schedule is highlighted by a trip to Ole Miss and a visit from 
LSU. Outside the SEC, UF will play Eastern Washington, South Alabama 
and New Mexico State in addition to FSU. By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
 
The group that raises the most 
question marks on the defensive 
side of the ball for UF is the one that usually brings the most stabil-
ity to a defense.
The linebackers for Florida are 
young and inexperienced, but the 
depth at the position this season 
could be a bright spot for the team.The Gators lost Vosean Joseph 
(5th round draft pick by the Buffalo 
Bills), Kylan Johnson (transferred 
to Pittsburgh), Rayshad Jackson 
(transferred to UNLV) and David 
Reese (torn Achilles, lost for the 
season). Plenty of talent has been 
brought in to help replace those 
losses, though.
The most noteworthy addition 
is a transfer from Louisville.
Graduate transfer Jonathan 
Greenard brings invaluable experi-
ence to a group where 10 of the 13 
linebackers on the roster have yet 
to start in a college football game.
Greenard registered seven sacks 
and 15.5 tackles for loss in 2017 
for the Cardinals and figured to be 
an impact player in 2018 before a 
wrist injury sidelined him for the 
season. He’ll hope to replace Jachai 
Polite, who netted 11 sacks and 
19.5 tackles for loss a year ago.
The two others that bring sub-
stantial experience to the position 
are Jeremiah Moon and David Re-
ese II.
Reese II, a senior, will man the middle of the defense once again 
this season, hoping to build on a 
2018 campaign that saw him re-
cord 77 tackles (good for second 
on the team) despite missing the 
first three games with an ankle in-
jury. His presence on the field will 
be crucial to the success of UF’s 
defense.
Moon has nine career starts at 
linebacker for Florida and should 
find himself on the field quite a 
bit for the Gators this fall. He has 
accumulated 54 tackles and two 
sacks over his last two seasons in 
Gainesville.
The biggest question now — 
with Jackson, Joseph and Johnson 
gone — is who will start alongside 
Reese II.
The ones that make the most 
sense are redshirt sophomores 
James Houston IV and Ventrell 
Miller, as well as newly-converted 
linebacker Amari Burney (who was 
formerly classified as an athlete).
Houston IV and Miller both ap-
peared in all 13 games last season, 
contributing mostly on special teams. The pair combined for 43 
tackles and four tackles for loss in 
2018, and one could expect those 
numbers to trend upward in 2019 
with another year of experience.
Burney, like the prior two men-
tioned, played a key role on special 
teams for the Gators in 2018, total-
ing 11 tackles and two tackles for 
loss. His first-career sack came in 
the Peach Bowl, and now the for-
mer safety will hope to utilize his 
athleticism and make an impact at 
a position he doesn’t have a lot of 
experience with.
UF’s 2019 recruiting class fea-
tured four four-star additions to 
the linebacker room. Freshmen 
Khris Bogle, Lloyd Summerall III, 
Mohamoud Diabate and Ty’Ron 
Hopper shore up the backside of 
the depth chart at linebacker for 
the Gators, and all should play key 
roles both on special teams and on 
defense in the event that injuries 
cause any depth issues this fall.
 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgChris King / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Jeremiah Moon (7) recorded 31 tackles in 13 games 
last year. He figures to play a more important role this year.
Position-by-Position: Evaluating Florida's linebackers
It’s bigger than basketball.
That’s a phrase typically associ-
ated with players promoting social 
reform activism and critiquing injus-
tices off the court.
But with many of the league’s top stars 
dropping their Team USA roster spots pri-
or to this month’s FIBA Basketball World 
Cup in China, and the increasing decline 
in national team talent as a whole, the 
term shines itself in a new light.
Team USA was once a glorified All-
Star team, a world-class display of American domi-
nance in a sport the country invented. Picking the 
USA against lesser national competition was as pal-
pable as betting on the Harlem Globetrotters to de-
feat the Washington Generals. Winning gold was an 
expectation.
But with the changing perception on international 
competitions, NBA talents see an opportunity to rep-
resent their country as more of a burden than a re-
sponsibility.
This year’s Team USA squad looks significantly 
different than the teams that won gold in years past. 
Gone are the days of Lebron James, Russell West-
brook and Kevin Durant. The Team USA of today is 
likely to be led by lesser threats like Khris Middleton 
and Kyle Kuzma.
So why are the big names no longer filling up the 
roster like they once were?
The foremost reason is rest. The NBA season runs 
well into June, should a team be fortunate enough 
to make a deep playoff push. By that point, players 
are not easily willing to step on a court for a few 
weeks or months, let alone train with a new team 
for a multi-week long competition halfway across the 
world. It’s a big investment with little return.The fact that the Olympics — the 
much more prestigious and relevant 
team event — is next year doesn’t help 
the cause either. It’s a tough position for 
NBA stars to jeopardize millions of dol-
lars over injury or fatigue heading into 
next year’s season.
Granted, this is not solely a Team 
USA problem. Canada will compete with-
out countrymen like Andrew Wiggins, 
Tristan Thompson and rookie R.J. Barrett 
due to a combination of unwillingness 
and injury. Spain is void of Serge Ibaka and Pau Ga-
sol for the first time in years.
Though the reasons for NBA stars missing nation-
al competitions are somewhat justified, they lack true 
depth.
Representing one’s country is an honor and a priv-
ilege that not many athletes are granted. The FIBA 
World Cup, as lackluster as the excitement may ac-
tually be, is still a chance to display excellence in 
front of the world. Sure, it’s a large time commit-
ment in the ever-hectic lives of world-class talent. 
But will skipping the event automatically guarantee 
full health through next season?
Players should treat international competitions 
with the respect they deserve, even if the actual 
“competition” part is lacking. They should represent 
the people and the league who put them in the po-
sition they’re currently in, rather than defend frail 
excuses.
Team USA is still favored to win its third consecu-
tive gold, but it won’t be nearly the same without the 
country's best on the court.
In the scope of international competition, it’s most 
certainly bigger than basketball. NBA stars need to recognize the importance of Team USAJack In The Box
The Associated Press
T eam USA coach Gregg Popovich faces a tough challenge at the 2019 
FIBA World Cup with so many star players set to miss the tournament. 
Jack Braverman
twitter: @jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY  
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCK Open 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
NightsEvery year, a minimum of four and 
maximum of eight players or con -
tributors are enshrined in the Pro 
Football Hall of Fame. 
That number could skyrocket to 
20 inductees in 2020.
The HOF announced last week it may 
expand its strict cap of eight selections 
to 20 in honor of the National Football 
League’s 100th anniversary celebration. 
The inaugural NFL season, in which 
the league was called the American Pro -
fessional Football Association, occurred 
in 1920. There were only 14 teams, almost 
all of which went defunct in their first few 
years. 
The HOF itself was not established 
until 1963 in Canton, Ohio. Its first class enshrined 17 members. Since 
then, the range has stood firm 
at four to eight members per 
year, with an 80% acceptance 
vote from the committee re -
quired to get in.
While this range of induct -
ees is fair and ensures only 
elite players and contributors 
will enter the Hall, the cap has 
also left some deserving can -
didates on the outside looking 
in.
Because of this, the HOF should carry 
through with its consideration of opening 
its doors to 20 new members in 2020.
If the HOF decides to go through with 
its plan, the split would look like this: five modern-day finalists, 10 se -
niors, three contributors and 
two coaches.
I’m sure some deserving 
players and contributors have 
come to mind by now. Former 
players such as Washington 
Redskins offensive tackle Joe 
Jacoby, New York Jets de -
fensive end Joe Klecko and 
New York Giants defensive 
back Jimmy Patton are all de -
serving of the Hall, but their 
fringe status among more high-profile 
candidates have kept them shut out.
Contributors such as New England Pa -
triots owner Robert Kraft and former NFL 
commissioner Paul Tagliabue should also be in. 
The list goes on. 
If the HOF pool isn’t expanded to 20 
players this year, these candidates may 
have to wait much longer for their time 
in Canton. New players enter candidacy 
every year, with potential first ballot Hall 
of Famers stealing the spotlight from the 
older players with each passing season.
My goal isn’t to make it “easier” to get 
into the Hall. It should be hard, and only 
deserving candidates should get in. All 
I’m saying is that there are tons of can -
didates who should have their own busts 
in the Hall, and this is an opportunity to 
make that happen.
Let the guys in.The NFL Hall of Fame should induct 20 members for its 2020 classO’Shea Can You See
The Associated Press
The T om Benson Hall of Fame stadium is shown during the induction ceremony at the Pro 
Football Hall of Fame, Saturday, Aug. 3, 2019, in Canton, Ohio.
Sports Meme of the Week
By River Wells
Dylan O’Shea
twitter: @dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.org