We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Baseball begins spring practice
Second baseman Blake Reese and the Gators base-
ball team are preparing for the season-opener against 
Long Beach State , pg. 14Dance to the Latin beat
A UF student started a radio station for Latin and Hispanic 
music, pg. 5
Crown the Queen
A UF alumna was crowned 2019 Miss Florida USA, pg. 10MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 51
HE IS TRYING TO GET A 
SPECIAL VISA TO COME 
BACK TO THE U.S.
By Lakshmi Gomez and
 Hannah Beatty 
Alligator Staff Writers 
Simon Lopez’s 
trip to Mexico 
should have only 
lasted a week.
He planned on 
returning to UF to 
teach organic chem-
istry before the start 
of the Spring semes-
ter.
But a month later, he’s still in Mex-
ico — and doesn’t know when he can 
leave.
Lopez, a UF chemistry professor 
who is originally from Venezuela, 
went to Mexico City in December to 
complete his visa application. Due to 
processing delays, he hasn’t been able 
to return to Gainesville. 
Despite the delays, he is still as-
signing homework, creating exams 
and scheduling virtual ofﬁ  ce hours for 
his class.
“I’m a Gator now so for me it’s re-
ally hard to be outside Gainesville,” 
Lopez said.
Lopez initially came to UF as a re-
searcher and adjunct professor in 2014 
while on a J-1 visa, he said. This visa 
gave Lopez the opportunity to travel 
to the U.S. through a work and study 
based exchange program, as long as 
he returned to his home country after 
a year. 
Due to the economic and political 
crisis in Venezuela, Lopez and his 
family decided to stay in Gainesville 
and apply for a waiver that would al-low them to stay indeﬁ  nitely. 
After attempts to receive the 
waiver, the Venezuelan government 
denied it to all Venezuelans in 2015, 
Lopez said. 
“If you’re outside Venezuela, the 
government will put a mountain that 
you need to climb in order to obtain 
something from them,” Lopez said. 
After ﬁ  ghting with lawyers for al-
most three years, Lopez began apply-
ing for an O-1 visa, a visa for people 
who are talented in the sciences, arts, 
education, business or athletics, in 
August, he said.
By the middle of November, he 
was approved for the visa, but in 
order for it to go into effect, he was 
required to get his passport stamped 
outside of the U.S. 
Lopez decided to go to Mexico City 
with his family, so they could all go 
through the process. 
He said it was supposed to be 
simple, considering he brought all 
the necessary documents along with 
them, however, the Mexican em-
bassy told the Lopezes they had to 
go through administrative processing 
that would last a week. 
It’s been over three weeks and the 
documents are still being processed, 
he said.  
Lopez does not know when he and 
his family will return to Gainesville 
but has been trying his best to keep 
managing his chemistry class. 
“It’s been difﬁ  cult for me, of 
course, to do the job from outside,” 
Lopez said. “But I’m really glad to see 
how the UF family has been helping 
me.”
Once the documents are processed, 
Lopez said he will be able to return to 
Gainesville on the visa.UF chemistry professor 
stuck in MexicoGYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The Florida gymnastics team remains uncon-
quered after a convincing win over the No. 17 
Kentucky Wildcats.
Things are looking up for the Gators as they 
prepare for what could be their biggest match 
of the year against No. 1 Oklahoma on its home 
match in Norman, Oklahoma, after a historic bar 
routine and some impressive ﬂ  oor scores Friday 
night. The squad has found success in many ar-eas during its ﬁ  rst few meets, but as coach Jenny 
Rowland mentioned after the meet against Ken-
tucky, there is still work to be done for UF.
Here’s one thing the Gators can be happy about 
from the ﬁ  rst three weeks and one thing they’ll 
need to work on:
 
Doctrine of Trinity
Freshman Trinity Thomas is on the U.S. Na-
tional Team, and in these ﬁ  rst three weeks, she  Florida still has some room for 
improvement despite hot start
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Trinity Thomas performs her beam routine against Missouri on Jan. 11. She 
scored a 9.850 for her performance.
SEE PROFESSOR,  PAGE 4SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 14
THE UNIVERSITY 
ANNOUNCED IT WILL 
MAKE ACCOMMODATIONS 
FOR STUDENTS
By T aylor Roth, 
Mikayla Carroll and
Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff WritersUF students have felt the effects 
of the government shutdown on a 
personal scale.
Although it was partial, some UF 
students were affected ﬁ  nancially 
because it has delayed them from 
receiving ﬁ  nancial aid, UF Spokes-
person Margot Winick said.
The shutdown ended temporar-
ily on Friday, but it is unclear how 
this will affect ﬁ  nancial aid for stu-dents.
The university announced that it 
will continue deferring the payment 
of charges and waiving late fees for 
students who are federal employees 
or who rely ﬁ  nancially on family 
members who are federal employ-
ees, Winick said.
On Saturday, Winick said the 
university will make accommoda-
tions on a case-by-case basis to help students impacted.
“We want to help students the 
best we can,” Winick said.
Alexis Bishop, an 18-year-old UF 
zoology freshman, said she and her 
roommate were worried. They tried 
to calculate what they needed to use 
from their savings because Bishop 
received her ﬁ  nancial aid later than 
expected due to the shutdown.
“It’s scary not knowing how long these delays will last,” Bishop said. 
“I use that money to pay for rent.”
@Taylor__Roth 
troth@alligator.org 
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.org 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgUF student financial aid impacted by government shutdownLopez
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TUESDAY
TEDxUFSalon: The Modern 
Explorer
At 6-8 p.m. at the Cade Museum 
for Creativity & Invention, at 
811 S. Main St., TEDxUF will 
present a free discussion-based 
event where scientific ideas will 
be shared. 
Parks and Rec Trivia
Starting at 9 p.m., the Original 
American Kitchen, at 15 SE 
First Ave., will host a “Parks 
and Recreation” themed trivia. 
Registration begins at 8 p.m., 
and the first 10 teams to regis-
ter will receive a $10 gift card. 
First place can take home a $50 
gift card, second place a $30 gift 
card and third place a $20 gift 
card. There will be drink spe-
cials. 
WEDNESDAY
Moonlight Yoga
At 6-7 p.m., the Reitz 
Programming Board will host 
a free yoga session for UF stu-
dents in the evening at the Reitz 
Union North Lawn. Attendees 
should bring their own yoga 
mats. Light refreshments will be 
provided at the end of the class. 
The first number of attendees 
will receive a free water bottle. 
Hijab-A-Thon After Hours
Starting at 7 p.m., UF Islam on 
Campus will host a talk at the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to 
debunk the myths of the hijab 
and discuss the experiences of 
others. Syrian American civil 
rights activist Isra Chaker will 
be the guest speaker. Chaker is 
also the refugee campaign lead-
er at Oxfam America and a glob-
al ambassador for the United 
Way and Reliefs Agency. 
Peaceful Paths Winter Pop-Up 
Thrift Store
This pop-up thrift store will 
have household goods, baby 
and kitchen items, furniture 
and more. Money made from 
the store will go toward as-
sisting clients and support for 
programs at the Peaceful Paths 
Outreach Center. The store will 
be open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 
p.m. Wednesday to Saturday at 
the outreach center, at 2100 NW 
53rd Ave. Suite A.    THURSDAY
AASU x HSA Present: First 
Generation Panel
The Asian American Student 
Union and the Hispanic Student 
Association will host a panel 
on the experiences of first-gen-
eration students and educate 
attendees on the resources UF 
offers. There will also be a Q&A 
for audience members. The pan-
el will take place at 6:30 p.m. in 
Room G330 in the Reitz Union. 
Career Conversations: Navigating 
Career Fairs
At this discussion, students can 
learn about what to expect from 
Career Showcase and other ca-
reer fairs, learn how to talk to 
employers and how to show-
case an individual’s strengths 
and skills. The event will take 
place at 3-3:50 p.m. in the C3 
Inspiration Room in the Reitz 
Union's Career Connections 
Center. The talk is an infor-
mal, small group conversation 
that’s facilitated by the Career 
Connections Center staff to dis-
cuss career planning topics. The 
event is open to all UF degree-
seeking students and alumni up 
to one year after their gradua-
tion. Potential attendees may 
reserve ahead of time. Groups 
are limited to 15 students. 
MORE
Inspired by Cuba!
This exhibit explores the ways 
in which Cuba has been im-
mortalized in ceramic piec-
es. The pieces start from the 
mid-18th century. The exhibi-
tion will run until April 5 in 
Smathers Library Room 100. 
There are two possible classifi-
cations for the pieces. The first 
includes images and symbols 
of the island or its people or 
with references to named plac-
es, official institutions or com-
mercial establishments. The 
second includes items with the 
name of Cuba, variations of it 
or Havana, as a brand that ap-
peals to consumers.
Student Government Elections
From today until Tuesday, 
students interested in run-
ning with a party for the up-
coming SG elections can in-
terview with them in rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320. On 
Sunday, interviews will take place from 3-8 p.m.; 9 a.m. to 
8 p.m. on Monday and 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Tuesday. A manda-
tory meeting for students who 
are running will be held at 8 
p.m. Thursday in the Reitz 
Chamber. Requests for absen-
tee ballots are due at 5 p.m 
Feb. 6. The form can be found 
at www.sg.ufl.edu/elections. 
An SG debate will take place 
at 6 p.m. Feb. 12 in the Reitz 
Grand Ballroom and from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. on Feb. 19 
and Feb. 20, UF students can 
vote in the SG election. 
Words on Canvas: the Harn 
Museum’s Spring 2019 writ-
ing competition
Writers will choose one of 28 
pieces of art and submit a poem 
or prose piece inspired by it. All 
works must be submitted by 
11:59 p.m. Feb. 24. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  62° LOW  37°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Sabrina Conza, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Hope Hatchcock,
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn Jones,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Graham Marsh, Blake Trauschke 
Corrections: 
In an article titled “John Kasich 
encourages UF students to make 
an impact” Elon Musk is the CEO 
of T esla and Kasich's meeting 
with Richard Nixon was 20 
minutes long. The Alligator had 
reported differently.
In an article titled “National 
Geographic shows Gainesville 
audience a bird’s eye view” 
727 tickets were sold for this 
presentation. The Alligator had 
reported differently.
The Alligator strives to be accu-
rate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 51MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
1. UF graduate within the last 5 years with 
expertise in one of the following areas:  web 
development, coding, search engine optimization, 
digital advertising and marketing, nonprofit 
fundraising and grant writing. 
2. Working professional with expertise in one of 
the following areas: web development, coding, 
search engine optimization, digital advertising and 
marketing, nonprofit fundraising and grant writing.
Applications for these positions are available at the new Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 
a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Thursday, February 14. Candidates 
located outside of the Gainesville area can receive an application by 
emailing Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.org.
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that 
time to read information regarding the application process. Part of the 
application consists of short essays in response to specific questions. 
Applications must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, February 
15 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday, February 22 at 11 
a.m. Applicants must meet the above qualifications.  
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employerand
announces the opening of the following positions:
All are unpaid members of the Board of Directors
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.More training. More opportunities. 
More success. 
That’s ALDI. We’re one of the nation’s leading grocery stores because of our 
commitment to more. More value for our customers. More stores opening every year. 
And more opportunity for our people. People like you. As a District Manager, you’ll 
manage millions in revenue as you oversee your district and inspire your teams. 
You’ll be more than a leader. More than a coach. You’ll help shape our direction and 
work with your teams to deliver the service our customers expect. We also believe 
in rewarding our employees with more. Our District Manager positions start with 
an $80K salary plus a $5K signing bonus and increase to $110K in five years. We also 
provide our District Managers with a fully expensed AUDI A3 and three weeks of 
vacation time during their first full year of employment. If you’re looking for more, you 
just found it.
Learn more: careers.aldi.usWE MEAN IT .WHEN WE SAY WELCOMETO MORE ,TWO INDIAN AMERICAN 
WOMEN IN IMPACT AND 
INSPIRE PARTY ARE RUNNING 
FOR VICE PRESIDENT
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Michael Murphy woke up, drank a cup of cof-
fee, called his parents and announced his bid to 
be Student Body president.
More than 70 people in “I Like Mike” T-shirts 
gathered at noon Friday on Plaza of the Ameri-
cas to hear Impact Party’s executive ticket an-
nouncement. 
The ticket consists of Michael Murphy, 21, for 
Student Body president; Sarah Abraham, 20, for 
Student Body vice president; and Santiago Guti-
errez, 20, for Student Body treasurer. 
The opposing party, Inspire Party, announced 
its executive ticket Wednesday. Zachariah Chou 
is running to be Student Body president with 
Gouthami Gadamsetty running for Student Body 
vice president and Mackintosh Joachim running 
for Student Body treasurer. 
SG elections will be held on Feb. 19 and 20. 
Murphy previously served as the Senate pres-
ident.  
“The role of the Student Body president is to 
represent all students and that is exactly what I hope to accomplish,” Murphy said.
Sarah Abraham, a UF business administra-
tion junior, is the Indian Students Association 
president and said she’s running to be the ﬁ  rst 
Indian American Student Body vice president. 
The Alligator contacted university spokesper-
son Margot Winick and SG adviser James Tyger 
to conﬁ  rm if UF has ever had an Indian Ameri-
can Student Body vice president. Both parties 
were unable to conﬁ  rm this. 
Gouthami Gadamsetty, Inspire’s vice presi-
dental candidate, is also Indian American.
“My parents came to America without any 
dreams of me doing this,” Abraham said. “Me 
being able to hopefully hold this position and 
even run for it is so amazing.”
Gutierrez, a UF international studies and eco-
nomics junior, is a ﬁ  rst-generation student like 
Abraham.
“We as children of immigrants can do what 
anyone else can do if we just show that we’re 
diligent,” Gutierrez said. 
Gutierrez previously served as treasurer and 
chief of staff for the Hispanic Student Associa-
tion. 
“We’re a party that continues to lead and 
we’re a party that’s held the majority in the Sen-
ate ever since existence,” Murphy said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgImpact Party announces Student Body presidential candidate
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Impact Party’s executive ticket consists of Michael Murphy, 21, for Student Body 
president (center); Sarah Abraham, 20, for Student Body vice president (left); and 
Santiago Gutierrez, 20, for Student Body treasurer (right).  
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019Jason Portmess, a UF chemistry senior lecturer, 
is physically teaching Lopez’s class. Although it 
puts a strain on the students, they should still be 
able to succeed, Portmess wrote in an email. 
“The unknown element in this situation makes 
it challenging for me, but more importantly, it is 
particularly stressful to the students,” Portmess 
said. “I think most students recognize that this is a 
situation that is beyond anyone’s control.”
Portmess said he hopes this event will teach stu-
dents a valuable lesson. 
“How we respond in times of adversity tends to 
reveal our true character,” Portmess said.
lgomez@alligator.org 
hbeatty@alligator.orgPROFESSOR,  from pg 1He is teaching onlineBy Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Angel Gonzalez jumped at an 
opportunity not many UF students 
have: interviewing UF President 
Kent Fuchs on his podcast’s pilot 
episode. 
The 22-year-old UF political sci-
ence senior sent an email to Fuchs 
in October but didn’t expect a re-
sponse. 
That is until Fuchs agreed to 
guest star on the first episode of 
“The Educational Espresso,” that 
Gonzalez and his friends released 
Saturday. 
“You know guys, since this is 
your inaugural episode, if it fails, 
it’s due to me,” Fuchs joked in the 
pilot. 
The first episode of the free, stu-
dent-run podcast was about a half-
hour discussion with Fuchs ranging 
in topics from religion to the arts to 
the president’s career. 
”The Educational Espresso” 
aims to discuss serious topics in a 
casual manner, Gonzalez said.
“It’s cool to have such high-level 
people on the podcast because you 
can ask them questions they’re not used to being asked,” Gonzalez 
said. “Exploring President Fuchs’ 
faith, I think was something he 
doesn’t get to talk about a lot.”
Recorded at Pascal’s Coffee-
house, at 112 NW 16th St., the 
show was created by Gonzalez; 
Lucas Zhou, a 21-year-old UF busi-
ness administration senior; and Jess 
Smith, a UF computer science se-
nior, Gonzalez said. 
The idea for the series came 
about when the three friends, who 
hung out together at Pascal’s every 
Friday, thought it would be fun to 
memorialize their conversations, 
Gonzalez said.
“It’s a cool resource for students 
to be able to look back and say, ei-
ther for a really good reason or real-
ly bad reason, ‘Man, I can’t believe I 
thought that stuff in college,”’ Gon-
zalez said.
The trio rented the podcast 
equipment for free from the Mar-
ston Science Library and will try to 
record future episodes at Pascal’s, 
Zhou said. Gonzalez and Zhou set 
up the equipment on the day of the 
podcast with the help of friends and 
video tutorials.
“I’m just thankful that it worked out,” Zhou said.
The students will try to release 
episodes for the new podcast series 
monthly and will attempt to have 
guests from the Gainesville commu-nity and across Florida, Zhou said. 
But for now, they are grateful for 
having hosted the president. 
“I was very encouraged by it. 
Having someone of his stature, it 
kind of legitimizes what we’re do-ing,” Zhou said. “I really appreciate 
him taking time to spend with us.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgUF President Kent Fuchs stars in students’ new podcast 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Lucas Zhou, Angel Gonzalez and President Kent Fuchs share a laugh in a classroom at Pascal’s 
Coffeehouse while recording “The Educational Espresso. ” 
THOMAS BROWN HAS
 BEEN MISSING FOR ABOUT 
TWO MONTHS
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A missing man’s family is offering up to 
$1,000 to whoever gives information leading 
to his location.
Gainesville Police held the third press 
conference on Friday about Thomas Brown’s 
disappearance. Joseph Butler, Brown’s 
brother, and James O’Hara, a family friend, 
spoke to media.
“He’s alive,” Butler said at the confer-
ence. “We’ve never given up hope. That’s why we’re asking for the 
public’s help.”
Brown, 44, was last 
seen on Nov. 9 at the 
Wood Springs Suites ho-
tel, at 5505 SW 41st Blvd., 
where he booked a room 
for multiple days, said 
GPD Chief Inspector Jorge 
Campos at the conference.
He was last seen wearing a black shirt 
with a skull design on the back and is known 
to ride a blue mountain bike.
Earlier that day, he was seen at a Guitar 
Center, at 3210 SW 35th Blvd., Campos said. 
He also lived at Grace Marketplace, at 3055 
NE 28th Drive, where he had a fight days before his disappearance.
“Tommy isn’t known for his altercations 
or something like that, so it’s definitely out 
of character,” Butler said.
Police can’t confirm if the fight is related 
to his disappearance, Campos said. Brown 
has no arrests in Alachua County.
His family reported his disappearance 
a week after they lost contact with him on 
Nov. 9., Butler said.
Police also unsuccessfully searched on 
horseback for Brown on Dec. 27 in a wooded 
area near Grace Marketplace.
Brown moved to Miami to live with his 
sister about two years ago from his home-
town in Melville, New Jersey, Campos said. 
He evacuated during Hurricane Irma in 2017 to Interlachen in Putnam County. A couple 
of months later, he moved to Gainesville.
He worked as an electrician for Miller 
Electric and was a member of Greenhouse 
Church, Campos said. Brown was known for 
walking veterans at Grace Marketplace to the 
Malcom Randall VA Medical Center and en-
tertaining them with his guitar.
“If I see him, I’m going to probably — if 
you want to hear my honest opinion — kick 
his butt,” Butler said.
Anyone with information about Brown’s 
whereabouts can call Detective Jon Rappa at 
352-393-7684 or the non-emergency number 
at 352-955-1818.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgFamily of missing man offering $1,000 to help find him
Brown
The podcast was recorded with equipment rented from Marston
44 STUDENTS FILLED OUT 
FORMS 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Audrey Wikan wants to be part of 
an organization that makes her feel at 
home. 
That is why Wikan, a UF business 
administration and political science 
freshman, said she wanted to interview 
for a Senate position with the Impact 
Party this semester — where she said 
she found a new home.
“I’ve felt very welcomed as a fresh-
man to the party, and I’m really looking 
forward to making an impact on cam-pus,” the 18-year-old said. 
Impact and Inspire Party held inter-
views Sunday at the Reitz Union third 
floor for the Spring election. The parties 
will continue interviewing from 9 a.m. 
to 8 p.m. today and from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. Tuesday to decide who they want 
to run with them for Senate seats, said 
supervisor of elections Henry Fair, a 
21-year-old UF political science junior.  
Forty-four students filled out qualify-
ing forms Sunday, with 25 interviewing 
with Impact Party, 18 with Inspire Party 
and one student filing independently, 
Fair said.  
While there are seven parties regis-
tered for the spring election, only Im-
pact and Inspire participated Sunday, Fair said.
Last semester, 33 students inter-
viewed on the first day, 19 with Inspire 
Party and 14 with Impact Party. Last 
Spring, 41 students attended the open-
ing interviews, one with Challenge 
Party, eight with Impact and 32 with 
Inspire. 
Any student registered for classes at 
UF in good standing with the university 
can run, Fair said.
“I encourage anyone who is looking 
to get involved in Student Government 
to come out,” Fair said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgStudent Government parties kick off interviews MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop 
Monday - Friday
8AM - 5PM
Saturday
9AM - 2PM
352-379-4686  
One week until 
Career Showcase
Located on the  
GROUND LEVELTIME FOR 
A TRIM?
THE MAYOR AND 
INTERIM CITY MANAGER 
WILL SPEAK
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville leaders will meet 
Wednesday to tell the community 
about its goals going into the city’s 
150th year.  The State of the City Address 
will be held at 12:30 p.m. at the 
Cade Museum for Creativity and 
Invention, at 811 N. Main St., to 
highlight some of the city’s accom-
plishments from last year, said 
Mayor Lauren Poe. The event is 
free and open to the public. 
“It’s an opportunity to look at 
all the work the city’s doing and 
celebrate that,” Poe said. Those attending will hear from 
Poe, Interim City Manager Debo-
rah Bowie and Gainesville Region-
al Utilities General Manager Ed 
Bielarski.
Poe said the year-long anni-
versary celebrations will ofﬁ  cially 
begin in April, but the address 
will be an opportunity to inform 
and encourage residents to get in-
volved and celebrate.Bowie, who was appointed as 
the interim manager on Jan. 17, 
said the city is in a transitional 
period with the search for a city 
manager and an upcoming may-
oral election, so the address will 
be a good place to bring the city 
together despite changes. 
They will discuss the city’s 
goals for the year such developing 
more affordable housing, strength-ing partnerships with UF, being 
waste free by 2040 and working to 
become a smart city, like increas-
ing Wi-Fi accessibility.
“I’m deﬁ  nitely excited to be on 
the team during this time of transi-
tion,” Bowie said. “The beginning 
of the year is always an opportu-
nity to be optimistic.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity to hold public State of the City Address this week THE SHOW AIRS FRIDAY 
FROM 7-9 P .M.
By Amanda Meyering
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cady Casellas always lit up and felt the pull 
to dance when Cuban music ﬂ  owed through the 
radio in her South Florida home.
But when the telecommunication junior 
moved north to Gainesville for school at UF, 
those Latin rhythms were absent from the 
spurts of local country and hip-hop stations.   
Fed up with waiting for her culture’s tunes, 
the 22-year-old Pembroke Pines, Florida, native 
decided she would do it herself. 
On Jan. 18, Casellas hosted the premiere of 
“Chisme Con Cady,” which translates to “Gos-
sip with Cady,” on the channel GHQ on 95.3 
FM, a local Gainesville radio station, she said. 
The show airs at 7-9 p.m. on the radio, online 
and on the GHQ app every Friday and will in-
clude a wide range of Latin music and celebrity 
news.
“We need to represent my community and 
bring Latin music to Gainesville,” she said.
“Chisme Con Cady” is produced and run en-
tirely by Casellas and doesn’t receive any out-
side funding from commercial advertisers, she 
said. The show is recorded in UF’s Weimer Hall 
in the GHQ Street Side Studio.
Hispanic students are the largest minority on 
campus, she said. Fifteen percent of the student body is Hispanic or Latinx, according to UF’s 
most recent demographic data.
Casellas pitched the idea for “Chisme Con 
Cady” last Fall after GHQ announced it was 
looking for new specialty music shows. GHQ 
selected her idea in addition to a hip-hop show, 
an electronic dance music show and a show fea-
turing songs from multiple genres.
Samantha Redditt, GHQ’s programming di-
rector and a 21-year-old UF telecommunication 
senior, said listeners can expect Casellas to play 
more than the mainstream Latin songs on the 
radio.    
 “She really wants to avoid the ones that 
have been overplayed to really get through to 
what the students actually want to hear,” Red-
ditt said. “Not just the overplayed hits that we 
are all sick of.”
Hopefully, “Chisme Con Cady” can be a 
show that students listen to while they’re prep-
ping to go out on a Friday night, Redditt said.
Catherine Dos Santos Alves, a 21-year-old UF 
international studies junior, listens to “Chisme 
Con Cady” and loves the diversity and genres of 
the show, she said. 
Alves is a Venezuelan immigrant who moved 
to the United States when she was 10 years old. 
Now, she listens to urban Latin music, reggae-
ton, salsa and traditional Latin music. 
“It’s something that we needed,” she said. 
“It deﬁ  nitely feels great to have my own culture 
validated, my own language validated on the 
radio like that.”First Gainesville Spanish music radio show launches
Courtesy to The Alligator
Cady Casellas, a 22-year-old UF telecommunication junior, hosts her new 
radio show, “Chisme Con Cady” from Weimer Hall.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnThe media is 
romanticizing the 
murderer
For the past few weeks our Twitter timelines have blown up with 
tweets about “You,” a recently released thriller series on Netflix. 
The show, which aired on Lifetime last fall, tells the story of Joe 
Goldberg and his infatuation with Guinevere Beck, a woman he 
develops an unhealthy relationship with, eventually leading him to 
stalking and murdering.
The story in itself has issues, but at the same time, it also has some of 
the best makings for a binge-worthy show. “You” is suspenseful, thrill-
ing and leaves off on some hair-raising cliff-hangers. However, one of 
the most strange and confusing part of the show is the attachment the 
viewer feels toward Joe. The audience understands every action that Joe 
takes through an inner monologue that plays throughout the season. The 
monologue offers insights into Joe’s motives, encouraging the viewer to 
begin to sympathize with him and understand his motives.
Penn Badgley, the actor who plays Joe, took to Twitter in early Janu-
ary to stop some fans from romanticizing his character’s actions, replying 
to tweets by emphasizing his character is a murderer. We can’t deny the 
show is entertaining and thrilling, but it enters a strange place between 
entertainment and glorification. Or maybe, more accurately, it’s social me-
dia that is fueling the continued romanticizing of the show and its main 
character.
Once the show appeared on Netflix, Twitter and other media sites ex-
ploded with mixed feelings about the show. Some see Joe as a character 
with flaws and others see him for what he is, a murderer. The show itself 
warns about the dangers of social media and how it can warp reality. 
“You” isn’t the only story showcasing the actions of a murderer.
On Friday, the trailer for “Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile” 
dropped. It’s the story of Ted Bundy, one of America’s most infamous se-
rial killers, who murdered at least 30 women. The trailer received criticism 
for painting Bundy, played by Zac Efron, as a misunderstood man. The 
trailer has an upbeat tempo playing in the background along with Efron’s 
charismatic smile, different from “Conversations with a Killer: The Ted 
Bundy Tapes,” the documentary that was released Thursday on Netflix 
featuring real interviews with Bundy. 
The not-yet-released movie could do a great job of portraying Bundy’s 
true character, however, the trailer seemed more like a high-budget action 
movie than the story of a murderer. The trailer is curated with its audience 
in mind and seems to be targeted toward a younger, more impressionable 
generation. What the media is showing is that there’s a certain tolerance 
level in regards to the people and the characters mentioned, often due to 
their gender and race.
It says something about how the media perceives young, attractive 
white males. If these characters weren’t white males, the media wouldn’t 
continue to justify and sympathize with these characters. There’s a clear 
privilege that these characters possess that allow them to get away with 
their actions.
To be fair, “You” doesn’t shy away from the horrors of its main char-
acters, however, social media allows for the continued perpetuation of 
romanticizing deplorable actions. How we perceive the actions of killers 
has always been met with nagging curiosity. Why did they do it? How did 
they do it?
Tv shows and podcasts spend hours dissecting how someone could do 
horrible things. However, understanding why a person does something 
shouldn’t equate a feeling of understanding. Social media needs to do a 
better job of showcasing the horrors of a person’s actions and understand 
that justification is harmful, especially to a younger generation. 
When we start to justify atrocious actions, a younger, more naive gen-
eration may not see those acts as dangerous. When we romanticize stalk-
ing or even obsessive behavior, people could begin to think those actions 
are normal or even encouraged. It puts people in dangerous situations 
where they aren’t able to see warning signs that could have allowed them 
to avoid dangerous situations. 
The American two-party system limits voters’ freedoms
By now I’m sure you’ve heard the 
narrative about how third-party 
voters cost Hillary Clinton and the 
Democratic Party the 2016 presi-
dential election. Unfortunately, 
this claim is not based entirely on specu-
lation, nor was it dreamed by Democrats 
displeased with the election results who 
needed someone to blame. There is actu-
ally some reasonable justification behind 
the animosity many people hold toward third-party 
voters.
Since the U.S. operates on a two-party system, a 
vote for any party other than the main two — the 
Republican Party and the Democratic Party — is es-
sentially a waste of a vote. This begs the question: 
How is this considered a morally admissible electoral 
structure in a free country? Shouldn’t all voters be 
able to cast their vote and know it is actually going to 
count and that it will influence the way the country 
is run?
Don’t get me wrong, the two-party system we see 
in the U.S. does have its advantages. It offers more 
stability than a multi-party system. It forces modera-
tion since the two parties have to appeal to the median 
voter to win an election and it simplifies the choices 
voters need to make. However, with this simplicity, 
we sacrifice free choice and jeopardize democracy by 
marginalizing a percentage of American voters.
In this system, voters are forced to side with either 
the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, regard-
less of whether or not that candidate is actually who 
they want to vote for. The forced decision breeds a 
“best fit” scenario in which voters often have to com-
promise on issues they care about and settle for the 
ones they hate the least.Third-party voters are typically left with 
a defeatist approach to voting. Anyone with 
even a mild understanding of the American 
voting system recognizes that a vote for the 
Libertarian Party or the Green Party won’t 
result in a win, it will only take votes away 
from their second choice party. Armed with 
this knowledge, these voters typically suc-
cumb to the pressure placed on them by 
our unjust system and cast a vote for a can-
didate they don’t support.
Beyond posing a threat to democratic freedom, this 
system also leads to a further divided nation. Voters 
in the U.S. have developed an undying loyalty to their 
party of choice, especially over the past few years. 
This has created an “us versus them” mentality that 
paints one party as the good guys and the other as 
the problem. This political divide also spills over into 
everyday life. People are unwilling to work with, date 
or even socialize with people of the opposite party 
and unwarranted hostility is not uncommon.
Candidates themselves are also often forced to ad-
just their positions on issues, in order to fit into the 
party they run with. In fact, party titles are really just 
arbitrary at this point, it hardly represents what the 
candidate actually supports. It merely gives them a 
fighting chance in the race.
In an ideal world, America could move toward a 
system with no political parties. Unfortunately, that 
just isn’t feasible. For now, we need to recognize 
the unjust system and start to move toward a multi-
party system, if we hope to offer true democracy in 
our country.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and journal-
ism senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Coffee is, for many of us 
college students, similar 
to life support. A long 
day is often impossible 
without slurping down 
a certain amount of the bitter 
drink. For some, this amount 
is a healthy one or two cups in 
the morning before class and 
for others, this translates to gal-
lons of coffee. I’m not here to judge, as I 
fall closer to the second category than the 
ﬁ  rst. Rather, I am here to settle a debate that 
seems to have no end. While many catego-
ries and subcategories have popped up, the 
largest distinction and the one I will focus 
on is the most polarizing: iced versus hot.
Hot Coffee: In defense of hot coffee, I will 
offer the following: it dominates the caffeine 
ﬁ  eld with most espresso drinks (excluding 
the staple of the suburban elites, the cara-
mel macchiato). Cappuccinos and lattes are 
offered in iced form, but they exist like your 
younger sibling trying to be just like you; 
many traits are similar, but the original will 
always have a slight edge over the copycat. 
Macchiatos are an insightful intersection 
where instagrammers and millennials have 
usurped the traditional beverage hierarchy 
in favor of trendiness with such vigor that 
the iced counterpart has risen to undeniable 
prominence. Another area hot coffee excels 
in is the relaxation factor. 
Hot coffee drinks are the exclusive bever-
ages of the morning paper routine, which is 
no small feat. The image of a man in a mid-
life crisis or a struggling young professional 
woman sitting at their respective kitchen 
tables on a Sunday morning as dew slowly 
cascades down the window and the morning 
sunlight ﬁ  lls the empty house with a kind 
glow is a powerful one. If you look closer, 
you typically see a mug, maybe with a cou-
ple of stains and the faded orange and blue 
of the person’s alma mater. Inside that mug 
is inevitably the relaxing, warm brown liq-uid we all know and love. Never 
in this mug would you ﬁ  nd the 
diluting inﬂ  uence of cubed wa-
ter, sapping the beverage of its 
restorative powers and its agree-
able taste.
Iced Coffee: Hot coffee has 
many upsides. However, it falls 
short of dethroning the reigning 
iced champion. The chic nature 
of iced coffee, honestly, is responsible for 
its actual popularity. Other than climate con-
cerns, which are especially prevalent in the 
nearly tropical atmosphere of Gainesville, 
the reason for the massive popularity of iced 
coffee is the social value of the drink. It is 
more fashionable to have a clear cup and 
green straw than to sport a cardboard cup 
and lid. It is more Instagram-able and more 
aesthetic to the eyes of your Snapchat story. 
It is no far stretch to see why iced coffee 
is the drink of millennials. The drink is for 
hustlers and grinders across the industrial-
ized world. The caffeine hits you just the 
same, yet the social perception is not one of 
relaxation but of intense work ethic and am-
bition. If you were to imagine a TA sprint-
ing  on a Summer B afternoon from her car 
parked in the Norman Hall Parking Garage to 
Turlington, in order to make it to her Good 
Life section on time, the coffee spilling with 
each of her strides would be iced, not hot.
While relaxation is important, it is simply 
not as valuable in our entrepreneurial age. 
If you want to be taken seriously iced coffee 
is the way to go. Both hot and iced coffee 
are delicious and both have important func-
tions. That said, iced is certainly superior. 
You can ﬁ  ght this, sipping on hot coffee in 
our swamp’s sweltering summers like a mad-
man, or you can join the collective opinion 
of our generation and drink iced coffee when 
you are studying, like a civilized person.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.Iced coﬀ  ee wins in the world of caﬀ  eineColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org I am embarrassed to say that I 
watched “The Bachelor” last 
week. It was a fun time with 
friends and French toast, 
but I cringe at the thought 
of giving that show any of my 
time. It was the second episode 
I had ever seen. Like the ﬁ  rst 
time, it was impossible to look 
away. Watching “The Bachelor” 
is similar to witnessing a horrible 
car crash: You know you shouldn’t look, 
but it’s so terrible you just cannot help but 
stare. Despite its popularity, “The Bach-
elor” is problematic and anti-feminist. 
The ﬁ  rst reason for this conjecture is the 
premise of the show. In essence, a group 
of women are pitted against each other to 
vie for one man’s hand in marriage. I don’t 
know about you, but I have never heard of 
a healthy relationship starting with ﬁ  ghting 
tooth and nail with other women to get a 
man’s attention. Two of the girls, who com-
peted in Miss America pageants together 
and were formerly friends, were particularly 
nasty toward one another. In the age of 
feminism, it seems backward to encourage 
women to drag one another down to ﬁ  ght 
for a relationship. “The Bachelorette” is sim-
ilarly problematic, but in that case, men are 
ﬁ  ghting for a woman’s love and affection.
The women are made out to seem ig-
norant, static and vapid. I’m sure these 
women are more complex, intelligent and 
caring than the show portrays them. The 
job description of one girl was “Never Been 
Kissed.” For all I know, this girl could have 
a Ph.D. and be the smartest contestant on 
the show. But she has been reduced to the 
fact that she has not yet been kissed. Also, 
the show continuously emphasizes the fact 
that the bachelor himself is still a virgin. 
Last time I checked, I didn’t care whether 
or not someone was a virgin. Also, belit-tling someone for their sexual 
status, such as being a virgin, 
seems counterintuitive in the age 
of the #MeToo movement. 
One of the contestants kept 
reminding the bachelor, Colton 
Underwood, how strong and 
independent she was. I couldn’t 
help thinking that going on a 
game show to compete for mar-
riage seems quite the opposite of 
independent. Game shows for love are my 
last resort. Another girl was lamenting the 
fact that she was “traumatized” because he 
was dating other girls at the same time. Um, 
yeah. You signed up for “The Bachelor.”
Another general observation I made was 
in regard to the girls’ appearance. None of 
them could have been above a size zero. 
Only casting thin, idealistic, Barbie-looking 
girls sends the message that this is the shape 
and size of girls worthy of a relationship. Of 
course, anyone with half a brain cell knows 
that this does not represent the general 
population and that everyone is worthy of 
a loving relationship. Also, the girls were 
always wearing a full face of makeup, even 
when working out. That is their preroga-
tive, but I can’t imagine that every girl there 
would have deliberately chosen to beat her 
face before an intense gym session, had the 
bachelor not been there. 
Overall, I ﬁ  nd the show degrading to-
ward women. It brings out the worst in 
the contestants and portrays them as va-
pid caricatures of an archaic stereotype. In 
order to combat this misogyny, we should 
boycott watching it and demand something 
more representative of the complex nature 
of women. Now I just need to convince my-
self to not watch it again tonight. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English soph-
omore. Her column appears on Mondays.'The Bachelor' perpetuates 
an archaic stereotype of womenColumn
We’re well over a year away from the 
2020 presidential election, but can-
didates are already jumping into 
the race. Last Monday, Sen. Kama-
la Harris announced her campaign 
for president on “Good Morning America.” 
Three weeks prior, Sen. Elizabeth Warren an-
nounced she was forming a presidential ex-
ploratory committee. And President Donald 
Trump ﬁ  led his 2020 re-election paperwork 
on the day of his ﬁ  rst inauguration in January 
2017. As these candidates get their campaigns 
together and form their messages, they’ll have 
to decide which issues will be the most impor-
tant ones in 2020. I’d like to make a suggestion 
for an issue they should place front and center 
in 2020: redistricting and gerrymandering.
For those who have no idea what I’m talk-
ing about, I’ll give a brief rundown. The U.S. 
is divided into 435 congressional districts in 
the House of Representatives across the coun-
try. State legislators redraw these districts 
every 10 years using the results of the latest 
census, a process known as "redistricting". In 
theory, this redistricting accounts for shifts in 
population (such as people moving to or from 
a particular area), but in practice, politicians in many states use the redistricting 
process for political ends. This gives 
a politician a safe seat and it allows 
them to crowd out their opposition. 
For example, Party A and Party B 
may be equally distributed in a na-
tion, but Party A can draw the dis-
tricts in a way that most or all of the 
districts have Party A majorities, 
giving them a signiﬁ  cant electoral 
advantage. This is known as gerrymandering.
Gerrymandering has long plagued American 
political life, but its harmful effect on Ameri-
can democracy has come into focus lately. In 
Pennsylvania, for example, the state electorate 
is evenly divided between Democrats and Re-
publicans, but because of gerrymandering, the 
Republicans held 13 of the state’s 18 congres-
sional districts after the 2016 election cycle. 
The gerrymandering got so bad that the state 
supreme court struck down the electoral map 
last year, creating a new map with more com-
petitive districts. As of Sunday, Pennsylvania 
has eight Republican congressmen and nine 
Democratic congressmen, with one vacant seat 
after Republican Tom Marino’s resignation. 
Pennsylvania is just the tip of the iceberg. States around the country, from sea 
to shining sea, have been subject to 
partisan gerrymandering. But now 
people are ﬁ  ghting back. In Novem-
ber, voters in Michigan approved 
an amendment to take redistricting 
power away from the state legisla-
ture and give it to an independent 
commission. Similar proposals were 
also passed in Colorado, Missouri 
and Utah. This solution isn’t perfect (even in-
dependent commissioners might have biases 
that cause them to favor one party over the 
other), but it’s far better than the current sys-
tem.
While some states have taken steps away 
from gerrymandering, a nationwide movement 
is needed. As I write this, the U.S. Supreme 
Court has schedule to hear a case on March 26 
involving gerrymandering in Maryland, with 
the Republican plaintiffs arguing that the map 
of Maryland’s 6th congressional district unfair-
ly favors Democrats. We’ll have to wait and 
see what the Supreme Court says, but a ruling 
against gerrymandering is far from guaranteed. 
The highest court in the land has been hesitant 
and divided on gerrymandering in the past. Richard L. Hasen, a University of California, 
Irvine professor of law and political science, is 
concerned that conservative justices, like John 
Roberts and Brett Kavanaugh, will not only 
refuse to act against gerrymandering, but they 
will strike down the independent commission 
system of states like Michigan, signiﬁ  cantly 
setting back the movement for fair districts. 
With the overwhelmingly negative effects 
of partisan gerrymandering, and salvation 
from the courts uncertain, the candidates for 
president in 2020 should take up the cause, 
emphasizing electoral reform and other anti-
gerrymandering measures on the campaign 
trail. Candidates should make it their goal to 
bring power back to voters instead of state 
legislators. But for that to happen, we need to 
raise our voices, too. Getting involved with an-
ti-gerrymandering organizations like Common 
Cause, FairVote and the League of Women 
Voters would do much to advance the cause 
and bring it to the attention of the public, and 
by extension, the candidates. If we all work 
together, we can end partisan gerrymandering 
and ensure a fair democracy.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.2020 candidates need to address gerrymandering as a big issue in politicsColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Hal Gardner, a 68-year-old artisan, creates a colorful glass unicorn Saturday at the 
Hoggetowne Medieval Faire. Gardner has created handmade glass ornaments for 
68 years.
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Carl Oliver, a 48-year-old blacksmith with Twisted Dragon Forge, hammers a 
kitchen knife into shape Saturday while dressed as a viking at the Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire. Oliver began smithing as a hobby and has done it for nine years. 
The 33rd Annual Hoggetowne Medieval Faire 
took over the Alachua County Fairgrounds, 
at 3100 NE 39th Ave., Saturday and Sun-
day with costumes, crafts and creativity. 
Thousands of people enjoyed the bustling medi-
eval marketplace that was organized by the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department. There were more than 160 artisans, 
including blacksmiths, glassblowers and jewelers, 
and nine stages that included activities such as a 
carousel, camel rides and shows. Visitors could also 
shoot arrows or hurl axes at targets. Food options included pastries, sweet potato fries, turkey legs and 
ribs served from food trucks. The faire will return to 
the fairgrounds this weekend and will be open from 
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. It costs $18 for adults, $8 for chil-
dren from 5 years old to 17 years old and is free for 
children under 4. 
Old Tyme Fun
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Cameron T omele (left), a 34-year-old acrobat, balances 
on a rope Saturday that was held by Margret Ebert (top), 31, 
and James Freer (bottom), 35, at the Hoggetowne Medieval 
Faire. The trio is known as Barely Balanced, and they travel the 
country to perform their death-defying stunts.MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
250 PEOPLE ATTENDED  
THE  EVENT
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida non-profit raised $55,000 to 
help local police departments and first re-
sponders.
On Saturday evening, The Grit Founda-
tion, a non-profit organization that sup-
ports local police departments, raised the 
money by hosting its first gala at Legacy 
Park, at 15400 Peggy Road, to honor the 
service of local police officers and first re-
sponders. 
About 250 people attended, Hannah 
Parrish, a spokesperson for the founda-
tion, said. The event was free for officers 
and first responders, while tickets for oth-
ers were $50.
The money raised will go toward sup-
plies, including safety kits and training for 
K-9s, Parrish said.“Some of us will never understand the 
work these men and women do,” Parrish 
said. 
It cost $3,000 to put on the event, 
which was paid for by sponsorships from 
Sanchez Farms and Big Daddy Guns.
The foundation serves departments in 
Union, Bradford, Alachua, Clay, Putnam 
and Gilchrist counties, Parrish said. 
“We want to give them the night of 
their lives,” Parrish said. “While we run 
away from danger, they run toward it to 
help us.”
Gilchrist County Sheriff Robert Schultz 
said that organizations like The Grit Foun-
dation encourage police to remain com-
mitted to the work they do. 
 “Groups like this and the people who 
support them show us how appreciated 
we are,” Schultz said.
@Taylor__Roth
troth@alligator.orgNonprofit holds gala for 
local police departments
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Slurps for Size
James VanScoy, a 39-year-old Oak Hammock chef, serves Italian sausage 
and kale soup during the 12th annual Souper Fun Sunday competition at St. 
Francis High School. More than 30 restaurants and caterers competed in 
the competition where prizes were awarded in categories such as Best Non-
Seafood, Best Vegetarian and The People’s Favorite award. 
Racing in Style
Jamie Westfall, a 21-year-old UF computer science senior, flips through a design 
handbook Saturday and to search for inspiration at the Menagerie in Motion Kinetic 
Derby costume workshop in the Hippodrome Theater. The derby is one of nine kinetic 
derby races held in the U.S. and will take place Feb. 23 at Depot Park. 
Linda Rodriguez, a Starke resident, looks through fabrics Saturday morning at the 
costume shop in the Hippodrome Theater during the Menagerie in Motion Kinetic Derby 
workshop. Lead by Stephanie Parks, a Hippodrome costume designer and costume shop 
manager, and Joseph Floyd, the Active Streets Alliance executive director, the workshop 
helped aspiring designers and foster inspiration for the upcoming derby.Photos by Caroline Keefe | Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
SHE COMPETED IN THE 
PAGEANT THREE TIMES BEFORE 
WINNING FIRST PLACE 
By Lakshmi Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Nicolette Jennings competed in her first pag-
eant at the age of 17.
Five years later, the UF telecommunication 
alumna will compete for the title of Miss USA.
On Jan. 19, the 22-year-old former president 
of UF’s Gamma Iota chapter of Zeta Tau Alpha 
was crowned the 2019 Miss Florida USA. She is 
now eligible to compete in the national pageant 
later this year, Jennings said. The date has not 
been announced yet.
“I’m not a big crier, but when I won I don’t 
think I’ve ever cried so much,” Jennings said. “I 
keep thinking I’m going to wake up, and this will 
all be a dream.”
Jennings spent about $10,000 and nine 
months preparing for Miss Florida USA, she said. 
She worked with a personal trainer, an interview 
coach and a walking coach who flew in from 
Colombia. She also took hair and makeup les-
sons and traveled from Florida to Ohio to pick 
out her gown. 
Jennings has competed in several pageants, 
including Miss Florida USA, which she partici-
pated in three times before being crowned. 
With her new platform, Jennings wants to 
raise awareness for breast cancer, since it affects 
so many women, she said. She will also be work closely 
with Best Buddies, an organization that works with people 
who have intellectual and developmental disabilities.
“Each year you grow, but the growth I’ve had since 
starting back in 2014 to now is amazing,” Jennings said. 
“I wouldn’t be the same person if I hadn’t competed in 
pageants.” 
Jaclyn Weber, a 21-year-old UF marine sciences junior, said she is incredibly proud of Jennings’ accomplishments. 
The two met about six years ago through pageants and are 
both sisters of Zeta Tau Alpha at UF. 
“Ever since I’ve known Nicolette I knew she was going 
to do something like this one day,” Weber said. “I could 
see her being Miss USA or even Miss Universe. It’s crazy.”
@lakshmigomez_ 
lgomez@alligator.org UF graduate crowned 2019 Miss Florida
Courtesy to The Alligator
Nicolette Jennings, a 22-year-old UF telecommunication 
alumnus and former president of UF’s Gamma Iota 
chapter of Zeta T au Alpha, waves after being crowned the 
2019 Miss Florida USA.  
THE VICTIM WAS 
SCRATCHED
By Katherine  
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Deputies 
arrested an 
18-year-old 
Newberry  
High School 
student on 
Saturday  
who was 
accused of 
beating an underage class-
mate. 
On Friday, the classmate 
was invited to hang out after 
school at Lois Forte Park, at 
255 NW 260th St., according 
to an Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Office arrest report. When 
she got there, she saw Janijah 
Lataya-Aveyonna Turner, 18, 
of Newberry, and a group of 
other classmates.
Turner told her she wanted 
to fight, but the classmate re-
fused, the report said. Turner 
then went up to her open car 
door and began to punch her. 
She pulled her hair extensions and then pulled her out of the 
car.
Turner continued hitting 
and began to kick her while 
she was on the ground, the re-
port said. The classmate tried 
to pull herself back in the car 
and couldn’t defend herself.
The fight was recorded and 
witnesses were heard inciting 
the fight, the report said.
Turner and the witnesses 
left her lying on the ground 
and not moving, the report 
said. The classmate told police 
she was conscious. 
She suffered a sprained 
neck, a knot on the left side 
and scratches on the right side 
of her head, the report said. 
An anonymous source told 
police that Turner planned the 
fight during the school day, 
the report said. 
Turner was charged with 
battery and child abuse with-
out great bodily harm. She 
could not be reached for com-
ment. 
She was released from the 
Alachua County Jail on Sun-
day on her own recognizance. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgHigh School student 
accused of fighting 
classmate300 PEOPLE REGISTERED 
TO ATTEND
By Mary Katherine Delegal
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sixty tables lined with baked 
ziti and pesto chicken served as 
a common ground for Gainesville 
city officials and citizens to talk 
about their home.
On Saturday evening, the city 
of Gainesville hosted its third an-
nual Longest Table Event at Depot 
Park, at 874 SE 4th St. Elected of-
ficals spoke to citizens at different 
tables while eating food. About 
300 people registered to attend the 
two-hour long event.
This occasion is normally held in December but was moved to 
January due to other event inter-
ferences, said Lauren Rawson, the 
event’s creative services supervi-
sor. Given $9,000 to put toward 
the occasion, Rawson and her 20 
to 25 volunteers catered Dos Ma-
mas, a homestyle-cooking restau-
rant, for those in attendance. 
The event also partnered with 
Bread of the Mighty, a food bank, 
to run a food drive, Rawson said. 
More than 200 pounds of non-per-
ishable foods were collected. 
“We have 300 people and we’re 
feeding them,” Rawson said. “The 
least we can do is to ask them to 
bring a canned good.”
All six Gainesville city commis-
sioners along with Mayor Lauren Poe attended the event, Poe said. 
Senior city staff members were 
also in attendance.
“We are very excited that, de-
spite the cold weather, y’all decid-
ed to come out,” Poe said during 
his opening speech for the event. 
“I think the conversations and the 
people you will meet will warm 
you up.” 
The purpose of the night is to 
give people a platform to speak 
about issues that affect them dai-
ly, Poe said. A gathering like this 
helps city officials understand the 
rights and wrongs of the commu-
nity as well as if current policies, 
such as police functionality and 
after school care programs, are 
working as well as they could be.“It is one of the many things 
that we as a city are trying to do to 
bring people together that do not 
normally talk to one another or 
even know each other,” Poe said. 
Poe first heard about the event 
from former Tallahassee mayor, 
Andrew Gillum and decided to im-
plement this event two years ago 
after seeing its success in Florida’s 
capital.
Those in attendance were en-
couraged to sit down at one of the 
many tables to talk with city of-
ficials or strangers about pressing 
community issues, where they’d 
like to see the city 10 years down 
the road and changes that could 
be implemented today.
Lorraine McGill, a Gainesville resident, enjoyed the opportunity 
to discuss her opinions and con-
cerns for the city with officals. 
 “They seem very focused on 
drawing new businesses, residents 
and students to the area that they 
sometimes lose sight of what’s im-
portant to long-term residents as 
well,” McGill said.
After she enjoyed the company 
of new friends and local food, Mc-
Gill said this event is a nice change 
from the discord in South Florida, 
where she previously lived.
“I love the fact that the city of 
Gainesville coordinates events like 
this,” McGill said. “I truly appre-
ciate the sense of community in 
Gainesville.”Gainesville puts on its third annual longest table event 
Turner
HE RAN SEVEN RED LIGHTS 
WHILE FLEEING POLICE
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Troopers arrested a man after he was ac-
cused of running multiple red lights and was 
caught by a K-9 Friday. 
Ivan Lloyd Deloe, 33, of Gainesville, sped 
down Interstate 75 north exit 387 near New-berry Road at about 11 
a.m., according to a Flor-
ida Highway Patrol arrest 
report. He then abruptly 
changed over three lanes. 
While turning, he slid 
through a red light while 
going onto Newberry Road 
and then drove through 
six more red lights toward a SunTrust bank, 
at 5080 W. Newberry Road, while troopers pursued him, the report said.
Troopers saw him enter the bank parking 
lot and followed him in, the report said. He 
then walked across Northwest Eight Avenue. 
An officer ran with his police dog, Rogue, 
and told him to stop, the report said. Deloe 
looked at him, threw car keys over his shoul-
der and ran, the report said. The officer re-
leased Rogue and Deloe jumped over a fence. 
He surrendered before the dog caught him.
A search of his car found drug tools, a pill bottle and about two grams of cannabis, the 
report said.
Deloe was charged with driving with an 
expired license, reckless driving, possession 
of cannabis and drug equipment and fleeing 
and resisting an officer without violence. 
He remained in the Alachua County Jail 
on Sunday in lieu of a $17,500 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgFHP: Man arrested after running away from police dog
Deloe
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds 
to advertising use caution and inves -
tigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal informa -
tion or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
 Make an extra or full-time income from your 
photography. With just a camera, turn your 
hubby into a profitable business. 
Go to: http://photographyoppurtunity.club      
2-6-19-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
Come hear about “Fear and Flourishing
in the Age of Robots,” a discussion with
expert and author Nigel Cameron at the
Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, 
Monday, January 28 at 6 p.m. 
Tickets at cademuseum.org
1-28-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your 
roommate...pets. Find or advertise your pets 
or pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attemted 
to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-4903 
2-08-7-25
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1.  Open
1.  Not fair5.  Referee
2.  Mike Brady was one6.  Sajak’s spinner
3.  Enduring7.  Dire situation 
4.  Hardened skin areaAPWNUR
STNUUJDEJUG
LEWEH
ODWRWEI
GASESELSICRIS
UASLCLANSWERS: 1A-Unwrap  5A-Judge  6A-Wheel  7A-Crisis
1D-Unjust  2D-Widower  3D-Ageless  4D-Callus  B-Julie Andrews1-28-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: In a 2002 BBC poll, ____ ____ was 
voted the 59th “Greatest Briton Ever.” 1. How many of the top five spots 
for intentional walks for a season does 
Barry Bonds hold?
2. Entering 2019, Washington’s 
Max Scherzer had struck out 250 or 
more batters for how many consecu-
tive seasons?
3. Since the 1970 merger, six rook-
ies have led the NFL in rushing for a 
season. Name three of them.
4. In 2018, Jay Wright became the 
winningest men’s basketball coach 
(career victories) in Villanova history. 
Who are second and third on the list?
5. Who are the only two Rus-
sian-born winners of the NHL’s Conn 
Smythe Trophy (MVP of the Stanley 
Cup playoffs)?
6. In how many different seasons has 
Formula One driver Lewis Hamilton 
recorded at least 10 victories?
7. Name the last country to repeat as 
tennis’ Davis Cup champion.
Answers
1. He holds the top three, including a 
record 120 intentional walks in 2004.
2. Five (2014-18).
3. Earl Campbell (1978), George 
Rogers (1981), Eric Dickerson (1983), 
Edgerrin James (1999), Ezekiel Elliott 
(2016) and Kareem Hunt (2017).
4. Alexander Severance (413 wins 
in 25 seasons) and Rollie Massimino 
(357 wins in 19 seasons).
5. Pittsburgh’s Evgeni Malkin 
(2009) and Washington’s Alexander 
Ovechkin (2018). 
6. Four times (2014, ‘15, ‘16 and ‘18).
7. Czech Republic (2012-13).
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 28, 2019King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
By Susan Gelfand
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, January 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Take it easy
5 Cabo’s peninsula
9 Sheepish smile
13 Cabinet dept. 
with an oil derrick 
on its seal
14 Immortal 
racehorse Man __
15 What kneaded 
dough should do
16 “360˚ ” CNN anchor
19 Bud
20 “How disgusting!”
21 Gave medicine to
22 “Uncle Vanya” 
playwright
27 Yoga posture
28 Krypton or xenon
32 Semester
34 Pea surrounder
35 One of about 
268,600 in Tex.
36 You, to Yves
38 Hipster, and 
based on their 
initials, what each 
of 16-, 22-, 52- 
and 61-Across is?
41 Blender setting
42 Hubbubs
44 Like Letterman’s 
humor
45 “See ya later”
47 Dugout seats
49 Put together, as 
equipment
52 “Appalachian 
Spring” composer
56 Lustrous bit of 
wisdom
59 Tokyo’s former 
name
60 When repeated, 
a Gabor
61 19th-century 
steel industry 
philanthropist 
who built an 
eponymous 
concert hall
66 Nod off
67 Prefix with correct
68 Dunham of “Girls”
69 Snow transport
70 H.S. math subject
71 Clog fillers
DOWN
1 Becomes aware 
of
2 Explanatory 
comment written 
in the margin, say3 British alphabet 
ender
4 Bard’s “before”
5 Title cop played 
by Titus Welliver
6 Came to
7 First mo.
8 Rainbow shape
9 Slots cut with a 
chisel
10 Fabric flaws
11 “Got it”
12 Bookish type
17 Rock’s Ocasek
18 Dumpster 
emanation
19 Sheep bleat
23 Half and half
24 Agent on a bust
25 McDonald’s 
founder Ray
26 Dove into 
vigorously, as 
work
29 Stylish men’s 
monthly
30 Parisian pal
31 Common dinner 
hour
33 Grass cutter
34 Two-__ tissue
36 Restaurant bill
37 Poem of praise
39 Approximately40 Baseball rain 
delay cover
43 Like Capone’s 
face
46 Up to, informally
48 Partner of  
hearty
50 Vote out of  
office
51 Kiss in a busy 
store, for short
53 “Sweet!”
54 PC drive insert55 Buff suffix
56 Footballer’s 
shoulder 
protection
57 Hydroxyl 
compound
58 Axe relative
62 Happy tail 
movement
63 Billiards stick
64 Legendary 
seasonal helper
65 “Holy cow”
By Andy Kravis and Erik Agard
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, January 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Selection process 
including the Sky 
and the Sun
10 Anna of “The 
Emoji Movie”
15 Lip-syncing 
accompaniment?
16 “Me too”
17 Bingo center 
square
18 Hasbro game that 
requires twisting 
and pulling
19 Spacewalk initials
20 Ready for 
fumigation
22 Metaphorical low 
area, with “the”
23 Gathering tools
25 Film dialect that 
uses subject-
object inversion
27 1990s gaming 
release, initially
28 “LOTR” initials
29 Visitor center
30 Course with fruit, 
perhaps
33 Sure-footed 
critters
34 Licorice, e.g.
35 Increase
37 Commented on 
EweTube?
40 Ironically, 
designation for 
the fourth film 
release in a 
classic sequence
44 Remove the zest 
from
46 Record no.
47 Tablets brand ... 
or, cutely, what 
they treat
49 Saves for the 
future
51 Hardly taciturn
52 Whack
53 Andalusian city 
on the Costa del 
Sol
55 One in a conflict, 
maybe
56 Utter
58 2017 hit comedy 
about a women’s 
weekend 
getaway
60 QB’s protection, 
in football lingo
61 Type of gland62 Hangs
63 Where I-35 and 
I-80 intersect
DOWN
1 Symbols of 
thinness
2 End point of the 
Noble Eightfold 
Path
3 CBer’s opening 
word
4 Golden __
5 Decisively 
outraces
6 Begging to be 
picked
7 Nonetheless
8 Two and one, 
for two
9 Trapped, in a 
way
10 Old-style dope?
11 In contrast with
12 Narrow-bladed 
swords
13 Do in a bit
14 Winter 
Paralympians’ 
equipment
21 Legal pros
24 Jersey Shore 
rockers since  
the ’70s26 Visored military 
cap
28 Companion of 
A-Rod
31 Works on 
programs
32 Where some 
subs are fixed
36 Belief
37 No-parking area
38 Literary France
39 Lang. test for top 
students41 Cajun confection
42 Skincare brand 
from the Greek 
for “beautiful wax”
43 Envision
45 Fast flight
48 Inclines
50 Engaged in
51 Explorer da 
Gama
54 Latch (onto)
57 Arles article
59 Piece of TNT?David Turner has been hired as the 
new Gators football defensive line 
coach. He had previously worked 
four seasons with head coach Dan 
Mullen at Mississippi State.Correction from Thursday’s paper
In the tennis article, we printed that both the men’s and women’s teams 
were  “back in action for the opening weekend of the fall season. ” That is not 
the case. It is currently the spring season, not the fall. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
has shown the collegiate world 
why.
She has improved from week 
to week. In her ﬁ  rst meet as an all-
arounder against Missouri, Thomas 
earned scores of at least 9.9 in two 
events, with a 9.950 on the bars and 
a 9.900 on her ﬂ  oor routine. In her 
second meet against LSU, she im-
proved from a 39.475 to a 39.650, 
hitting above the 9.9 mark on three 
of her four events, this time with a 
9.950 on her ﬂ  oor routine.
Her performance this Friday 
against Kentucky was her best one 
yet. Her overall score of 39.700 in-
cluded two 9.925s on the beam and 
ﬂ  oor, and an exceptional 9.975 that 
contributed to Florida’s best bar ro-
tation in school history.
According to Thomas, the secret 
to her success lies within normality.
“Everybody tells me, ‘be nor-
mal out there,’ because we do it 
every day in gym,” she said after 
the meet. “And so when I went up 
there, I took a deep breath and just 
told myself to be normal.”
Although Rowland said that 
Thomas was still feeling a bit ner-
vous, she made sure to compliment 
her recent performances after the 
meet on Friday.
“She’s settling in her own skin. She’s feeling a lot more comfort-
able,” Rowland said. “I think the 
thing I enjoy most is seeing how 
much fun she’s having.”
If Thomas continues the expo-
nential improvement she’s been 
showing these past three weeks, 
Florida has a lot to be excited about 
for both the short and long term.
The Vault in Their Stars
While the team has performed 
admirably to start its season, its 
weakness certainly lies within its 
vault scores.
For the third week in a row, the 
team’s vault rotation was its lowest 
score. It has improved steadily from 
a paltry 48.925 in UF’s ﬁ  rst meet 
against Missouri, but it took a step 
back against Kentucky, going from 
a 49.225 in the LSU meet down to 
a 49.050. The vault is traditionally 
either the ﬁ  rst or second event the 
team participates in, so the team’s 
struggles with the vault often cause 
a slow start that it has to climb back 
from.
One gymnast that is particularly 
struggling is freshman Savannah 
Schoenherr. She has been the drop 
score in every vault event this sea-
son, and her best score on the year 
for the event is a 9.750 against LSU. 
Her other two scores are less than 
stellar. She had a 9.450 against Mis-souri after a stumble during her 
landing, and the Kentucky meet 
saw her worst score yet with a 9.325 
after she failed to land on her feet 
entirely.Although Schoenherr has per-
formed well on the bars in every 
meet so far, she and the rest of the 
Gators vault team will have to step 
it up if it plans to compete with the very best in the NCAA Champion-
ships come April.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg 1Thomas earned scores of at least 9.925 in three events vs. Kentucky
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Freshman gymnast Savannah Schoenherr didn’t land on her feet during her vault routine against 
Kentucky on Friday. Her score of 9.325 was Florida’s dropped score for the event.
BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan ﬁ  elded ques-
tions Friday afternoon at McKethan Sta-
dium about the high expectations for his 
team and the underclassmen he is count-
ing on to meet those expectations.
The Florida baseball team has con-
sistently been ranked in the Top 10 pre-
season rankings by every major outlet — 
that’s what people have come to expect 
from O’Sullivan’s teams.
Never mind the departure of three ﬁ  rst 
round picks in 2018 — the most in school 
history — or the fact the Gators will rely 
on several freshmen to make an imme-
diate impact. Trips to the College World 
Series have become the standard for this 
program.
O’Sullivan acknowledged the rankings 
but not without saying they had no bear-
ing on how the team will actually play. He said he expects the team to go through 
some growing pains, but that if it can 
stay healthy, it has a chance to be “pretty 
good.”
Second baseman Blake Reese, one of 
three seniors on the roster, recognizes the 
expectations surrounding his team but 
knows nothing is a given.
“We have to kinda write our own 
script,” Reese said. “We can’t ride the 
coattails of all these guys that have been 
here before and been big-time ﬁ  rst-round-
ers and won national championships and 
SEC championships.”
The Gators lost their Friday and Satur-
day starters to the draft in Brady Singer 
and Jackson Kowar, promoting junior 
right-handed pitcher Tyler Dyson to the 
Friday role.
“There’s a lot of expectations on that 
day but you treat it as any other day,” Dy-
son said. “It’s the same win whether it’s Florida begins spring practiceJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
You all know the words 
and phrases to this all-
time classic. 
“The winner takes 
all. It’s the thrill of 
one more kill. The last one to 
fall will never sacriﬁ  ce their 
will.”
Those words come from 
the song “Sweet Victory,” 
most famously known from 
that episode of “Spongebob 
Squarepants.” 
You know the one. The one where 
Squidward is putting together a band from 
the underwater world that is Bikini Bot-
tom to play at a “real-life” football game’s 
halftime show.
I can still imagine Patrick with his nar-row glasses playing drums, or 
Mrs. Puff shredding it on the 
electric guitar.
I say “real life” because, 
obviously, it was just a show. 
They just had some back-
ground footage of fans at a 
game that left us asking, what 
if? What if these goofy char-
acters from under the sea can 
play like this at an actual foot-
ball game?
Well, now it can become a reality.
“Don’t ever look back on the winds 
closing in. Be on the attack with your 
wings on the wind. Oh, the games will be-
gin.”
Fans are petitioning for this song to be Will “Sweet Victory” be played at 
the Super Bowl? It deﬁ  nitely should.
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
It was the pace.
Florida players huffed and puffed late in the 
game after spending the entire contest chasing 
Arkansas’ speedsters. 
“We knew it was going to be 40 minutes of 
sprints. It wears you down,” coach Cam New-
bauer said. “The pace definitely gave us some 
problems for sure.”
The fast-paced play resulted in the UF wom-
en’s basketball team suffering its third-straight 
loss, 83-73, on Sunday at the O’Connell Cen-
ter. 
In the first quarter, Florida kept it con-
tained. The Gators (5-15, 1-6 SEC) used Ar-
kansas’ offensive aggressiveness against them. 
The Razorbacks, which came into the match-
up ranked No. 8 in the nation in three-pointers 
attempted (521), took too many contested 
shots early in the shot clock and allowed UF to 
grab most of the rebounds with solid box outs. 
Florida’s offense, on the other hand, stayed 
patient and took smart shots. 
The strategy worked. Point guard Kiara 
Smith scored five points and dished a couple 
assists in a 9-1 run to open the game. UF had 
all the momentum.
But as the clock ran down in the quarter, 
forward Kristina Moore fell awkwardly trying 
to dive after a loose ball. The freshman disap-
peared into the locker room with two coaches, 
eventually emerging again in the fourth quar-
ter to watch the rest of the game wearing a 
sling on her left arm. 
The loss of Moore crippled any momen-
tum Florida had. Mismatches became a prob-
lem for UF without its 6-foot-1 forward in the 
center, and Arkansas (16-5, 5-2 SEC) began to make its shots. 
The Razorbacks went on a 15-3 run in the 
second quarter that was capped off by guard 
Jailyn Mason’s three-pointer at the buzzer. The 
run pushed them to a two-point lead heading 
into the break, but UF wouldn’t go away.
The lead began to seesaw in the third quar-
ter as both teams continued to make their 
shots. 
Florida took the lead back early in the quar-
ter with a 10-2 run. But Arkansas responded with a 7-0 run to jump ahead once again. UF 
guard Funda Nakkasoglu answered with a 
wild layup while being fouled and made the 
free throw to steal the lead back. But that was 
responded with an easy layup by Arkansas’ 
Malica Monk on the other end. 
The back-and-forth sequence was ended by 
a 7-2 Arkansas run thanks to big plays from 
Monk and guard Chelsea Dungee. The duo 
combined for 50 points (25 points each) by the 
end of the game and helped put it out of reach.“Monk had a heck of a game today,” New-
bauer said. “I think we made her uncomfort-
able early, but once she kind of settled in, she 
hit some big-time shots.”
Nakkasoglu’s effort helped secure her ninth 
20-point game of the season. Smith and guard 
Danielle Rainey each finished with double-
doubles on a combined 33 points and 21 re-
bounds. Florida outrebounded Arkansas 43-35 
even without Moore in the middle for most of 
the game. 
But none of it was good enough.
This was the second-consecutive contest 
where UF won the rebounding battle but lost 
the game. Defensive breakdowns allowed Ar-
kansas to score 58 points in two quarters. De-
spite shooting a dreadful 50 percent from the 
free-throw line, was too much for the Gators 
to overcome. 
Early reports say that Moore’s injury may 
take as long as six weeks to fully heal. If true, 
the Australian will miss her first game of the 
season when Florida travels to Knoxville, Ten-
nessee, to take on the Lady Volunteers. This is 
a significant loss for a UF team that is already 
undersized.
Florida was also without its second-lead-
ing scorer, Delicia Washington, who is going 
through the concussion protocol after suf-
fering an injury against Mississippi State on 
Thursday when she took an elbow to the face. 
Washington is expected to be back at practice 
this week.
“I did think we did a great job of over-
coming adversity, even with Kristina (Moore) 
getting hurt,” Newbauer said. “Obviously it 
wasn’t good enough, but we learned a lot for 
the future.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgUF falls to Arkansas at O’Dome for third-straight loss
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
The game could have been a 
blowout. 
In fact, with the way the 
Gators men’s basketball team 
ambled out of the opening tip of 
Saturday’s SEC/Big 12 Challenge, 
it should have been a blowout.
Florida only lost to TCU 55-50 
in Fort Worth, Texas. But an “it 
could have been worse” perfor-
mance does little for morale, es-
pecially for a team that suffered 
its eighth loss of the season in 
a game that was almost a come-
from-behind win. 
However, the Gators might 
emerge from future matchups 
with more than just moral vic-
tories if they capitalize off the 
bright spots that were evident in 
Saturday’s loss.
It starts with their young play-
ers. 
Keyontae Johnson finished 
with just nine points, and he 
started the game just as dreadful-
ly as the rest of the team. He com-
mitted two turnovers and had a 
shot blocked in the opening three 
minutes.
Once the 6-foot-5, 225-pound 
forward settled in, he showed 
why coach Mike White has trust-ed him to be the third 
freshman in the Gators’ 
starting lineup.
And his scoring total 
might have been higher 
if he hadn’t spent so 
much time on the bench 
in foul trouble.
Despite the four fouls, 
Johnson added a team-
high eight-rebound per-
formance to his streak of 
at least seven rebounds 
in each of his three 
starts. He grabbed nine 
against Texas A&M and 
seven against Georgia. 
Forward Dontay Bassett 
had five rebounds, and 
no one else on the team 
pulled in more than 
four against the Horned 
Frogs on Saturday.
Johnson also hit a 
couple big baskets that 
might have been enough 
to win the game had the 
Gators not been playing 
from so far behind the 
whole time.
One was a fast-break 
slam to cut the deficit to five 
points at the beginning of the 
second half. The other was an un-
contested three-pointer to make it 
a three-point game with less than 10 seconds left to play. To set up 
the dunk, guard KeVaughn Allen 
came up with a steal off a double 
team by he and center Kevarrius 
Hayes and passed it to Johnson in 
the open court.That lends itself to the second 
silver lining: The Gators’ defense 
showed it’s the reason the team 
hasn’t been out of many of its 
games this season until the final 
buzzer.TCU’s comfortable 
15-point cushion just 
midway through the first 
half shriveled to just a 
five-point advantage by 
the end of the second 
half for one reason:
Florida’s defense al-
most made up for its 
horrid 1-for-15 shooting 
to open the game.
Hayes led a Gators’ 
defense that held the 
Horned Frogs to just 
27.3 percent shooting 
for the period.
The senior record-
ed two steals and two 
blocks before the second 
half reached its midway 
point. Four of his five 
blocks came after the 
break. 
He and Jalen Hud-
son combined for seven 
blocks on the day.
And despite what it 
initially seemed, it was 
never an assured win 
for the Horned Frogs un-
til guard Desmond Bane 
sealed it with a pair of free throws 
with three seconds left.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.org Johnson’s play, defense were bright spots in loss to TCUAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Guard Kiara Smith pitched in a double-double (16 points and 10 rebounds) in Florida’s 
83-73 home loss to Arkansas on Sunday. She also recorded a team-high five assists. 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Forward Keyontae Johnson led the Gators in rebounds (8) in their loss to TCU on 
Saturday. He also scored nine points but was limited to 21 minutes due to foul trouble.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Friday or Sunday, so it doesn’t matter.”
Sophomore righties Jack Leftwich and Tom-
my Mace will round out the weekend rotation.
Florida played an intrasquad scrimmage fol-
lowing practice Friday afternoon and plenty of 
freshmen had their names called. The ﬁ  rst two 
batters of the game — Cory Acton and Jud Fa-
bian — are both freshmen and the presumptive 
starters at their positions with Acton at third 
base and Fabian, an early enrollee, roaming cen-
ter ﬁ  eld.
O’Sullivan pointed out that there’s not much 
of a middle ground on the team. There’s mostly 
veteran starters or newcomers.
“We’ve had a lot of success with young play-
ers before,” O’Sullivan said. “I think this is 
probably, from a freshmen standpoint, probably 
close to the 2010 team as far as needing some 
of those freshmen to contribute right away. But 
if they perform the way they did in the fall off 
our own pitchers, at least offensively, they got a 
chance to be some really good players.”
For reference, that 2010 team won 47 games 
on the way to a regular-season SEC title and a 
College World Series appearance.
The ﬁ  rst action for the Gators and their 11 
true freshmen is just a few weeks away. Flori-
da will host Long Beach State on Feb. 15 for a 
weekend series to begin the 2019 season.
“We’ve got a lot of question marks,” 
O’Sullivan said. “But from a talent standpoint, 
it’s a good nucleus, but we’ve also gotta per-
form.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Pitcher Tyler Dyson will get the start against Long Beach State on Feb. 15
Alligator File Photo
UF second baseman Blake Reese is one of three seniors on the baseball team. “We have to kinda write our own script, ” he 
said. “We can’t ride the coattails of all these guys that have been here before. ”
played at the Super Bowl halftime 
show to commemorate the late 
Stephen Hillenburg, the creator of 
the show.
I agree wholeheartedly.
Why shouldn’t it be played? 
If your fans are demanding it, 
why wouldn’t you blast it on the 
speakers, fully equipped with a 
performance that captures the 
sheer epicness of that episode all those years ago?
No one else really wanted to 
play for the Super Bowl halftime 
show anyway. Reports indicated 
that Rihanna and Pink both de-
clined the invitation, and Maroon 
5 eventually agreed to perform.
People were even trying to get 
the band to withdraw from the 
show in solidarity to the NFL’s 
treatment of former San Francisco 
49ers quarterback Colin Kaeper-
nick and his kneeling during the 
national anthem.But Maroon 5 isn’t going any-
where. In its promotional video 
for the performance, Spongebob 
makes a noticeable appearance. 
It was also announced that Squid-
ward’s voice actor, Rodger Bum-
pass, will introduce the halftime 
entertainment. 
It’s teasing us hard.
So please, NFL and Maroon 5, 
after all this speculation, please 
reward us with what many will 
regard as one of the greatest mo-
ments in Super Bowl halftime show history. I don’t care if Ma-
roon 5 plays the song in tribute 
or if the song is just played in its 
original form.
Better yet, let Maroon 5 start 
playing its setlist. Midway through 
a song, interrupt the band and 
raise a giant dome through center 
ﬁ  eld. Make holographic versions 
of all the Spongebob characters 
and let them jam out to the song 
as the crowd shines their phone 
ﬂ  ashlights. 
Let us have this, NFL. Let me have this.
“And it’s sweet, sweet, sweet 
victory, yeah! And it’s ours for 
the taking, it’s ours for the ﬁ  ght. 
Sweet, sweet, sweet victory, 
yeah! And the one who’s last to 
fall, the winner takes all.”
Jake Dreilinger is the sports 
editor of the Alligator. Follow him 
on Twitter @DreilingerJake and 
email him at jdreilinger@alliga-
tor.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14