We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Baseball sweeps Yale
The Gators defeated Yale 4-3 behind 5.1 solid 
innings from pitcher Tyler Dyson, pg. 14Here’s how to be a top 5 university
UF wants to break into the top ﬁ  ve, but what does it actually 
take? pg. 3
Requesting funds to improve UF buildings
A local representative is asking the state to help UF, pg. 10MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 66
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Sunday Stroll
Darby Guyn, a 23-year-old Gainesville park ranger, leads about 10 people on a tour Sunday of the water puriﬁ  cation plant 
at Sweetwater Wetlands Park. The artiﬁ  cial park uses the surrounding watershed to purify Gainesville’s drinking water, 
and it acts as one of the ﬁ  nal stages of Gainesville’s water puriﬁ  cation process.
By Karina Elwood and 
Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writers
This year’s Gainesville election 
has seen the lowest ﬁ  rst-day turn-out in the past three years, despite 
a new UF early voting location.
The ﬁ  rst day of the Gainesville 
regular election’s early voting 
landed on Saturday, which was at 
the tail end of UF’s Spring Break. For this election, voters will decide 
who will be the city’s mayor and 
one of the city commission seats. 
Early voting ends March 16, and 
election day is from 7 a.m. to 7 
p.m. March 19. 
Only 324 residents came out 
to vote on the ﬁ  rst day compared 
to the 400 residents who voted in 2018 on the ﬁ  rst day, Alexis Hunt-
er, the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections Ofﬁ  ce information spe-
cialist, wrote in an email. In 2017, 
there were 416 votes. The new UF 
early voting location at the Reitz 
Union only had 15 residents come 
to vote. 
This is the ﬁ  rst time the Reitz will be for used for early voting in 
city elections, TJ Pyche, the elec-
tions ofﬁ  ce spokesperson, wrote in 
an email. 
“We think opening early voting 
at the Reitz Union is an excellent 
way to expand voter access to Uni-First day of early voting in local races sees three-year low
UF’S PUSH FOR ALUMNI 
DONATIONS DIFFERED AMONG 
COLLEGES, PROGRAMS
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
UF raising millions in a day not only broke 
records, but it allowed for scholarships and 
lower funded programs to receive a new form 
of funding.
UF’s ﬁ  rst Gator Nation Giving Day, a 24-hour 
effort which brought together alumni, faculty, 
staff and students to raise money for the uni-
versity, on Feb. 26 collected $12.6 million in 
donations.
More than $25,000 of this was donated to the 
Machen Florida Opportunity Alumni Scholar-
ship and Program, which supports about 1,200 
ﬁ  rst-generation college students per semester.
The scholarship helps students like Candy 
Bryant, who was the ﬁ  rst in her family to apply 
to college.
The 23-year-old UF family, youth and com-
munity sciences senior felt a ﬁ  nancial burden 
lift off her shoulders when she was admitted to 
UF and was granted the Machen scholarship, 
which offers a full ride to ﬁ  rst-generation un-
dergraduate students who come from families 
with an annual income of less than $40,000.
“Without this scholarship, school would 
have been more stressful than it already is,” 
Bryant said. “This helps me to break the cycle 
of no one else in my family going to college.”
In comparison, the UF College of Medicine 
brought in a larger sum of money than most, 
receiving $227,000 to fund the Dean’s Preemi-
nence Scholarship Fund, which provides ﬁ  nan-
cial support to medical students.
However, despite the difference in donation 
size, UF’s ﬁ  rst day of giving directly beneﬁ  ted 
the Machen Florida Opportunity Alumni Pro-
gram in that it identiﬁ  ed potential individuals 
to contact about making annual gifts to sup-Breaking down 
UF’s Giving Day
UF SPENT ABOUT $360,000 ON 
FALL 2018 CEREMONY
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s decision to return to the origi-
nal model of commencement for future 
Fall graduation ceremonies came down 
to numbers. The smaller size of the graduating 
class factored in the decision, but it also 
had to do with money, said Stephanie 
McBride, the UF director of commence-
ments. 
UF spent more than $100,000 more 
from central university funds, which is 
what the university itself pays for, not 
individual colleges, used in the Fall 
2018 commencement, according to com-
mencement cost records.The Spring 2018 ceremony, which 
followed the original model of indi-
vidually recognizing graduates in the 
O’Connell Center, cost about $231,000, 
while the Fall 2018 commencement, 
which followed the new model of hav-
ing a university-wide ceremony in Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, cost about $360,000 
in university spending, according to the UF’s university-wide commencement proves costly
SEE SCHOLARSHIPS,  PAGE 4 SEE GRADUATION,  PAGE 4Only 324 residents voted
SEE VOTING,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
MONDAY
Carbon Fee and Dividend legis-
lation to be discussed
When: 6 p.m.
Where: Marion County Public 
Library, at 2720 E. Silver Springs 
Blvd.
What: Citizens’ Climate Lobby, 
which motivates citizens to ad-
dress climate change, will have 
representatives speak for free 
on the movement to halt and 
reverse climate change. The 
grassroots organization lobbies 
to pass the “Carbon Fee and 
Dividend” legislation and works 
closely with the House Climate 
Solutions Caucus, a biparti-
san group in the U.S. House of 
Representatives, founded in 
2016 by Florida representatives 
Ted Deutch, Democrat, and 
Carlos Curbelo, Republican. 
The library has free parking and 
is wheelchair-accessible. 
Interpersonal Violence 
Prevention Workshop
When: 7 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center, at 
433 S. Main St. 
What: This violence preven-
tion workshop will be centered 
around Planned Parenthood’s 
mission to encourage healthy 
sexual relationships. The work-
shop will go over how to be 
active bystanders against inter-
personal violence in Gainesville. 
There will be free vegan pizza 
and shirts. 
WEDNESDAY
Slightly Buzzed Spelling Bee
When: 8-10 p.m.
Where: The Social at MidTown, 
at 1728 W. University Ave. 
What: This is the second round 
of the Slightly Buzzed Spelling 
Bee. Each week, participants 
take the stage with their drinks 
and attempt to correctly spell in-
creasingly difficult words. If you 
get it wrong, you’re out. If you 
get it right, you’ll move to the 
next round and get a free shot. 
The last two spellers will re-
ceive a Social prize pack and be 
invited to compete for the grand 
prize of a VIP party package for 
the winner and 10-12 guests. 
The $5 entry fee comes with one 
local draft beer, shots in every 
round and a chance to compete 
in finals if you win.FRIDAY
World Sleep Day Celebration
When: 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union
What: Campus partners and 
student organizations will come 
together to provide activities for 
students to learn about the con-
nections between the eight di-
mensions of wellness and sleep, 
the benefits of sleep for academ-
ic success, strategies to improve 
sleep and available campus re-
sources that students can use to 
help them improve their sleep.
RPB Presents: Bohemian 
Rhapsody on the Lawn
When: 7:30-9:45 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North 
Lawn
What: The Reitz Programming 
Board will present the movie 
“Bohemian Rhapsody” on the 
lawn. Students are welcome to 
bring a blanket and watch the 
movie outside. Doors open at 
7 p.m. and the film begins at 
7:30 p.m. The movie is free for 
UF students with a valid Gator 
1 Card.
MORE
Gainesville Early Voting
When: March 9 to March 16 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday, 
Sunday, Monday, Wednesday 
and Friday and 10 a.m. to 6 
p.m. Tuesday and Thursday
Where: Millhopper Library, 
at 3145 NW 43rd St., Senior 
Recreation Center, at 5701 
NW 34th Blvd., Supervisor of 
Elections Office, at 515 N. Main 
St., Reitz Union, at 655 Museum 
Rd., Martin Luther King Jr. 
Center, at 1028 NE 14th St.
What: Voting for the Gainesville 
mayor and the District 4 City 
Commission seat. 
Fulbright Program Information 
Sessions
When: 9:45-11 a.m. and 1:30-3 
p.m March 19
Where: UF International Center
What: The International 
Center will celebrate Fulbright 
Awareness Month starting 
March 18 with workshops de-
signed to give students, faculty 
and coordinators an overview 
of the opportunities available 
through different Fulbright pro-
grams. Events start March 19 
with informational sessions for 
students (9:45 a.m.) and faculty 
(1 p.m.) with Michelle Bolourchi of the Institute of International 
Education. She will also be 
available for individual consul-
tations, which can be sched-
uled by emailing canumba@
ufic.ufl.edu. Refreshments will 
be provided. RSVP by emailing 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com.
Quilters of Alachua County Day 
Guild showcases area quilt 
artists
When: 6-8 p.m. March 27
Where: Millhopper Library, at 
3145 NW 43rd St. 
What: The Quilters of Alachua 
County Day Guild will host a 
free reception to celebrate the 
guild’s annual quilt exhibition 
at the library. This will intro-
duce Gainesville residents to the 
artistry of quilting. The recep-
tion includes a program about 
quilting with samples of local 
quilts and textile art. Light re-
freshments will be served. 
Effective Strategies for Responding 
to the Opioid Crisis
When: 9:30 a.m. March 19
Where: Florida Gym, 
Gymnasium (Room 105)
What: Keith Humphreys, a 
Stanford professor of psychiatry 
and behavioral sciences, will 
discuss strategies and tactics 
that have some effectiveness in 
reducing the opioid epidemic 
and associated harms. Light re-
freshments will be served. The 
event is free, and parking will 
be provided. Event details can 
be found at hhp.ufl.edu/events.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  62°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Hope Hathcock, Ashlyn Jones, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
 Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 66MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF wants to be a top-ﬁ  ve ranked univer-
sity on the U.S. News and World Report, but 
it needs alumni support to get there.
Alumni participation, measured through 
the number of alumni donations, accounts for 
ﬁ  ve percent of a school’s ranking in the annu-
al report, said Matthew Hodge, the UF Alumni 
Association’s executive director.
In Fall 2018, UF rose to the eighth spot 
from ninth in the report’s ranking of public 
universities.
As the university works to secure a top-ﬁ  ve 
spot, alumni participation has become an im-
portant piece of the puzzle, Hodge said.
Florida is the nation’s third most populous 
state, so it needs a top-ﬁ  ve university, said UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando.
Donations from alumni are a method the 
ranking system uses to measure satisfaction 
with the student experience, although it is not perfect, Hodge said.
“Alumni participation isn’t a perfect proxy 
for satisfaction,” he said. “But it’s probably 
the closest they have.”
About 15 percent of the alumni population 
donates to UF, but it is hard to maintain that 
number because the alumni population grows 
with each graduating class, Hodge said.
University staff aims to increase alumni 
participation rates up to 20 percent in the next 
ﬁ  ve years, he said. This would put UF in line 
with other top ﬁ  ve schools like the University 
of North Carolina Chapel Hill and the Univer-
sity of Virginia, which have rates as high as 
20 percent.
To raise the participation rate, UF created 
initiatives like the ﬁ  rst Gator Nation Giving 
Day, which many other high-ranking univer-
sities have done, he said. More than $12.6 mil-
lion was raised during Giving Day.
Money from donations go to various parts 
of the university depending on where alumni 
choose to donate, Hodge said. 
“People understand that we don’t care how much,” he said. “It can be any areas that 
they’re passionate about.”
Jamie Lee, a 21-year-old UF political sci-
ence and statistics senior, said Giving Day 
should have been more focused on alumni 
and asking students to give felt odd since they 
already pay tuition and donate their talents to 
the university.
Although Lee recalled the hype of Giving 
Day’s social media campaign, she said she 
found it anticlimactic and didn’t donate. 
“Students are already paying UF a lot of 
money to be here, and they’re donating their 
studies, their research and their minds to the 
university,” she said. “That’s what makes the 
university great in the end.”
Hodge said it would be unusual to host a 
Giving Day event and not engage students.
“We’re sensitive to how we talk about stu-
dents giving, just because they’re all already 
giving in so many other ways as well,” he 
said.
@kellyrhayesHow to be a top 5 U.S. public university: donation participation
Factors in U.S. News and World Report 
Top Public Universities Ranking
The ranking is generally based on factors that 
indicate academic quality, such as:
• Graduation rates
• Faculty resources
• Alumni participation
• Class size
• Graduation rates
• Per-student spending
T op 5 Public Universities
1. University of California - Los Angeles
2. University of California - Berkeley
3. University of Virginia
4. University of Michigan - Ann Arbor
5. University of California - Santa Barbara and 
University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill (tied)About 15 percent of UF alumni donate to the university
GAINESVILLE 
COMMISSION PLANS TO 
OPPOSE THE BILL
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville City Commis-
sion may soon not have the power 
to ban plastic straws.
The Florida Senate Commerce 
and Tourism committee approved 
a bill last Monday that places a 
ﬁ  ve-year hold on the ability of lo-cal governments to ban plastic 
straws and would set up a study to 
look at the environmental impact 
of straws.
After the bill was approved by 
the Commerce and Tourism Com-
mittee, it was moved to the Com-
munity Affairs Committee Thurs-
day. 
A similar bill was introduced in 
the Florida House of Representa-
tives Tuesday that includes remov-
ing the power of local governments 
to ban plastic straws. The bill was 
referred to three House committees Friday.
Proposed by Sen. Travis Hut-
son, of Volusia County, the bill 
was originally designed to man-
date that businesses giving out 
paper straws are required to have 
a plastic straw option, but he told 
the Florida Senate Commerce and 
Tourism committee Monday it was 
still too much government control.
“I’m just not a fan of govern-
ment, at the state or local level, 
telling a business what to do,” Hut-
son said at the meeting.
As part of Gainesville’s goal to be waste free by 2040, the city 
commission began discussing an 
ordinance that would make straws 
available by request and then 
eventually ban them completely. 
Gainesville Commissioner Adri-
an Hayes-Santos said if the Sen-
ate bill passed, it will put a hold 
on Gainesville’s progress, but he 
wants to keep moving forward 
with the ban. 
“The state Legislature is con-
tinuing their attacks on home 
rule,” Hayes-Santos said.  
The commission voted unani-mously Thursday to direct their 
lobbyists to oppose the ban. 
Holly Parker Curry, with the 
Surfrider Foundation, an environ-
mental non-proﬁ  t, spoke in oppo-
sition of the bill at the committee 
meeting. She said studies have al-
ready been done. 
“If you stop and clean a beach 
for ﬁ  ve minutes, you’ll leave with a 
ﬁ  stful of straws,” Curry said. “We 
don’t need a study, we need ac-
tion.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgBill enters Florida Senate and House that may ban city straw bans4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
Map by Jordan Bourne, Alligator Staff
MAP OF GAINESVILLE’S EARLY VOTING LOCATIONS
Millhopper Library 
3145 NW 43rd St.Senior Recreation Center 
5701 NW 34th Blvd.
J. Wayne Reitz Union 
655 Museum Rd.Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce 
515 N. Main St.Martin Luther King Jr. Center 
1028 NE 14th St.versity of Florida students, staff 
and faculty,” Pyche said.
Reitz room G50 is open for 
any residents to vote, he said. 
On election day residents who 
live in Precinct 31, which en-
compasses UF, will only be al-
lowed to use this location.
The Reitz was used as an 
early voting location in the 2018 
general election, which saw 
a signiﬁ  cant increase in early 
voter turnout compared to the 
previous midterm in 2014. 
Voters will vote for mayor, 
District 4 city commissioner and 
the charter amendment to cre-
ate a City Charter Review Com-
mission.
Candidates for mayor are 
incumbent Lauren Poe and op-
ponents Marlon Bruce, Jenn 
Powell and Jennifer Reid. For 
District 4 commissioner, can-
didates are incumbent Adrian 
Hayes-Santos and opponent 
Robert Mounts.
The other locations for early 
voting are the Millhopper Li-
brary, Senior Recreation Center, 
Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce and Martin Luther King Jr. Cen-
ter.
Daniel Smith, a UF politi-
cal science professor, said that 
historically, voter turnout in 
Gainesville elections has been 
low, especially when held in the 
spring and not tied to a presi-
dential election. 
“Turnout is generally quite 
low,” he said. “Part of that rea-
son is that students tend not to 
participate at all or participate 
at very, very low rates.”
District 4 covers much of the 
campus, including the Reitz, he 
said. He hopes this encourages 
students to vote.
Smith said the mayoral race 
may help generate some interest 
of voters, but even then, people 
are not thinking about elections 
this time of year. 
“The wild card in all of this 
is obviously having early vot-
ing at UF,” he said. “I certainly 
suspect that we will have high-
er turnout among college stu-
dents because they now have 
eight days of early voting at the 
Union.”
kelwood@alligator.org
khayes@alligator.org VOTING,  from pg. 1Voters will choose a mayor
port these scholarships in the fu-
ture, said Matthew Hodge, the UF 
Alumni Association’s executive 
director.
Donors could give to the Ma-
chen Florida Opportunity Alumni 
Scholarship itself, which raised 
$5,300 on Giving Day, and the 
Machen Florida Opportunity Pro-
gram as a whole, which received 
$21,300, according to the Giving 
Day website.
Numbers are still being calcu-
lated to determine how much of the rest of the $12 million raised 
for Giving Day was distributed to 
other scholarships, Hodge said.
Physical infrastructure is one 
of UF’s underfunded areas which 
beneﬁ  ted from Giving Day, said 
Joe Mandernach, the chief devel-
opment ofﬁ  cer for UF Advance-
ment. The College of Agriculture 
and Life Sciences, for example, 
plans to use donations from Giv-
ing Day to renovate classroom 
spaces.
The college beneﬁ  tted from 
Giving Day, but is often not im-
mediately thought of by most 
to donate to, he said. It raised $6,420 for future classroom reno-
vations and $2,700 in scholarship 
money for freshmen.
Mandernach said the UF 
School of Music is another exam-
ple of a program which doesn’t 
always receive much attention, 
but it beneﬁ  tted from Giving Day, 
receiving $2,760.
“Sometimes these priorities 
fall a little bit below the radar, 
even though they directly beneﬁ  t 
students,” Mandernach said.
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgSCHOLARSHIPS,  from pg. 1Some programs received thousands
Scholarships and Programs Supported by Giving Day
Crisaﬁ   Challenge Scholarship Fund - Supports scholarship dollars to recruit students 
into the College of Pharmacy. Every dollar donated is matched by Dr. Bob Crisaﬁ   (Class 
of ‘56). ($2,550)
Latin American Studies Fund - Helps the Center for Latin American Studies support 
study abroad scholarships as well as faculty travel grants. ($1,180)
Veterinary Access Endowed Scholarship Fund - Reduces tuition costs for College of 
Veterinary Medicine students. ($1,130)
Scholarship of Engagement Fund - Provides need-based ﬁ  nancial support for under-
graduate and graduate students in the College of Education. ($2,060)
DCP Invest in Excellence - Offers ﬁ  nancial aid to College of Design, Construction and 
Planning students and also provides stipends to students studying abroad in the Col-
lege. ($6,620)
Information from: givingday.uﬂ  .edu/pages/home-55records. 
The total commencement 
costs were paid through central 
university funds, McBride said. 
However, colleges had costs as-
sociated with their individual 
recognition ceremonies. UF re-
ceived partial reimbursements 
from colleges for venues and 
security.
“Spring and Fall should in-
herently not be compared to 
each other for many reasons,” 
McBride said. “They have 
two different sizes of graduat-
ing classes and two different 
amounts of graduation partici-
pants.” 
Graduations cost hundreds of 
thousands of dollars due to how 
colleges choose to recognize 
their graduates, McBride said. 
While the College of Medi-
cine provides catering for their 
small graduating class, the Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
has about 1,700 graduates, so 
its biggest expenses include the 
venue and security, McBride 
said.
“Every ceremony is going 
to be different by the size and 
personality of the college,” she 
said. 
Between 8,000 and 8,400 stu-
dents are expected to graduate 
this Spring, McBride said.  
Graduation procedures were 
ﬁ  rst changed when at least three black students were rushed off 
the stage by a marshal during 
Spring commencement last year. 
The students were rushed off 
for pausing on stage to perform 
a dance which for some was a 
multicultural fraternity ritual. 
The incident made national 
news and received backlash. 
UF’s decision to switch to a 
university-wide ceremony along 
with having college recognition 
ceremonies over the course of 
a weekend was met with push-
back from students as several 
gathered to hold a protest at Ti-
gert Hall to voice their concerns 
in September. 
After only one-third of gradu-
ates attended the university-
wide commencement in Decem-
ber and a survey completed by 
530 guests and graduates result-
ed in mixed reviews, UF decided 
to go back to the original model 
of graduation for future fall cer-
emonies.
Ivey Sapp, a 21-year-old UF 
education senior graduating this 
Spring, is excited to hear James 
Patterson speak at the univer-
sity-wide ceremony at Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium in May. 
“I hope it goes smoothly and 
everything runs efﬁ  ciently,” 
Sapp said. “Hopefully there 
won’t be any hiccups like what 
happened last Spring.” 
@lakshmigomez_ 
lgomez@alligator.org GRADUATION,  from pg. 1Semester turnouts diferMONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
IMPACT PARTY SPENT 
ABOUT $750 MORE THAN 
INSPIRE PARTY 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
A recipe for a 2019 UF Student 
Government campaign includes T-
shirts, food and inﬂ  atable costumes. 
Inspire Party and Impact Party 
spent nearly $16,000 for the UF 
Spring 2019 election. Both parties 
raised more than $17,000. 
Impact, which won the executive 
ticket and two-thirds of the available 
Senate seats, spent $746.67 more 
than Inspire. 
Ashley Grabowski, the Spring 
Inspire president and now Senate 
Minority Leader, said the difference 
in money spent shouldn’t be the fo-
cus but rather how that money was 
spent. 
“If we don’t spend effectively, we 
will reach fewer people, turnout will 
suffer and we will not perform as 
well,” Grabowski said. Inspire received $7,535.27 in 
donations this semester. In Spring 
2018, the party raised $7,250.80.  
Inspire’s presidential candidate, 
Zachariah Chou, donated $4,550 to 
the campaign. 
“Because of my donation, we had 
the wiggle room to go above and be-
yond in some places,” Chou said. 
Chou said he started saving for 
this campaign his freshman year 
through jobs as a photographer at 
the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service, as a desk assistant at Inﬁ  n-
ity Hall and as a freelance photog-
rapher. 
Inspire spent $29.94 more than it 
raised in donations this semester. 
Grabowski said this extra money 
came from an in-kind donation, a 
charitable gift of goods and services 
rather than funds, of snacks which 
a supporter provided at their own 
expense. 
Inspire spent the majority of its 
$7,565.21 expenses on T-shirts and 
Facebook advertising. It also spent 
money on feeding those who helped work on the campaign. 
 “We all know that a lot of stu-
dents hate talking to tablers in Tur-
lington or outside of the Reitz,” 
Grabowski said. “Facebook allows 
us to reach voters in a way that can 
be more comfortable and acces-
sible.” 
Impact spent $8,311.88 this 
Spring compared to $9,963.91 last 
Spring.
The majority of the money was 
spent on 1,000 T-shirts from Rad 
Wear, Inc., a Gainesville custom 
products and apparel store. Impact 
spent $4,611 on two short-sleeved 
designs and one long-sleeved design. 
Impact raised $9,500 in donations 
and had about a $1,200 surplus by 
the end of the cycle. Michael Mur-
phy, Student Body president-elect, 
donated $2,500. 
Impact could not be reached for 
comment. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgPikachu, T-shirts and pizza: A look at Spring SG election ﬁ  nances
WHAT WAS ON THE SPRING ELECTIONS MENU?
Inspire Party’s two Pikachu costumes: 
$244.98
Inspire Party’s Krispy Kreme donuts: 
$17.98
Impact Party and Inspire Party’s pizzas: 
$290.80
Inspire Party’s ﬁ  ve inﬂ  atable dinosaur costumes: 
$250.96
Impact Party’s Publix chicken tender platters: 
$168.50
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
Is the internet 
becoming immune 
to its  trolls? 
Everyone’s a critic. This phrase has never been truer than it 
is today. The internet is a breeding ground for comments, 
critiques and unsolicited opinions. On every social media 
platform or website, comment sections fall at the end of 
the page.
Many of us have grown up with a comment section, leading 
us to believe that sharing our opinion on anything and every-
thing is some sort of civic duty. Sometimes it’s appropriate, and 
sometimes it’s not. The internet has created an entire generation 
of commenters, but within that, it has also created a lovely little 
subgroup called trolls. Trolling is even defined in the Merriam-
Webster Dictionary as antagonizing others through comments or 
other content. 
Trolling has been in the news lately due to the release of “Cap-
tain Marvel,” Marvel’s first woman-led superhero film in its en-
tire cinematic universe. The movie was subject to a number of 
negative reviews, causing the movie to plummet to a 33 percent 
rating on Rotten Tomatoes just a few hours after its release. The 
steep plummet in ratings was due to a high amount of ratings 
being posted before the movie’s actual release. The comments 
came from trolls who wanted to see the movie do poorly. Rotten 
Tomatoes attempted to remedy this by turning off the ability to 
comment before a movie was released, but a glitch in its system 
allowed for all the negative comments to still be intermixed with 
the real comments and ratings.
However, “Captain Marvel” is set to have the second biggest 
opening weekend for a superhero origin movie, behind “Black 
Panther.” This means the movie’s 33 percent rating seemed to 
have no real effect on how the movie will perform monetarily. So 
does that mean the age of the troll is over? 
The answer is probably not. Trolls and commenters are never 
going to just go away. It’s a part of human nature to comment 
or to add to the conversation, but it could be that trolls aren’t 
gaining the audience they used to. People don’t have to listen to 
what trolls are saying, and if “Captain Marvel” is any indication, 
they aren’t. “Captain Marvel” received 58,000 reviews on Rot-
ten Tomatoes within a few hours of its release, culminating in a 
low rating on the website. If these opinions really mattered, they 
should be reflected in how the movie is doing at the box office. 
However, it’s breaking records and is set to make $153 million in 
its opening weekend in the U.S. 
Trolls have been around since the inception of the comment 
tool, but in reality, how much power do they really possess? In 
the grand scheme of things, a troll is just someone with a key-
board and a nasty opinion. People get trolled on the internet ev-
ery day, but that doesn’t stop people from making content on 
YouTube or tweeting a hot new take.
Over the years, we’ve fallen into this idea that trolls have 
some kind of control over the internet and its users, but they 
don’t offer up much to the conversation. The best case scenario 
for a troll is that a Twitter fight will ensue. Maybe they’ll even 
get a headline out of it. Worst case scenario, they’re ignored, and 
everyone moves on with their lives. Trolls don’t have the power 
we tend to think they do, and they never have. Opinions aren’t 
changed by a troller because people tend to not respond well to 
hate. As a generation that has grown up on the internet, a troll 
has just become a small blip on the radar that causes no real 
change. A troll’s power is only in creating change, but when their 
words don’t cause any ripples, their power becomes obsolete.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOROn Nov. 8, 2016, I watched my friends and family 
vote at the polls. I was stuck not doing my part as an 
American citizen because of my age. I was five months 
away from turning 18, but it would be five months too 
late. I vowed to vote in every election after that. 
While I sat in agony watching others vote, I also no-
ticed those who didn’t vote. It was frustrating to watch 
other friends and family forfeit their vote simply by not 
showing up to the polls. It is no longer cool to not care. 
Millennials are predicted to surpass baby boomers as 
the nation’s largest living adult generation soon. By not 
voting, we are giving all the political power to older gen-
erations. 
The presidential election has always been popular 
with voters. However, local government elections have 
arguably been more direct and have had a faster effect on 
residents. Local government is responsible for many as-
pects of our day-to-day lives. The Gainesville City Com-
mission sets policies related to affordable housing, public 
safety, transportation, parking and much more. By par-
ticipating in local elections, you are choosing the people 
you want to represent you in these discussions. I say that 
our votes really do matter in elections and even more so 
during local elections. 
The 2019 City of Gainesville Regular Election is fast 
approaching. In this local election, Gainesville residents 
will be voting for mayor and the District 4 city commis-
sioner. 
Every candidate stands for something different, re-
gardless of the election, so it is essential to pay close 
attention to where candidates stand on issues that can af-
fect you. Educate yourself about the mayoral candidates 
and city commission District 4 candidates and then cast your ballot. 
Our political system is more effective when all of us 
are engaging in the process, regardless of what your par-
ty affiliations or beliefs are. 
Voting is easy. In Florida, all you have to do is register 
to vote and then go to your assigned polling location. 
There are three different ways you can vote. You can 
vote by mail, vote at an early voting site or vote on elec-
tion day. 
All requests to have a ballot mailed to you must be 
received by 5 p.m. Wednesday. You can request it by 
simply calling the Supervisor of Elections office or visit-
ing its website (VoteAlachua.com). 
Any Gainesville resident can vote at any of the city’s 
early voting sites. There are five early voting locations. 
One of them just so happens to be the Reitz Union, which 
is within walking distance for UF students, faculty and 
employees. Early voting locations for the 2019 City of 
Gainesville Regular Election are open now until March 
16 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., except Tuesday and Thursday, 
when hours of operation are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Election Day is March 19. The polling locations will be 
open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. don’t forget to bring a photo 
and signature ID — it is required in order to vote with 
a regular ballot. Otherwise, you will need to vote with a 
provisional ballot. The list of accepted forms of ID can be 
found at VoteAlachua.com. 
When the 2019 City of Gainesville Election rolls 
around, I’ll be fulfilling my civic duty by casting my bal-
lot, and I hope you’ll be there right alongside me. 
Dalena Nguyen is an intern at the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections.Make your voice heard in the upcoming city electionMONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Concerts fall into two 
categories, generally. 
You have big concerts, 
like those of Kanye 
West, Ed Sheeran, 
Taylor Swift or just musical acts 
that everybody goes to. Then 
you have your smaller concerts: 
the SoundCloud rappers, the 
indie rock groups from Band-
camp or the up-and-coming DJ you found 
through Spotify’s Discover Weekly playlist. 
These are the more intimate concerts and 
are certainly more obscure. I went to one of 
these concerts about a week ago (shoutout 
to Car Seat Headrest for a great concert), 
and trust me when I say the experience was 
life-changing. All concerts have an intan-
gible quality of connection to the world. 
Something about live music mixes with our 
own lives in a way that, if the performance 
is even half decent, it guarantees goose-
bumps. Small concerts, however, have a 
heightened effect on concert-goers.
I’ll describe my experience at Car Seat’s 
concert the other weekend for reference. 
The band ﬁ  ts the description of an “indie 
rock group from Bandcamp” almost to a tee, 
yet the band is relatively well-known, hav-
ing over 700,000 monthly listeners on Spo-
tify. My roommates asked if I would be will-
ing to spend $20 on a concert ticket about a 
month ago, and I said, “Bet.” I didn’t know 
if I’d like the band, but I was hopeful. I 
wasn’t a “concert guy.” Honestly, I’m still 
probably not. I am adventurous, though, 
and I did have $20.
We got to the concert in Tampa. The 
venue was a cramped, dimly lit bar. It had 
the same smell you’d ﬁ  nd at a Midtown 
venue, which was oddly comforting. My 
roommates were big fans of Car Seat, so 
we got in the merch line. I met some of the 
strangest, but kindest people in line. They 
were extroverts with more pimples and 
piercings than there are stars in the night 
sky. I smiled, I laughed and I realized one 
of the most important things about these 
small concerts. It doesn’t feel like you’re there to just see an artist. It’s 
not that two-dimensional. You 
are there for the music, but 
you’re also there to be a part of 
a community, a family bound 
together by similar tastes and 
modest venues. We made our 
way toward the stage as Car 
Seat began playing. I found I 
loved their musical style. Dur-
ing the more upbeat songs, I loved throwing 
my body around in the mosh pit. During the 
more emotional songs, I felt more connect-
ed to the artists because I knew the ticket I 
bought meant a great deal to them. A great 
deal more, at least, than a $200 ticket would 
mean to Kanye. 
I mentioned the two types of concerts: 
the mainstream ones and the smaller ones, 
Madison Square Garden and The Orpheum. 
There are three types of concert-goers, 
though. Two kinds roughly correspond to 
the types of concert and another kind I view 
as “supremely woke.” There are those who 
go to concerts for clout. Maybe they stand 
around in the back of a football stadium and 
listen to the ﬁ  rst half of Ariana Grande’s set. 
There are also those who self-identify as on 
the edge and refuse to go to a concert at a 
venue that seats over 500 people. However, 
there are concert-goers who see all concerts 
as what they’re for: celebrating. Sure, 21 
Savage’s concert in April will be a different 
vibe than a small performance at the High 
Dive, but that’s the point. 
Going to mainstream concerts can be ex-
tremely entertaining. They can be the epi-
center of rippling earthquakes of getting lit, 
pushing entire stadiums of people to join 
together in the common pursuit of turning 
up. Smaller concerts, though, the ones that 
“concert people” go to, tend to give you 
more. At a small venue with a smaller art-
ist or group, you feel a stronger connection 
to the crowd and the performers, the music 
and, at the end of the day, to yourself.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.Stadiums are cool, but small venues are better Column
Welcome back to UF, 
Gators! Hopefully, 
you had a week to un-
wind, relax and take 
your mind off school 
for a bit, but now it’s back to the 
routine of assignments, quizzes, 
exams, essays and schoolwork 
of all kinds. We have to do it for 
about eight more weeks until the 
end of the semester. Some of you might be 
thinking, “Eight weeks? I’m so close to sum-
mer now!” To those people, I admire your 
optimism. For me and many others, we are 
thinking, “Eight weeks? How am I going to 
last that long?” Well, never fear. This column 
is for you!
After a weeklong break, you may ﬁ  nd 
it hard to adjust back into the grind, and 
that’s understandable. Unfortunately, school 
doesn’t stop for readjustments, so you’ll need 
to get back in gear as quickly as possible. 
You’ll need to jump right into your essays, 
study for your next test, get a head start on 
your homework and do whatever you need 
to do to get your work done. This will put 
you on the right path, whereas not jumping 
in and procrastinating can lead to trouble. 
Though it may not seem like it when 
you’re in the throes of writing an entire 
1,000-word essay at midnight the day be-
fore it’s due, there is such a thing as work-
ing too much. An occasional all-nighter or 
nonstop working session is one thing, but 
doing it constantly will leave you worn out 
and stressed. Instead of doing everything at 
the last minute, break the assignment into 
chunks. Do one chunk every day, every other 
day or every week (depending on how much 
time you have). You can still save the biggest 
chunk for the end if you insist on working 
just before the assignment is due.
However, there’s a more insidious conse-
quence of constantly working and stressing: 
burnout. The Mayo Clinic deﬁ  nes job burn-
out (although I think similar principles apply 
to school burnout) as a “special type of work-
related stress — a state of physical or emo-
tional exhaustion that also involves a sense of reduced accomplishment and 
loss of personal identity.” To put it 
brieﬂ  y, when you’re burned out, it 
means you have a harder time be-
ing productive, and other aspects 
of your life may also be negatively 
affected, due to your total exhaus-
tion. Besides difﬁ  culty working, 
burnout can also lead to irritabil-
ity, lack of satisfaction with your 
work and even physical symptoms like head-
aches or stomach problems. Needless to say, 
burnout is no fun, so do your best to avoid it. 
Instead of working constantly, take short 
breaks at regular intervals (say, 15-30-minute 
breaks every two hours of work or 10-min-
ute breaks every hour of work). When you’re 
not working, do an activity that’s relaxing for 
you. This could be yoga, meditation or just 
watching your favorite TV show. Participat-
ing in clubs and extracurricular activities can 
also help you to separate yourself from work. 
Even something as simple as getting enough 
sleep every night can help alleviate burnout. 
Perhaps most importantly, remind yourself 
that you are not your grades. As the Mayo 
Clinic explained, psychologically, burnout 
can cause you to lose your sense of personal 
identity and associate yourself wholly with 
your job or schoolwork, and that’s some-
thing you need to combat right away. While 
keeping up with schoolwork is important, 
it’s not your sole purpose in life, and your 
work doesn’t deﬁ  ne you. You are your own 
person.
For some people, schoolwork isn’t fun. 
Even in college, you’ll do a lot of coursework 
you don’t want to do. It’s just a fact of life. 
However, that doesn’t mean you need to 
become burned out and unmotivated. Mak-
ing time for relaxing and leisure and keep-
ing things in perspective will help you push 
through the rest of the semester and remain 
productive all the way until summer vaca-
tion. So come on Gators, let’s go get this 
bread!
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Return to school ready for work, not to slack oﬀ  Column
In the early 20th century, parents refused 
to allow their children to enter swim-
ming pools or partake in typical summer 
activities. Childhoods were robbed and 
parents lived in fear of a crippling dis-
ease: polio. Little did they know, this disease 
was preventable. Luckily, Jonas Salk, a re-
searcher and inventor, or better yet, a hero, 
developed a vaccine in 1955 that prevented 
the contraction of polio. Millions of children 
worldwide were spared from a crippling 
life, thanks to him. Once this vaccine was 
licensed for use, people worldwide demand-
ed to be vaccinated – a small or nonexistent 
price to pay for the reward of a long, healthy 
life. 
Since then, doctors have quite literally 
saved the world from epidemics of diseas-
es such as hepatitis, mumps, rubella and 
measles, to name a few. Unfortunately, eas-
ily preventable yet deadly diseases such as 
these are making a comeback, thanks to 
parents who do not understand the impor-
tance of vaccines. The parents who have 
opted to not vaccinate their children are too young to remember the days 
when their friends one day woke 
up and could no longer walk due 
to polio, or contracted mumps as 
a child and discovered at a young 
age they would probably never be 
able to have their own children. 
These parents are still alive today, 
able to even be parents, because, 
you guessed it, their parents vac-
cinated them. 
The fervor surrounding the anti-vaccina-
tion movement stems 
from a journal article 
written decades ago 
claiming vaccines can 
lead to an autism spec-
trum disorder that has 
since been disproven.
The author of this ar-
ticle lost his medical license. However, some 
parents are still convinced that ingredients 
in vaccines, such as thimerosal, which is 
present only in trace amounts and has been 
proven safe by the CDC time and again, are harmful to children. Heads up: If 
the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention say that something 
is safe, it’s safe. If a parent is more 
concerned about the possibility of 
their child having autism, which is 
false, than they are about whether 
or not their child will contract a 
deadly disease, then they should 
not be a parent at all. 
Do we really want to witness 
a time when polio makes a comeback and 
our kids live in fear 
of losing the ability 
to walk? Do we want 
our toddlers to get 
lockjaw because they 
never received their 
tetanus shot, or for 
them to get covered in 
red, itchy splotches from measles? 
 You can snort as many essential oils as 
you want or eat all the elderberries in the 
world but you’re still going to die of measles 
if you don’t get yourself a shot. Modern med-icine has eradicated and limited the spread of 
contagious diseases, but some parents have 
decided that modern medicine is too scary 
and that they’d rather risk bringing back an 
eradicated disease than expose their child to 
something that they have been repeatedly 
told works. 
This is not to shame parents for their 
choices, but rather to educate against the 
misinformation spread by anti-vaccine activ-
ist groups. No one really cares how you par-
ent, as long as you do your best to love your 
child. However, preventing a child from re-
ceiving potentially life-saving vaccines is not 
doing your best, as you are willingly expos-
ing them to diseases. Show your child you 
love them. Rock them to sleep with laven-
der essential oils, and sleep soundly know-
ing they will never die from a 19th-century 
disease that causes paralysis and infertility 
because you care about them and vaccinated 
them. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sopho-
more. Her column appears on Mondays.Anti-vaxxers are spreading lies; it’s time you heard the truth about vaccinationsColumn
“Unfortunately, easily preventable, 
yet deadly diseases [...] are making 
a comeback, thanks to parents who 
do not understand the importance 
of vaccines.”
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
A crowd watches derby cars slide down a track Sunday during the Derby at the Brewery competition at First Magnitude Brewing Company, at 1220 SE Veitch St.
Down and Derby
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Louis Lindstrom, 2, Ever Luman, 1, and Rees Luman, 5, watch pinewood derby cars compete Sunday in the Derby.Chris Day / Alligator Staff
A volunteer at the Derby at the Brewery competition 
returns a car to a table Sunday after a race.
People watched small wooden 
cars race down a metal track 
Sunday at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company during 
the Derby at the Brewery 
competition. The event celebrated 
First Magnitude Brewing Company’s 
release of Red Line Lager, which is 
themed around the 50th anniversary 
of the National Hot Rod Association 
Gatornationals. Participants 
could sign up for $8 and 
were       given a 
car kit to 
help with construction. The Repurpose 
Project, a thrift store, offered free 
workshops to help build the cars 
during the week of Feb. 26 to March 
2. Around 100 people attended 
the event. MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
IT’S UNCLEAR WHY THE DOGS 
ATTACKED
A 2-year-old boy was mauled to death by 
two dogs Friday in High Springs.
The boy died from his injuries on the 
scene, and his grandmother was taken to a 
local hospital with serious injuries from ﬁ  ght-
ing off the dogs, said Lt. Brett Rhodenizer, an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesper-
son.
ACSO and Fire Rescue responded to a mo-
bile home, on the 20000 block of Northwest 
210th Avenue, where the incident occurred at 
about 10:30 a.m., Rhodenizer said.
The grandmother took care of multiple 
dogs that lived in the home, he said. She let 
two dogs and her grandson out into the back-
yard while she ate on the back porch.After brieﬂ  y going inside, she didn’t see 
the boy or the dogs in the yard, Rhodenizer 
said. She checked an outbuilding on the prop-
erty and found the dogs mauling the child. 
She fought off the dogs.
There have been no reports about the 
dogs in the past year, Rhodenizer said. It’s 
unclear why they attacked the child.
The dogs are in the custody of the Ala-
chua County Animal Services Department, Rhodenizer said. 
Animal Services could not be reached to 
identify the dogs’ breeds.
This is the fourth dog attack reported in 
Alachua County in the past six months.
In February, two pit bulls mauled Tico, a 
chihuahua, to death. In December, a pit bull 
killed Fred, a pug and beagle mix. In Septem-
ber, three pit bulls killed Bella, a service dog.
Police say a man who identiﬁ  ed himself 
as a mall housekeeper chased a man with a 
knife Thursday outside The Oaks Mall. 
Frauly Tito Lopez-Benitez, 51, of 
Gainesville, told the man to meet him out-
side while he was ordering food at the mall, 
at 6419 West Newberry Road, according to 
a Gainesville Police arrest report. 
When they were outside, Lopez-Benitez 
pulled out a black folding pocket knife from 
his pocket and pointed it at him, the report 
said. He started chasing the man with it, 
and the man called 911 while running. 
He told police Lopez-Benitez had as-
saulted him before, the report said.  Lopez-
Benitez was found guilty of threatening the 
man with a shovel in 2014 because he be-
lieved the man owed him money, according 
to court records. Earlier that year, he was found guilty of hitting a 
different man and break-
ing the man’s windshield 
with a fence post. 
Lopez-Benitez told 
police he was not carry-
ing a knife and did not 
pull it out on the man, 
the report said. He also 
said he didn’t have a knife because of his 
job.
Police searched the hallway where the 
victim said Lopez-Benitez walked down 
and found the knife on top of a ﬁ  re alarm 
strobe light, the report said. 
Lopez-Benitez was charged with aggra-
vated assault, the report said. 
He remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday in lieu of a $50,000 bond. A man accused of 
pushing and choking a 
woman and not letting 
her and her child leave 
their home was arrested 
Wednesday. 
On Tuesday morning, 
Cory Allen Myers, 38, of 
Archer, snuck into the 
woman’s bedroom and waited for her come 
out of the bathroom, according to an Alach-
ua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
She crawled into bed with their child 
and Myers yelled at her, the report said. 
He blocked the door when said she want-
ed to leave. She wanted to call 911, but he 
grabbed her car keys and phone. 
He stopped the woman and her child 
from leaving, the report said. He pushed her down, grabbed her by the throat and 
dragged her to the back door. 
She eventually convinced Myers to let 
her go, the report said. When he realized she 
wanted to escape, he pushed her against the 
doorframe. She opened the door, fell and put 
her hands under the door. He slammed the 
door on her hands.
The woman’s injuries include scratches 
on her hands and bruises on her arms, the 
report said. 
Myers was charged with domestic battery 
by strangulation, false imprisonment of an 
adult and child, possession of a controlled 
substance without a prescription and tam-
pering in third-degree felony proceedings, 
the report said. 
Myers remained in the Alachua County 
Jail Sunday in lieu of a $240,000 bond.Dogs kill 2-year-old boy, injure woman in High Springs
Man accused of chasing a man 
with a knife outside Oaks MallMan accused of hurting 
woman, trapping her in homeStories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez   |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98  
Myers
 Lopez-Benitez
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
More than 60 buildings at UF 
were built before 1960 with the av-
erage building being 36 years old.
These buildings contain  both 
interior and exterior issues, includ-
ing electrical work, plumbing and 
ﬁ  re safety, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando.
“There are many areas that 
could use improvement on our 
campus,” Orlando said.
A new state bill ﬁ  led on Feb. 6 
may alleviate some of these issues.
Rep. Chuck Clemons, a Republi-
can from Newberry, is introducing 
a $38.1 million bill this legislative 
session. The bill addresses some of 
UF’s infrastructure needs, Orlando said.
The bill was ﬁ  led in the Flori-
da House of Representatives and 
then referred to the Higher Educa-
tion Appropriations Subcommittee 
Feb. 8. It will need to pass favor-
ably within the subcommittee to be 
voted on in the House.
Clemons ﬁ  led another bill on 
Feb. 6 to fund about $13.3 mil-
lion for UF’s new School of Music 
building. If successful, both bills 
will go into effect July 1.
Each year UF is allocated mon-
ey through the General Appropria-
tions Act. The bill provides funds 
for various agencies in the state 
government to pay for salaries, 
buildings and improvements as 
well as other expenses.
The amount allocated to UF var-
ies from year to year, ranging be-tween $45 and $59 million in the 
past ﬁ  ve years.
It is unclear what infrastructure 
will be targeted by Clemons’ bill, 
but several structures on campus 
are due for improvements, Orlando 
said.
“We’re very grateful for any 
support from the Legislature that 
will help us address our well-doc-
umented deferred maintenance 
needs,” Orlando said. 
Clemons could not be immedi-
ately reached for comment.
Miranda Bradley, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology sophomore, said 
she hopes to see infrastructure im-
provements within the UF psychol-
ogy building.
She says she regularly spends 
time in dark, cramped classrooms 
with no windows and navigates confusing hallways in the rundown 
facility.
“The psychology building is not 
really a place for psychology ma-
jors to study or hang out,” Bradley 
said. “Buildings for other majors 
have much more of that type of en-
vironment.”
Faculty are aware of some of the 
issues concerning the building and 
would like to see potential changes 
in the future.
“It is an old building and there 
has been conversations over the 
years about renovating it,” said 
Ron Chandler, a lecturer in the 
psychology department. “But we’re 
not at all sure what the status of 
that idea is.”
Jesse Dallery, a UF psychology 
professor, said the best solution 
may be a new building altogether.
“Some faculty and student ofﬁ  c-
es are not even in psychology due to space limitations,” Dallery said. 
“I’m not sure improving the exist-
ing building is the answer.”
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.orgState represenatives seek funding to improve UF infrastructure
The bill seeks $38.1 million from the state
Amount allocated to UF 
from the state 
2018 - $50.4 million 
2017 - $59.9 million
2016 - $50.7 million
2015 - $45.5 million 
2014 - $47.1 million 
According to The Florida SenateBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Student
Must have knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Between: Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Wanted. Driver w long-bed pickup
to take king bed frame and its owner
to Hollywood, FL on 3/16/19.
Call 352-359-3787.      3-15-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 18 Personals 18 Personals
MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
MAKE $100,000 - $1 Million
before you graduate!
Great Crypto Trading & Investment 
Education program!
FREE info at www.ExpWealth.info     3-15-
19-3-20
LEARN HOW TO MAKE an extra $500
per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to:  www.collegeopportunity.today     
3-15-19-3-20
Learn how to make an extra $400
a week filling out surveys as a student.
Go to uniopportunity.club       3-20-195-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, March 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Jet trail
6 Torino ta-ta
10 Lima or soya
14 Conductor Seiji
15 Poker hand 
buy-in
16 Rifle range 
supply
17 Movie buff’s 
collectible
19 Like spider webs
20 Trees devastated 
by a “Dutch” 
disease
21 Go kaput
22 Manually clutch
23 Late July zodiac 
sign
24 Warm winter 
wear
27 Popeye, for one
29 Ramen : Japan :: 
__ : Vietnam
30 Med. care group
31 Croat or Serb
32 Capri or Wight
34 All in favor
35 Tool for 
whacking 
unwanted 
grasses
38 Puppies’ bites
41 Friend in battle
42 Damon of “True 
Grit” (2010)
45 “__, please”: box 
office request 
from a single 
patron
46 Orlando-to-Miami 
dir.
47 Some October 
babies
49 Looked after
53 High dudgeon
54 “Aw, shucks!”
55 No-winner 
situation
56 Start of a play
57 Betting group
58 Time for a drink 
at the gym... or 
what can literally 
be seen in 17-, 
24-, 35- and 
49-Across
61 Airline with an 
all-kosher menu
62 “Close one!”
63 Copy, briefly
64 Driving range 
barriers
65 Ironically, some 
are “civil”
66 Caravan stopsDOWN
1 The word 
“America” has 
four of them
2 Rhododendron 
shrubs
3 Saturated 
vegetable fat
4 Big-eyed birds
5 Drake genre
6 Electronic 
calculator 
pioneer
7 Pentium 
processor maker
8 Gobbled up
9 “__ the  
ramparts ... ”
10 Port in 
southeastern 
Iraq
11 Capacity to relate
12 “Say something 
funny!”
13 Amateurs
18 Smell
22 Nat __ Wild: 
cable channel
24 Worked on a 
loom
25 Spread out, as 
fingers
26 Stimulate
28 Felons violate 
them32 Ran in neutral
33 Poivre partner
34 Graceful horse
36 Lack of difficulty
37 Kuwait potentate
38 Sign on a new 
store
39 Losing big at the 
casino, say
40 Bleating 
companion
43 “Three-headed” 
arm muscle
44 Raw steak style46 Ship’s pronoun
47 Creepy look
48 Japanese 
watches
50 Rooms behind 
bars?
51 Playful marine 
animal
52 Vantage points
56 Office space 
calculation
58 Letters in a URL
59 ‘’Now I get it!’’
60 Dude
By Andrew J. Ries
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/02/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/02/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, March 2, 2019
ACROSS
1 Throws
7 Some 
confrontations
13 Good-for-nothin’
15 Decide
16 Abroad
18 “Ben-Hur” Oscar 
winner
19 “Webspace” was 
added to it in Jun. 
2017
20 Hot BuzzFeed 
feature?
22 “When we know, 
you’ll know”: 
Abbr.
23 Substitute
25 “Tequila 
mockingbird” 
and “absinthe of 
malice,” for two
26 Maverick on TV
27 Big __
28 Development 
home
30 “The History of 
the Standard Oil 
Company” author
32 Dunked discs
33 Respectful 
assent
35 Hardened, 
maybe
38 Creamy sauce
40 Written argument
42 NOW center: 
Abbr.
44 Many a Baghdad 
dad
45 It helps you focus
46 Part of some 
salesmen’s 
deliveries
48 Dietitian’s calc.
49 ’70s Robert Blake 
cop show
51 Pillow talk 
murmur
52 Musical 
ineptitude
54 Reference to a 
note
56 Going for less
57 Come out of the 
bullpen
58 Like a date 
without a heart?
59 Picked upDOWN
1 Private eye
2 They may put 
their initials on 
trunks
3 Wearing 
expensive 
jewelry, in 
modern slang
4 1994 Olympics 
host: Abbr.
5 Dress (up)
6 Bygone blade
7 Crystalline rock
8 “In the home of,” 
literally
9 Dawn goddess
10 “Lies!”
11 1962 hit with the 
line “the samba’s 
the quickest way 
to make amor”
12 Legal bodies
14 Return specialist
17 Fronts of cold 
fronts
21 Addams who 
can generate 
electricity
24 Where doctors 
may catch a 
break?26 Yawning cause
28 “Angie Tribeca” 
airer
29 Gardening aid
31 29-Down storage 
device
34 Sound from a 
purse, possibly
35 Thick table 
surface
36 Ends
37 Playing on the 
field39 Wall Street 
whizzes, say
41 Played loudly
43 It’s good to be 
in one
46 Pricey fur
47 Did yard work
49 Block on a farm
50 Drivers’ 
elevators
53 Down
55 A, in German 
class
1.  Borrower 
1.  Lovingly5.  Concerning, regarding
2.  Chocolate ____6.  White ____
3.  Plan, sketch7.  Directive, demand
4.  CustomerTREDBO
LARDEYUABTO
OIENS
RWOIEBN
TIOUENLSHBETE
ENCLTIANSWERS: 1A-Debtor  5A-About  6A-Noise  7A-Behest
1D-Dearly  2D-Brownie  3D-Outline  4D-Client  B-Bob Dylan3-11-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Since 1994, ____ ____ has published 
eight books of drawings and paintings.
BONUS1. When was the last time before 
2015-17 that the Chicago Cubs 
reached the postseason for three con-
secutive years?
2. In 2017, Arizona’s J.D. Martinez 
tied Ralph Kiner’s 1949 record for 
most home runs in September. How 
many home runs was it?
3. Name the last NFL team before 
the Cincinnati Bengals in 2017 to open 
a season with two home games and not 
score a touchdown in either game.
4. Who was the last Purdue men’s 
basketball player before Carsen 
Edwards in 2018 to score at least 40 
points in a game?
5. Name the last coach before Barry 
Trotz of the Washington Capitals in 
2018 to leave a team due to a contract 
dispute after winning the Stanley Cup.
6. In 2019, Fernando Alonso became 
just the third Formula One champion 
to win the 24 Hours of Daytona sports 
car race. Name either of the first two 
to do it.
7. How many times has Serena Wil-
liams been named The Associated 
Press’ Female Athlete of the Year?
Answers
1. It was 1906-08.
2. Sixteen.
3. The 1939 Philadelphia Eagles.
4. Glenn Robinson, in 1994.
5. Mike Keenan of the New York 
Rangers in 1994.
6. Phil Hill in 1964 and Mario 
Andretti in 1972.
7. Five times (2002, ‘09, ‘13, ‘15 
and ‘18).
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 11, 2019King Features Weekly Service19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators win NCAA Indoor Track and Field title
The UF men's track and ﬁ  eld team repeated as national champions on Satur-
day. Grant Holloway took ﬁ  rst in both the 60-meter sprint and the 60-meter 
hurdles, and he ﬁ  nished third in the long jump. Read the rest on page 16.The Gators women's golf team won 
the Florida Gators invitational on 
Sunday with a score of 2 under par. 
Addison Baggarly ﬁ  nished tied for 
second at 3 under.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The future for the Florida men’s basketball team seems 
bleak.
It had a chance to strengthen its chances of an NCAA-
Tournament bid at the end of the season with games 
against Georgia, No. 10 LSU and No. 6 Kentucky, but it 
didn’t win any of those.
The Gators sit at 17-14, and their only ranked win this 
year was at LSU on Feb. 20. Not a strong application for a 
potential tournament team.
UF has one last opportunity to pad its record with some 
more wins at the SEC Tournament in Nashville, Tennessee, 
when it takes on Arkansas on Thursday at 1 p.m. 
Why this tournament matters
It won’t be an easy road for Florida to make it to the 
championship game. It enters the tournament as the No. 
8-seed, while Arkansas earned the No. 9-seed. 
If UF wins, it’ll play No. 1-seed LSU, a team the Gators 
just lost to in overtime 79-78. If it wins that game, it will 
most likely play South Carolina or Auburn. Then, if UF 
wins that one, it will most likely play Kentucky. 
Even if the Gators don’t make it to the ﬁ  nals, they can 
get some wins against tournament-caliber teams and earn 
a spot in the NCAA tourney.
No Florida team has ever made March Madness with 14 
or more losses, something it has this season. Getting some 
high-proﬁ  le wins might be enough for the committee to Gators hope to boost NCAA resume at SEC Tournament
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White and the Gators lost their ﬁ  nal three games of the regular season and ﬁ  nished 17-14. UF 
plays Arkansas in the SEC T ournament in Nashville, T ennessee, on Thursday.
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Junior right-hander Tyler Dyson had his 
best start of the season on Sunday, com-
manding the strike zone by allowing just 
one walk after giving up nine combined in 
his previous three outings. His performance 
helped No. 5 Florida to a 4-3 victory over 
the Yale Bulldogs to preserve a weekend 
sweep at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium.
Earlier this week, coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
made the decision to plug in Dyson as the 
Sunday starter from the Friday spot after a 
shaky start to the season.
Dyson pitched 5.1 innings, giving up six 
hits and three earned runs along with two 
strikeouts.
“He told me on Tuesday I was going to 
be starting on Sunday,” Dyson said. “I just 
took it as another start. I just gotta be ready 
whatever day it is to throw.”
The junior looked more conﬁ  dent on 
the mound, not falling behind in counts by hurling strikes early and often.
“I felt good out there today,” Dyson said. 
“Probably the best I’ve felt all season.”
Florida did just enough offensively to 
back up Dyson and fend off a feisty Bull-
dogs team down the stretch.
In the bottom half of the ﬁ  rst, UF (13-5) 
took the early advantage after sophomore 
ﬁ  rst baseman Jordan Butler lined one over 
the jumping attempt of Yale shortstop Si-
mon Whiteman.
Butler’s hit scored senior designated 
hitter Nelson Maldonado and sophomore 
shortstop Brady McConnell to give Florida 
an early 2-0 lead over Yale.
Freshman center ﬁ  elder Jud Fabian did 
the rest from the plate for the Gators.
He went 2 for 3, hitting two solo home 
runs, one in the second inning and one in 
the fourth. His four home runs this season 
are the most on the team.
“Our scouting report was just to see the 
ball off of that guy because he has sink,” Florida escapes with 
weekend sweep of YaleKyle's Files / Opinion
The nature of the Florida 
baseball team’s oppo-
nents and outcomes 
through 18 games have 
made it difﬁ  cult to gauge 
where the Gators are.
UF (13-5) holds the distinc-
tion of being a top-ﬁ  ve team but 
has proved to be more vulner-
able than usual early on in the 
season.
A three-game losing streak to in-state 
rivals South Florida, North Florida and Mi-
ami saw Florida manage just four runs and 
strike out 35 times. The Gators have already 
dropped four games at home.
For reference, UF dropped six games at 
home in 2018, and there are still 20 remain-
ing games at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium 
this season.
Florida has shown an ability to respond to 
adversity, and the offense seems to be peak-
ing at the right time, though.
Following that three-game losing streak, 
UF rattled off three consecutive wins to take the series against Miami and de-
feated Jacksonville on the road 
in extra innings.
The team is 7-1 in March, 
behind a home run renaissance 
led by freshman Jud Fabian. 
This stretch includes a 28-5 rout 
of Winthrop and a 15-0 shutout 
against FGCU.
Still, the Gators are a hard 
team to read.
But everyone will see what this team is 
all about in the next two weeks, one way or 
another.
Florida State (13-1) comes to Gainesville 
Tuesday night for its ﬁ  rst road game of the 
season. The No. 11 Seminoles head into the 
game with 26 home runs on the season, com-
pared to Florida’s 19 in four more games.
After FSU, Florida hosts No. 7 Mississippi 
State to begin SEC play. The Bulldogs (15-1) 
boast a .301 batting average and a 1.80 ERA 
as a team.
UF then plays Jacksonville again, this time UF is trending upwards with 
diﬃ   cult stretch aheadSEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
 Kyle Wood
Twitter: @KkylewoodMONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
Tennessee center fielder Cailin 
Hannon sprinted backward and 
tracked the softball as it gradu-
ally descended into her path. She 
outstretched her glove to make the 
catch, then ☺— WHAM!
Hannon slammed into the wall in 
center field, and the ball disappeared 
behind it. UF first baseman Amanda 
Lorenz circled the bases as Hannon 
sat on the warning track with her 
head between her knees. 
Lorenz’s second bomb of the 
day came during the bottom of the 
sixth inning and created a seven-run 
Florida lead. The game ended two at-
bats later on a run rule after an RBI-
double by second baseman Hannah 
Adams. 
The Gators hadn’t been swept 
in a three-game series since March 
2014 when they lost to the Volun-
teers in Knoxville, Tennessee. A five-
RBI performance by Lorenz on Sun-day helped maintain that streak, and 
No. 4 UF won its first SEC game 8-0 
at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Both of Lorenz’s home runs came 
with two outs (a two-run and a 
three-run shot), and left fielder Jade 
Caraway made each of them pos-
sible by getting on base in the at-bats 
before her.
The North Carolina State trans-
fer beat out throws on two infield 
singles, one in the fourth inning and 
another in the sixth, to move Lorenz 
from the on-deck circle to the bat-
ter’s box. Then, her All-American 
teammate bludgeoned offerings from 
UT relief pitcher Matty Moss to put 
the game out of reach. 
“Jade Caraway was the reason 
for so many runs today,” Lorenz 
said. “It was really good vibes, really 
good energy in just knowing that if 
you pass the bat along something’s 
going to happen.”
Designated player Kendyl Linda-
man also blasted a home run. She 
demolished a 3-1 pitch from Ten-
nessee starter Caylan Arnold to give the Gators (22-4) a 2-0 lead in the 
bottom of the third. Lindaman’s ball 
fizzled no more than 25 feet from the ground and bounced off the bullpen 
fence behind the left-field wall. 
Florida pitcher Kelly Barnhill struck out the side in the first four in-
nings in her 13th win of 2019. She al-
lowed just two hits, two free passes 
and two runners in scoring position.
She relinquished three home runs 
in the fourth inning alone on Friday, 
but UT (18-3) had no answer for the 
two-time All-American on Sunday.
“I was really hitting the spots 
and moving my ball around better,” 
Barnhill said. “I think we definitely 
got more strikeouts today on placing 
the pitches.”
Every Tennessee batter in the 
starting lineup struck out at least 
once, and All-American Aubrey 
Leach struck out twice. All 13 strike-
out victims went down swinging. 
“I can definitely say that them 
scoring those runs and having those 
bases on, it makes my job a lot 
easier,” Barnhill said. “It takes a lot 
of the pressure off. You don’t have 
to be as perfect. It’s a lot more fun 
throwing out there when we have 
that run support.”
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.orgGators avoid sweep, run rule Volunteers at home 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF first baseman Amanda Lorenz went 3 for 3 with two home runs 
and five RBIs against T ennessee on Sunday.
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The Gators were nearly perfect 
at the O’Connell Center during the 
regular season, with their only loss 
coming against Georgia. Now, how-
ever, they’ll leave it all behind fol-
lowing their victory against No. 25 
Penn State on Friday.
The meet on Senior Night was 
the last time UF will compete in its 
home arena as it prepares for the 
SEC Championships in New Orleans 
and, eventually, the NCAA Champi-onships in Fort Worth, Texas.
A majority of the team will com-
pete at the O’Connell Center in the 
regular season next year, but for 
Florida’s two seniors, Alicia Boren 
and Amanda Cheney, the meet 
against the Nittany Lions was the 
last time they’d compete in there.
“This was the perfect ending for 
the O’Dome, but I’m definitely ex-
cited to see what more we can do,” 
Cheney said in a release.
The Gators will have a week 
off before they compete in the SEC 
Championships on March 23, and it 
would be no far stretch to call them the favorites. Florida already cap-
tured sole possession of the regular 
season SEC title, a first in the pro-
gram’s history. UF also tied its sea-
son best score of 198.025 against 
Penn State on Friday, and no other 
team in the SEC has hit above the 
198 mark even once.  
Despite the Gators’ favorable 
odds, coach Jenny Rowland stressed 
that there is still work to do in prep-
aration for the postseason after the 
meet on Friday.
“What this team showed (Friday) 
is what I know what we are capable 
of doing and then some,” Rowland said in a release. “It’s Senior Night, 
but we still have a lot more to go.”
One thing Florida is certain to 
continue working on is its lineups 
on meet day after another signifi-
cant change on Friday. Sophomore 
Megan Skaggs found her way into 
the floor corps for the first time in 
her collegiate career against the Nit-
tany Lions, replacing freshman Sa-
vannah Schoenherr and scoring a 
9.900 on her routine. Schoenherr’s 
tenure with the floor unit lasted four 
weeks.
“It’s so cool to have a floor rou-
tine that hasn’t been unveiled this late in the season,” Skaggs said in 
a release. “It just felt great to do it 
in front of so many people for the 
first time.”
Although the Gators won’t be 
in action for a while, they’ll have 
Friday’s meet fresh in their minds 
when they begin their preparation 
for the postseason.
“I know this team is going to take 
a lot from tonight,” Rowland said 
in a release. “We’re going to keep 
moving on.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators wrap regular season, turn focus to SEC ChampionshipsWOMEN’S TENNIS MEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Tsveta Dimitrova clutched her fist and ca-
sually strolled towards her opponent as Tay-
lor Gruber’s shot collided with the net. Dimi-
trova claimed her fifth singles victory and the 
Florida women’s tennis team’s second-con-
secutive road win over a top-50 team. 
“I’m proud of the way (Dimitrova) played 
today,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a 
release. “She played almost flawlessly to get 
out to the early lead and... she stayed focused 
and stayed within herself, and that was great 
to see.”
Her play in both singles and doubles pro-
pelled No. 45 Florida (6-5) to a 4-1 victory 
over No. 41 Missouri (10-5) on Sunday af-
ternoon. With the win, the Gators improve 
to 3-1 in SEC play and remain undefeated on 
the road in conference play.
Florida’s domination in doubles contin-
ued, claiming the opening point in its fifth 
straight match. The sophomore tandem of 
Victoria Emma and McCartney Kessler de-
feated No. 65 Mackenzy Middlebrooks and 
Ellie Wright 6-4 while transfer duo Ida Jarl-
skog and Dimitrova handled Gabrielle Gold-in and Taylor Gruber 6-3. Florida freshmen 
standouts Marlee Zein and Anastasia Khari-
tonova dropped their first doubles match in 
three matches, falling to Marta Oliveira and 
Risa Fukutoku 6-3. 
The Gators kept the pressure on the Ti-
gers with swift victories on Courts 1 and 2 
from No. 12 Jarlskog and No. 44 Kessler to 
take a 3-0 lead. Both Jarlskog and Kessler 
bounced back from ugly straight-set losses to 
Arkansas on Friday by outscoring their op-
ponents 25-14 combined on Sunday. 
Zein fell shortly after to Missouri’s Wright 
in three sets (6-4, 5-7, 7-5) to claim the Ti-
gers’ lone point of the day. Dimitrova sub-
sequently finished off Gruber in a dominant 
6-1, 6-4 showing to give the Gators their third 
victory in four matches. 
“I think we all know that there is a lot 
of parity in this league and on this team as 
well,” Thornqvist said. “We are going to 
have a lot of close sets and we are definite-
ly getting better at closing them out… I’m 
pleased with the way we remained locked in 
and competed today.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgBy Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The No. 9 Florida men’s tennis team 
knew that this match would be different.
It knew that their opponent on Sunday, 
Mississippi State, was going to be a tough 
one.
The Gators started the SEC season 2-0, 
but those wins came over Arkansas and 
Ole Miss, who are both ranked in the 40s 
nationally. Mississippi State, on the other 
hand, is ranked No. 10, and is the Gators’ 
biggest competition in the SEC.
Florida stepped up to the challenge.
The Gators defeated the Bulldogs at the 
Ring Tennis Complex on Sunday afternoon 
5-2. Considering that UF and Mississippi 
State were picked to finish first and second 
atop the SEC, this win was a major step to-
ward the Gators winning the SEC regular-
season championship.
The Gators (9-2), for the first time in SEC 
play, lost in doubles. The Bulldogs have two 
doubles pairs who are ranked in the top 10 
nationally and Florida’s doubles combo of 
McClain Kessler and Duarte Vale and Jo-
hannes Ingildsen and Alfredo Perez strug-gled. It lost two doubles matches 6-3. Sam 
Riffice and Oliver Crawford were the only 
winners for Florida, winning 6-1. 
UF responded in a dominant way in 
singles. The team won the first set in five 
of the six singles matches and most didn’t 
let up in the second set. Riffice and Lukas 
Greif each won in two sets to put the Gators 
ahead 2-1. Riffice and Greif improved to 3-0 
in SEC play.
Andy Andrade earned a tough 6-4, 7-5 
victory. The Gators’ clinching point was 
much harder to come by though. Johannes 
Ingildsen clinched the match in a three-set 
victory over Niclas Braun 6-2, 3-6, 6-4. 
Vale picked up the final win for the 
Gators, beating Florian Broska in three sets. 
The only loss the Gators suffered in singles 
was courtesy of Nuno Borges, the third-
ranked player in the country, who beat No. 
24 Oliver Crawford in straight sets. 
A crowd of 375 people watched the 
Gators improve to 40-20 all-time against the 
Bulldogs and pick up their ninth win this 
season. 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida tames Tigers in 4-1 win UF improves to 3-0 in SEC play16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019
overlook this and include UF as a bubble 
school.
Scouting Arkansas
Forward Daniel Gafford has been the Ra-
zorbacks’ most consistent scoring option this 
season. He averages 17 points per game on 
66 percent shooting. Gafford wasn’t on that same level when 
Arkansas lost to Florida 57-51 on Jan. 9. He 
only scored nine points on 3-of-4 shooting.
Instead, the Razorbacks relied on guard 
Mason Jones, who led the game with 30 
points, shooting 7 of 13 from the field and 12 
of 13 from the free-throw line.
Expect Arkansas to run its offense through 
Jones and Gafford, which will be a problem 
for Florida’s smaller frontcourt. Gafford’s in-side presence — he scores all his points from 
inside the three-point arc — could prove 
troublesome for UF center Kevarrius Hayes.
Gafford also leads the Razorbacks’ defen-
sive efforts. He is averaging an SEC-leading 
8.7 rebounds per game, and he is third in the 
conference with 2.1 blocks per game. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Daniel Gafford leads Arkansas with 17 points per gameFabian said. “He threw me two fastballs up, 
and I hit him.”
In the top half of the sixth, Yale (3-7) cut 
the lead to 4-3 off one swing of the bat from 
freshman designated hitter Jake Gehri.
Gehri smashed a 1-2 pitch from Dyson 
over the left field wall — his second of the 
game — to end Dyson’s day.
Redshirt freshman Hunter Ruth took over 
and delivered 3.2 innings of scoreless base-
ball, giving up just one hit while striking out 
five for Florida.
Ruth ended his outing by recording his 
first save of the season, striking out the side 
in the bottom of the ninth.
“I definitely thought (Nolan) Crisp had 
the potential of coming in,” Ruth said refer-
ring to the decision to pitch him in the ninth. 
“(O’Sullivan’s) been trying to put a lot of 
pressure situations on me, and we wanted to 
see if I could handle it…I absolutely wanted 
to pitch the ninth, there’s no doubt.”
The Gators are now 11-1 in weekend 
games, and the team is hoping to capital-
ize off of the momentum it has generated 
as the conference play portion of the season 
begins soon.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgat home, ahead of what will likely be its 
biggest test of the season: a road series at 
No. 1 Vanderbilt.
Florida has not lost a series to the Com-
modores (13-3) since 2014.
Vanderbilt is hitting .333 on the season 
as a team and its pitching rotation is led by 
Patrick Raby (3-0, 0.87 ERA).
After the road trip to Nashville, Ten-
nessee, Florida faces FSU again, this time 
in Jacksonville. That will cap off a brutal 
stretch of nine games in 15 days, eight 
of which come against teams currently 
ranked in the top 11 and one against a 
team that took UF to extra innings already.
I’m sure by that time everyone will 
have a much better idea of where the 
Gators stand in the SEC and among the 
top teams in the country.
All of that being said, there have been 
some encouraging developments that may 
propel Florida through those nine games.
O’Sullivan shook up the pitching rota-
tion.
Junior Tyler Dyson struggled in his 
role as Friday starter, pitching two no-
decisions before earning a win against 
Winthrop. Sophomore Tommy Mace (4-0) 
replaced him on Friday against Yale while 
Dyson was relegated to the Sunday role, 
where he did most of his work last season.
The familiarity positively affected Dy-
son. He pitched a season-high 5.1 innings 
in the 4-3 win.
That success has spread to the team’s 
older players. 
Senior Nelson Maldonado has played 
well in March and upperclassmen Austin 
Langworthy and Wil Dalton have both 
made marginal improvements offensively.
Florida has remedied some of the is-
sues that led to its early season miscues. 
Now it’s up to the Gators to continue their 
upward trend against some of the best 
teams in the nation.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 14
TRACK AND FIELD
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
For the second time in as many 
years, and for the fifth time since 
2010, the Florida men’s track and 
field team won the NCAA Indoor 
Championship. 
Since coach Mike Holloway 
came to UF in 2003, he has won all 
five of Florida's indoor titles. That 
is the most by any coach in that 
span. 
“It just never gets old,” Hollo-
way said in a video on secsports.
com. “I challenged them all week 
long to be courageous, and they 
were.” 
Junior Grant Holloway did what 
he has done for his entire UF ca-
reer: make history. The long jump-
er, hurdler and sprinter swept the 
60-meter races with a first place 
finish in both the 60-meter dash 
and the 60-meter hurdles. Hollo-
way broke his own UF record in the 
dash with a time of 6.50. That time 
also tied No. 8 in collegiate history. 
The hurdles, however, set Hollo-way apart from collegiate athletes 
altogether. 
He ran the hurdles in 7.35 sec-
onds. That time was fast enough 
to break Greg Foster (1987), Al-
len Johnson (2004) and Terrence 
Trammell’s (2010) three-way tie of 
7.36 for the American record. It was 
also fast enough to make Holloway 
the third-fastest 60-meter hurdler 
in world history, only behind Eng-
land’s Colin Jackson (7.30) and 
Cuba’s Dayron Robles (7.33,7.34). 
Even with Holloway’s perfor-
mance, a team championship takes 
more than one man. 
“I’ll be honest with you, I took 
offense to some of the things that 
were said over the last couple 
weeks about how we were a one-
man band and we were just Grant 
Holloway,” Mike Holloway said. 
“We’re not just Grant Holloway. 
You can’t discount our jumpers, 
our throwers, our other hudlers, 
our other sprinters.” 
Even so, Grant accumulated 
27.5 points by himself. That is the 
second-highest total in collegiate history only behind Oregon’s Ed-
ward Cheserek in 2017 (28). Mike 
had high praise for the Virginia na-
tive. 
“He picked the right parents,” 
Mike Holloway said. “He has a 
wonderful work ethic, and the big 
thing is, I challenged him all week 
long to stay focused.” 
That focus carried Grant through 
three very different events. It car-
ried his teammates through their 
events as well. 
In the dash with Holloway, 
sophomore Hakim Sani Brown 
placed third and senior Ryan Clark 
placed sixth. 
Quarter-miler Benjamin Lobo 
Vedel finished in seventh with a 
time of 46.07 seconds, a personal-
best of his and a No. 10 time in 
school history. 
As far as the field events, red-
shirt senior AJ McFarland placed 
fourth in the weight throw, while 
sophomore Thomas Mardal placed 
seventh. Redshirt senior Jhonny 
Victor placed No. 8 in the high jump 
and junior Clayton Brown finished finished the triple-jump in fifth. 
On the women’s side, senior 
Yanis David won the triple-jump 
at 6.43 meters. The women’s team 
finished the indoor season in sixth 
place. 
Mike Holloway’s teams have 
been historically competitive since he took over the program. UF’s 
nine team NCAA championships 
between indoor and outdoor is the 
most since 2010 in Division I track 
by four titles. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgGators repeat as indoor championsAlligator File Photo
Florida Sunday starter Tyler Dyson pitched 5.1 innings during UF's 4-3 win over Yale. 
He allowed six hits and three earned runs while striking out two batters.
The Associated Press
Florida's Grant Holloway finished first in both the 60-meter dash and 
the 60-meter hurdles at the NCAA Championships.
BASEBALL,  from pg 14Ruth pitched 3.2 innings, gave up no runs