We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Five Gators selected in MLB Draft
Four UF baseball players, including shortstop 
Brady McConnell, were picked in the MLB Draft 
this week. Quarterback Feleipe Franks was also 
selected, pg. 11
Alligator invades a couple’s picnic
Two UF students enjoyed a picnic by Lake Alice before the gator 
interrupted their date, pg 4
Majory Stoneman Douglas oﬃ   cer faces charges
The deputy faces 11 charges of inaction related to the February 
2018 shooting at the high school, pg 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 93
AS PART OF THE PROGRAM, 
MIAMI-DADE COUNTY PAYS UF 
AN ANNUAL SUM OF $120,958
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Miami-Dade County takes in about 30,000 
cats and dogs each year and wants to make 
sure as many as possible can be cared for. 
They’ve found help from UF. 
On Tuesday, Miami-Dade County Com-
missioner Jose “Pepe” Diaz sponsored a reso-
lution that would extend the partnership be-
tween Miami-Dade County and UF’s College 
of Veterinary Medicine for another four years. 
This resolution will go into effect on June 14, said Olga Vega, Diaz’s director of communi-
cations.
This afﬁ  liation, sponsored by Diaz, comes 
from a resolution formed between UF and the 
county’s animal services in 2016, Vega said. 
Diaz hopes by working with UF’s veteri-
nary program the county will provide service 
to more animals, Vega said.
Vega said UF was an evident choice for the 
partnership, as the university is the state of 
Florida’s only veterinary college.
Miami-Dade County Animal Services 
takes in about 500 dogs and cats per week, 
said Alex Munoz, the county’s director of ani-
mal services.
The animals are brought to their municipal THE ORGANIZERS 
HAVE RAISED MORE 
THAN $1,000
By Daisha Peek
Contributing Writer
Felicia Bell thinks every 
day about the $35,000 bail 
keeping her son, Gerlmy 
Todd, away from his three 
children.
And she’s not alone.
Panagioti Tsolkas, co-
founder of Fight Toxic 
Prisons, said there are oth-
er families in Gainesville who are separated by bars 
because they cannot af-
ford to pay bail.
Fight Toxic Prisons and 
other community activists 
are raising money to get as 
many fathers out of Alach-
ua County Jail as possible 
in time for Father’s Day. 
According to Donorbox, 
a crowdfunding website, 
the organizers have raised 
$1,386.50 as of Wednes-
day. The goal is $20,000.
On June 17 at 10 a.m., 
there will be a rally out-
side of the jail, where fam-ily members of inmates 
will share their stories and 
organizers will talk about 
problems caused by the 
criminal justice system us-
ing excessive bail, Tsolkas 
said.
“Bond is not about pub-
lic safety, because if you 
have enough money, you 
can walk out of the [jail’s] 
door,” he said.
Organizers have al-
ready contacted several 
families of inmates who 
want to be bailed out, IT WAS A 4-3 VOTE
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Gainesville Regional 
Utilities customers might 
receive slightly higher bills 
after the City Commision 
approved a 6.4 percent 
electric rate increase.
The topic of raising rates 
had been discussed for 
months but was voted on 
during a city commission 
meeting Wednesday. Gas 
rates will increase by 0.57 
percent, wastewater by 
0.42 percent and water by 
0.44 percent. 
The commission voted 
to increase property taxes but set a maximum for the 
rate, also referred as the 
millage rate. The current 
rate in the city is 4.74, the 
lowest in the county.
“We sent out a trim no-
tice where the millage will 
not go up over 0.55,” said 
City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos.
Mayor Lauren Poe said 
citizens cannot control 
their property taxes, but 
they can control their util-
ity bills.
The commission will 
meet again in July and Sep-
tember to vote on the ﬁ  nal 
increases. Commissioners 
Gail Johnson, Harvey Ward 
and Gigi Simmons voted in 
dissent.GRU presented an up-
dated budget at the city 
commission meeting that 
outlined a ﬁ  ve percent 
electric rate increase and 
a reduction in the General 
Fund Transfer (GFT) of $3 
million. The GFT is the util-
ities revenue transferred to 
the city’s general fund that 
pays for various city ser-
vices, such as public trans-
portation.
The utility company ini-
tially asked the commis-
sioners to lower the GFT 
by $6 million rather than 
increasing it, which would 
have reduced the impact 
for customers. 
UF Veterinary College teams with 
Miami-Dade to care for animalsCommunity ﬁ  ghts to bail out 
incarcerated dads for Father’s DayGainesville city commission 
votes to increase GRU rate
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Regional Utilities general manager Edward Bielarski Jr. discusses 
increasing electric rates with the Gainesville City Commission during 
Wednesday’s meeting. Gas rates will increase by 0.57 percent, wastewater by 
0.42 percent and water by 0.44 percent. 
SEE MIAMI UF VET,  PAGE 3 SEE FATHER’S DAY,  PAGE 3SEE GRU,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  93° LOW  75°
Science on Tap: 
'Secrets of Seagrass'
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History and the University 
of Florida’s Thompson Earth 
Systems Institute will host 
“Science on Tap” at Cypress 
& Grove Brewing Co. on June 
13 from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Guest speaker Savanna Barry 
of the Nature Coast Biological 
Station in Cedar Key, Florida, 
will discuss the importance 
of healthy seagrass meadows 
and helpful practices to pre-
vent their damage. For more 
information, visit www.flori-
damuseum.ufl.edu/event/sot-
seagrass or call 352-273-2062.
'Hills on Fire'
UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance presents a new musical 
play, "Hills on Fire," written and 
produced in collaboration with 
New York production company 
Tilted Windmills Theatricals on 
the Nadine McGuire Black Box 
Theatre. This musical folk tale 
offers a portrait of family cycling 
through poverty and addiction. 
Will they survive or will the town swallow them whole? The 
showtimes are Thursday and 
Friday at 7:30 p.m., Saturday 
at 8:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 
p.m. Tickets are $14 for UF stu-
dents, $16 for UF faculty and 
staff, $16 for seniors and $20 for 
the general public. Tickets can 
be purchased in person at the 
University Box Office, located at 
Gate 1 of the O’Connell Center, 
or online at Ticketmaster.
Free  Store  at  Civic Media Center
On Saturday afternoon, from 
2 to 5, the Civic Media Center 
at 433 S Main St., will host 
the Gainesville Pop Up Free 
Store, which is held every third 
Saturday of the month. A var-
ied collection of clothing, shoes, 
make-up, jewelry and toiletries 
will be available. There is also 
a large children's selection. The 
store was set up with the needs 
of queer and trans people, people 
between housing and those in 
special need in mind. The hosts 
ask everyone to spread the word 
to those who have access to 
these communities so these ob-
jects can do the most good. If you are able to donate, they ask you 
only to bring clean items and say 
they are always in need of men-
strual products, toothpaste and 
toiletries, socks, boxers, make-
up, plus-size clothing, binders, 
breast forms, home items and 
blankets. They ask donations 
be dropped off the day of the 
event between noon and 5 p.m.
No Borders, No Wall
On Friday, June 14,  Connect the 
Dots and DION DIA will present 
No Borders Fest - the official 2019 
Fight Toxic Prisons Convergence 
opening party. Doors open 
at 6 p.m. The suggested do-
nation amount is $5 to $15.
The night will include a radi-
cal organizer zine fair, Inside 
Art Show, and art from Marius 
Mason. The party will continue 
with live music from Hugo $an-
chez, La Marea Vuelve, Mike 
Africa, and Villainus. Live DJs 
and Silent Disco will take over 
the house, featuring geexella, 
Hilt Productions, and Juntos.
Scandalous: stories about se-
duction and 'sketchy' stuff
Saturday night at The Wooly 
from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m., Guts and 
Glory GNV is hosting a night for 
the strange and the sexy.  The 
show is for adults only. A spe-
cialty cocktail will also be of-
fered, and the hosts encourage 
guests to wear masks or boas 
or whatever makes them feel "a 
little saucy." You can find tickets 
online at brownpapertickets.com 
for $10 for students or $15 for 
general admission.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 93
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Meagan DiPolo
Noura Al-RajhiKatherine MooreKaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuTHURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
NEW
STUDENT  
EDITIONAdvertise in the
2019RUN DATE:
August 12th 2019
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 2nd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready 
for business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Scott McKearnan
1954 — 2019
1954 — 2019
Circulations
and
Operations
Manager
The Independent 
Florida Alligator
1991 — 2009
You will be remembered.
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Tsolkas said. The fathers they 
hope to help, including Todd, are 
facing charges but have yet to be 
convicted of any crimes.
Event organizers include The 
Legal Empowerment and Advo-
cacy Hub; The Freedom Fund; 
The Gainesville Incarcerated 
Workers Organizing Committee; 
Music. Arts. Movement. Action! 
Club and several others, Tsolkas 
said.
Local bail bondsman Lee Cal-
houn, 48, said inmates must pay 
the full bond amount the court 
requests if they don’t use a 
bondsman to bail them out.
If an inmate uses a bonds-
man, they pay the bondsman a 
nonrefundable 10 percent of the 
bail amount, and the bondsman then pledges to a judge that the 
inmate will show up for court, 
Calhoun said. If the inmate does 
not show up to court, the bonds-
man is held responsible for the 
debt.
“Bonds ensure [inmates] are 
held accountable,” Calhoun said.
Todd, 27, was charged with 
aggravated assault with a weap-
on without intent to kill, said his 
mother, Bell. He has been in jail 
since October 2018.
Bell, 45, said her son’s incar-
ceration has affected his family 
emotionally, ﬁ  nancially and spir-
itually. The amount of money 
needed to get Todd out of jail is 
not within reach for her.
“It’s like a death sentence to 
the families who cannot afford to 
even talk to their loved ones on 
the phone,” Bell said.
She said common expenses include phone calls, commissary 
fees used to purchase personal 
goods through the jail and travel 
fees in case the family member is 
incarcerated far from home.
“It’s just money coming out of 
every part of your body just to 
see your loved one,” she said. 
Bell, a child care provider, 
said people must remember 
young children need to see their 
fathers. All three of Todd’s chil-
dren are under the age of 12.
“There are things that sit in 
your mind all day, but you have 
to carry on,” Bell said.
The bailout has provided 
Todd and Bell with some hope, 
she said.
“If Gerlmy comes home, that 
probably will be the best gift he’s 
had in 10 or 15 years,” Bell said.
animal shelter, where they are given necessary 
medical treatment, spayed or neutered and 
prepared for adoption, Munoz said. 
The resolution says every two weeks the 
shelter will get a new group of about six stu-
dents who will participate in a mini-residen-
cy, Munoz said. The students will work with 
the shelter animals, learn hands-on medical 
care from shelter staff and participate in spay-
ing and neutering surgical procedures.
“It’s a huge help to have the extra hands at  
the shelter,” Munoz said. “It also works out 
great because we get to help contribute to the 
development of future vets.”
As part of the program, Miami-Dade Coun-
ty pays the university $120,958 annually. UF College of Veterinary Medicine In-
terim Dean and Executive Associate Dean 
Tom Vickroy said the money is used to help 
house the students when they are working at 
the shelter and helps pay the salary of a per-
manent staff member the college hired at the 
shelter to act as a liason. 
He went on to say the program has gone 
a long way to helping the college achieve its 
mission of teaching and training students for 
their future careers in the ﬁ  eld.
The college is excited to continue its rela-
tionship with the shelter, he said.
“It’s a wonderful program,” Vickroy said. 
“All the students who go really enjoy it.”
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSimmons said the proposed budget 
concerned her as the increased residen-
tial electric rates potentially put the city 
among the highest in the state.
“You cannot address the challenges 
we have as a community by reducing the 
level of service that our customers both 
expect and need,” Mayor Poe said.
Poe said a proposed Renter’s Bill of 
Rights will set basic energy efﬁ  ciency 
standards that will help lower-income 
residents who mostly live in rentals. It 
will have a positive effect on customers’ 
bills and a negative effect on GRU 
revenue. “A challenge for GRU, but it still 
makes it the right thing to do,” Poe said.
During public comment, citizens and 
customers of GRU asked commissioners 
to consider other options before resort-
ing to an increase for taxpayers. Ernesto 
Martinez, a Gainesville resident and GRU 
customer, addressed the committee to 
voice his disapproval for the proposed 
increases.
“This failure of your own making is 
destroying our low-income population 
in this city,” Martinez said. “And it is 
evidenced by the people that cannot pay 
their light bill.”
@rgizguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgFATHER’S DAY,  from pg. 1
MIAMI UF VET,  from pg. 1 GRU,  from pg. 1Over $1,000 has been donated
UF to receive $120,958 annu ally Property tax also voted to raiseCourtesy of Felicia Bell
Gerlmy T odd, 27, was arrested in October 2018 for aggravated assault 
with a weapon without intent to kill. He is the father to three children 
under the age of 12. 
4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
TWO UF STUDENTS ENJOYED A 
PICNIC WHEN AN ALLIGATOR ATE 
MOST OF THEIR FOOD
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
This gator couldn’t ﬁ  nd a mate, but 
that did not stop him from going on a 
date. 
Taylor Forte, a 21-year-old UF civil 
engineering senior, made a picnic for 
her ﬁ  ancé, Trevor Walters, by Lake 
Alice last Thursday night. The two 
had planned the evening as a farewell, 
since Walters was about to leave for 
10 weeks for a training session. 
The pair did not anticipate the add-
ed company of a 7-foot-long rowdy 
reptile. 
“After 30 minutes of being there, 
we were just enjoying ourselves and 
even watched a few baby gators play.But out of nowhere, a big gator made 
a beeline for us from the water,” Forte 
said. 
As the gator approached, the cou-
ple backed away from their picnic un-
aware of what it was going to do. Im-
mediately, it went for the duo’s food. 
“The gator went up to our food, 
grabbed the block of cheese, threw it 
up in the air and then ate it in one go,” 
Forte said.  
After gulping down the cheese, she 
said the alligator consumed their wa-
termelon, grapes, salami and an entire 
bowl of guacamole. 
The couple both grew up in Florida 
and were aware of the alligators in the 
lake because of their frequent visits, 
but they never experienced something 
like this before, Forte said. 
“It acted like a dog,” she said. “I’ve 
never seen a gator act like this.”
William Properzio, director of en-
vironmental health and safety at UF, wrote in an email that April through 
June is primary alligator mating sea-
son, and there is generally more activ-
ity during this time of the year. 
UF is not aware of any alligator and 
human encounters on campus since 
the 1980s. During that time, small 
offshore islands were constructed in 
Lake Alice, providing them with an 
area to gather that is off the shoreline, 
Properzio said. The university works with the state 
wildlife ofﬁ  cials to relocate any large 
alligators that are coming to shore, 
but he is not aware of what action has 
been taken with respect to this particu-
lar animal, Properzio said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgLake Alice alligator takes a chomp at couple’s picnic
Courtesy of T aylor Forte
T aylor Forte, a 21-year-old UF civil engineering senior, prepared a 
picnic with her ﬁ  ancé, Trevor Walters, last Thursday evening (top-
right). After about 30 minutes, an alligator came out of Lake Alice and 
consumed their entire set up (above).
By CURT ANDERSON
 and 
TERRY SPENCER 
Associated Press
The Florida deputy who knew 
a gunman was loose at the Park-
land high school but refused to 
go inside to confront the assailant 
was arrested Tuesday on 11 crimi-
nal charges related to his inaction 
during the massacre that killed 17 
people.
Scot Peterson was on duty as 
the resource ofﬁ  cer at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School 
on the day of the February 2018 
shooting but never entered the 
building while bullets were ﬂ  ying. He was charged with child neglect, 
culpable negligence and perjury — 
allegations that carry a maximum 
prison sentence of nearly 100 
years.
Peterson was seen on surveil-
lance video rushing with two 
staff members toward the build-
ing where the shooting happened. 
When they arrived, he pulled his 
weapon and went forward but 
then retreated and took up a posi-
tion outside, where he stood with 
his gun drawn.
The charges follow a 14-month 
investigation by the Florida De-
partment of Law Enforcement, 
which conducted interviews with 
184 witnesses, reviewed hours of surveillance videos and compiled 
212 investigative reports, the agen-
cy said.
Peterson “did absolutely noth-
ing to mitigate” the shooting, FDLE 
Commissioner Rick Swearingen 
said in a statement. “There can be 
no excuse for his complete inac-
tion and no question that his inac-
tion cost lives.”
Peterson, 56, was jailed on 
$102,000 bail. If released, he will 
be required to wear a GPS moni-
tor and surrender his passport and 
will be prohibited from possessing 
a gun, the prosecutor said.
Read the whole story online at 
iﬂ  a.news/deputychargedParkland deputy faces heavy charges 
Courtesy of T aylor ForteTHURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THE INITIATIVE WILL 
WAIVE COLLECTION FEES 
ON TRAFFIC FEES AND 
COURT COSTS
By Meagan DiPolo
Alligator Staff
Picture this: you get a trafﬁ  c tick-
et. You can’t pay it off, so there’s a 
late fee. You can’t pay the late fee, so 
there’s a collection fee. You deﬁ  nite-
ly can’t afford it now, so your license 
gets suspended.
What options do you have?
A new Alachua County program, Project Fresh Start, may help. 
The initiative will waive collec-
tion fees on trafﬁ  c and court costs 
and coincide with a driver’s license 
clinic for those who need to get their 
licences restored.
From June 10-14, residents can 
call or go to either of the two court-
houses  — located at 220 S. Main St. 
and 201 E. University Ave. — to pay 
their ﬁ  nes. J.K. Irby, Alachua County 
Clerk of the Court, said the aim is to 
help those who need a hand.
“It is an opportunity for folks who 
have fallen behind in court costs to 
go ahead and get those taken care of,” Irby said. “It’s the clerk’s ofﬁ  ce 
trying to help some folks clear off 
some past debts of court obligations 
that may be holding them back.”
Only collection fees, which oc-
cur after a payment has not been 
made within a 90-day period, will be 
waived — late fees will not be, Irby 
said. 
According to the clerk’s ofﬁ  ce, 
there are thousands of outstanding 
collection fees.
Collection fees are 30 percent of 
the ticket price for civil trafﬁ  c cita-
tions and 35 percent of the ticket for 
criminal trafﬁ  c citations, according to the clerk’s ofﬁ  ce.
In the same week, the clerk’s of-
ﬁ  ce will host a driver’s license clinic 
on June 13, in which residents with 
suspended licenses can make a plan 
to get their license restored.
Irby said the ofﬁ  ce is looking to 
help the entire community including 
those whose drivers licenses were 
suspended due to unpaid trafﬁ  c tick-
ets.
While the clinic may happen 
again, Irby said the community 
should not count on it being an an-
nual event.
Courtney Rouse, a 25-year-old 
Gainesville resident of four years, 
said she agrees with giving second 
chances to those who cannot afford 
the collection fee.“In the end, the tickets are there 
to make us safer,” Rouse said. “But if 
they make people worry about their 
income and license, it’s not really 
helping.”
Ripley Olmstead, a 20-year-old 
UF anthropology sophomore, thinks 
the initiative is a step in the right di-
rection in breaking the cycle of mon-
etary penalties those in poverty face. 
Vicious cycles of poverty result from 
a lot more factors than these fees, 
though, Olmstead said.
“I’d like to see this kind of 
program on a much larger scale,” 
Olmstead said. “For long-term 
change, there needs to be larger 
impacts.” 
@MeaganDiPolo
mdipolo@alligator.orgCounty program to waive collection feesTHE PROGRAM 
TEACHES BOTH 
BASKETBALL DRILLS 
AND LIFE SKILLS
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
A local Gainesville summer 
camp has been keeping children 
out of trouble and on the courts 
for over a decade. 
Over 600 children ages 9-18 
will learn about life and layups 
at Gainesville’s Summer Heat-
wave basketball program, said 
Guillermo Chacon, Heatwave’s 
recreational leader in charge of 
athletics.
Since the program was 
founded 11 years ago, it has 
helped reduce the juvenile 
crime rate by 68 percent during the summer, Chacon said. 
According to Chacon, the 
program emphasizes both bas-
ketball and life skills. While 
teams train and compete against 
one another, they also learn 
how to work together and indi-
vidually to maintain their good 
character, he said. 
“The goal is to provide chil-
dren with the opportunity to 
participate in structured, coordi-
nated activities in the gym, not 
the streets,” Chacon said.
During the program, partici-
pants learn about the “Six Pillars 
of Character,” which are created 
by the educational program 
Character Counts. These pillars 
are trustworthiness, respect, re-
sponsibility, fairness, caring and 
citizenship, Chacon said.
Last summer, 627 children 
participated in the program, and this year, organizers anticipate 
meeting that number or even 
surpassing it, Chacon said. Gen-
dered and coed teams meet at 
both the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Recreation Center and Abraham 
Lincoln Middle School.
Over the years, Chacon has 
noticed a tangible impact this 
program has on both the youths 
themselves and the community 
as a whole. 
Though this free program 
costs the city $104.75 per child, 
the cost to incarcerate a young 
person is $219 per day. Not only 
are kids kept out of trouble, the 
city saves money in the long 
run, Chacon said. 
To Chacon, the most reward-
ing experience is getting to see 
children who have participated 
in the program for several years 
continue to learn and grow.“It’s nice to see that they’re 
staying on course and on the 
right track,” Chacon said. 
Nick Margjoni, the head bas-
ketball coach for Bronson team, 
said he played basketball as a 
kid and knows how rewarding 
it can be. Since the school he 
coaches for is very small, and 
he often has difﬁ  culty locating 
leagues for them to play in, he 
said he is grateful for the op-
portunity to participate in Heat-
wave this summer. 
“It’s very well organized. All 
of the kids love it. And it keeps 
them out of trouble,” Margjoni 
said. “It’s an awesome environ-
ment. I couldn’t ask for a better 
league to play in.”
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgHeatwave basketball program keeps Gainesville youth active during summer
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE VISITED THE RESIDENCE AT 
LEAST FOUR TIMES, ACCORDING 
TO A POLICE REPORT  
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce depu-
ties put a May mystery to rest Monday 
after arresting a Hawthorne man for 
burglarizing a residence on at least four 
separate occasions.
Deputies responded to a call about a 
suspected burglary May 22. The owner 
of the residence returned home to ﬁ  nd 
all of his doors unlocked. Deputies dis-
covered boards covering a hole in a wall 
that once held a water heater had been 
removed, according to the police report.
Douglas Atkinson, 64, was caught on 
a remote camera, which is used for track-
ing game and installed by the owner of 
the home, entering the house through 
the hole. Review of further footage re-
vealed Atkinson entering the home on 
three other occasions, once May 16 and 
twice May 20, according to the report.Atkinson could be 
seen taking a stainless 
steel sink, pieces of ply-
wood and a television 
throughout the footage.
After conducting 
a pawn shop history 
search, deputies found 
Atkinson pawned a 
chainsaw April 27. 
While shown in his footage, the home-
owner conﬁ  rmed the chainsaw was also 
taken from his residence, according to 
the report. 
Law enforcement arrested Atkinson 
at his home where the sink and televi-
sion were recovered. Atkinson denied 
ever taking the chainsaw that led to his 
arrest.
Atkinson was charged with burglary, 
fraud, dealing in stolen property and lar-
ceny. Atkinson was released on bail as 
of Wednesday. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgHawthorne man arrested for 
repeatedly burglarizing of home
SHE GAVE A FALSE NAME TO 
OFFICERS DURING ARREST
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies 
arrested an Ocala woman after a rou-
tine patrol late Tuesday night turned up 
a stolen vehicle from Marion County.
Deputy Frank Atiles patrolled the in-
tersection of Southeast Eighth Avenue 
and Southeast Hawthorne Road when 
he noticed a blue 2005 Mercury Grand 
Marquis driving east, according to the 
arrest report. 
When he ran the tag number, Deputy 
Atiles found the car was reported stolen 
on Monday. He followed the car, which 
turned around and started driving west, 
down Hawthorne Road, according to 
the report.
When Latonia Rhodes, 43, stopped 
the car at 33 NE 22nd St., Deputy Atiles 
turned on his emergency lights. In ad-dition to Rhodes, there 
was another person 
in the vehicle. Atiles 
asked Rhodes and the 
passenger to remain 
inside while waiting 
for additional deputies 
to arrive on the scene.
Rhodes was ar-
rested and charged with grand theft of 
a motor vehicle. No charges were ﬁ  led 
against the passenger, according to the 
report. 
Upon booking at the jail, it was re-
vealed Rhodes gave a false name of De-
nise Leavings to law enforcement at the 
scene of the incident. The documents 
regarding the arrest had to be changed, 
and she was additionally charged with 
giving a false ID.
Rhodes remains in Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $20,000 bond.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgOcala woman arrested in 
Gainesville for stolen vehicle
Atkinson
 Rhodes
Kelly Hayes / Alligator Staff
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnColumn
There seems to be a lot of plagiarism in 
Student Government, eh? It’s almost as 
if there’s this whole entire environment 
ﬁ  lled with people who don’t care about 
the rules.
Remember Andrew Lo? He was a College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences senator from the ma-
jority party who did a lot for… Um… No one. 
Last year, Lo was tapped to become the head 
of Action SG, the executive branch agency that 
runs SG’s social media. Naturally, he was one of 
the few nominations the minority party contested because 
he ﬂ  at out didn’t have any qualiﬁ  cations beyond being 
already involved as a senator.  
Flash forward ﬁ  ve months. The Fall 2018 Alligator 
Editorial Board asked the majority party why the SG Face-
book page wasn’t promoting elections. In the endorse-
ment of the minority party, the Board wrote, “Impact, as 
the majority party, has failed to take a leadership role in 
actively promoting elections on social media, especially 
Facebook.” 
Oops. I wonder who was running the social media. 
Maybe Lo was busy at a poncho party instead (yes Lo, 
the social media maven, indeed had a cover photo on his 
Facebook proﬁ  le of him in a fake mustache, colorful pon-
cho and sombrero with his bros which looks eerily similar 
to the one taken at FSU that was posted with the caption, 
“We don’t pay cover or taxes”).
But this is a column about plagiarism after all so let’s 
talk about some shady stuff.
I am pretty sure Lo was a reject for the Student Body Treasurer position, which is why he found 
himself the consolation prize of running 
Student Government’s social media instead. 
Thrust into this position, I believe he stole 
much of the language in his application from 
the application of his predecessor.
His predecessor wrote, “The Directors of 
Graphic Design are responsible for collaborat-
ing with the Vice Chair of Design to create 
strong visual content meant to strengthen the 
Student Government brand.” 
Lo wrote, “The directors of Graphic Design is (sic) re-
sponsible for working together with the Vice Chair of Vi-
sion to create creative and strong visual content with the 
purpose of engaging students on up to date information 
going on through campus and maintaining a strong SG 
brand.”
In another place, Lo’s predecessor wrote, “The Director 
of Logistics will be responsible for helping with the day-to-
day operations of Action SG and assisting the Chairperson 
with administrative duties.” 
Lo wrote, “The Director of Logistics will be responsible 
with maintaining and assisting with operations within Ac-
tion SG as well as administrative duties of the Chairper-
son.”
There are mountains more, but you get the point. 
I’ll miss Lo. Never saw him around, but I’ll miss him.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His 
column appears on Thursdays. For months, I remember coming home 
from elementary school and excitedly 
turning on the television each night to 
hear the same opening words, “Bomb-
shell in the courtroom.” Nancy Grace 
was covering the 2011 trial of Casey Anthony, 
and I (like the rest of America) sat glued to the 
television screen eating up every detail.
While my love for true crime may have 
sprouted at the young, ripe age of 8, many oth-
ers ﬁ  nd themselves drawn to the genre at some 
point. True crime has engrossed millions of people around 
the globe in a seemingly recent trend. Evidenced by the 
popularity of shows such as “Making a Murderer,” “The 
Ted Bundy Tapes” and “Forensic Files.” However, true 
crime has enamored people since the 16th century. 
But why are we so drawn to these stories of real-life 
crime? On the most basic level, it taps into our innate in-
terest of the disturbing and dark. But looking deeper, there 
are several other reasons we may be fascinated with true 
crime. 
Women constitute a large percentage of those interest-
ed in true crime. As a woman, I think this is likely because 
women, knowingly or not, watch true crime as a preven-
tative measure. We listen to case after case, learning the 
techniques of killers and what to look out for so one day 
we won’t become a victim. Another reason is often, wom-
en can relate to the victims. 
According to Dr. Howard Forman, forensic psychia-
trist, women have a greater ability to empathize than men. 
“That may lead to true crime being more interesting to 
women than men, simply because if you empathize more with the victim, it may be more relevant to you 
and more gripping,” said Forman.
The main argument against true crime as 
a genre of entertainment is that it gloriﬁ  es the 
perpetrators while disrespecting their victims. 
I will not deny that true crime has led to the 
celebrity status of some killers. Serial murder-
ers Ted Bundy, Charles Manson and Jeffrey 
Dahmer have all become household names. 
But knowing their names and glorifying them 
is two different things. All of these men com-
mitted abnormally horrendous crimes that shocked the 
country, thus leading to their name-recognition.
The problem isn’t learning who these men are and the 
crimes they committed, it’s when this knowledge turns 
into gloriﬁ  cation. A prime example of this is recent ﬁ  lms 
released regarding Bundy. The Netﬂ  ix documentary se-
ries, “Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes,” 
is factual. It gave viewers a look inside the mind of this 
killer while still showing the real-life effect Bundy’s ac-
tions had on his victims and others. 
However, a ﬁ  lm like “Extremely Wicked, Shockingly 
Evil and Vile,” starring Zac Efron, is an example of glorify-
ing the killer. This ﬁ  lm is a dramatized version of events 
that idolize Bundy. The ﬁ  lm is essentially a courtroom 
drama, redirecting the focus from Bundy’s victims and 
horrendous acts, to his own personal struggle of being on 
trial.
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Thursdays. Read the rest of her column online 
at alligator.org/opinion. 
Plagiarism in Student Government, part 3Is our obsession with true crime ethical?Your one class of the day is ﬁ  nally done. Of course, the sky 
is dumping water down like the ground is on ﬁ  re. “It’s just wa-
ter. Stop being overdramatic,” you tell yourself. The impatient 
energy gets to you. It’s time to run. You push off the wet ﬂ  oor, 
but there is no traction. You slip and hit your head. You stare 
up in the sky and instead of stars you see...
Darts & Laurels
Almost 20 million Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp 
customers’ personal information may have been ac-
cessed through a cyberattack on its billing company, 
American Medical Collection Agency. From Aug. 1 to 
March 20, hackers had access to the information. We 
are giving a dart to the hacking as it put 11.9 million Quest 
Diagnostics and 7.7 million LabCorp patients’ information at 
risk. On Monday, Quest Diagnostics disclosed the cyber at-
tack in its Securities and Exchange Commission ﬁ  ling. The day 
after Quest Diagnostics rang in the bad news, LabCorp said, 
‘yeah...me too.’ For LabCorp, about 200,000 customers’ bank 
account and credit card information was stolen. Luckily, no 
medical data or laboratory results were compromised.  
The number of vaccinated UF students conﬁ  rmed to have 
the mumps is up to 24. We are giving a dart to the outbreak 
that has plagued Alachua County. It is important not to share 
drinks, utensils or kisses during this testing time as the viral 
disease can be spread through saliva. It seems safe to say a 
night out at Midtown could be even more of a hazard zone 
than it usually is with spare cups/straws everywhere and peo-
ple just standing around the corner ready to kiss you. Stay safe 
out there by throwing your cups away so no one accidentally 
drinks it, and keep your French kisses to yourself. 
On Saturday, the world said goodbye to a culinary legend: 
Leah Chase. Known as the Queen of Creole Cuisine, Chase 
was an author, television personality and owner of Dooky 
Chase, one of the only New Orleans public places where Afri-
can Americans could rendezvous and talk civil rights strategy 
during the 1960s. We are giving Chase a laurel not only for 
her life’s achievements but also because through her restau-
rant, she created a safe place for the black community in New 
Orleans. In 2010, Chase was inducted into the James Beard 
Foundation’s Who’s Who of Food & Beverage in America, 
which is essentially the hall of fame of food. She died at the 
age of 96. 
The House passed a bill on Tuesday potentially creating 
a path to citizenship for Dreamers. We are giving a laurel to 
the legislation as it would provide U.S. residents brought to 
the country as children an opportunity to gain citizenship to 
a country many of them have always called home. Almost all 
Democrats voted in favor of the bill along with seven Repub-
licans. If the bill passes the Senate, nearly 2.3 million undocu-
mented citizens who came to the U.S. as children would be eli-
gible for legal status. Unfortunately, the Republican-majority 
Senate will probably not pass the bill or the president will veto 
it. On Monday, the White House Ofﬁ  ce of Management and 
Budget brought up concerns the legislation would increase the 
deﬁ  cits and “only exacerbate illegal immigration.”
Lastly, we are giving a laurel in respect to the 12 victims 
of the Virginia Beach shooting. On Friday, DeWayne Craddock 
went from one room to the next, fatally shooting a dozen peo-
ple in the city’s municipal building. Five others were injured. 
According to CNN, all but one of the victims were Virginia 
Beach city employees. On Wednesday night, the Associated 
Press reported police were not able at one point to enter the 
building and confront the shooter because they did not have 
the key card required to open the second ﬂ  oor doors. Crad-
dock had been a city employee for the past 15 years. He had a 
security pass. He also used a silencer and high-capacity maga-
zine. Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam is calling for “votes and 
laws, not thoughts and prayers.” Rightfully so. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Cassidy Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
‘Hell in Paradise’
Check out our review of Arrows in Action’s new EP .  
pg. 8Restaurants join forces for something ‘Greater’
Read about the annual fundraiser that unites local restaurant 
competitors in raising money for charities. pg. 8
Local rapper says “put the guns down”
Pastor Karl Anderson (left), 45, leads a prayer for Marsha 
Simmons (right) Monday night during a vigil against gun 
violence at Depot Park. The vigil was held as part of a 
music video shoot for Greenlee’s (middle) song “Put the 
Guns Down. ” Simmons’ son, Craig Brewer, was killed April 
7 while paying for customers’ meals at the Wafﬂ  e House 
on 7611 W. Newberry Road. “I want everybody to know 
gun violence is not the answer, ” Simmons said. “I lost my 
son at the Wafﬂ  e House. I haven’t been the same since. ” 
Nytrell Greenlee, 29, stands in front of a gathered 
group of family and friends while ﬁ  lming his “Put 
the Guns Down” music video. The crowd amassed 
behind him includes loved ones of local gun 
violence victims. Lyrics to Greenlee’s song include 
“please put the guns down” and “don’t wanna see 
your momma cry. ” In Alachua County, there have 
been 51 incidents and seven deaths from guns in 
2019, according to the Gun Violence Archive.Photos by Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Greenlee acts out pointing a gun to the camera 
while ﬁ  lming the music video for his song “Put 
the Guns Down. ” Greenlee, an Archer resident,  
said he wrote the song around the time that 
Brewer was killed and rapper Nipsey Hussle 
was shot and killed in Los Angeles. “You see [gun 
violence] outside of Gainesville, ” he said. “But 
once it hits home, I feel like it’s time to take a 
stand against it. ” 
Nytrell Greenlee leads the vigil participants on a walk through Depot 
Park as part of his music video Monday night. He said he has always 
been musically inclined and wanted to create a song regarding gun 
violence. “I see this happening and I just feel like I need to make 
something positive out of it, ” Greenlee said. 8  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
THE RECENTL Y RELEASED EP
IS THE START OF A
NEW MUSICAL ERA FOR 
GAINESVILLE’S 
ARROWS IN ACTION
Nick Hudson
Alligator Staff Writer
This week, we had reassurance that 
pop-rock is, in fact, not dead.
Gainesville pop-rock band Arrows in 
Action released their third EP, “Hell in 
Paradise,” on Friday.
The new record marks a shift in the 
style and tone of their music as they be-
come a more experienced and polished 
band.
Victor Viramontes-Pattison, the 
band’s vocalist and rhythm guitarist, 
said the band decided to simplify and 
focus on expanding their music to new 
audiences.
“Going into the ‘Hell in Paradise’ EP, we dropped anything unnecessary,” 
Viramontes-Pattison said. “We started 
focusing hard on what we wanted to 
do, how to promote it, how to shop it 
around to people and how to get it out to 
as many people as possible.”
The EP also introduces two new 
members, with guitarist Matt Fowler and 
bassist Tony Farah joining Viramontes-
Pattison and drummer Jesse Frimmel.
Arrows in Action have a record-
ing philosophy of no B-sides, meaning 
each song should be able to stand on its 
own as if it were a single. Every song 
on “Hell in Paradise,” being well-crafted 
and capable of standing up to scrutiny, 
achieves this goal.
The entire EP has high energy and 
a consistent fast tempo. Regardless of 
whether you are playing the EP straight 
through or on shufﬂ  e, the songs ﬁ  t seam-
lessly together.
The songs are more focused on mel-
ody than lyrics. Moving away from lyri-cally driven music is the greatest depar-
ture from Arrows in Action’s earlier EPs.
It is very difﬁ  cult to pinpoint what the 
best song on the EP is as each piece has 
its place on the record. 
That being said, “Chasing Rhymes” is 
a standout song because it deviates from 
the structure of the rest of the record. It 
is lighter than the other songs and has 
a heavier focus on the lyrics. “Chasing 
Rhymes” references Arrows in Action’s 
lyric-focused earlier records while still 
maintaining the newfound musical 
depth found throughout the rest of “Hell 
in Paradise.”
If you are looking to relive the glory 
days of pop-rock, then this is a fantastic 
EP to pick up. 
“Hell in Paradise” is available for pur-
chase and download on Spotify, iTunes 
and on Arrows in Action’s Bandcamp.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.org‘Hell in Paradise’: a refreshing take on pop-rock
MUSIC
THE ANNUAL FUNDRAISER HAS 
DONATED MORE THAN
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS TO
GAINESVILLE CHARITIES
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s not every day business owners get 
cozy with the competition. However, this 
Sunday at the O’Connell Center, more than 
40 of Gainesville’s staple restaurants are 
coming together for a larger purpose. 
Charity organization Taste of Greater 
Gainesville is the reason behind this friendly 
gathering of Gainesville’s favorite eats.
Since 2009, the organization has host-
ed a fundraiser, also of the same name, to 
raise money and awareness for children’s 
charities. Local vendors like Vale Food Co., Swamp Head Brewery, Metro Diner and 
Dragonﬂ  y Sushi serve signature food and 
drinks to the event’s attendees.
DJ Hood, managing partner at Metro 
Diner, believes supporting causes that the 
community cares about is a win-win for ev-
erybody. 
“I like to get involved with things that are 
important to my guests,” Hood said. “Wher-
ever we can help out and do things, I think 
that’s a plus.”
Tasting mouth-watering food and drink-
ing cold ones isn’t the only thing you should 
expect at the Taster of Greater Gainesville. 
The event also includes a silent auction and 
an iron chef competition. 
Local chefs will go head-to-head and cook 
their best dishes, which will be scored by 
celebrity judges. Angie Shaghaghi,who ap-
peared on Food Network’s “Chopped,” will 
be there to judge. For eight years, the organization has do-
nated more than $500,000 to charities, ac-
cording to its website. 
This year, the money raised will beneﬁ  t 
Child Advocacy Center of Gainesville, Tyler’s 
Hope for a Dystonia Cure, PACE Center for 
Girls Alachua and Ronald McDonald House 
Charities of North Central Florida.
Regular admission tickets cost $125, and 
VIP tickets, which let you skip lines to sam-
ple foods, cost $175. You can purchase the 
tickets and become an event sponsor online.
For those that want to give back and enjoy 
the event but don’t quite have the funds, you 
can volunteer at Taste of Greater Gainesville 
for free admission. For more information, 
visit Taste of Greater Gainesville’s volunteer 
sign up online. 
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comRestaurants join forces for something ‘Greater’
FOODBrittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Six days out of the week, Amy Barup hap-
pily drives an hour from Ocala to Gainesville 
to take her son Tucker Gokey to his dance 
lessons at Pofahl Studios. 
Gokey, 13, and other students at Pofahl 
Studios, ages 3 to 18, showed their skills at 
the end-of-the-year recital Sunday with their 
rendition of  “The Little Mermaid” at the Cur-
tis M. Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
At 6 p.m., a hush spread through the 
crowd of 597 people as the red curtains rose 
to reveal a projection of the underwater castle 
from the original Disney ﬁ  lm. Barup had been 
in the audience for about an hour.
“It’s very exciting to see [Tucker’s] pro-
gression throughout the school year,” Barup 
said before the show.
Pofahl Studios co-owner Judy Skinner, 74, 
said the annual recital has been a tradition 
since 1957, a year after her mother, Mary El-len Pofahl, founded the studio. Now, Skinner 
and her sister, Kim Tuttle, run it.  This year’s 
show has been in the works since January.
The show started strong with the inter-
mediate and advanced jazz class performing 
“Under the Sea.” The dancers ﬂ  ew across the 
stage in Hawaiian shirts and straw hats.
Parents’ phones were glued to their hands 
snapping photos and videos of the dancers 
on stage.
Seniors, performing with the studio for 
the last time, had solo parts in the show. Al-
though not a senior, Tucker performed a solo 
as well. He played the crab advisor to Ariel, 
Sebastian, in the show, but his dance was 
anything but crabby. In a bright red bodysuit, 
he gracefully leaped across the stage doing 
a rapid succession of pirouettes and ﬂ  ips,  
which was recieved with an eruption of 
whoops and cheers from the audience.
At the end of the ﬁ  rst act, Ursula, played 
by the 18-year-old Kennedy Monroe, stormed 
the stage like a deranged empress. The senior recently graduated from PK Yonge Develop-
mental Research School. She has been danc-
ing since age 3 and started at Pofahl in 2013. 
At the end of the performance, Skinner, 
also a director at Pofahl Studios, gave pres-
ents out to the seniors and scholarships to 
Pofahl Studio to students. 
“I was absolutely delighted, and I think 
all of the kids felt good about how they per-
formed that night,” she said. 
Overall, the night was a bittersweet mo-
ment for Monroe as she cried and hugged 
her friends goodbye. Monroe was leaving the 
next morning for a ﬂ  ight to Louisiana as she 
planned to attend Louisiana State University 
in the Fall as a psychology major.
“The people at the studio are my clos-
est friends,” Monroe said. “They are like a 
second family to me, so it’ll be hard to leave 
them.” 
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.orgPofhal Studios Presents ‘The Little Mermaid’
CIVIC MEDIA CENTER WILL 
HOST FIRST LGBTQIA FOCUSED 
KARAOKE EVENT FRIDAY
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
Starting at 9 p.m on Friday, the Civic 
Media Center will be opening its stage to 
anyone who would like to sing. It only has 
one rule.
“Sing any song you want, just no songs 
that are sexist, transphobic or hurtful in 
any way,” said Em Arnold, a recent UF 
alumni and coordinator of the event.
The event, located at 433 S. Main St., 
is free to all, but donations and tips are 
suggested. Participants are encouraged 
to bring an instrument to play with their 
songs. 
Manu Osorio, a board member of the 
center, said the idea was created by a 
group of karaoke-loving friends who saw 
opportunity for an inclusive karaoke night.
“We wanted a karaoke night that was 
hosted by queer people for local queer 
friends,” Osorio said. 
The event offers the local LGBTQIA 
community an opportunity to meet other 
queer people in a different type of setting.
“You can come, be yourself and be ac-
cepted,” Arnold said. “Make friends and 
have a blast without the fear of being mis-
gendered or running into any other prob-
lems.”
Arnold and Osorio look forward to 
making this a regular event on the ﬁ  rst Fri-
day of every month.
“It is important for us to make these 
events public to be able to attract queer 
folks that haven’t yet become involved in 
the community,” Osorio said.
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduCelebrate pride 
with Queeraoke
NIGHTLIFEChris King/ Alligator Staff
Arrows in Action lead singer and guitarist Victor 
Viramontes-Pattison entertains the crowd onstage at 
Jacks Rabbit in Jacksonville.
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDONLY 4 LEFT...1/1's Available for UF 
Students for the Fall! Quiet student com-
munity on Archer. $865-$900 includes water, 
gas, basic cable and Internet. Call Erika at 
352-373-2700      6-6-19-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your 
church need pews, pulpit set, 
baptistery,steeple, windows? Big 
Sale on new cushioned pews and 
pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com                         6-06-2-10
Honda EU7000is 7000w Inverter
Generator 120/240v, 
18 hours. never an issue. $800! Contact: 
7864924736     6-6-19-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through adver-
tising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal informa-
tion or arranging meetings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1050/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard,
large closets, pets welcome, no application
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100        8-13-19-24-2
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 ACCOUNTING RESEARCH ASSISTANT/
FULL AND PART TIME
Join our exciting, fast-paced Content 
Production team and assist with writing, edit-
ing, and publishing the best review and study 
materials available. Our Content Production 
Department crafts the products that the 
rest of the departments support. Content 
Production is dedicated to providing our cus-
tomers the most up-to-date knowledge trans-
fer systems. Many of our team members are 
students and from the University of Florida, 
Santa Fe College, and Embry Riddle. We of-
fer an engaging, challenging work environ -
ment; flexible schedules; great benefits; ca-
sual dress; and a positive work environment. 
Drug test and background check conducted 
when job offer is extended.
DESCRIPTION:
Perform customer support through emails. 
Critical reading, editing and research are ad-
ditional responsibilities. This is an ideal po-
sition for new accounting graduates looking 
for full time while they study for the CPA or 
accounting students that would like to learn 
while they earn. We have a great success 
rate of ARA's who pass the CPA on the first 
try. Assist with special projects, as needed. 
Miscellaneous other duties as needed.
Perfect for graduating students who are 
looking for full time work and want to work 
in Gainesville for the next year or accounting 
students that are in their fourth or fifth year of 
study and can work at least 15 hours a week. 
Students will receive $14.00/hr during the 
training period, $15.00/hr upon completion 
and $16.00 after successful completion of 
the 90 day period.
REQUIREMENTS
● Must be able to work on-site in Gainesville, 
Florida.
● Typing 40+ wpm.
● 4th or 5th year Accounting student that 
has taken auditing and tax classes or is in 
the process of starting auditing and tax or are 
graduating. 
● 3.0+ GPA.
● Must be available at least 15 hours per 
week. Full time is available during the sum-
mer or throughout the year. 
● Able to work in a library environment.
Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    
6-6-19-4-14
OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-20-19-
12-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Hey! You with the face! Recycle this news -
paper when you’re done reading it! Thanks.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Time to sell your Nintendo Wii? Your bass 
guitar? Looking to buy one? Check out the 
For Sale section for great results. Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      6-6-
1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Did you know? Modern brunch was first pro-
posed in 1895 as a post-hangover meal.
1.  Money, resources 
1.  Jimmy or Nancy5.  Madagascar native
2.  Colorless gas6.  More recent
3.  Pitcher 7.  Holy
4.  Visited, exploredAEWHLT
KLEAWRMULER
WEERN
ANIMAOM
OTHEWRRRADSCE
RUDTEOANSWERS: 1A-Wealth  5A-Lemur  6A-Newer  7A-Sacred
1D-Walker  2D-Ammonia  3D-Thrower  4D-Toured  B-South Korea6-6-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is about the same size
as England (land area). BONUS1. Name the last Cy Young Award 
winner to also be on a World 
Series-winning team in the same year.
2. Who was the first Texas Ranger to 
win the A.L. MVP Award?
3. When was the last time before 
2017 that the University of Georgia’s 
football team won an SEC champion-
ship?
4. Who was the last player before 
New Orleans’ Anthony Davis in 2016 
to start a season with back-to-back 
games of 40 or more points?
5. Name the center in the Buffalo 
Sabres’ famed “French Connection” 
line of the 1970s.
6. Chevrolet drivers have won sev-
en consecutive poles at NASCAR’s 
Daytona 500. Who was the first of the 
seven to do it?
7. How many pro bouts did Hall of 
Fame boxer Sugar Ray Leonard win 
before suffering his first defeat?
Answers
1. Randy Johnson, with Arizona in 
2001.
2. Outfielder Jeff Burroughs, in 
1974.
3. It was 2005.
4. Michael Jordan did it in 1986.
5. Gilbert Perreault.
6. Danica Patrick, in 2013. 
7. He had 27 pro victories.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
June 3, 2019King Features Weekly Service
By Stu Ockman
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/06/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/06/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, June 6, 2019
ACROSS
1 Fourth of eight
5 Classic Pontiacs
9 “Shrek” ogress
14 Colorado-based 
sports org.
15 Boomers’ 
lobbying group
16 Equally hot
17 Ousted Iranian
18 Flat-package 
furniture retailer
19 Me.-to-Fla. 
highway
20 Greek
22 Rarely used 
antonym of 
harmless
24 Serve as a 
foundation for
26 Text titter
27 Grab the tab
28 Quick, 
speculative stock 
transaction
33 Rarely used 
antonym of 
disheveled
36 Jorge’s hand
37 Nae sayer
38 Mets’ div.
39 Rarely used 
antonym of 
unidentified
42 Inc. cousin
43 Bullring bravos
45 Time line units
46 Rarely used 
antonym of 
crude
48 Entrée topped 
with pineapple 
rings
50 Tuna holder
51 Fizzy prefix
52 Sticker on 
organic produce
57 Rarely used 
antonym of cruel
61 American Girl 
product
62 Very, in music
63 British peer
65 Rossini’s “Largo 
al factotum,” e.g.
66 Blown away
67 Pinch at the 
table
68 Space
69 Small songbirds
70 Dash gadget
71 “¿Cómo __ 
usted?”DOWN
1 __ pork: Asian 
dish
2 Pale with fright
3 Wonka creator 
Dahl
4 Drag
5 Rarely used 
antonym of 
bumbling
6 “Star Trek” actor
7 Vein glory?
8 Life time
9 Tap
10 Publishers, e.g.
11 Melville novel
12 Half an Orkan 
farewell
13 Fruity drinks
21 Poet’s muse
23 “Such a tease!”
25 Sushi bar finger 
food
29 Years in  
España
30 Gp. with a “Know 
Your Rights” web 
page
31 Simpleton
32 Sharply outline
33 Gearshift topper
34 Scat legend 
Fitzgerald
35 Submissive36 Vidal’s 
Breckinridge
40 India’s first prime 
minister
41 Like the skin of 
most fish
44 Seattle NFLer
47 How some risks 
are taken
49 Goes against
50 Rarely used 
antonym of 
friendliness53 PC key combo 
for “copy”
54 New York 
City divisions, 
informally
55 “The Waste 
Land” poet
56 Peruvian grazer
57 Amtrak track
58 Annapolis inst.
59 Ruler until 1917
60 “__ we forget”
64 Battery size
By Parikshit S. Bhat
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/05/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/05/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, June 5, 2019
ACROSS
1 MSNBC analyst 
Melber
4 Olds Cutlass 
model
9 Garbage boats
14 Airport shuttle
15 Up to this point
16 Deck with the 
Fool and the 
World
17 Make sense of
19 Yoga pose
20 Many a coast-to-
coast journey
22 Be concerned
23 Burr and 
Hamilton, e.g.
26 2008 Ridley Scott 
film set in the 
Middle East
31 Prefix with scope
32 Symbols in email 
addresses
33 Fishing 
equipment
34 Ryegrass 
disease
35 Reassuring reply 
to “You don’t look 
well”
38 Cal. sequence
41 Indigenous 
Japanese
42 Took in
45 Neighborhood
46 Championship in 
a ring
49 Party popper
51 Invasive plant
52 Influential in a big 
way ... and a hint 
to this puzzle’s 
circles
57 Goes after
59 Spanish estates
61 “Flashdance...
What a Feeling” 
singer Cara
62 Put in office
63 Increase, with 
“up”
64 Big name 
in wedding 
invitations
65 Med measures
66 Salty expanse
DOWN
1 Prefix for the 
birds
2 Went on a 
rampage
3 Plans (to)
4 Bit of TLC?5 “__ with my little 
eye ... ”
6 “Reader, I 
married him” 
governess
7 Coral environs
8 British prime 
minister after 
WWII
9 __ whisper
10 Soft wool
11 Holding the floor
12 Got the gold
13 Many a stop: 
Abbr.
18 Jacuzzi effect
21 New 
officeholders
22 Deg. for a CEO
24 Old name of 
Tokyo
25 Drunk
27 German 
composer Carl
28 Payment for 
services
29 “To Kill a 
Mockingbird” 
novelist
30 __ ease: anxious
34 Plenty, in texts
35 Firenze native
36 Chick-__-A: fast-
food chain
37 Chemistry suffix38 Queen of folklore
39 __-la-la
40 Firmly 
established
42 Meeting 
handouts
43 When you’re 
“ahead of” it, 
you’re likely to 
succeed
44 JFK stat
46 Clog part
47 Made slow 
progress48 “Victory is  
mine!”
50 Many times
53 Divine circle
54 Killer serves
55 “Sweet!”
56 Understands
57 Shake a leg, 
quaintly
58 Immortal Notre 
Dame coach 
Parseghian
60 Place for a hot 
stone massage
06/04/1914 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida quarterback Feleipe 
Franks, who last played 
baseball in high school, was 
selected by the Boston Red Sox 
in the MLB Draft. Franks said 
he was "ﬂ  attered" in a release.Florida to face Charlotte in 2023
The UF football team has made the ﬁ  rst addition to its 2023 non-conference 
slate by scheduling a home game with the Charlotte 49ers of Conference 
USA. It will be the ﬁ  rst ever meeting between the two programs.BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The 2019 MLB Draft concluded on 
Wednesday after 40 rounds passed and over 
1,200 prospects were selected.
The Florida baseball team had four cur-
rent members selected in this year’s draft. 
Shortstop Brady McConnell, designated hit-
ter Nelson Maldonado, right-hander Tyler 
Dyson and left ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton were all 
picked up by Major League clubs.
McConnell went ﬁ  rst among all Florida 
prospects, getting selected by the Kansas 
City Royals with the 44th pick during the 
second round.
The sophomore was UF’s best hitter this 
season, leading the team in home runs (15) 
and hits (76).
McConnell will join former Gators Brady 
Singer and Jackson Kowar, who were both 
picked by the Royals in the ﬁ  rst round of the 
2018 MLB Draft.
Over the last three years, ﬁ  ve UF pitchers 
have gone in the ﬁ  rst round.
This year, Dyson was the ﬁ  rst Gator 
pitcher off the board when the Washington 
Nationals picked him on Tuesday in the ﬁ  fth 
round with the 153rd overall pick.
The junior had an up-and-down year, as 
he found himself outside of the weekend ro-
tation in April after beginning the year as the team’s main starter on the mound.
Dyson has a solid fastball and pitched 
well toward the end of the season, but his 
inconsistency hurt his draft stock.
Dalton, the 257th overall pick in the 
eighth round, was drafted by the Boston Red 
Sox.
The junior, who transferred to Florida 
from Columbia State Community College in 
Tennessee, had an impressive two years in 
Gainesville. He belted 27 homers in his time 
at UF to go along with 94 RBIs. He’ll join 
former Florida players Brian Johnson, Austin 
Maddox, Bobby Poyner and Josh Tobias in 
the Red Sox organization.
The last UF baseball player picked had his 
name called in the 21st round.
Maldonado is now a member of the Chi-
cago Cubs organization after being selected 
with the 642nd overall pick.
The senior captain had a decorated career 
at UF that included three trips to Omaha and 
a national championship.
This season, Maldonado had the best bat-
ting average on the team (.343) and a career-
high 10 long balls.
This year’s draft did have a surprise on 
Wednesday during the later rounds.
UF starting quarterback Feleipe Franks, 
who played baseball for Crawfordville High 
School in Florida, was selected by the Bos-
ton Red Sox in the 31st round with the 947th overall pick. 
“I’m ﬂ  attered the Red Sox picked me this 
afternoon,” Franks said in a release. “How-
ever, I’m living out my dream being the 
quarterback of the Florida Gators.”
This wasn’t the ﬁ  rst time the Red Sox 
have taken a chance on a Florida quarter-
back.During the 2013 MLB Draft, Boston 
picked former Gator QB Jeff Driskel in the 
29th round.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgMultiple Florida athletes picked in 2019 MLB Draft
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Brady McConnell was the first Florida player selected in the 2019 MLB Draft. 
The shortstop hit .332 this year with 15 home runs and 48 RBIs.
TRACK
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Two events, three years, six champi-
onships.  
That is what junior Grant Holloway is 
trying to accomplish this weekend at the 
NCAA Outdoor Championships. He could 
become the ﬁ  rst person in NCAA history 
to win the indoor and outdoor high hurdle 
championship three years in a row. 
However, Holloway did not ﬁ  nish the 
prelims on Wednesday with the best time 
(13.18). Kentucky’s Daniel Roberts, who 
has challenged Holloway and sometimes 
beat him throughout the season, came 
away with the meet’s best time after the 
qualifying round (13.06). The ﬁ  nal race, 
and Holloway’s chance at the sweep, 
comes on Saturday. It should be one of 
the tightest races all weekend between 
those two. 
The other action that kicked off the 
event on Wednesday included Florida’s 
4x100-meter relay team. The quartet 
of Holloway, sophomore Hakim Sani 
Brown, junior Raymond Ekevwo and se-
nior Ryan Clark crossed the line in 38.35 
seconds. That time was good enough for ﬁ  rst place coming out of prelims. LSU had 
the best time in the nation all season until 
Wednesday. 
Brown ran an automatic qualifying 
200-meter as well, clocking in at 20.44 
seconds. He also ran the 100-meter and 
ﬁ  nished with the second-best time com-
ing out of prelims at 9.96, just four thou-
sandths of a second behind Texas Tech’s 
Divine Oduduru.
The throwers also competed on 
Wednesday. Both sophomore Thomas 
Mardal and redshirt senior AJ McFar-
land threw personal bests in the hammer 
throw and earned points for UF. Mardal 
ﬁ  nished the event fourth at 73.10 meters 
while McFarland took sixth at 71.68. 
Along with Holloway, the men’s team 
as a whole can sweep the indoor and out-
door national championships in 2019. It 
enters Austin, Texas, as a major contend-
er, with the second most entries of any 
school at 16. However, the hottest men’s 
team all year has been Texas Tech, which 
enters the weekend with 19 entries. 
While this would be the Red Raiders’ 
ﬁ  rst title, the Gators are in familiar terri-
tory. The UF men are hoping to win their 
ﬁ  fth title since 2009.
The women’s side places Florida at No. 10 with nine entries entering the 
weekend. While the rankings are based 
off how many entries each team has, that 
does not mean that all entries carry the 
same weight. 
Senior Sharrika Barnett comes in as the 
overwhelming favorite to win the 400-me-
ter dash. She is the only female to run sub-
51 seconds this year at 50.96. Barnett also 
enters as a contender for the 200-meter 
title. She currently sits at No. 2 nationally 
at 23.63, 11 milliseconds behind Florida 
State freshman Karimah Davis. 
Yanis David also enters the weekend 
as a favorite, ranking No. 1 nationally in 
both the long and triple jump. The triple 
jump is her better event. She sits comfort-
ably ahead of the rest of the country at 
14.35 meters. The next best jump comes 
from Mississippi State’s Tiffany Flynn at 
13.87. 
The long jump is much tighter, how-
ever. David’s 6.65-meter jump is just 
ahead of Alabama’s Kiara Williams and 
Texas A&M’s Tyra Gittens, who both have 
jumps of 6.53 meters. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgUF competing at NCAA Outdoor Championships in Texas
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Grant Holloway could win his third-straight NCAA 
outdoor high hurdle championship this weekend.
12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Alligator File Photo
Florida men’s golf coach J.C. Deacon will make his PGA T our debut today. The 
36-year-old is competing in his home country at the RBC Canadian Open.River Wells
GOLF
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEKBy Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
J.C. Deacon returns to the links today, 
this time as a player instead of a coach.
The 36-year-old played professionally 
on the Gateway Tour and Canadian Tour 
before becoming an assistant coach at 
UNLV, his alma mater, in 2011. In the sum-
mer of 2014, he took over as coach for the 
Florida men’s golf team, a position he still 
holds today.
Now, Deacon will make his PGA Tour 
debut after his score of even par in the 
qualifying round on Monday earned him the final spot at the 2019 RBC Canadian 
Open in Ancaster, Ontario.
The RBC Canadian Open will take place 
at the Hamilton Golf and Country Club for 
the first time since 2012 and sixth time 
overall. 
Several top-ranked players will be 
among those vying for the tournament’s 
$7.6 million purse, including No. 1 Brooks 
Koepka, No. 2 Dustin Johnson and No. 4 
Rory McIlroy.
Although the event consists of four 
rounds of stroke play from Thursday to 
Sunday, not every golfer will have the 
chance to complete the 72-hole event. Only 
the 70 golfers (out of 156) with the lowest scores after the second round make the cut 
and advance to the third round.
Deacon was a semifinalist at the U.S. 
Amateur in 2005 and clinched two Minor 
League Golf Tour titles in 2007.
The Toronto native played in 35 events 
over a three-year span (2008-10) on the 
Canadian Tour, making the cut in 17. His 
fourth-place showing at the 2008 Saskatch-
ewan Open was his best finish in that com-
petition. Deacon also has a 2017 Florida 
Open victory on his resume. That event is 
open to both professionals and amateurs.
It has been 65 years since a Canadian-
born player has won the RBC Canadian 
Open. Mike Weir came close in 2004 but fell to Vijay Singh in a playoff. In 2015, 
David Hearn was atop the leaderboard 
with just two holes remaining. However, 
he finished in third place with a score of 15 
under behind Jason Day (-17) and Bubba 
Watson (-16).
Deacon has been grouped with Martin 
Piller and Zach Bauchou for the event. 
They will tee off on the front nine at 8:50 
a.m. today.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida men’s golf coach set to make PGA Tour debut
