We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
,
THOMAS TO COMPETE IN LOUISVILLE
Sophomore gymnast Trinity Thomas will com-
pete on bars and beam at the GK U.S. Classic in 
Louisville, Kentucky, pg 12
Revisiting Apollo 11 from 50 years ago
In this 50th anniversary reprint, The Alligator revisits its cover-
age of the Apollo 11 mission, pg 3
Bell man charged with cutting oﬀ   penis
Alex Cesar Bonilla has been charged with taking a man captive 
and severing his penis, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 102
 “I AM THRILLED 
TO GO BACK TO 
MY ALMA MATER.” 
- DE LA TORRE
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF will appoint the first Latin Amer-
ica-born person to be the director for 
the Center for Latin American Studies 
this Fall. 
On Aug. 2, Carlos de la Torre will 
start his position at UF, leaving be-
hind his career at the University of 
Kentucky as a professor in the depart-
ment of sociology and the director of 
international studies, said Lenny Ure-
ña Valerio, assistant director for ad-
ministration in the UF Center for Latin 
American Studies. 
De la Torre, who was born in Quito, 
Ecuador, said his intellectual journey started at UF when he graduated in 
1983 with a bachelor’s in sociology 
and a certificate in Latin American 
studies. 
He came back to UF briefly in 2006 
as a lecturing fellow at the Center for 
Latin American Studies where he used 
resources from Smathers Library in the 
Latin American and Caribbean Collec-
tion, Ureña Valerio said. 
But for de la Torre, his third stint 
with UF will be the charm.
“Given that he is from the [Latin 
America] region, we hope that that 
will boost our collaboration with Latin 
American students here at the univer-
sity,” Ureña Valerio said. “And also, 
it will be very good for international 
students coming into our program.” 
As director of international stud-
ies at Kentucky, de la Torre increased UF Latin American Studies 
hires first native directorTHE CITY OF GAINESVILLE MAY 
JOIN THE 10 PLAINTIFFS SUING 
OVER RECENT IMMIGRATION LAW
By Lindsey Breneman
Managing Editor
Gainesville’s Westminster Presbyterian 
Church United is suing Gov. Ron DeSantis 
and Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody 
over the constitutionality of SB 168. 
/T_h  ere are currently 10 plaintiﬀ  s and the City of Gainesville may join the suit.
DeSantis signed SB 168 into law on June 
14, and it became eﬀ  ective July 1. /T_h  e law 
bans sanctuary policies and requires local 
governments to use “best eﬀ  orts” to support 
federal immigration law enforcement. 
/T_h  e lawsuit alleges the “best eﬀ  orts” clause 
may lead law enforcement to use race as a 
proxy for immigration status. It also states it 
is unclear whether local government oﬃ   cials 
can adopt policies to ensure immigration en-
forcement does not undermine cooperation Local church sues DeSantis
THE GRANT WILL GO 
TO THE  BRAIN TUMOR 
IMMUNOTHERAPY 
PROGRAM
By Lily Huerkamp
Contributing Writer
A UF assistant professor in the depart-
ment of neurosurgery has been awarded 
a grant of $2.5 million from the National 
Institutes of Health. 
The money awarded to Catherine 
Flores, the principal investigator in UF’s 
Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program, 
is said to go toward developing an im-
munotherapy treatment against malig-
nant brain tumors critical in children.
Cancer immunotherapy is a type of 
treatment designed to boost the body’s 
natural defenses and help the immune 
system ﬁ  ght off invasive cancer cells as 
if it were ﬁ  ghting a common cold, Flores 
said. 
Flores said she applied for the grant 
through the National Institute of Neuro-
logical Disorders and Stroke, a branch 
of the NIH, and received it May 30. Ac-
cording to the NIH, the research project 
grant provides support for health-related 
research.
In Flores’ research, she discovered 
the stem cells of bone marrow help the 
immune system produce new immune cells when patients are recovering from 
chemotherapy or radiation. 
Duane Mitchell, a UF professor and 
director of the Brain Tumor Immuno-
therapy Program, said the stem cells in-
ﬂ  uence how efﬁ  ciently the immune sys-
tem can locate the brain tumors.
“This grant will support her contin-
ued research on the role of stem cells 
from the bone marrow while inﬂ  uencing 
and enhancing antitumor immunity,” he 
said.
Flores discovered stem cells play 
a role in guiding those immune cells, 
known as killer lymphocytes or killer 
T cells, to ﬁ  nd invading tumor cells, 
Mitchell said.
“Her research has profound implica-
tions for how we develop immunother-
apy treatments in the future,” Mitchell 
said. 
Flores and her team are part of a pro-
gram where researchers, clinicians and 
physicians work together to do research 
and pre-clinical testing. The program 
tests and evaluates the safety and effec-
tiveness of therapy treatments discov-
ered in their labs, he said. 
“The grant she has received from the 
NIH will really support the continued 
laboratory investigation on how to most 
effectively utilize [killer T cells] and bet-
ter understand their role in antitumor 
immunity,” Mitchell said.UF researcher awarded 
$2.5 million federal grant
Courtesy from Carlos de la Torre to The Alligator
Carlos de la T orre is the new director for the Center for Latin American Studies at 
UF. He is from Ecuador and is the program’s ﬁ  rst Latin American-born director. 
SEE CHURCH SUES,  PAGE 4
SEE DIRECTOR,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasSocia l Media StrategistHIGH  90° LOW  74°
90's vs 2000's 
Video Dance Party
Saturday night at the High Dive 
there will be a 90s vs. 2000s vid-
eo dance party with DJ Mellow 
Blendz. The event is part of the 
High Dive's week-long celebra-
tion of its eighth anniversary. 
It starts at 9:30 p.m. It is open 
to anyone 18 and older, but if 
you are younger than 21, there 
is a $3 fee charged at the door. If 
you dress in 90s or 2000s attire 
you will receive a free jello shot. 
DJ Mellow Blendz describes 
himself as a chameleon of the 
DJ world. 
The Fix Garage Sale
Slay Finds and Always True 
are teaming up to put on a ga-
rage sale. The event will be 
hosted at a house located at 
124 SW 23rd St. There will be 
up-cycled art, knick-knacks and 
vintage clothes for sale. The 
event is open to all Saturday 
from 7 a.m. until 2 a.m.
Animal Services July 
Volunteer Orientation
Saturday morning Alachua 
County Animal Services, 3400 
NE 53rd Ave., will host a vol-
unteer orientation from 9:30 to 
noon. Volunteers sign up to ex-
ercise the cats and dogs at the 
shelter. They can also help with 
adoption events, "doggy day 
outs," take photos of animals, 
host animal sleepovers and as-
sist the Paws on Parole. You can also volunteer from home 
by fostering. Guests should 
bring their photo IDs and wear 
comfortable clothes because 
there will be a training portion. 
Volunteers must be 10 and older 
and those 17 or younger must 
be accompanied by an adult.
The Original Gainesville 
Food Truck Rally
The High Dive will celebrate 
its eighth anniversary with an 
expanded Food Truck Rally on 
Saturday at 5 p.m. The trucks 
will include Ahar Homemade 
Indian Food, APP's Food Truck, 
B'z Gelati, The Charcoal Grill, 
Cilantro Tacos, Coras Kitchen, 
Miller's Funnel Cakes, Monsta 
Lobsta, Papa Pineapples, Soup 
to Nuts, Taste Pho & Noodle 
House and Woodson's Wrap 
Shack. There will also be live mu-
sic from Clout 9, Ben White and 
Hannah Joyce inside. The event 
is free to attend. Alcohol will 
be available in the beer garden.
'The New American Dream: 
How to Teach a Pig to Fly'
UF’s School of Theatre + 
Dance will host "Pig Academy" 
performances this week at 
the Nadine McGuire Theatre 
and Dance Pavilion and The 
Actors' Warehouse. This pro-
duction is an immersive the-
ater experience that requires 
audience participation and re-
location throughout the show.
The shows are scheduled at the McGuire Pavilion tonight 
at 7:30 p.m. and at The Actors’ 
Warehouse Friday and Saturday 
at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m. 
Tickets are $14 for UF students, 
$16 for UF faculty and staff, $16 
for seniors and $20 for the gen-
eral public. Tickets can be pur-
chased either in person at the 
University Box Office, located at 
Gate 1 of the O’Connell Center, 
or online at Ticketmaster.
'Mamma Mia!' at Gainesville 
Community Playhouse
Gainesville Community 
Playhouse, 4039 NW 16th Blvd., 
is presenting ABBA's hit musi-
cal. The story follows a young 
woman, who on the eve of her 
wedding, brings three men from 
her mother’s past back to the 
Greek island they last visited 20 
years ago to discover the iden-
tity of her father. The produc-
tion is running for the next three 
weekends. Thursdays, Fridays 
and Saturdays the show begins 
at 8 p.m. and starts at 2 p.m. on 
Saturdays and Sundays. Tickets 
are $12 for students, $19 for se-
niors and $23 for adults. They're 
available at gcplayhouse.org.
Weak Days, insignifi-
cant other and 11:59
Connect the Dots, a music, me-
dia and visual arts collective fo-
cused on highlighting marginal-
ized communities, will present 
live music from insignificant 
other, Weak Days and 11:59 
Wednesday night at the Civic 
Media Center, 433 S. Main St. 
Insignificant other is a travel-
ing circus power-pop collec-
tive. Weak Days is a pop-punk 
band from Richmond. 11:59 
is an emo punk band from 
Pembroke Pines. Doors open 
at 9 p.m. and the show starts 
at 10. There is a suggested do-
nation of $5 to $15 at the door.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 102
ROUTE 
DELIVERY
DRIVER 
NEEDED
(immediately) *
NON-STUDENT POSITION*See Classifieds  for full job description.
Email elight@alligator.org  for more info.WE’RE HIRING!WE’RE HIRING!
NON-STUDENT POSITION
 for full job description.
 for more info.
,THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
By Dave Reddick
Editor-in-Chief, 1969
In celebration of the 50th anniversary of the moon land-
ing, we decided to re-publish an original story from July 22, 
1969, reporting on the intergalactic pioneers’ journey home. 
We hope you enjoy this blast from the past as much as we 
enjoyed resurfacing it. 
Man’s impossible dream — conquest of the moon — is 
nearing its ﬁ  nal scene as America’s moon pioneers coast 
back to Earth. 
Astronauts Neil Armstrong, Edwin Aldrin and Michael 
Collins were scheduled to begin their long journey home 
early this morning. And if all goes well, they should be back 
on mother Earth Thursday. 
The splashdown will cap a thus-far faultless mission to 
put men on the Earth’s closest celestial neighbor, the moon. 
The lunar landing was achieved just as the rest of the 
mission has — nearly perfect and with little comment from 
the crew. 
“The Eagle has landed,” was the only notiﬁ  cation com-
mand pilot Armstrong gave Mission Control in Houston, 
Tex., when the Lunar Module (LM), code named Eagle, 
touched down at 4:19 p.m.
“We’re glad to hear that,” mission control said. “We’ve 
got a lot of blue faces down here, but now we’re breathing 
again.”
Armstrong later said he was sorry for talking so little as 
the spider-like LM inched its way toward the ﬂ  at surface of 
the moon in the Sea of Tranquility. He said the original land-
ing site was too rough, and he had decided to override the 
on-board computer and land the LM manually.
“Man, don’t apologize,” mission control said. 
For the next six hours the two LM astronauts, Armstrong 
and Aldrin, readied their frail craft for emergency takeoff, 
ate, rested and donned their special moon suits, while the 
third Apollo 11 crewman, Collins, circled above in lunar or-
bit.
While they were preparing for the peak of the mission — exploration of the moon — Aldrin reminded the support 
crews and the millions watching television on Earth that they 
were seeing history in the making. 
“This is the LM pilot,” Aldrin said, “I’d like to ask every-
one who is listening to pause for a few moments and to con-
template the events of the last few hours, and to give thanks 
in his or her own way.”
And then, as the moment all the world was waiting for 
neared, Armstrong opened the hatch and made ﬁ  nal prepara-
tion for his stroll on the moon.
At 10:45 p.m. Sunday, he backed out of the hatch, and 
began his ﬁ  ve minute descent to the lunar surface. Just be-
fore taking the ﬁ  rst step made by man on another planet, 
Armstrong opened a work panel on which a small television 
camera was mounted.The camera was aimed at the moon’s surface near the 
base of one of the four landing legs. As Armstrong made the 
epic step, millions of TV viewers the world over saw it live.
The step signaled attainment of man’s greatest scientiﬁ  c 
achievement to date. 
“That’s one small step for man, one giant leap for man-
kind,” Armstrong said as his left foot touched the moon’s 
dusty surface.
Aldrin soon joined him, and the two busied themselves 
setting up several experiments, gathering rocks and taking 
pictures.
They were interrupted once when President Nixon spoke 
to them via telephone from Washington, D.C.
“For one priceless moment in the whole history,” Nixon 
said, “all the people on this earth are one — one in their 
pride in what you have done and one in your prayers that 
you will return safely to Earth.”
Armstrong, obviously feeling strong emotions, thanked 
Nixon and the American people.
“It’s a great honor and privilege for us to be here, repre-
senting not only the United States but men of peaceable na-
tions — men with interest and curiosity of man’s vision for 
the future,” Armstrong said.
The men then resumed their activities, gathering samples 
of the lunar soil and taking various measurements.
Then, about two hours after they ﬁ  rst opened the hatch, 
the two climbed up the ladder, with Aldrin in the lead, and 
began removing their bulky back packs and outer suits. 
After dumping much of their equipment out, they began 
a long rest period to separating the upper portion of the LM 
from the landing section and blasting back into lunar orbit 
for rendezvous with Collins in the command module “Co-
lumbia.”
After chasing Columbia for more than two orbits of 
the moon, Eagle ﬁ  nally docked and Armstrong and Aldrin 
crawled back into Columbia.
The upper part of Eagle was discarded into space Monday 
night.
Columbia’s main engine was scheduled to blast the three 
out of lunar orbit early this morning. 
UF WILL CELEBRATING THE 
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF 
APOLLO 11 AND THOSE WHO 
MADE THE 
EVENT POSSIBLE
By Meleah Lyden 
Staff Writer
In his career at NASA, Charlie 
Welly was known as a behind-the-
scenes man — always helping out 
but never being the face of the orga-
nization. But here in Gainesville, his 
impact will be celebrated 50 years 
later. 
Welly’s daughter — 68-year-old 
Gainesville resident Miriam Welly 
Elliot — is exhibiting space memo-
rabilia to celebrate the 50th anni-
versary of Apollo 11 landing on the 
moon. The exhibit will be at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History 
this Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., 
Elliot said. 
The exhibit will showcase auto-
graphed photos of the original seven 
astronauts, a photo autographed by 
the Apollo 11 astronauts, a model of 
the Apollo lunar lander, Welly’s Ex-
ceptional Service Medal from NASA, 
a small ﬂ  ag carried around the moon 
by the Apollo 17 astronauts and 
items from his time working on oth-
er projects like the Mercury, Gemini 
and Skylab missions and more. 
Welly collected all these items 
from his time working at NASA. 
He started in the National Advisory 
Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) 
in 1947 — which was a precursor to NASA — and then retired from 
NASA in 1976, Elliot said. During his 
time working on Apollo 11, Welly 
was chief of the spacecraft surveil-
lance branch. For this, he would su-
pervise those inspecting the space-
craft to ensure everything was done 
accurately. 
“I was watching interviews on 
TV last night with Neil Armstrong 
where he was acknowledging the 
hundreds of thousands of people 
that work to get them to the moon,” 
Elliot said. “My dad was one of 
them. He’s a hero.” 
Welly’s memorabilia is not the 
only event here at UF to celebrate 
this anniversary. UF’s Department 
of Astronomy is also having a free 
event at the Campus Teaching Ob-
servatory, said UF Teaching Obser-
vatories director Francisco Reyes. 
The observatory will be open this 
Friday from 9 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
At 9, director of the NASA Florida 
Space Grant Consortium Jaydeep 
Mukherjee will be speaking about 
the moon. The observing session 
will start at 9:30 p.m. Some objects 
that may be visible are: Jupiter, Sat-
urn, the binary star Mizar, the Ring 
Nebula and some globular clusters. 
The moon may also be visible at the 
end of the session. 
However, this is all dependent on 
weather as most activities take place 
outside, Reyes said. 
“If it is overcast, we can go ahead 
with the talk and we can show the 
Apollo 11 movie,” Reyes said, “but 
the viewing with the telescopes may 
not be possible.” The main point of the Apollo 11 
anniversary is celebrating the well-
known individuals associated with 
the event, as well as the everyday 
people who worked tirelessly to 
make this amazing achievement 
happen — people like Charlie Welly. 
“[Welly] represents the people 
behind the scenes that make this 
possible,” Elliot said. “I’m just very 
proud of his contributions.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgTHE ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE FIRST LUNAR 
LANDING IS FRIDAY
By Brittany Wallace
Staff Writer
The Apollo 11 moon landing 
was a major step forward in hu-
man history. It was the day peo-
ple all over the world sat fixated 
on their TV, leaning in anticipa-
tion, to see something they once 
thought impossible. 
On July 19, it will have been 
50 years since that astronomical 
day, and there are a few activi-
ties in Gainesville that people 
can do to celebrate the human 
feat.
UF Astronomy Depart-
ment: Celebrate Apollo 11 
The UF Astronomy Depart-
ment is letting the Gainesville 
community into the teaching 
observatory this Friday for the 
Celebrate Apollo 11 event. 
The event starts at 9 p.m. 
and ends at 11:30 p.m. There 
are telescopes that will al-
low you to observe the moon, 
planets, nebulae and more. Dr. 
Jaydeep Mukherjee will give a 
short talk at the beginning of 
the event and bring items that 
will be given to children. The event is free and will be held at 
the UF Campus Teaching Obser-
vatory. 
The Cade Museum: Movie 
screening of Apollo 11
On Friday, the Cade Museum 
will show the documentary style 
movie “Apollo 11” that came 
out in 2019. This film comes 
with newly discovered footage 
and audio of the moon landing. 
The doors will open at 6 p.m. 
where attendees can indulge 
in movie theater refreshments. 
The movie will begin at 6:30 
p.m. and ends at 8 p.m.  Tickets 
for the movie are $1.50, resem-
bling the prices around 1969. 
Hippodrome: “Armstrong” 
The Hippodrome State The-
atre will be showing the docu-
mentary film “Armstrong” mul-
tiple times until July 26. The 
film gives a deeper look into 
Neil Armstrong’s family life, 
time in the Korean war and 
his space missions. Today, the 
showing will start at 8:30 p.m. 
and end at 10:30 p.m. The tick-
ets for the show are $7 for stu-
dents and seniors and $9 for 
adults. 
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.org50 YEARS LATER
After grasping ‘impossible dream,’ moon pioneers head home 
UF showcases former NASA staﬀ  er’s memorabilia Where and how to celebrate 
the Apollo 11 anniversary
Timeline courtesy of Miriam Welly Elliot
Charlie Welly (1917 - 2012) 
• 1947: Joins NACA (National 
Advisory Committee on 
Aviation) 
• Worked in Cleveland 
Airport as an Aircraft 
Mechanic 
• 1958: NACA named 
changed to NASA (National 
Aeronautics and Space 
Administration) 
• January 1960: Moves to 
Titusville, FL to work at 
Cape Canaveral on Mercury 
Program as a Spacecraft 
Inspector 
• 1963: Named changed to 
Kennedy Space Center 
• 1965 - 1968: Works on 
Gemini 
• 1968 - 1972: Works on 
Apollo 
• 1973: Works on Skylab 
• 1975: Works on Apollo-
Soyuz 
• 1976: Retires 4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
THE FLORIDA GATORS 
APP IS DESIGNED TO 
MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES 
A CASHLESS EXPERIENCE
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Gone are the days of students 
meticulously planning the perfect 
time to meet up with their friends to 
walk over to the student ticket win-
dows at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 
and get their seats for that week’s 
football game.
On Aug. 1, UF will launch the 
Florida Gators app, which will al-
low students and fans to claim 
tickets on their phones, said James 
Slagle, the assistant athletics direc-
tor of revenue generation for the UF 
Athletic Association. 
This will be the ﬁ  rst time stu-
dents won’t need to visit the sta-
dium on the week of the game to 
secure their tickets.
The app also allows fans to do things like purchase food and 
drinks from the concession stand 
directly on their phones, he said.
Slagle said to think of the new 
app as “a game day Swiss Army 
knife.”
“Eventually fans should just 
be able to bring their phone to the 
venue and not even have to bring 
their wallet if they don’t want to,” 
Slagle said.
The app will use Ticketmaster 
to manage general fan tickets and 
a service called Experience to man-
age student tickets.
Slagle said Experience will allow 
students with season passes to get 
seats with their friends when they 
claim their student ticket the week 
of the game, something Ticketmas-
ter wouldn’t be able to do.
The app was developed with 
the help of a company called Ven-
ueNext. Slagle said UF is Venu-
eNext’s ﬁ  rst college client, but the 
company has already developed 
similar apps for the likes of the 
New York Yankees and the Orlando Magic.
Slagle said the app has been 
in planning and development for 
about a year and will launch Aug. 
1 as a free download from mobile 
stores. It will be launching in con-
junction with the stadium’s new 
Wi-Fi, allowing fans to use it with-
out any slowdowns.
In the future, Slagle said there’s 
a possibility of using the app for 
other things like basketball registra-
tion if it works well for football. 
Luke Rouleau, an 18-year-old 
UF computer engineering sopho-
more, said he thinks the new app 
is a good idea but recognizes the 
potential difﬁ  culties, such as getting 
good seats when every student has 
the instant convenience of being 
able to get tickets on their phone.
“If it works well, then that 
would be great,” Rouleau said. “It’s 
always tough to launch an app for 
the ﬁ  rst time and have lots of traf-
ﬁ  c.”
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgUF launches new student ticket app 
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Pentecostal
Prevailing Word
Bible Church, Inc.
Sunday Worship: 9 am
Friday: 7 pm
4908 NW 34th BLVD Suite #9
Pst. Olabode Ogedengbe, Resident Pastor (352)231-9031
Helping ordinary people to 
become passionate followers 
of God! The Church you can 
belong to before you believe!
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service
@6:35 pm
in Trinity Chapel
Sunday services:
9:30 & 11:00 am
352-376-6615
TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDE
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
Contact Alligator Advertising:
Contact Alligator Advertising:
352.376.4482the student enrollment from 
21 students in 2008 to over 
319 students in 2011, Ureña 
Valerio said.
Aside from his career at 
Kentucky, de la Torre di-
rected the political stud-
ies and Ph.D. program at 
FLACSO Ecuador and the 
Latin American, Latino and 
Caribbean studies program 
at Northeastern University, 
Ureña Valerio said. 
He was successful as di-
rector in these programs, 
Ureña Valerio said. 
At FLACSO Ecuador, de 
la Torre contributed in de-
signing the first Ph.D. pro-
gram in political studies in 
the country, and he gained 
experience coordinating 
study abroad programs in-cluding the Drew University 
semester abroad program in 
Chile, Ureña Valerio said. 
She said during the cam-
pus interview, he highlight-
ed areas that need further 
developing in UF’s program, 
placing an emphasis on di-
versity, as he plans to make 
this program more diverse 
than it was in the 2018-2019 
academic year. 
“UF is one of the top 
schools of the nation, and 
it will be a great challenge 
to be part of an intellectu-
al community of first rated 
scholars at the center for 
Latin American Studies,” de 
la Torre said. “I am thrilled 
to go back to my alma ma-
ter.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgDIRECTOR,  from pg. 1
with their own law enforcement oﬃ   -
cers. For example, a police chief tell-
ing oﬃ   cers not to detain immigrants 
at a hurricane shelter may not be us-
ing their “best eﬀ  orts. ” 
/T_h  e law prompted the Alachua 
County Sheriﬀ  ’s Oﬃ   ce to begin hold-
ing undocumented immigrants for 
an additional 48 hours a/f_t  er their re-
lease to allow U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement oﬃ   cers extra 
time to decide whether to take the 
person into custody.
“ Attorney General Moody is ready 
to defend the constitutionality of 
the sanctuary cities ban, ” Lauren 
Schenone, director of public aﬀ  airs 
at the Oﬃ   ce of the Florida Attorney 
General, wrote in an email. “ As this is ongoing litigation, it would not be 
appropriate to comment further. ” 
Westminster, located at 1521 
NW 34th St., QLatinx, the Florida 
Immigrant Coalition, Farmworker 
Association of Florida, WeCount!, 
Americans for Immigrant Justice, 
Hope Community Center, /T_h  e Gua-
temalan-Maya Center, Inc., Family 
Action Network Movement and the 
City of South Miami /f_i  led a lawsuit 
arguing several sections of the law 
are unconstitutionally vague and vio-
late the equal protection clause of the 
14th Amendment. /T_h  e plaintiﬀ  s are 
represented by the Southern Poverty 
Law Center, the Community Justice 
Project and the Immigration Clinic 
of the University of Miami School of 
Law. 
/T_h  e Gainesville city attorney’s of-
/f_i  ce is reviewing the suit a/f_t  er a mo-tion to do so passed unanimously at 
the last commission meeting on June 
20, said Commissioner Harvey Ward.
Larry Hannan, spokesperson for 
Southern Poverty Law Center, said 
the law takes power away from local 
governments.
“If communities have other major 
problems, you know, this law basi-
cally says you have to focus on im-
migration enforcement, ” Hannan 
said. “When there might be an opioid 
problem, or if the murder rate goes 
up, they still have to put resources 
into this. ”
Ward spoke about the lawsuit Fri-
day evening at the Gainesville Lights 
for Liberty: Vigil to End Human De-
tention Camps protest. He said the 
commission would move forward in 
joining the case, if he had anything 
to do with it.“I’m going to need some support 
from you on this. I’m going to need 
you, now or when you get home, to 
email the city commission, ” Ward 
said to the crowd of about 100, paus-
ing to spell the email address twice. 
“ And tell us that you want us to join 
the lawsuit against [SB] 168. ”
Ward said he intends to ask the 
city attorney’s oﬃ   ce for a status re-
port on the lawsuit during commis-
sioner comment at the meeting today. 
He wants the commission to have an 
opportunity to digest the report.
“I do hope that we will take ac-
tion on it, ” Ward said. “My guess is 
that it won’t be this meeting when 
we take action, but that we can put 
some procedural steps down to move 
forward. ”
/T_h  e Rev. Larry Green, the pastor 
of Westminster and executive direc-tor of the Alachua County Human 
Rights Coalition, was one of the Fri-
day protest organizers. He told the 
crowd Jesus was a radical and they 
should follow his example. He talked 
about the lawsuit and urged the pro-
testors to get their churches and or-
ganizations to join as well.
“If you are part of a church where 
your pastor does not want to preach 
politics, tell him to study Jesus, ” 
Green said.
Green said the Human Rights Co-
alition should also be a plaintiﬀ   by 
next week. He plans to meet with the 
county commissioners in August to 
ask them to sign on and to make a 
public request at a commission meet-
ing.
@lindseybreneman
lbreneman@alligator.orgCHURCH SUES,  from pg. 1de la Torre attended UFTHURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
HIS BOND IS SET AT 
$1.25 MILLION
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Bell man has been charged 
with severing another man’s pe-
nis on Sunday.
Alex Cesar Bonilla, 49, broke 
into the man’s home in Bell 
around 11 a.m. with a black 9 
mm handgun, according to a 
Gilchrist Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce police re-
port. He reportedly held the man at gunpoint to tie him up in a 
bedroom and told him he would 
kill him if he resisted.
After restraining the man, 
Bonilla used a pair of scissors to 
forcefully cut off his penis, ac-
cording to the report. Two other 
people were in the house at the 
time, including a 4-year-old girl. 
Bonilla caught the victim hav-
ing sex with his wife in May, ac-
cording to the report.
Bonilla left the house and re-
turned to his house across the 
street with the severed penis, 
the man told deputies. Gilchrist Sheriff’s deputies tracked Bonilla 
down at his place of work and ar-
rested him.
Bonilla was charged with 
burglary, aggravated battery, ag-
gravated assault, false imprison-
ment, cruelty toward a child and 
displaying a ﬁ  rearm during a 
felony, a total of six felonies. 
He remains in Gilchrist Coun-
ty jail in lieu of a $1.25 million 
bond.  It is not known if he has 
an attorney.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgBell man charged for severed penis
CITIZENS COMPLAINED ABOUT 
DAMAGE TO PERSONAL PROPERTY 
AT A COMMISSION MEETING
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
    Hawthorne residents have seen a rise in some furry 
new neighbors, but residents aren’t happy about it. 
The City Commission agreed to partner with Ala-
chua County Animal Services and Operation Catnip 
of Gainesville on Tuesday after citizens voiced their 
complaints about property damage done by stray 
cats.
An educational workshop will be set up for the 
community to learn about the Trap-Neuter-Return 
(TNR) program, Hawethorne Mayor Matt Surrency 
said. The workshop will be aimed to inform people 
how the program works and why it is done.
“We’re going to work with the community and 
the people that are involved to try and do a big 
round-up at one time,” Surrency said. “We’re work-
ing on it at this time to ﬁ  gure out the best time to 
work with all of our partners.”
The TNR program provides spay, neuter and vac-
cinations for free-roaming community cats that do 
not have owners, said Audrey Garrison, executive 
director of Operation Catnip. The cats are ear-tipped, 
which is when one centimeter of the tip of their ear is cut off to show that they were spayed or neutered.
Community cats usually stay around because they 
are being fed and have a food source to come back 
to, Garrison said. Generally, the cats are brought to 
the clinic by people who feed the cats where they 
live or work.
Garrison said the TNR program is a humane way 
of controlling overpopulation of feral cats instead of 
euthanizing the cats.
“You can control the population with spay and 
neuter,” Garrison said. “As a nation, for years, our 
solution to free-roaming cats was to kill them and 
that did nothing.”
Surrency said after the educational workshop, 
the city will be getting traps provided by Operation 
Catnip and set them all up at the same time. The 
cats will be taken to Operation Catnip clinics to be 
spayed or neutered and eventually be returned to 
where they were captured.
Garrison said Operation Catnip hosts speciﬁ  c 
clinic days to bring in the cats but that the organiza-
tion would possibly set up additional days depend-
ing on the number of people interested. 
“We’re happy to work with the city of Haw-
thorne, or anybody else that is willing to be proactive 
in helping to control the population of cats,” Gar-
rison said.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgHawthorne to control feral cats by 
partnering with Alachua CountyAWARD GRANTED TO 
LEADING SCIENTISTS AND 
ENGINEERS EXEMPLIFYING 
LEADERSHIP IN THEIR 
FIELDS OF STUDY
By Kyndal Rock 
Contributing Writer
President Donald Trump an-
nounced the recipients of the Presi-
dential Early Career Award for Scien-
tists and Engineers — with four out 
of the eight Florida recipients being 
UF faculty members. 
The UF faculty members who re-
ceived the prestigious award are: 
• David Clark, a research asso-
ciate professor in the Depart-
ment of Aging and Geriatric 
Research 
• Domenic Forte, an assistant 
professor in the Department 
of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering 
• Aysegul Gunduz, an associ-
ate professor in the Depart-
ment of Biomedical Engineer-
ing 
• Maitane Olabarrieta, an as-
sistant professor in the De-
partment of Civil and Coastal 
Engineering
In total, the White House news 
release listed over 300 award recipi-
ents by state, research institution 
and nominating federal agency.
According to the press release, 
the award is “the highest honor be-
stowed by the United States Govern-
ment to outstanding scientists and 
engineers who are beginning their 
independent research careers and 
who show exceptional promise for 
leadership in science and technol-
ogy.”
A day after the list was released 
on July 2, David Clark heard the 
news and wasted no time in contact-
ing his family to share. 
Clark said the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs nominated him for 
his work on mobility function in peo-
ple with neurological impairments, 
such as the elderly and stroke or spi-
nal injury patients. His research also 
focuses on the effect of the aging 
process on the nervous system. 
“It is deﬁ  nitely validation that the 
work that we’re doing in my lab is 
viewed as being important and that 
we’re on the right track and looking 
at topics that are of high relevance,” 
Clark said.
Nine participating agencies nomi-
nate researchers who have worked 
with them. According to  the Na-
tional Science Foundation, one of the 
participating agencies, each recipi-
ent receives a citation, a plaque and 
funding from the nominating agency 
for up to ﬁ  ve years to advance their 
research. 
The Department of Veterans Af-
fairs awarded Clark a grant worth 
$125,000. The grant will go towards 
the expenses of running his research 
program including lab equipment 
and supporting students, Clark said.
“I don’t do any of this alone,” he 
said. “I certainly need a lot of help 
from other people to contribute to 
the research.”
Domenic Forte, nominated by the 
Department of Defense for his work 
on counterfeit electronics detection 
and avoidance, received a grant for 
$1 million spread across ﬁ  ve years. 
Forte plans to use the money to 
explore new areas including human 
biometric presentation attacks and 
countermeasures, PUF (hardware 
biometric) signatures for printed cir-
cuit boards and methods to speed up 
anomaly detection of electronic sig-
natures. 
Forte said the award is not just a 
grant but an award for life, highlight-
ing a person’s hard work and dedica-
tion to their research. 
“It’s something that will always 
be on my resume, and it’s something 
that makes me stand out,” Forte said. 
“It’s something that I’ll [always] be 
very proud of.” Four UF faculty honored 
with presidential awardEditorialTHURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Your face reﬂ  ects off the shiny wooden counter wet 
with spilled drink. “Is that really what I look like?” you 
think to yourself. Somehow you’ve found yourself in a 
deserted bar. There’s some sort of “deal” going on that 
isn’t really a deal at all. The drink prices are barely any 
different, and the deal is canceled if you only want one drink 
because there’s a card minimum. What is this, the 90’s? If you 
don’t leave now, you’ll spend more money you don’t have on 
subpar food and drink you don’t need. You leave a tip and sign 
your receipt. As you do the math, you see something doesn’t 
add up. The price is too low. The bartender forgot to charge 
you for half of your order, then you see it on the bottom of 
the receipt…
Darts and Laurels
A dart goes to Trump’s racist tweets. On Sunday, President 
Trump took to Twitter  and in a series of tweets told progres-
sive Democrat congresswomen of color (a.k.a “The Squad” of 
Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, 
Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ayanna Pressley of Massachu-
setts) to “go back and help ﬁ  x the totally broken and crime infest-
ed places from which they came.” These tweets have us banging 
our heads against our desks because 1) not agreeing with one’s 
government is not grounds for someone to abandon it. That’s not 
how democracy works 2) three out of the four congresswom-
en where born in the United States and all of them are citizens. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi introduced a motion to rebuke the 
comments. The House voted on Tuesday to condemn the presi-
dent for his racist tweets. If it sounds like a big deal, it’s not. “The 
House vote, while historic, has no real-world implications for the 
President,” CNN’s Chris Cillizza said. 
A laurel goes to Netﬂ  ix for deciding to remove the controver-
sial suicide scene from “13 Reasons Why.” Originally released 
more than 2 years ago, the ﬁ  rst season featured a graphic scene 
of the main character Hannah’s suicide. People across the world 
were outraged the show would depict such a triggering image 
when it is catered toward teenagers and young adults. There 
were fears of “copycat” suicides happening because of the show, 
and as experts predicted, they sadly did happen. 
Continuing on that thread, on Wednesday, the Florida Board 
of Education mandated public schools must teach students at 
least ﬁ  ve hours of mental health instruction beginning in 6th 
grade. The required courses will help students understand mental 
illness signs and symptoms, teach them how to help fellow class-
mates and provide resources if they are battling with depression 
or other issues. Education Commissioner Richard Corcoran said 
state ofﬁ  cials worked closely with ﬁ  rst lady Casey DeSantis to 
implement the rule, according to New Service of Florida. We are 
giving a laurel to this mandate as it will hopefully give students 
the resources they need to seek help. 
Former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens died Mon-
day of complication of a stroke. He was 99. Before retiring in 
2010, he sat on the bench for 35 years, the second-longest run 
in history. He wrote the court’s majority opinion for Atkins v. 
Virginia, which declared the execution of the mentally disabled 
as unconstitutional. He was described as a conservative antitrust 
lawyer who was shocked to ﬁ  nd himself turned into a liberal-
leaning judge after years on the bench. A laurel goes to him in 
his memory.
The Ebola epidemic is back in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo. This outbreak started a year ago in August with now 
at least 2,500 cases reported and more than 1,660 people dead 
according to UNICEF. We are giving a dart to the situation as 
the World Health Organization declared the outbreak a “global 
health emergency.” This designation of emergency has only been 
used four times before, one of those times being the 2014 Ebola 
outbreak in West Africa. According to The New York Times, of-
ﬁ  cials are worried about the persistence of the virus even though 
there’s a successful vaccine. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORStudent Government Senator Audrey Wi-
kan claimed to have served within the 
Florida legislature as the “district sec-
retary” under Representative Jennifer 
Sullivan.
When her nomination to the SG budget com-
mittee (a committee that controls over $21 mil-
lion) was challenged, she relied on her experi-
ence as district secretary to substitute for her not 
having any experience with SG ﬁ  nance at all.
After her conﬁ  rmation hearing, I sent off a 
public records request to the Florida House of 
Representatives. I also emailed the representative’s ofﬁ  ce 
asking for clariﬁ  cation. They called me back to say Wikan 
was a ﬁ  ne employee, but the person I talked to could not 
conﬁ  rm her claims.
I also emailed her high school Future Business Leaders 
of America adviser to check if she has actually served as 
her school’s chapter treasurer as she claimed during her 
conﬁ  rmation (though not on her resume).
What I found out may shock you (but let’s be honest, 
nothing probably shocks anybody given how dishonest 
people in SG are).
The position of “district secretary” appears to be one of 
the highest positions in a representative’s district. If you 
look up a Florida House of Representative member, the two 
positions directly under their names are that of the legisla-
tive assistant and that of the district secretary. So it’s most 
likely not exactly the position anyone would hire a high 
school student to ﬁ  ll.
Yet in high school, Audrey Wikan applied for the posi-
tion of “district secretary” on April 23, 2018. I would say it’s 
safe to say she did not get the position because on Wikan’s 
application, it plainly states she left her last job with the 
“intention of interning with the current district secretary,” 
which is probably not something you would say if you were 
applying to be the district secretary.
The records I received from the house mostly classify 
Wikan as, or simply call her, an “OPS Clerk.”Also, in the emails I received were records of 
the House of Representatives member, Jennifer 
Sullivan, pushing to get Wikan a higher hourly 
pay rate (from $8.25 to $10 dollars per hour). 
Must be nice.
Rep. Sullivan seemed to have gotten creative 
with the position title too, originally looking to 
hire Audrey as an “assistant legislative aide,” 
though a handwritten revision scratches the title 
out on one document and replaces it with “OPS 
Clerk.” Elsewhere, Sullivan says, “[Wikan] will 
be a District Legislative Assistant.”
Anyhow, Wikan was terminated from her 
position of not being the district secretary on 
June 29, 2018, which makes for a solid two months of em-
ployment. How this really was supposed to substitute for 
having experience with SG ﬁ  nance is still beyond me, but 
whatever.
Oh, and that high school adviser of Wikan I emailed? 
She couldn’t remember if Wikan actually held the position 
of treasurer (though she did have some nice things to say 
about her as an overall leader in the FBLA chapter). I’ll give 
Wikan the beneﬁ  t of the doubt on that one, but I’ll take 
the time to remind you of a line sung by Little Red Riding 
Hood in “I Know Things Now” from the critically acclaimed 
musical and ﬁ  lm “Into the Woods”: “Nice is different than 
good.”
So yeah, Wikan’s pants were totally on ﬁ  re. My fellow 
minority party senators and I brought our concerns to the 
Senate since maybe you probably shouldn’t have a dem-
onstrated liar on a committee that controls $21 million. 
Spoiler alert: the majority party defended the lie and Wikan 
doubled down on it producing a “recommendation letter” 
from Sullivan.
A dramatic, yet actually factual, retelling of the senate 
meeting awaits you, dear reader, next week. Brace your 
hearts, water your crops, hold your children, hide your sig-
niﬁ  cant other, lock your doors and ﬁ  le your taxes; the truth 
will come out.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.How to catch a liar (part 2)
Tuition. School Supplies. Gas. Parking de-
cals. If you’re a student, you’ve probably 
had to pay for some, if not all, of these ex-
penses before the ﬁ  rst day at school. And 
just when you think your bank account 
is done playing limbo, your professor says those 
dreaded four words: “The textbook is mandatory.”
At UF, the average estimated cost for books 
and supplies is $1,210. While that number 
doesn’t lay out how much money solely goes to-
ward books, the average cost of textbooks for a 
freshman undergrad at a 4-year public university in America 
from 2003 to 2004 was $898.00, according to the Govern-
ment Accountability Ofﬁ  ce. 
So, why are textbooks so pricey? They weren’t always 
that way. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports prices of 
college brand-new print textbooks have increased 88 percent 
from 2006 to 2016. Textbooks come in various forms and 
can be bought digitally, used or rented. Purchasing an online 
version of a book can sometimes be less expensive than a 
physical copy, but then you’re stuck with an extremely over-
priced, hard-to-navigate PDF. 
Part of what makes a textbook cost so much is the book-store markup that adds an additional cost when you purchase 
through a campus bookstore. Even though campus bookstores 
tend to buy books with a discount, they typically sell them to 
students at a 25 to 28 percent markup. Those costs may be 
covering the maintenance of the store, but 25 percent of every 
textbook purchased by students seems extreme.
While selling textbooks no longer useful to you is an op-
tion, breaking even on a textbook is almost never 
possible, so you end up selling your barely used 
book for way less than what you paid for it. Re-
selling your textbook to the campus bookstore is 
the equivalent to trying to resell your old Ninten-
dogs game to GameStop and getting offered $2. 
Lucky deserved more. You deserve more.
The worst feeling is when you buy a shiny 
new textbook for class, thinking it would be used. 
But instead, it gathers dust, and the cashier at the 
bookstore turns you away when you try to return 
it. It’s understandable, a book out of its plastic 
could be seen as unsuitable for reselling. But most of all, 
it’s heartbreaking and wallet-draining. The seemingly least 
expensive way to purchase a textbook is to speak to your 
professor and make sure the textbook will be used in your 
class. If it’s mandatory, search the ISBN on sites like Amazon 
and Chegg for the cheapest option. 
You might not be able to judge a book by its cover, but 
you can certainly gawk at the price.
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication ma-
jor. Her column usually appears on Tuesdays.The Textbook Problem
Knowledge may be priceless, 
but textbooks certainly aren’tColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Amanda
Martinez
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
HOW STUDENTS 
EXPRESS 
THEMSELVES WITH 
LAPTOP STICKERSStudent 
Spotlight: 
A “sticker” 
situation
LIFESTYLE
THE FOLK SINGER 
RELEASED HER THIRD 
ALBUM “GRIEF IN EXILE” 
LAST MONTH, WHICH 
WAS INSPIRED BY HER 
HEALING PROCESS
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Mariee Sioux is bringing her 
unique style of ancestral folk music 
to Gainesville.
Pulp Arts is set to host Sioux at 
the Heartwood Soundstage on Satur-
day, where she will perform tracks 
off her new album “Grief in Exile.”
Sioux, 34, began writing songs 
and playing music at 19 after teach-
ing herself to play guitar.
Much of Sioux’s music is inspired 
by her desire to be connected with 
her diverse ancestry. Sioux has roots 
in Native Southern California, Mexi-
co, Poland and Hungary.
“Since I was young, I’ve always 
craved more connection to the 
knowledge of my people that has 
been lost very rapidly through the 
lines of my heritage,” Sioux said. “I 
think a lot of that music came from a place of longing and a hunger for 
more of my culture that I couldn’t 
really tap into through my own fam-
ily.”
Sioux’s newest album “Grief in 
Exile” has a strong thematic focus 
on healing. She wrote many of the 
songs while recovering from a toxic 
relationship and other issues in her 
life.
“I tend to go to writing songs 
when I need to heal in some way,” 
she said. “I think the songs have 
always been a healing place for me 
and a place to reconnect with my-
self.”
Sioux said many of her fans have 
also described profound healing ex-
periences when listening to her mu-
sic.
“A lot of people have described 
the music as feeling like medicine 
for them,” she said. “Maybe it comes 
from going to that musical place 
when I need to heal from some-
thing.”
Pulp Arts, a creative arts hub 
based in Gainesville, said it decided 
to book Sioux through the recom-
mendation of its sound engineer 
H.L. Nelly. Nelly met and befriended 
Sioux while working in Oakland, California.
Nelly said she felt a strong con-
nection to Sioux’s music, especially 
the song “Baby Waves,” which helps 
Nelly remember her late daughter.
“For me, her music is incred-
ibly human,” Nelly said. “She just 
touches on something that connects 
everyone — these really deep, basic 
human experiences — and no matter 
who you are, I think she’s speaking 
to you.”
Fort White resident Nicolette 
Matt, 39, a digital marketer, said she 
is excited to see Sioux at the Heart-
wood on Saturday.
She found Sioux’s music while lis-
tening to the free folk station on Pan-
dora, and she said she was surprised 
to see her coming to Gainesville.
Matt associates the music with 
her time in the Paciﬁ  c Northwest.
“[Sioux’s music] has that feeling 
of damp woods,” she said. “It’s nice 
to remember the time there. It has 
such a haunting, deeply feminine 
power to it and stands apart from 
lots of other music.”
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgMariee Sioux to perform in Gainesville
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
The California natives most recent song “Black Snakes” was 
inspired by the Standing Rock/Water Protectors movement.
Brittany Wallace // Alligator 
Shane Stockings is a 22-year-old UF business graduate student who loves to travel. 
The golf sticker is from the Masters T ournament in Augusta, Georgia; the biggest 
golf tournament in the U.S. Stockings and his father applied to go for 10 years before 
they won a seat.
Brittany Wallace // Alligator Staff
Ariana Gonzalez is a 20-year-old UF physics student with a deep fascination in space. 
Gonzalez once learned about Water Bears, a microscopic organism that can survive the 
vacuum of space, so she got stickers of them for her laptop. 
Brittany Wallace // Alligator Staff
Stephany Fuentes is a 20-year-old biology junior and a proud feminist. She has 
stickers like “Women’s World” and “Trust Women” because she wants to spark 
conversation and educate people on feminism. Fuentes promotes Bumble because 
she believes they empower women by allowing them to choose their match.
Brittany Wallace // Alligator Staff
Shelby Luckey is a 20-year-old UF psychology junior, and she loves expressing herself by 
decorating her laptop. Luckey has stickers like “End the Stigma” and “Mental Health Matters” 
because, she understands the importance of mental health. 24/Evan:
Sports writer Evan Lepak analyzes the decisions of men’s 
basketball coach Mike White. Pg 11Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. Position-by-Position: Evaluating UF’s wide receivers
Pg 12
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
CRAFTS AND VENDOR FESTS TAKE PLACE 
EVERY SECOND SATURDAY 
Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
About 40 local vendors displayed their handmade 
paintings, ceramics, jewelry and other crafts on the grassy 
front of One Love Cafe on Saturday. 
As singer Cami Maree played acoustic guitar and sang 
feel-good songs like “I Won’t Back Down” by Tom Petty, 
attendees made their way in and out the artists’ shaded 
tents while others lounged.
The Crafts and Vendor Festival takes place every sec-
ond Saturday of the month. However, starting next month 
it will be relocated to Green Market Nursery off Newberry 
Road from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
The organizer of the festival could not be reached for 
comment on the reasoning for the location change.
Some vendors Saturday speculated the reason for the 
move may be because of slow foot trafﬁ  c outside of One 
Love Cafe. 
On this particular sunny Florida morning, one artist, 
59-year-old Carolyn Von Zabern, sat like a queen on her 
throne amongst her clay creations.
“It brings me so much joy to make pottery and paint,” 
she said. “It brings out a whole new creative element.” 
Von Zabern handmakes mugs, dishes, pet portraits and 
jewelry, all of which were lying out on tables around her.
In addition to being an artist and vendor, Von Zabern 
is a doctor at the Malcom Randall Veterans Affairs Medi-
cal Center.  
“I have a full-time job and this [artistry] is like my oth-er full-time job,” Von Zabern said. 
As a medical professional, Von Zabern believes art has 
a place in medicine. 
In 2017, Harvard Medical School published an article 
about the intersection between art and medicine. This ar-
ticle reported a major beneﬁ  t of art is it allows for com-
munication without words. A patient’s artwork can give 
their caretakers insight.
“It catches you in a vulnerable state, and you are able 
to share that,” Von Zabern said. “That’s actually the thing 
that helps you and [medical professionals] understand 
what’s going on.”
Von Zabern said she attended a seminar where she and 
a group were guided in mediation before making pottery. 
“[After the meditation,] they said you can sculpt what-
ever you want,” she said. “We worked for about half an 
hour, and we showed our pieces. It was just amazing cre-
ativity.”
While creating, Von Zabern said many of the artists at 
the seminar entered a ﬂ  ow state. 
“Everybody said, ‘I didn’t even worry about anything 
that was going on in my life. I was just working on that 
piece,’” she said.
While the vendors at the fest are certainly passionate 
about their crafts, their work also serves as a connection 
point for the community.  
“I think it bridges all kinds of differences in people and 
brings them together, and that’s what’s fun about coming 
out to things like this,” Von Zabern added. 
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.com
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
High Dive will host a food truck rally to 
support a local clinic this weekend.
On Saturday, High Dive is hosting its 
free food truck rally featuring discounted 
high-end foods, live music and an oppor-
tunity to help UF’s Mobile Outreach Clinic. 
The rally begins at 5 p.m. with a variety of 
vendors serving food ranging from Indian 
food to gelato, including vegan and vegetar-
ian options. 
According to High Dive’s facility and 
events manager Pat Lavery, High Dive has 
raised about $25,000 for charity through 
food truck rallies over the past ﬁ  ve years. 
One method of fundraising at the rally is 
a food truck competition, where attendees 
are able to vote for their favorite food truck 
with a donation. The winning food truck re-
ceives a $100 gift card to a local business 
and the money is donated to UF’s Mobile 
Outreach Clinic. 
Lavery said High Dive chose to donate 
the money it raises to the Outreach Clinic 
because it is a well-organized charity with deep ties in the community. 
The clinic provides primary care to un-
employed or underinsured patients. It also 
have many specialty clinics. 
According to Linda Guan, the clinic’s 
fundraising chair and lead coordinator, the 
money raised Saturday will beneﬁ  t the clin-
ic by improving the quality of care to make 
more resources available.
The Mobile Outreach Clinic helps a lot 
of people. However, it is funded mostly by 
grants and donations. In November, the 
clinic will be hosting its ﬁ  rst-ever fundrais-
ing gala to support its clinical operations. 
Some of the vendors at the rally include 
The Charcoal Grill, Miller’s Funnel Cakes, 
Monsta Lobsta and Woodson’s Wrap Shack. 
There will also be free live music inside of 
High Dive from performers Clout 9, Ben 
White and Hannah Joyce. 
There are no tickets and attending the 
event is completely free. Consider stopping 
by to try new foods, listen to live music and 
beneﬁ  t a meaningful cause. 
@lilygirton
lgirton@alligator.orgHigh Dive hosts food truck rally 
beneﬁ  tting Mobile Outreach Clinic
FOODHarley Smith // Alligator Staff
Musician Cami Maree plays on stage at One Love Cafe and 
interacts with a young fan.
Local artists passionately share their talents at Craft and Vendor Festival
LIFESTYLE
THE EVENT WILL SHOWCASE 
GAINESVILLE’S MOST 
SKILLED STORYTELLERS
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
Heartwood Soundstage will host the 
fourth Story Summit event Friday from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 
The event is located at 619 S. Main St. 
and will feature six storytellers from the 
three largest storytelling organizations in 
Gainesville: Self Narrate, Guts & Glory GNV 
and The Conch.
Storytelling began as an obscure art in 
Gainesville with very small participation, 
said Brand Telg, co-founder of Self Narrate. 
Self Narrate is a nonproﬁ  t that organizes 
workshops, events and other community-
building opportunities to encourage people 
to share their personal stories.
Over the past ﬁ  ve years, the storytelling 
community has greatly expanded, offering at 
least three storytelling events a month. Story 
Summit is the best night of the year to hear 
from Gainesville’s most talented storytellers.
“There are many storytelling events in 
Gainesville, often at least three per month, 
but if you only come to one storytelling 
event in Gainesville each year, it should be Story Summit,” Telg said.
According to Bill Bryson, founder of 
The Conch, the event features six storytell-
ers who will tell true stories about their life. 
Bryson started The Conch after being in-
spired by storytelling podcast, “The Moth.” 
The Conch holds open mics at Satchel’s 
Pizza monthly.
The event shows the collaborative cul-
ture that Gainesville’s creative community 
works hard to cultivate.
“To be totally honest, people asked each 
of us if we were in competition with each 
other, and that’s very much not the case,” 
Tegg said. We are all friends in this storytell-
ing community, so unifying our efforts on 
a big event like Story Summit also demon-
strates that our community is cohesive and 
whole.”
Speakers from Guts and Glory GNV, 
founded by UF alumni Taylor Williams, will 
also be speaking at the event.
Doors will open at 6 p.m. Early ticket 
price is $15. Ticket price at the door is $20.
Bryson and Telg hope that participants 
personally connect with the performers.
“Storytelling is a powerful tool for devel-
oping self-efﬁ  cacy, building relationships 
and gaining perspective,” Telg said.
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduHeartwood Soundstage to 
host biannual Story Summit
LIFESTYLEBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk driversThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
The Alligator instead!This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-141For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
Did you know? The NASA Vehicle Assembly Building in 
Florida is so huge it has its own weather.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
SOLUTION ON PG. 1010   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Now Hiring Substitute Teachers for Alachua 
County Public Schools
Minimum criteria for becoming a substitute 
teacher: 
• High School Diploma
• The ability to pass background, drug and 
fingerprint screenings 
• Must be 21 years or older
Please call 352-363-2013 or email
2074@kellyservices.com      7-23-19-5-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Now hiring happy, athletic people for PT/FT. 
Regular consistent availability and 1 day on 
the weekend a must. Apply in person to 1504 
NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF.    7-18-19-4-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certified. 
Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    7-30-
19-7-14
Tutor/Respite care provider: tutor algebra 
and other topics at Santa Fe College level; 
an understanding of working with someone 
with special needs; must have patience and 
is willing to work with our son on developing 
independent skills. Pay is $15/hr / 10-15 hrs a 
week, 2 - 3 hrs daily at our house. Start week 
of August 19. annemiekecoron@gmail.com     
7-23-19-4-14
Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-14
Looking for a responsible, mature, preferably 
a grad student or older, to start ASAP to be 
home with my teenage daughters at times 
when I am working. Responsibilities would 
be mainly helping with driving and some 
meal preparation with some light clean -
ing as well. I am a single mom living in the 
NW side of Gainesville. Once school starts, 
times needed would be at a minimum ap-
proximately 7-9 am and 3-6 /7 pm. You need 
to have a clean driving and criminal record 
as I will be doing a background check. More 
hours needed until school starts on August 
12. Live in potential if desired. 352-514-2843    
7-18-19-2-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Thursday night without a date? 
Read The Alligator!Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
*Tree Trimming, Stump
Grinding & Brush Removal*
Call 3 H Enterprise 352-414-8222 Free
estimates. Located in Gainesville. Quality, 
Reliable & Affordable Services call today!    
7-23-19-5-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      1-15
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
15 Services 20 Events/Notices 14 Help Wanted
By John-Clark Levin and Jeff Chen
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, July 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Like challah bread
5 Obligations
10 Pistons’ org.
13 Broadway 
seductress
14 Threepio’s pal
15 Take the show on 
the road
16 *Goof off
18 Stunt legend 
Knievel
19 Suit parts
20 Gross sales, 
on an income 
statement
22 Juices up
24 *Mecca for sci-fi 
and superhero 
fans
25 Jessica of the 
“Fantastic Four” 
films
26 Mysterious power
28 Votes against
29 *Trace-amount 
precipitation
33 Burden
34 Co-star/co-creator 
Issa __ of HBO’s 
“Insecure”
35 Prefix with -gram
36 Quick drink
39 *Object of 
Jason’s quest
42 Oil cartel
44 Commotion
45 __ Stefani, 
returning coach 
on “The Voice”
46 *Make flashy 
modifications to
49 Puts on 
Facebook
50 Alerts on the road
51 Often-dystopian 
conflict
53 “Er, I’d rather not”
54 Freelance for 
extra income 
... and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
58 Start of D-Day?
59 Like Navy SEALs
60 Run like heck
61 Nursery roll
62 Intuit
63 Watson who 
played Hermione 
in Harry Potter 
films
DOWN
1 Sprite
2 Muck
3 Car storage spot4 Sonia 
Sotomayor’s 
alma mater
5 Pub flier
6 Greek Cupid
7 Approx. 1,055 
joules
8 Depp’s “Lone 
Ranger” role
9 Genesis city of 
sin
10 Beginner
11 __ Aires
12 “Over the 
Rainbow” 
composer
15 AT&T and 
Verizon
17 Pack animal
21 __ gland:  
organ that 
secretes 
melatonin
22 Extreme diet
23 Forearm bone
24 Life-saving  
proc.
26 Mideast airline
27 Took to court
30 Monastic 
garments
31 South African 
capital
32 Recon target
36 One may trend 
on Twitter37 “Law & Order: 
SVU” actor
38 Pilot products
39 Sticky-toed 
lizards
40 Wear (away)
41 Chanel 
fragrance for 
men
42 Words that begin 
the line before 
“Deny thy father 
and refuse thy 
name”43 Determined 
precisely, with 
“down”
46 Dull sounds
47 Caravan stops
48 Functional
49 More, on a  
score
51 Dampens
52 Roller coaster 
cry
55 Racket
56 Quick flight
57 Eventful chapter
By Kevin Salat
(c)2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/17/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/17/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 17, 2019
ACROSS
1 Santa __: 
Sonoma County 
seat
5 Cordelia, to 
Regan
11 Small ammo
14 At risk of 
offending, for 
short
15 “Play more!”
16 Variety
17 Squander little 
by little
19 Foot the bill
20 Expedia info
21 “__ Tú”: 1974  
hit sung in 
Spanish
22 Boozer
23 Nike rival
25 Unstructured 
recreation
28 Back muscle, 
familiarly
29 Garnet or ruby
31 Double helix  
part
32 Approximately
34 Old __: card 
game
37 Small pies
38 Inlet in an Otis 
Redding hit  
song
41 “Hello” singer
44 Subway fare?
45 Pollen pouches
49 Overhaul
51 Inquire
53 Stick in the 
closet?
54 Ruffles snack 
company
57 Mogadishu  
native
59 Master
60 __ Bator
62 “Beauty and the 
Beast” role
63 Olive center
64 Worn-look fabric 
style that this 
puzzle’s four 
other longest 
answers exhibit?
66 Ginger __
67 2014 boxing 
biopic
68 “Othello” villain
69 ’60s hallucinogen
70 Shiny photo
71 “You said it!”DOWN
1 Mark who plays 
the Hulk
2 Tracked by air 
traffic control
3 Bar supply
4 Didn’t just sit 
there
5 “I __ what you 
did there”
6 Memo starter
7 Winter neckwear
8 Cell network 
structure
9 Clears a 
whiteboard
10 King of Spain
11 Like many 
magnets
12 Glaringly obvious
13 Big __ Country: 
Montana
18 Ivan the Terrible, 
e.g.
22 Turns the hose 
on
24 Rig on the road
26 James of jazz
27 Golf course meas.
30 Superspeed 
boy in “The 
Incredibles”
33 Recently
35 Curling surface36 Toon explorer
39 San __, Italy
40 Overseer
41 Greeting at a dog 
park
42 Throws off track
43 Thrown out
46 Dental filling 
material
47 Dartmouth, e.g.
48 Watches through 
binoculars, 
maybe50 Like lions and 
tigers and bears
52 18-time NBA  
All-Star Bryant
55 Texas mission
56 “Get Yer __ Out!”: 
live Stones album
58 Mass __
61 Guitarist Cline of 
the band Wilco
63 Buddy
64 Cookie fruit
65 Kit letters
07/16/19
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Running back Lamical Perine 
(pictured) and Quarterback 
Feleipe Franks were named to 
the award watchlists for their 
respective positions.David Little inducted to Florida Sports Hall of Fame 
The former UF linebacker played for the Gators from 1977 to 1980 and 
earned a consensus All-American and ﬁ  rst-team All-SEC nod. Little will be 
enshired on Nov. 12 in Orlando.FOOTBALL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
In his ﬁ  rst season at the helm, 
Dan Mullen revitalized a Florida of-
fense that seemed to lack an iden-
tity under former head coach Jim 
McElwain.
Quarterback Feleipe Franks 
thrived in Mullen’s run-dominant 
spread offense and UF’s wide re-
ceivers reaped the beneﬁ  ts. 
Redshirt senior Van Jefferson 
will be returning for his second 
season at Florida after transferring 
from Ole Miss in 2018. He started 
all 13 games last year and led all 
Florida receivers in receptions (35), 
receiving yards (503) and touch-
downs (6).
Jefferson’s career-high six touch-
downs were more than he scored in 
three seasons at Ole Miss combined 
(4).
Senior Josh Hammond, who 
started alongside Jefferson last sea-
son, will be back for another sea-
son as well. Hammond recorded 28 
catches, 369 receiving yards and 
four receiving touchdowns during 
the 2018-19 campaign.
Under McElwain, Hammond 
posted a combined 32 receptions, 
423 recieving yards and zero receiv-
ing touchdowns in two years.
Senior Tyrie Cleveland is an-
other receiver set to return for the 
upcoming season. He posted 18 
receptions for 212 yards and three 
touchdowns as Mullen’s primary 
slot receiver before injuring his 
shoulder against Florida State in the 
regular season ﬁ  nale.Cleveland also made his pres-
ence felt on special teams, where 
he recorded ﬁ  ve tackles as a gunner 
during punts.
Junior Trevon Grimes showed 
ﬂ  ashes last season and has the po-
tential to break out in 2019 due to 
his catch radius and rapport with 
Franks, who was also his room-
mate.
The 6-foot-5 receiver caught 
three balls for 50 yards and one 
touchdown in his debut against 
Charleston Southern and had ﬁ  ve 
receptions for 118 yards and a score 
in the regular season ﬁ  nale against 
FSU.
Grimes, however, was inconsis-
tent in other games throughout the 
year. He recorded only one catch 
ﬁ  ve times and failed to score anoth-
er touchdown. Despite his up-and-
down season, the Ohio State trans-
fer still managed 26 catches for 364 
yards, both good enough for third 
among Florida receivers.
Mullen also had junior Kadarius 
Toney -- a versatile athlete who saw 
time as a wide receiver, running 
back and kick returner -- at his dis-
posal. Toney recorded 25 catches 
for 260 yards and one touchdown, 
along with 240 yards on the ground.
UF’s receiving corps has the 
depth and talent to produce at a 
high level with its group from last 
year still intact, which should bode 
well for Florida’s national champi-
onship aspirations.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgPosition-by-Position: Evaluating UF’s wide receivers
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Gators reciever Van Jefferson average 14.4 yards per catch in the 2018-19 season, the most in his 
career.  He has 1502 recieving yards and 10 touchdowns over his collegiate career.
Alligator File Photo
UF basketball coach Mike White is 89-53 in his four seasons with the 
Gators. His overall head coaching record is 190-93. 
UF men’s basketball coach 
Mike White was thought to be 
a questionable hire by many 
when former athletic director 
Jeremy Foley handed him the 
job in May 2015.
I was also skeptical.
How was a guy with no NCAA 
Tournament appearances, hailing 
from Conference USA’s Louisiana 
Tech, going to carry on the legacy 
Billy Donovan shaped during his two 
decades at Florida?
Well, fast forward a little over four years and 
that skepticism I had has long disappeared.
Three NCAA Tournament appearances, ﬁ  ve 
NCAA Tournament wins and an Elite 8 appear-
ance back in 2017 has convinced me he possesses 
the tools needed to keep the Gator men’s basket-
ball program at a top-tier level moving forward.
Not everything has been perfect for White. He’s 
still a young coach and has made mistakes that 
have caused some of Gator Nation to continually 
scowl at his coaching ability.
Like his ﬁ  rst season that only resulted in an 
NIT appearance or this past year when the team 
didn’t quite live up to the expectations set before 
the season, sneaking into the NCAA Tournament 
then bowing out to Michigan in the second round.
But what he did in his second season as head 
coach was something not many expected. High-
lighted by a lack of a major inside presence after 
John Egbunu’s season-ending knee injury, White 
adjusted and used the team’s tenacity on defense 
and perimeter success on offense to guide the 
Gators to just one win shy of a Final Four nod.
While there have been question marks at times 
on offense during White’s tenure, his defense has never been an issue.
His focus has always 
been on the defensive side of the ball, 
and his teams have showcased such 
through their performance on that 
side of the court.
Despite the criticism White has 
received for his offensive style, he’s 
a magician when it comes to base-
line out-of-bounds plays. I’ve always 
been impressed with his ability to cre-
ate easy scoring opportunities for his 
players when the team desperately 
needed a basket.
Heading into his ﬁ  fth year at UF, the expecta-
tions for White’s team in 2019-20 are signiﬁ  cant, 
and with good reason.
A top 10 recruiting class, a returning trio of 
elite sophomores that are expected to make an 
even bigger jump this season and the top gradu-
ate transfer on the market have caught the atten-
tion of college basketball’s national media. Many 
consider Florida a top 10 team and a Final Four 
contender.
I can’t say I disagree.
With graduate transfer Kerry Blackshear Jr., 
Florida has an athlete down low with the offensive 
skills that Gainesville hasn’t seen since Donovan 
was still on the sidelines of the O’Connell Center.
To me, he’s the piece that’s been absent during 
White’s time with the Gators, and in my opinion, 
White has been handcuffed offensively at times 
because of that.
With a roster now completely shaped by his 
own doing, this is the year that White has to help 
his talented group of players live up to its potential 
and make a deep run into the NCAA Tournament.
If he does, expect to see the Gators roaming the 
hardwood in Mercedes-Benz Stadium come April.Mike White has proved us wrong24/Evan
Evan Lepak
twitter: evanmlepak
elepak@alligator.orgBy River Wells
Sports Writer
UF gymnast Trinity Thomas is 
getting an early start to her year.
The rising sophomore is slat-
ed to compete in the 2019 GK 
U.S Classic on Saturday, an Elite 
gymnastics event that serves as a 
qualiﬁ  er for the USA Gymnastics 
National Championships. Thom-as’ entry into the event is some-
what unusual: She’ll be only the 
ﬁ  fth gymnast to compete in the 
GK U.S. Classic since 2010 that 
has also participated in the NCAA 
Championships during the same 
calendar year.
“It’s just really special to have 
the opportunity to do both,” 
Thomas said. “I’m excited to be 
able to pursue both of my goals.”Thomas will be com-
peting on the bars and 
the beam. The SEC 
Freshman of the Year 
received First Team and 
Second Team All-Amer-
ican honors for both 
events, respectively, 
during the 2019 season.
The U.S. Classic will 
be a return to Elite com-
petition for Thomas, 
who put the majority of 
her focus on collegiate 
competition in 2019.
“The ﬁ  rst step right 
here can be at classics, 
getting reintroduced to 
Elite again after being 
out for a little bit in col-
lege,” Thomas said.
The event will feature 
notable Elite U.S. gym-
nasts such as four-time 
Olympic gold medalist 
Simone Biles, who was 
the Senior Champion at 
last year’s meet.
“It’s really special to 
be able to compete with 
them, because they’re 
the best of the best,” 
Thomas said. “And to 
be a part of that is super 
cool.”
The event serves as a path-
way to both the USA Gymnastics 
National Championships and the 
Olympics. Despite the lofty goals 
at the end of the stretch, howev-
er, Thomas is starting small.
“Ultimately, the ﬁ  rst step is 
to make the U.S National Team 
again,” UF coach Jenny Rowland 
said. “(Thomas has) got a few new upgrades, and she’s looking 
forward to testing some of those 
out this season.”
Thomas’ freshman campaign 
with the Gators was nothing 
short of stellar, spawning SEC 
Freshman of the Year and NACGC 
Southeast Region Gymnast of the 
Year nods. As Thomas enters her 
sophomore year, Florida will only 
bring in a sole freshman for their 
2020 class in three-time Junior 
Olympic Level 10 champion Pay-
ton Richards. While it will be dif-
ﬁ  cult to match the success from 
Thomas last year, Rowland is conﬁ  dent in Richards’ ability.
“I can’t say (Richards) has a 
weakness on any given event,” 
Rowland said. “She’s a very 
strong competitor.”
The GK U.S. Classic will be 
broadcasted on the Olympic 
Channel live at 7 p.m on Satur-
day.
“We’ve tried our best to give 
(Thomas) some down time,” 
Rowland said. “But she really is 
motivated. She’s eager.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
NightsGYMNASTICS
Trinity Thomas to compete in GK U.S. Classic
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Trinity Thomas was named the NACGC Southeast Gymnast of the Year in 
2019.  She is the ﬁ  fth UF gymnast to recieve the award and only the second 
freshman to do so.
River Wells
MEME OF THE WEEK