We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Another dog mauling in Alachua County
A 15-year-old Chihuahua was killed by two pit bulls Monday 
morning, pg. 4
Fishing for funds
UF students compete in “Shark T ank” inspired competition, pg. 5Gators win in extra innings 5-4
Jud Fabian’s RBI-double in the 10th inning lifted 
the UF baseball team over Jacksonville, pg. 14WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 64
DONATIONS WILL HELP UF 
TOWARD GOAL OF TOP 5 PUBLIC 
UNIVERSITY
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Buildings on campus wore orange and blue 
striped ties in Mr. Two Bits fashion Tuesday for the university’s ﬁ  rst Day of Giving. 
The 24-hour event called “Stand-Up and 
Holler: Gator Nation Giving Day” focused on 
raising money across the university, said Mat-
thew Hodge, the UF Alumni Association’s ex-
ecutive director. By the end of the day, $12.6 
million was raised by more than 11,000 con-
tributors, which more than doubled UF’s goal 
of $5 million.
The College of Journalism and Communica-tions had the most contributors of any college 
at more than 680 while the College of Medicine 
had the highest amount donated at more than 
$3.5 million.
Plans for the initiative started in August as 
part of UF’s push to be a top ﬁ  ve public uni-
versity because alumni donations are factored 
into the U.S. News and World Report ranking, 
Hodge said. UF is currently tied for No. 8 in 
the ranking. “We’ve been blessed with individuals that 
want to step up and make stretch contribu-
tions,” Hodge said. 
The day started with the goal of 5,000 dona-
tions, which was surpassed by 5 p.m., Hodge 
said.
The new goal of 8,500 contributions, which 
was exceeded by 8 p.m.First Gator Nation Day of Giving raises $12.6 million
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Sunset Strolling
Julian Wenger, 25, and Heather Hess, 24, walk Monday evening along a boardwalk overlooking Paynes Prairie 
Preserve State Park next to U.S. Highway 441. The couple had just recently returned to Gainesville after 
spending a year in Australia and had not seen Paynes Prairie since the ﬂ  ooding caused by Hurricane Irma 
closed the area down. Wenger said the two were happy to see things returning to normal in their favorite spot. 
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
In 1994, Harold Theus began 
as an Alachua County ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter 
with a simple philosophy: to help 
the community.
Twenty-ﬁ  ve years later, he be-came the county’s new ﬁ  re chief.
The Alachua County Com-
mission unanimously conﬁ  rmed 
Theus, 50, following a recom-
mendation from the county man-
ager. Since Nov. 30, Theus has 
served as interim ﬁ  re chief after 
the former ﬁ  re chief Bill North-cutt’s retirement. 
The county ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters union, 
Fire Rescue Professionals of Ala-
chua County, endorsed Theus 
and recommended him to the 
county manager. Robert Sullivan, 
the union president, said they se-
lected Theus because he is well-educated and prepared for the 
position.
“He is the very ﬁ  rst ﬁ  re chief 
in Alachua County to come up 
through our own ranks, and 
that’s exciting,” Sullivan said.  
Theus’ salary will be 
$129,395.55, a 10 percent in-crease from Theus’ previous 
salary, said Heather Akpan, the 
county human resources director. 
Former ﬁ  re chief Bill Northcutt 
had a salary of $141,313.33 before 
his retirement.
Theus told the commission 
he was humbled and honored to 
receive the position, and he looks 
forward to the opportunity to Long-time Alachua firefighter becomes new fire chiefIT IS BEING INVESTIGATED AS A HOMICIDE 
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A missing 20-year-old man from Gilchrist County turned 
up dead in Micanopy on Monday. Deputies say he was killed. 
The man, who has been identiﬁ  ed as Daniel Schweitzer, 
had been reported missing since Feb. 3 and was thought to 
be headed toward Alachua County or Tampa. 
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce discovered his body 
when deputies received a call at 3:29 p.m. from a driver who 
was ﬂ  agged down by a person who spotted the decomposed 
body while walking down Country Road 234, said Lt. Brett 
Rhodenizer, an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesper-
son. Deputies found the body underneath palm fronds in the 
area. 
Gilchrist County is about an hour away from Micanopy.
The medical examiner’s ofﬁ  ce and sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce detec-
tives conﬁ  rmed Tuesday that he was killed, according to the 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce. It is unclear how or when he was killed. 
The body had been under palm fronds on the side of the 
road for days or weeks, Rhodenizer said. The witness told 
detectives a blanket and bags were nearby. 
“Whatever happened didn’t happen recently,” he said. 
“There’s nothing on scene or that we’ve been made aware of 
that causes us any concern for the sake of the community.”
Anyone with information is asked to call the Criminal In-
vestigations Division at 352-367-4170.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org20-year-old found 
dead in Micanopy
Harold Theus has spent 25 years with ACFR
Theus
 SEE CHIEF,  PAGE 4SEE GIVING DAY,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
WEDNESDAY
Beat ICE
When: 12:50-2 p.m.
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: UF Chispas, an orga-
nization advocating for the 
needs of immigrants, will host 
an Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement protest starting on 
the Plaza of the Americas and 
ending at the Reitz Student Union 
Amphitheater with UF students 
to demand that ICE be abolished.
Food and Dine
When: Noon-3 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North Lawn
What: Attendees can celebrate 
the flavors and experience the dif-
ferent cultures from around the 
world. The UF Cuban American 
Student Association, the Filipino 
Student Association, the French 
Club, the Venezuelan Student 
Association and the Vietnamese 
Student Organization will pro-
vide the dining experience. There 
will also be performances by The 
Belly Gators and the Ailigéadar 
Irish Dance Company. This event 
is free to all UF students with a 
Gator 1 Card.
BeYOUtiful Health and Wellness 
Fair
When: 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: In honor of National 
Eating Disorder Awareness 
Week, GatorWell will host a fair 
with campus partners and stu-
dent organizations to provide ac-
tivities for students to learn about 
eating disorders and how to cre-
ate a culture of body acceptance.
Majors and Minors Fair 2019
When: 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North 
Entrance
What: Students can come talk to 
representatives from more than 
40 UF departments to learn about 
different majors and minors of-
fered. 
THURSDAY
Game of Thrones Trivia
When: 8-10:30 p.m.
Where: World of Beer, at 3265 
SW 34th St.
What: There will be drink spe-
cials and challenging “Game of 
Thrones” questions at the World 
of Beer’s trivia. Attendees must be 21 and older. Tickets for the trivia 
can be purchased on Ticketbud. 
Prizes include $350 for first place, 
$175 for second place, $75 for 
third place and a $50 World of 
Beer gift card for fourth place 
and for the best-costumed team. 
Questions about the event are 
referred to Trivia Nation at 904-
372-7150 or admin@trivianation.
com.
SATURDAY
2019 Florida Lineman Competition
When: 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where: 4747 N. Main St. 
What: Utilities from around the 
state will compete in the lineman 
competition, which will show-
case Gainesville Regional Utilities 
workers in action. The event is 
free and family friendly. 
There will be face painting, a 
bounce house, a dress-up-like-
a-lineworker competition and a 
kids zone from O2B Kids. Food 
trucks include: Soup to Nuts, 
Two Cuban Guys, PawPaw’s 
Kitchen and Catering, Charlie’s 
Snow Shack and Strega Nona’s 
Oven Eddie Q Classic Southern 
BBQ. 
MORE
Life and Legacy of A. Quinn Jones
When: From Feb. 1 to Feb. 28
Where: Cone Park Branch 
Library, at 2801 E. University 
Ave.
What: A touring exhibit featuring 
artifacts and panels from the orig-
inal exhibit on display at the A. 
Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural 
Center.
Carbon Fee, Dividend legislation 
to be discussed
When: 6 p.m. on March 11
Where: Marion County Public 
Library, at 2720 E. Silver Springs 
Blvd.
What: Citizens’ Climate Lobby, 
which motivates citizens to ad-
dress climate change, will have 
representatives speak for free on 
the movement to halt and reverse 
climate change. The Grassroots 
Organization lobbies to pass the 
“Carbon Fee and Dividend” legis-
lation and works closely with the 
House Climate Solutions Caucus, 
a bipartisan group in the U.S. 
House of Representatives, found-
ed in 2016 by Florida representa-
tives Ted Deutch (D) and Carlos 
Curbelo (R). The library has 
free parking and is wheelchair-accessible. For more information, 
email IndivisibleCommonCents@
gmail.com or call 352-620-4764.
Check out the Florida Museum’s 
‘water’ pop-up outreach at 
SpringsFest
When: Saturday and Sunday 
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Where: SpringsFest at Silver 
Springs State Park, at 5656 E. 
Silver Springs Blvd.
What: The event will have 
hands-on activities and a natural 
science exploration. Visitors can 
learn about Florida waters and 
interact with a pop-up museum. 
Admission to the park is $2. 
For more information, visit the 
museum’s website or call 352-
273-2048.
Lessons on the Cost of War
When: Friday from 11 a.m. to 9 
p.m., Saturday and Sunday from 
11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Where: Matheson History 
Museum, at 513 E. University 
Ave. 
What: In this free event, attend-
ees can understand the impact of 
political and military actions on 
Vietnam through panels on the 
My Lai Massacre and the Vietnam 
War. Paul Ortiz, the director of 
the Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program, will moderate the panel 
on the massacre on Saturday. 
Attendees can learn about how 
governmental and military poli-
cies and practices were imple-
mented and covered up, they can 
explore opportunities to make 
amends with Vietnamese people.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  70° LOW  60°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Griton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones,  Shelby Smith,
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 64WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Save the date! 
Perk Up Your 
Summer Expo 
on March 14
Looking to mix things up this Sum -
mer? Learn about available options 
for you and your family on March 14.  
On Thursday, March 14, UF Human 
Resources will host “Perk Up Your Sum -
mer,” a GatorPerks and summer camp 
expo designed to help you make your 
summer the best it can be. Faculty, staff, 
postdocs and graduate assistants are in -
vited to learn more about youth summer 
camps throughout the area as well as UF’s 
year-round GatorPerks discounts on trav -
el, entertainment, restaurants, health and 
wellness services and much more.
The event will be held from 10 a.m. to  
2 p.m. at the Champions Club at the Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Questions? Email hrcommunications@
hr.ufl.edu or contact Angie Brown at 
(352) 273-1759.Ask a  
Scientist:  
Bulla Cubana
March 10 at 1:00 pm — Florida  
Museum of Natural History
Florida Museum of Natural History vis-
itors may bring specimens and find an -
swers during an afternoon of discovery 
and learning on March 10 from 1 to 4 p.m. 
Participants for “Ask a Scientist: Bulla 
Cubana” may talk one-on-one with Flor -
ida Museum researchers from about their 
fieldwork in Cuba. For more informa -
tion, visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu  
or call 352-273-2062.
Wednesday, February 27, 2019
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSNominations due by Friday, March 1.
The annual UF Champions for Change Awards 
program is a partnership between the Office 
of Sustainability and the Healthy Gators Coa -
lition and is designed to recognize individuals 
and groups in the university community who 
have made notable strides in the areas of sus -
tainability and/or health and well-being during 
their time at UF .
Nominations can be made in either of the  
following categories:
Sustainability: Can encompass efforts, pro -
grams or progress made in the areas of waste 
reduction, water/energy conservation, social 
equity, outreach/engagement, academics, 
Green Teams, etc.
Health and Well-being: Includes efforts, pro-
grams or progress made in the areas of physi -
cal, social, spiritual, or emotional well-being.
The University of Florida Academic & 
Professional Assembly (APA) offers enrich -
ment and relationship-building opportu-
nities for professional staff across campus.
APA hosts monthly informal meetups, conver -
sations with high-level administrators and tours 
of interesting areas of campus, with the goal of 
connecting staff with colleagues, resources and 
opportunities across UF . APA is currently gath -
ering feedback on how to most meaningfully 
serve UF’s 3,500+ TEAMS professional staff  
members. If you’re an APA member, you should 
Beginning early last year, UF set out to achieve 
two primary goals through its Faculty 500 initia -
tive: Reaching top-five public university status by 
strengthening various research disciplines and im -
proving its student-faculty ratio from 20:1 to 16:1.
In the past year, more than 750 faculty members 
have been hired, including 231 new faculty posi-
tions throughout the university’s 16 colleges as part 
of the Faculty 500 initiative. Nearly 10,000 appli-
cants from all 50 states and roughly 100 countries 
have applied to answer the call for new faculty.Nominations are judged based upon the 
uniqueness of the achievement, the level of ef -
fort required, the commitment to sustaining the 
achievement and the significance for personal 
growth or the impact of the effort on the UF 
community. Nominees can include undergradu-
ate and graduate students, faculty, staff, adminis-
trators, departmental groups and student organi-
have received a short survey link via email on 
February 25th. Please provide feedback by 
March 11th. For a lineup of upcoming events 
and more information, visit apassembly.ufl.edu.
To assist with recruiting efforts, departments 
may request “Find Yourself Here” printed re -
cruitment brochures by emailing hrcommunica -
tions@hr.ufl.edu. UF Human Resources has also 
created a Dual Career Task Force with local busi -
nesses to address dual career obstacles. UFHR, 
UF Advancement, Exactech and InfoTech will 
host a Dual Career Roundtable on March 22 
from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in the Warrington Confer-
ence Room at Emerson Alumni Hall to discuss 
developing a community partnership to address 
dual career hiring. To attend and to reserve a parking spot, please RSVP at talent@uff.ufl.
edu by noon on March 21. A food truck will be 
available starting at noon if anyone would like to 
arrive early to buy lunch.
UFHR has also started social media recruit -
ing with active accounts on T witter, Facebook 
and LinkedIn. If you have faculty job postings 
you’d like help with spreading the word about, 
please tag @UFCareers in your posts or email  
employment@ufl.edu.•
•Nominate a deserving UF Champion for Change
The University of Florida  
Academic and Professional  
Assembly (APA) seeks feedback
University continues its quest to hire 500 new facultyzations. Self-nominations are accepted. The 2019 
winners will be recognized during the Campus 
Earth Week Celebration at the Champions for 
Change Awards Ceremony on Wednesday, April 
3. For more information about Champions for 
Change, or to nominate a deserving Champi -
on, please visit: sustainable.ufl.edu or e-mail  
info@sustainability.ufl.edu.
UN IVERSI TY OF  FL OR IDAAC ADEMIC AN D
PROFESSIONAL  ASSE MB LY
(APA )The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tico was with Lorraine Marie 
Anderson when her mother died 
from cancer, when her long-time 
boyfriend left her and when she 
was evicted from her house.
Tico, her 15-year-old Chihua-
hua, was mauled to death by two 
pit bulls Monday morning.
Anderson, 59, and Tico met 
about 15 years ago when she was 
looking for a companion dog at a 
person’s home in Port St. Lucie. 
“He came up to my foot, and 
he was untying my laces in my 
sneakers,” she said. “He just ad-
opted me.”
This is the third pit bull attack 
in Alachua County that led to a 
dog being mauled to death in the 
last six months. In December, Fred, a pug and 
beagle mix, was killed by Buster, a 
pit bull, while on a walk. In Septem-
ber, Bella was also killed by three 
pit bulls while on a walk.
On Monday morning, Anderson 
was walking her two Chihuahuas, 
Tico and 13-year-old Precious, on 
the 3400 block of Northwest 21st 
Drive when she heard two growling 
dogs behind her, said Gainsville Po-
lice Chief Inspector Jorge Campos. 
When she turned around, she 
saw two pit bulls ready to attack, 
Anderson said. The pit bulls had 
escaped through a hole in a fence. 
She picked up her dogs and 
started walking, but the pit bulls 
attacked and began biting her body 
and head, she said. 
“They knocked me down from 
behind, and they started chewing 
me and mutilating me. I would not 
let go of my little dog,” she said. “It was so bad I had to let them go.”
Tico was dragged back to the 
yard and mauled to death by one of 
the dogs, as the other continued to 
attack Anderson, she said. Precious 
ran away. 
She had deep puncture wounds 
on her arms, a partially severed 
right ear and lacerations on her back 
and neck, according to a Gainesville 
Police incident report. 
She was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital, Campos said.
The owner of the pit bulls, 
William Woodrow Hicks, 26, of 
Gainesville, told police the dogs 
have never been aggressive toward 
animals before, the report said.  
The incident is being handled by 
the Alachua County Animal Servic-
es Department, Campos said. 
Hicks surrendered the pit bulls 
to animal services, said Ed Wil-
liams, the animal services director. They will be euthanized after a 10-
day bite quarantine. 
Hicks is not being charged be-
cause he surrendered the pit bulls 
and had no prior incidents involv-
ing the dogs, Williams said. 
“He was pretty upset about it,” Williams said. “He did the right 
thing.”
Hicks did not want to comment 
on the incident. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgWoman, her dog mauled by pit bulls
This was the third pit bull attack in six months
Courtesy to The Alligator
Two pit bulls attacked Lorraine Marie Anderson while she was 
walking her two Chihuahuas, Tico (left) and Precious (right) on 
the 3400 block of Northwest 21st Drive Monday morning. Tico 
was killed during the attack.
serve the county.
“I believe that we can pro-
vide the best service to our 
citizens and visitors by having 
a well-equipped, well-trained 
and well-compensated staff,” 
Theus said. 
The county manager’s of-
ﬁ  ce interviewed six candidates 
from a pool of applications, 
said Carl Smart, an assistant 
county manager. The county 
manager, Michele Lieberman, 
chose Theus because of his 
community relationships, pre-
vious leadership and long ser-vice to the county.
Theus began his service as 
a ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter emergency medical 
technician in 1994, and most 
recently, he became deputy ﬁ  re 
chief in 2015, Lieberman said. 
At the meeting, Commis-
sioner Ken Cornell said Theus 
has offered solutions and in-
creased diversity in the depart-
ment.
“Whenever I speak to you, 
I always hear an approach 
that obviously puts the pub-
lic’s safety ﬁ  rst, but more im-
portantly uses the resources 
that we have,” Cornell said to 
Theus at the meeting.
Commissioner Charles Chestnut said it was impres-
sive for Theus to begin at 
the bottom and reach the 
top as ﬁ  re chief. 
As ﬁ  re chief, Theus’ phi-
losophy extends beyond just 
doing the bare minimum of his 
job. 
“I am proud to be the per-
son now that will be leading 
them,” he said. “The amazing 
things that they’re able to ac-
complish with the resources 
that we have is truly remark-
able.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgCHIEF,  from pg. 1300 people are in the department
The university received several million-
dollar donations, he said.
Social media was a big part of the cam-
paign, Hodge said. The #AllForTheGators 
was trending nationally on Twitter.
“Only the Gator Nation would immedi-
ately recognize that tie, that yellow button-
down, and go ‘Oh my gosh, this is a Univer-
sity of Florida experience,’” he said.
Those participating held events across 
campus with tables set up to encourage 
people to donate, Hodge said. A Giving 
Day Celebration was held on the Plaza of 
the Americas from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. There, 
booths were set up for passersby to make 
donations, and speakers, such as football coach Dan Mullen and Machen Florida Op-
portunity Scholars, encouraged people to 
donate. 
Diana Godoy and Alicia Alessio, UF com-
munication sciences and disorders juniors, 
were walking to class early in the morning 
when they saw people setting up booths on 
the Plaza of the Americas.
So, as soon as they got out of class, the 
pair went back on the Plaza to ﬁ  nd the cel-
ebration going on, and each ended up mak-
ing a donation to the university.
“It was really cool,” Godoy said. “I also 
found out some stuff that I didn’t know, like 
programs that help students that are the ﬁ  rst 
in their families to go to college.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgGIVING DAY,  from pg. 1#AllForTheGators trended on TwitterWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2019
We will not be not publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
Harris Rosen donated $12 million 
to a UF-led initiative to advance brain 
tumor research after his 26-year-old 
son died from the disease last No-
vember.
On Friday, Rosen, the president 
and COO of Rosen Hotels & Resorts, 
announced his donation to support 
ReMission Alliance Against Brain 
Tumors, an initiative to bring to-
gether physicians and scientists to 
advance research and clinical trials 
to cure brain tumors.
The donation will also result in a neuromedicine clinic at the UF 
Health Neuromedicine Hospital in 
Gainesville and neuro-oncology lab-
oratories within UF’s Evelyn F. and 
William L. McKnight Brain Institute, 
which will all be named in honor 
of Rosen’s late son, Adam Michael 
Rosen.
The UF-organized ReMission 
Summit for Brain Tumors brought 
together more than 100 experts to 
form a research community focused 
on achieving better outcomes for pa-
tients with brain tumors. 
Rosen’s son was diagnosed with 
the disease about two years ago. He 
hopes this collaborative effort will make headway in ﬁ  nding a cure for 
this disease, Rosen said.
“Collaboration is much more 
promising than individuals working 
quietly by themselves,” Rosen said. 
“When it comes to healthcare, you 
need to put that competitive philoso-
phy behind.”
The donation will go toward im-
proving the research and clinical in-
frastructure at UF and the collabora-
tive research through the ReMission 
Alliance.
The program is co-directed by Dr. 
Duane Mitchell, co-director of UF’s 
Preston A. Wells Jr. Center for Brain 
Tumor Therapy, who was also the head of a team of doctors that treated 
Adam Rosen.
“No one center has all of the 
ideas to combat such an aggressive 
disease,” Mitchell said. “By pool-
ing our resources and working to-
gether, we can accelerate the pace 
of advancement to improve these 
patients’ quality of life.”
Rosen, an Orlando hotel tycoon, 
established The Harris Rosen Foun-
dation and will donate $3 million 
this year, followed by an additional 
$1 million annually over the next 
nine years.
The Rosens’ donation is a seed 
gift to kick-start the rest of the cam-paign, Mitchell said. The overall fun-
draising goal of the ReMission Alli-
ance is $100 million.
A benchmark goal of the ReMis-
sion Alliance is to see the long-term 
survival rate for patients with the 
most aggressive brain tumors, which 
hovers at 10 percent currently, move 
to greater than 50 percent within the 
next decade, Mitchell said.
“If we are able to accomplish 
this, then that changes the conver-
sation we have with brain tumor 
patients,” Mitchell said. “We will 
be able to tell them that they are 
more likely to survive this disease 
than succumb to it.”Multi-million dollar donation kicks oﬀ   brain tumor research at UF
A neuromedicine clinic, neuro-oncology laboratories will be named in honorTHREE WINNERS WILL 
COMPETE IN APRIL
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A national television premise became a 
local reality for UF students hoping to pur-
sue an entrepreneurial idea on Monday. 
Student Government Agency Gator In-
novators held its ﬁ  rst ever “Gator Tank” 
competition, inspired by the TV show 
“Shark Tank,” in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom.
Seventy students attended the event and 
12 teams participated in the ﬁ  rst round, 
where their business ideas were judged by 
three entrepreneurs.
The top three teams received $2,000, 
funded by donors such as UF College of De-
sign, Construction and Planning, and men-
torship from the judges, said Ali Gardezi, 
the agency head.  The prize winners will compete in the 
ﬁ  nal round on April 12 for the grand prize, 
said Gardezi, a 22-year-old UF computer 
science senior.
One of the winning business ideas was 
a monthly subscription box supplied with 
college student necessities, called Unbox.
ed, said Ana Primo, one of the inventors 
and a 20-year-old UF international studies 
and political science sophomore.
Some things that come in the box are 
cleaning supplies, ofﬁ  ce stationery and a 
sheet of general college tips, she said. The 
idea came from her and her partner’s ex-
perience of not knowing what things they 
needed for college.
Branden Pearson, the Gator Innovators 
chief of staff and a 20-year-old UF manage-
ment sophomore, said he has high hopes 
for fostering student entrepreneurship. 
“If the program continues to grow, it 
could be a place where students are devel-
oping the next Facebook or the next Snap-
chat,” Pearson said.UF students ‘bite’ at opportunity 
to showcase original products
NEWL Y ELECTED SPRING 
SENATORS WERE SWORN IN 
TUESDAY NIGHT
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Senators had a mouthful to say Tuesday 
night as they voted for new Senate leader-
ship.
Libby Shaw (College of Journalism and 
Communications) was sworn in as the Stu-
dent Senate president along with Emily Dun-
son (District A)  as the Student Senate Pro 
Tempore. 
Senators Stephen Singleton (Agricul-
ture and Life Sciences) and Tyler Kendrick 
(Beaty Towers) were elected as members-
at-large and will serve on the Replacement 
and Agenda Committee. The newly elected 
Senate leadership is all from Impact Party.Michael Murphy, the Student Body presi-
dent-elect, is the fourth consecutive Student 
Body president to have served as the Senate 
president. 
 Impact and Inspire Party senators were 
also sworn in following last week’s Spring 
elections. Inspire now has one-third of the 
Senate. 
“I think party politics is severely hurting 
us,” Shaw said. “We can move into a term 
where there’s peace, and we’re all friends.
Chou said that despite losing the presi-
dency in the Senate and the Student Body, 
he will continue what he has been doing 
since freshman year.
“I help people with their projects, and I 
will continue on the different advocacy proj-
ects I’m involved with,” Chou said. “I’ll do 
that until I graduate.”
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgLibby Shaw sworn in as Senate 
President as Michael Murphy leaves The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumn
The entire system of how Americans vote could be chang-
ing soon if Colorado is any indication. Colorado Gov. Jared 
Polis has stipulated that he is going to sign a bill that will 
sidestep the Electoral College in favor of a system that will 
allow the candidate with the most popular votes to win.
The U.S. uses the Electoral College system, which has 538 
electors. Basically, when you go to the polls to vote, you are cast-
ing your vote for an elector. The presidential candidate’s names 
are just stand-ins for your elector. 
In the coming 2020 election, electors are divided up based on 
the previous 2016 election. There will be 306 Republican electors 
based off of the number of votes Donald Trump received in 2016, 
while the remaining 232 electors will be Democrats based off of 
how many votes Hillary Clinton received. A presidential candi-
date needs to win the majority of Electoral College votes, 270, to 
become president. Electors are elected based off of different and 
often random processes from each state. In the U.S. presidential 
election, a candidate can win the popular vote, but they may not 
win the Electoral College.
In 2016, Clinton won the popular vote by about 3 million 
more votes than Donald Trump – the biggest difference in a can-
didate who has won the popular vote and not the Electoral Col-
lege. Even here in Florida, we are no stranger to the popular vote. 
Those of us who are in college now could barely talk in 2000, but 
it was that same year Florida was riddled in election controversy. 
The election between Al Gore and George W. Bush was so close 
in Florida that a clear winner couldn’t be named in the state and, 
therefore, in the entire country for weeks. In the end, it was a 
controversial Supreme Court decision that named Bush as the na-
tion’s president. However, Gore technically still won the popular 
vote by thousands.
It begs the question of why a country that has always fought 
for the right to vote would have a system that essentially makes 
some people’s votes void. The Electoral College is as old as our 
country, and it was created to ensure the person chosen for presi-
dent was picked by people who were capable of understanding 
American politics. However, the idea is archaic. It was created by 
our founders in a time when only wealthy white men could vote, 
and even then, they were worried the popular vote wouldn’t 
align with their views. So, they created a safeguard to ensure that 
the “best” person was chosen.
Now, the Electoral College is basically a formality. Generally, 
electors will only vote how their districts voted. Each time there 
is a coming election, questions of the necessity of the Electoral 
College bubble up, like why it is still needed? It’s not. Not really, 
anyway. Its main purpose was to possibly change how voters 
cast their votes, but now that doesn’t fly. The Electoral College is 
a confusing process that doesn’t make sense in modern day U.S. 
politics, where everyone’s vote is supposed to count. However, 
without getting too deep into voter suppression, we know that 
isn’t always the case.
When it comes to the Electoral College, the only group of peo-
ple it has benefited in the past 20 years is Republicans; for a presi-
dent to win the Electoral College but not the popular vote is rela-
tively rare, having only happened a total of five times. However, 
it has happened twice in the past 20 years. It speaks to a country 
that continues to grow more partisan. The Electoral College is just 
another step in an overly complicated electoral process. Although 
it has only caused a problem in five elections, it’s five too many. 
The U.S. is a country where a person’s vote is supposed to count, 
and the Electoral College has inhibited that. It’s time we took a 
better look at our voting system and make some serious changes. Our voting system 
is archaic and in 
need of change 
Is it possible to separate art from the artist?
Lately, I have been thinking about whether 
or not it is possible to separate the art 
from the artist. Of course, this has been 
on my mind due to the recent arrest of the 
R&B singer R. Kelly, but I have wondered 
about this for years now. The obsession over 
Kodak Black within the Gainesville community 
is disturbing to me. Sure, he’s a Gator fan, but 
he also went to prison for sexual assault.
R. Kelly has been accused of sexual assault 
for as long as I have known of him, meaning I 
heard him once in middle school, learned he was a sexual 
predator and immediately stopped listening to him. I try to 
avoid listening to or watching artists with abusive pasts. 
I am proud to say I could not name one Chris Brown or 
XXXtentacion song, and I don’t plan on ever listening to 
one. I don’t watch movies or shows with Kevin Spacey 
because he’s gross, and I have never even seen “House 
of Cards.” I don’t watch anything Woody Allen has di-
rected. I stay away from Louis C.K.’s comedy. Albeit, I 
will say it’s difficult to avoid his few scenes in “Parks and 
Recreation.” Speaking of “Parks and Recreation,” the big-
gest issue I have come across with separating the art from 
the artist has come from this show. When allegations re-
garding Aziz Ansari broke headlines in early 2018, I did 
not know how to feel. “Parks and Rec” has been one of 
my favorite shows for a couple of years now, long before 
news of Ansari’s sexual misconduct. Since then, I have 
been conflicted on how to respond. If you have answers, 
let me know. 
Literary critics have multiple theories regarding wheth-
er or not it is possible to separate the art from the art-
ist. One theory, known as the New Criticism movement, 
stems from T.S. Eliot’s claim that true art is autonomous: 
If the artist was truly successful, then no traces of them-selves could be seen in their art. However, I dis-
agree with this proposal. Creating art, to me, is 
like breaking off a piece of your soul and show-
ing it to the world. Art is the embodiment of 
the artist. Art is about baring your soul for  the 
world to see.
Roland Barthes argued in 1967 that it doesn’t 
matter what the creator of the art does because 
the reader (or listener or watcher) holds all of 
the power in interpretation. Barthes believes 
that there was no universal or singular truth to 
art and that the reader and artist are co-creators. While 
the fact that the consumer of the art holds power in inter-
pretation stands true, I disagree in that I still believe that 
the artist’s original intention matters and can taint his or 
her art. 
A more modern theory admits it is impossible to di-
vorce the art from the artist. This is the camp that I fall 
into, as I think it is important to understand who the artist 
is. By listening to their music, watching their movies or 
reading their books, we are promoting their art, allowing 
them to capitalize on something they do not deserve. R. 
Kelly, Chris Brown and Woody Allen, just to name a few, 
do not deserve the platforms they have achieved. R. Kelly 
deserves to be in prison, and I have no problem with mu-
sic apps removing his songs. I also wish these apps would 
act similarly with other artists, regardless of whether or 
not they went to prison. 
Let’s hold artists accountable and demand they treat 
people with common decency. Art is supposed to make 
life worthwhile. Think of how much better art could be if 
the people who created it actually cared about humanity. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column normally appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Like every other young — bor-
derline socialist — liberal 
college student in the United 
States, I was thrilled when I 
saw that Bernie Sanders had 
entered the 2020 presidential race. 
The optimist in me is rooting for 
Sanders to take control of the Oval 
Ofﬁ  ce. Unfortunately, the political 
science student in me understands 
that this probably won’t happen.
Sanders is on the extreme left side of the 
Democratic Party. Research has shown time 
and time again that in American politics, 
the more moderate candidate almost always 
comes out victorious. This is especially true 
when looking at national races where candi-
dates need to appeal to an entire country of 
people and ideologies.
You’re probably won-
dering something along 
the lines of: “OK, but 
Trump deﬁ  nitely wasn’t 
moderate, so how the 
heck did he win?” Well, 
actually, many people believe that Trump is 
actually one of the most moderate Republican 
presidents the U.S. has seen since the 1970s 
— even if his reputation doesn’t exactly align 
with that. 
The Washington Post actually published 
an article in 2015 explaining that Donald 
Trump meets the “textbook deﬁ  nition of an 
ideological moderate.” And Vox published 
one in 2017, stating that Trump won the elec-
tion by running as a moderate Republican.
Don’t get me wrong, Trump was deﬁ  nitely 
extreme during his campaign, but he was not 
a conservative extremist when it came to his 
policy proposals. It is true that Trump made 
racist, sexist and generally offensive remarks 
that most levelheaded people would consid-
er severely outrageous. But for most of his 
more extreme promises, like building a wall 
or eradicating Obamacare, he also loosely 
promised the public he would avoid cuts to 
the three largest welfare state programs and 
vaguely said he would work for some type of 
universal health care system. When you look 
solely at where Trump stood on the issues, he 
actually ran as a more moderate Republican 
— and that is how we ended up with Presi-dent Donald Trump.
Sanders, on the other hand, is 
an extremist on all accounts. And 
this is likely why he lost the Demo-
cratic primary to Hillary Clinton in 
2016. Although Sanders was the 
more likable candidate, Clinton 
was more moderate on the issues, 
so she garnered the necessary sup-
port to receive the nomination.
To many voters, the idea of Sanders in of-
ﬁ  ce would mean sudden and drastic changes 
to the way the country works. This fear of po-
tential loss and change makes voters hesitant 
to support Sanders. This is largely due to the 
idea of “loss aversion,” which basically just 
means people are terriﬁ  ed of loss. 
Psychologically, people consider the fear 
of loss to be twice as 
powerful as the opportu-
nity for gain. So, even if 
people want what Bernie 
is offering, the idea that 
it might not work or that 
it could result in any sort 
of loss — ﬁ  nancial or otherwise — turns vot-
ers away. In other words, voters choose the 
safest option.
All this being said and considered, a Sand-
ers presidency isn’t out of the question. But 
maybe instead of “feeling the Bern,” he should 
encourage voters to feel lightly toasted.
I do believe that if Bernie is able to tone 
down some of his more extreme policies and 
consider compromising on less important 
issues, he can appeal to a broader range of 
voters during his campaign. Should he win 
the Democratic nomination, Bernie has the 
character necessary to take on Trump in de-
bates and the likability to win favor across 
party lines — especially if he is able to pres-
ent himself as a more moderate candidate in 
the months to come.
So, will Bernie soon be the newest resi-
dent of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.? Right now, 
the odds are against him, but anything is pos-
sible.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column normally ap-
pears on Mondays.Feel the Bern? Try lightly toasted Column
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
“To many voters, the idea of Sanders 
in oice would mean sudden and 
drastic changes in the way the 
country works."Last week, I did some-
thing rare. I took a nap 
on a weekday. It was a 
spontaneous choice: un-
planned, but needed. A 
half-hour or so opened itself 
up in my schedule that day, 
and I was tired. Naturally, I 
leaped on the opportunity. I 
don’t nap often for various rea-
sons — either I have no time 
for it or I get too excited about being able 
to rest and, thus, restlessly lie awake for 
an hour. 
I also ﬁ  nd naps to be strange. They 
seem to belong solely to the weekend 
when they should have a larger place in 
our daily lives. But who can afford an 
hour of sleep during the daytime? There 
are deadlines to meet. Work is for the 
day, and sleep is for the night. When in 
those rarest of circumstances that we de-
cide to put all of our daily demands aside 
and sleep for a bit, is it not simply to 
recharge so we can be more productive 
in the long run?
I suppose what’s strange about naps, 
then, is how they are viewed. They are 
a chance to rest so we can throw our-
selves more vigorously back into things. 
We tend to view ourselves as machines 
whose energy is like oil in a car; there 
is only so much energy we can expend 
before we need to be replenished. And 
the replenishment, when it comes, is 
nothing but a means to an end: higher 
productivity. Rest is supposed to fuel our 
work.
What if the relationship was invert-
ed? What if work was for the sake of our 
rest, and rest was not for the sake of bet-
ter, more vigorous work? What if nap-
ping was a way of life? 
I am not advocating for laziness, or 
even to disconnect from the quick and 
busy world. Even to me, it is strange to 
imagine a world where everyone shame-
lessly naps. Such a world would cer-
tainly not value efﬁ  ciency or activity as 
much as we do. Such a world would not 
see Elon Musk in the same way we do, as a triumph of the modern work 
ethic. He works, according 
to the New York Times, 120-
hour weeks while sometimes 
not leaving the ofﬁ  ce for a few 
days.
Busyness is prized for its 
own sake today. It is assumed 
that the person who hardly has 
time to cook is living a better 
life than the one who takes 
frequent long walks, daily naps or reads 
thick novels. Something seems off about 
the latter person, and that is because the 
meaningful life to us is an exhausting 
and stressful one. Being tired is often-
times a badge of honor, and complaining 
to our friends about our impossibly fran-
tic lives is a way of ﬂ  exing our muscles, 
of putting ourselves on display. It is no 
surprise that our conception of work has 
thousands of casualties: doctors, lawyers 
and young professionals who simply 
cannot do it anymore and feel burnt out.
The solution to this is not laziness 
or disconnect, as I mentioned earlier, 
but a reorientation that begins with this 
question: How much is work worth? Is a 
60-hour work week, a robust resume or 
an involved student what makes a life 
meaningful? If I work less, am I worth-
less?
Work today is both what we consider 
to be the most important thing about us; 
however, it's one of most taxing parts of 
our life. Our sense of self is bound up 
with what we do and it can be hard to 
untangle ourselves from that notion. 
To me, napping is the ﬁ  rst step in a 
much larger journey toward becoming 
mindful of rest. Will I start napping every 
day now? No. I will, though, try to stop 
equating my work ethic to my worth. We 
want our work to be what deﬁ  nes us as 
people, the foundation of our very being, 
but that isn’t what deﬁ  nes us as people. 
Our lives are what we make it. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.Naps are necessary for productivity Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
If you live in Florida, and you 
are not constantly acting in the 
best interest of the environ-
ment: Wake up. We are the 
ﬁ  rst ones going under when it 
all goes bad. The least we can do 
is be semi-conscious of the small 
things we can change to better the 
environment.
Before I leave the house, I al-
ways make sure to turn off all the 
lights. In my dorm at UF, there was 
a sticker around the light switch 
that said “Gators Save Energy.” It-
was a reminder to ﬂ  ip off the light  
switch every time I left the room. 
Now I can’t step foot outside of a 
lit-up room. You should always 
turn the lights off and remind your 
friends to do it, too. Go out of your 
way to turn them off, because the 
environmental beneﬁ  ts are greater than the small inconvenience.
A big pet peeve of mine is when 
people say that drinks taste better 
through plastic straws. In my ex-
perience, they simply do not. Wa-
ter tastes like water, and it always 
will. I admit that paper straws are 
kind of the worst, but their rising 
popularity has led paper straw 
vendors to try to make them more 
durable. Some people reason the 
effect of singularly using plastic 
straws is minute compared to all 
of the plastic waste in the world, 
but reducing plastic waste has to 
start somewhere. According to The 
Last Plastic Straw, a website whose 
mission is to educate people on the 
dangers of single use plastic, 500 
million straws are used in the U.S. 
every day. This is enough straws to 
wrap around the earth 2.5 times. Cutting straws out of your life is 
easy and a good ﬁ  rst step toward 
sustainable living.
Another really easy way to stop 
wasting plastic is to get a reus-
able water bottle. UF makes ﬁ  lling 
up your bottle fun with fountains 
that count how many plastic bot-
tles have been saved by that foun-
tain. I used to hope I would be the 
100,000th bottle ﬁ  lled in the foun-
tain I used every day before class. Some of the most popular bottles 
out right now are Hydro Flasks and 
Nalgenes. In addition to damaging 
the environment, single-use water 
bottles are an unnecessary expense.
It’s underrated how cool UF is 
for being a very sustainable school. 
There are recycling bins all over 
the place, and many of UF’s paper 
products are compostable. Environ-
ment Florida is currently petition-
ing UF to pledge to be a 100 percent 
green campus by 2050. The Ofﬁ  ce 
of Sustainability at UF is active and 
keeps students and faculty updated 
with progress made on green initia-
tives.
Being environmentally con-
scious isn’t hard when we realize 
the positive effects of our smallest 
actions. If everyone starts think-
ing about the environment in their daily lives, doing these small things 
will become second nature. Our 
generation will be alive to see the 
ﬁ  rst obvious signs of global dam-
age. Climate change is already very 
real, and it will only continue to 
worsen. We don’t have anywhere 
else to live.
You don’t need to dive in and do 
anything drastic. You don’t need to 
commit to a waste-free life or go 
vegan tomorrow. Showing love to 
the Earth can come in many differ-
ent forms. Turn off your lights, use 
paper straws, buy a water bottle, 
take short showers and think about 
your carbon footprint. All the cool 
kids are doing it.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journal-
ism sophomore. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.We know plastic is bad for the environment, so why are you still using it? Column
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Bringing people together through books
One of our inspirational woman helped open a store    
where people can de-stress, pg. 9Thank u, next
We’re listening to Ariana Grande, and you should
too, pg. 10 By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
Fortnite has been the go-to battle royale 
game for months now, but there is a new game 
ready to take on the role: Apex Legends.
Apex Legends is a free-to-play battle royale 
developed by Respawn Entertainment that 
takes place in the same universe as Titanfall, 
another game developed by the same com-
pany.
The Frontier’s overall design is beautiful, 
and the game’s futuristic sound complements 
the world’s design.
There are about 17 loot zones players can 
explore. Each zone is categorized by tiers. 
There are high-, mid- and low-tier loot zones 
with a variety of weapons and equipment. 
Players must quickly search for what they 
need before their enemy beats them to the 
punch. This can be frustrating when you land 
in a location with other squads. If players 
aren’t quick enough, then they are doomed as 
soon as their enemy is equipped to kill.
Unlike Fortnite, Apex Legends has eight 
legends players can choose from with special 
abilities to enhance gameplay and successfully 
execute enemies.
The game also allows players to revive 
teammates, but only if their banner is retrieved 
within 90 seconds. Otherwise, the team will be 
short a man for the match.
These are the eight legends, according to 
the Apex Legends website:
Bangalore : Bangalore was born to be a sol-
dier. Her parents and four older brothers all 
served in the IMC Armed Forces, and she 
followed in their footsteps. At the top of her class, Bangalore proved herself worthy of be-
ing a part of the IMC Military Academy when 
she was the only cadet who could take apart a 
Peacekeeper, equip it with a Precision Choke 
hop-up and put it back together in just under 
20 seconds while blindfolded.
Bloodhound: Meet the best hunter in all the 
Frontier. Their identity is unknown, but that 
doesn’t stop the people of the Frontier from 
spreading rumors. Some say they’re wealthy 
with a thirst for blood. Others think they were 
a former slave who is also half bat. No one 
knows much about Bloodhound, except that 
they have a talent to kill.
This is my favorite legend to use. It allows 
you to be sneaky and catch your enemies by 
surprise. Always remember to watch your six. 
You never know who could be trailing behind.
Gibraltar: This monster has a wild side. He 
is the son of two Search and Rescue Associa-
tion of Solace volunteers and has always been 
skilled in getting people out of trouble. He 
quickly learned the importance of protecting 
others after he and his boyfriend stole his fa-
ther’s motorcycle for a joyride and got trapped 
by a mudslide. His parents were able to res-
cue them, but his father lost his arm. Gibraltar never forgot his father’s sacriﬁ  ce.
Gibraltar is a great legend for players who 
wish to protect their squad. He can be the per-
fect defensive member for your squad.
Lifeline: Ajay Che, aka Lifeline, is the child 
of parents who proﬁ  t from war. She left home 
after discovering the damage her family had 
caused and enlisted in the Frontier Corps, a 
humanitarian organization that aids Frontier 
communities. Every team needs a healer, and 
she provides it.
Pathfinder: Pathﬁ  nder is an optimistic Mo-
bile Robotic Versatile eNtity who specializes 
in location scouting and surveying. Long ago, 
Pathﬁ  nder booted up in an abandoned labora-
tory; no one knows who created him or why. 
Pathﬁ  nder’s goal is to ﬁ  nd his creator.
Wraith: Wraith awoke in an IMC Detention 
Center for the Mentally Ill with no memory, 
too. After waking up, Wraith discovers that 
she has the power to manipulate time and 
space by opening rifts in the fabric of reality. 
She also began to hear a whispered voice that 
would keep her awake for days. Although the 
voice nearly drove her to insanity, she began 
to trust the voice, which helped her harness her newfound powers.
Wraith is another favorite of mine. She can 
be quite useful for players who just want to 
defeat enemies quickly and escape out of sight. 
Caustic: Alexander Nox, aka Caustic, was 
one of Humbert Labs’ most brilliant scientists. 
Humbert Labs is the Frontier’s leading manu-
facturer of pesticide gases and is needed to 
protect the growing Frontier colonies’ crops. 
Nox worked day and night developing new 
gases, fascinated by the amount of damage 
they can cause — but he needed to make sure 
they worked. Using live test subjects, Humbert 
Labs learned about Nox’s experiments, which 
resulted in the lab in ﬂ  ames and its chief dead. 
People believe Nox is missing and is presumed 
dead. So, as Caustic, Nox uses the Apex games 
to test his new gases on enemies.
Caustic isn’t a legend that is automatically 
unlocked. He is one you must purchase by 
earning Legend Tokens or purchasing Apex 
Coins. But other than that, this legend has a 
mad scientist kind of vibe and can catch play-
ers off guard, if used right.
Mirage: Mirage is Apex Legends’ class clown. 
But, if there is one thing he does take seriously, 
it is the art of deception. Using Holo-Pilot tech-
nology, Mirage can create the illusion of being 
in one place when he really is in another.
Mirage is perfect for players who love to 
troll their enemies. His holographic decoy can 
result in enemies wasting their precious ammo 
on it without causing any damage. He is also 
another legend that needs to be unlocked by 
Legend Tokens or Apex Coins.
@AlexCamargo95
acamargo@alligator.orgApex Legends: The best new battle royale game
GAMING
Courtesy to The Alligator
Apex Legends is a new free-to-play battle royale game. 
 Associate acting professor Tiza 
Garland shares her journey through 
performing, stage combat and 
ﬁ  ght choreography in theater and 
how her experience has impacted 
students in the UF community.
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
It is 8:30 a.m. Monday in studio 
G15. Young actors yawn and stretch 
to wake themselves up. Tiza Garland 
walks through the door with a bright 
smile and a wake of palpable energy. 
She tells them to start running. She 
sprints about the room alongside her 
students and class begins.
Tiza Garland’s infectious en-
ergy and passion shine through her 
teaching and her students’ work in 
ﬁ  ght choreography and movement. 
Garland is an associate professor 
of acting and movement for the UF 
School of Theatre and Dance, teach-ing Movement 1 and 2 for the un-
dergraduate and master’s acting stu-
dents. She also acts as the resident 
ﬁ  ght director for all productions at 
the School of Theatre and Dance.   
Garland is recognized for her no-
table work in movement and stage 
combat. She has had an extensive 
career in theater, including acting 
in more than 17 Shakespeare plays, 
working with the Dah Theatre in Bel-
grade, Serbia on devised movement 
pieces, working with the Society of 
American Fight Directors and teach-
ing actors all over the country how 
to properly ﬁ  ght in theater. 
“I always want actors to know 
that stage combat is acting, the idea 
of objective physicalized,” Garland 
said. “One of the things acting allows 
us to do is physically listen to one 
another.”
Garland began acting in the 
third grade in a production of “The 
Mother Goose Olympics” in which 
she portrayed the role of water. She 
continued theater in middle and high school and went on to study theater 
at Western Michigan University. 
There, she discovered her passion 
for movement and ﬁ  ght choreog-
raphy while taking an upper-level 
stage combat class.    
Garland earned a scholarship to 
the National Stage Combat Work-
shop and an MFA in Theatre Peda-
gogy and Stage Combat in the ﬁ  rst 
recruiting class at Virginia Common-
wealth University. 
Garland gives her students the 
tools to communicate ideas from a 
script through movement. She said 
movement is how characters are 
revealed onstage, and it provides a 
unique medium for actors to com-
municate ideas without text. 
“The movement choices inﬂ  u-
ence thought patterns in a character 
and how the actor delivers the text,” 
Garland said.   
Garland also helped cultivate 
a community of artists that are de-
termined to make positive change 
through art. She said art is a career people can do, and that artists pro-
vide meaning. 
“What I want actors and non-ac-
tors to know is that acting is a viable 
and respectable profession. Actors 
don’t need a backup plan,” she said.
As a woman, Garland said her 
gender has never affected the way 
people treat her in her profession. 
She refers to herself as an “artist” 
rather than a “female artist” because 
she feels women do not need that description; they have earned the 
title. “Being a woman has been an 
asset in my life in everything that 
I’ve done,” Garland said. 
There have been times when 
physically big men Garland teaches 
have made a snide comment. She 
reminds them that at the end of the 
day, they are there to create a ﬁ  ght 
ing piece that will serve as art, and 
tells them not to be tough.
Garland has broken gender bar-
riers in her career by choreograph-
ing and staging ﬁ  ghts. She has even 
portrayed the title role of Othello at 
Unrehearsed Shakespeare in Chica-
go. She said it was challenging, but 
it was the opportunity of a lifetime to 
play an iconic role. Of all the leading 
characters in that show, she was the 
only one cast against gender.  
Garland said she has made her 
mark through her teaching. She 
primarily wants to see her students 
change perspective in what it means 
to simply be a theater artist. 
@emmamcavoy1   
emcavoy@alligator.org
Inspirational Woman of Gainesville: Tiza Garland
Courtesy to The Alligator
Tiza Garland is a UF 
associate acting professor.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
J   B FAIR
SIMEDHealth is hiring for FULL TIME, PART TIME, and PRN positions for our 
Gainesville, Ocala, Chiefland, and Lady Lake / The Villages locations.
When:   Saturday, March 2, 2019 
              9:00am - 12:00pm   
Where:  SIMEDHealth Building - Atrium
              4343 W. Newberry Road
              Gainesville, FL 32607
RSVP:   (352) 224-2401 or email 
              jobs@simedhealth.com
SIMEDHealth.com• Admin Assistant
• Clinic Assistant (Front Desk)
• Finance Assistant
• Medical Assistant
• Medical Billing & Coding
• Patient Greeter• Pharmacy T ech
• Phlebotomist
• Radiology T ech
• Shuttle Drivers
• Sleep T ech
• Ultrasound T ech
Pre-register to guarantee your interview time.  Visit               
SIMEDHealth.com for more info & a complete list of opportunities.
CO-OWNER OF THIRD HOUSE 
BOOKS & COFFEE SHARES ITS 
STORY
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
Heather Halak and Kiren Valjee met 
at a book signing in Gainesville for Marty 
Jourard’s “Music Everywhere: The Rock 
and Roll Roots of a Southern Town.” A 
few months later, Valjee gave Halak the 
key to Third House Books & Coffee.
Valjee founded Third House Books & 
Coffee, an independent bookstore located 
in downtown Gainesville, at 113 N. Main 
St., in October 2016, just days before the 
presidential election. 
Before working together, both Halak 
and Valjee experienced personal strug-
gles but were able to make each other’s 
situations easier as co-owners of Third 
House.
“[Third House] became this place of 
political resistance, where people can grab a coffee and talk about how dis-
traught they were about the [election] 
and the hate coming out of the wood-
work,” Halak said.
She said the name, Third House, is 
inspired by the book “The Great Good 
Place” by Ray Oldenburg. 
“We all have a ﬁ  rst house where we 
live and a second house where we work, 
but there’s also a necessity for a third 
house where we can recover and de-
stress,” she said. 
Valjee and Halak said Third House is a 
welcoming space for all community mem-
bers, especially marginalized groups. 
The books in the store reﬂ  ect the di-
versity of the community. The colorful 
book spines and zines that ﬁ  ll the walls 
and pop-up shelves are mostly written by 
women, people of color and local writers. 
While there are some classics and 
popular books on display, Halak tries to 
curate Third House’s selection so those 
who are not as recognized yet get shelf 
space.
“I’ve always thought of books as ther-apeutic and something really important 
for a person’s inner life,” said Halak.
Besides managing the bookstore be-
tween 30 to 40 hours a week, Halak also 
works around 20 hours a week at Hear 
Again Records, an independent record 
store a few blocks down the street.
“It’s not feasible right now to run a 
bookstore on its own ﬁ  nancially,” she 
said.
In her free time, she reads book re-
views, checks out which books are up-
and-coming and communicates with 
local authors and others who want to col-
laborate for readings and events. When 
you own a business, there’s no time off, 
she said
Halak said it’s rewarding when people 
say the bookstore is a “cool space”, ﬁ  nd 
a book they loved based on their recom-
mendations or say they had a good expe-
rience in the store.
“It makes it all worth it,” Halak said. 
@sarahan921
shan@alligator.orgInspirational woman of Gainesville: Heather Halak
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Heather Halak is a co-owner of downtown 
Gainesville’s Third House Books & Coffee.
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer
Sounds inﬂ  uenced by the beauty of 
nature will ring through Gainesville next 
week when Tina & Her Pony perform. 
At 8 p.m. March 8 in the Civic Media 
Center, Gainesville residents will get to 
experience the ambient sounds of indie 
Appalachian folk as music duo Tina & 
Her Pony make a stop in Gainesville on 
their current tour. 
Tickets are not yet on sale according 
to Bandsintown, but will range from $5 
to $15.
In 2010, Tina Collins and Quetzal Jor-
dan started creating music together after 
separating from the ﬁ  ve-piece band Over 
Under Yonder to celebrate their shared 
love of nature. 
While their current harmony and bal-
ance seem seamless, the duo worked to bring together their different inﬂ  uences 
and musical backgrounds. 
Despite her classical music training, 
Jordan enjoys a lot of popular music like 
Smashing Pumpkins and Johnny Cash, 
while Collins loves indie and folk music 
like Joni Mitchell, Kate Walsh and, of 
course, the Appalachian Trail. 
“I picked up some inﬂ  uences along 
the way of bluegrass and traditional Ap-
palachian music,” Collins said. “I hiked 
the Appalachian Trail and fell in love 
with the culture.”
Now, the duo has created what they 
describe as a smoother and more ambi-
ent sound. 
In March, Collins and Jordan will 
begin touring a combination of music 
from both albums, “Tina & Her Pony” 
and “Champions,” as well as new music 
they have workshopped for the past few 
months. “I’ve been feeling really awesome 
lately, getting out of a funk,” Jordan said. 
She added that the new feelings have 
manifested into more music about love, 
which is a departure from their typical 
heartbreak ballads. 
Although the Gainesville community 
may not be attuned to the Indie Appa-
lachian Folk genre, the group is excited 
to play in the city and give listeners an 
easy listening experience with poetic 
songwriting. 
“Tina & Her Pony are trying to educate 
people about folk music and the culture,” 
Jordan said. “The culture is different 
than most genres which are about enter-
taining; folk is about bringing something 
more sacred: remembering who you are 
and your life.”
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgTina & Her Pony: Indie folk group coming to Gainesville
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Tina & Her Pony will be at the Civic Media 
Center March 8.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner 
any day of the week. Come in and check out 
one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out 
nothing but goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for 
lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven tandoor 
cooking for succulent Halal beef, chicken, lamb, 
and goat made fresh daily for tikka masalas, 
vindaloos,  kormas, and paneers. Vegetarian 
and vegan available too! Daily lunch specials 
include rice, naan, appetizers, salad, desserts. 
Open Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order ahead www.
kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 13th St. 
352-792-6764.BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 5am -7pm  
Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUTGRANDE STARTS THE YEAR BY 
BREAKING RECORDS
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer
It looks like Nicki Minaj was right in 
2016 about who was taking over pop be-
cause Ariana Grande is all over the charts. 
In her 2016 song “Side to Side,” Ari-
ana Grande featured Minaj, who added 
the famous line “I’m the queen of rap, 
young Ariana run pop.” Grande is doing 
just that. 
In just the last few months, Grande has 
broken countless long-standing records 
and edged her name into pop music his-
tory. 
As of Feb. 17, Grande holds the No. 
1 No. 2 and No. 3 spots on the Billboard 
Hot 100 chart, which makes her the only 
female and second artist to do this since 
The Beatles. 
It was announced on Friday that the 
singer is the only artist in Spotify history 
to have singles at No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 
on the “fastest song to reach 100 million streams” chart. 
Those songs include “7 rings,” which 
reached 100 million streams in nine days, 
break up anthem “thank u, next,” which 
achieved the feat in 11 days and her 
newest single “break up with your girl-
friend, I’m bored,” which accumulated its 
streams in two weeks. 
All these singles come off of Grande’s 
newest album “thank u, next,” which she 
released on Feb. 8, only a few months 
after the release of her previous album 
“Sweetener,” which debuted in August. 
The accolades for her new album only 
seem to increase. A Headline Planet ar-
ticle projects “thank u, next,” which beat 
out Ed Sheeran’s “Divide” for single-week 
U.S. audio streams by a pop album, will 
likely top that record in its second week 
since its release.  
In the past, Grande expressed immense 
gratitude to her fans for her many awards 
and recognitions in the sum of multiple 
heart, cloud and kiss emojis via Twitter. 
However, her recent historic accomplish-
ments have rendered a new, albeit odd, 
response from the singer. 
During her surprise appearance on the “The Late Late Show with James Cor-
den,” when he listed her recent success-
es, Grande had a simple response: “I’m 
sorry.” She added that she will “go away 
soon” so people don’t have to listen to her 
anymore. 
Although Grande may be downplaying 
her power in the pop industry, Billboard 
staffers took time to answer questions 
about why they feel the songstress has be-
come the most relevant and talked-about 
artist in the past year. 
In the piece, the staff writers discussed 
their favorite singles on the album and 
how it compares to her past discography, 
but the last question was the most poi-
gnant. When asked, “Where do you think 
Ariana Grande currently ranks among the 
greatest pop stars of the ‘10s?” Lyndsey 
Havens had this to say about Grande: 
“Without a doubt, Ariana ranks at the 
top of her class of ‘10s pop stars, not only 
because she’s resuscitating the genre (cue 
“breathin”), but also because she’s ignit-
ing its revival,” she said. 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgAriana Grande proves to be queen of pop
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Ariana Grande has topped the charts recently 
with her new album “thank u, next. ”
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
FOR RENT
2-STORY HISTORICAL HOUSE.
9-10 bedrooms starting 8-1-19.
1022 NW 3rd Ave.
Contact Brenda 352-672-8657          3-1-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Must have knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Between: Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
We have a part time job waiting for you if 
skilled at INDESGN and can type well.
Call Connie or Jim at (352)377-2444     3-1-
5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
MATH TUTOR
More thank 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
1. MUSIC: What is the full name of 
former Beatles member Paul McCart-
ney?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What is mar-
zipan?
3. CHEMISTRY: Who is credited 
with discovering the element oxygen?
4. ANATOMY: What purpose does 
bile serve in the human body?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Who was the first woman to appear on 
the cover of Playboy magazine?
6. HISTORY: The Contras guerrilla 
movement was associated with which 
country? 
7. GEOGRAPHY: The island of Sar-
dinia is a region of which country?
8. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in abbreviation “cv” or “curriculum 
vitae” mean in English?
9. LITERATURE: Which movie 
was made from the science-fiction 
short story called “The Sentinel” by 
Arthur C. Clarke?
10. MOVIES: In which post-apoca-
lyptic 1980s movie did the singer Tina 
Turner appear?
Answers
1. James Paul McCartney
2. A confection made of honey or 
sugar and almond meal
3. Joseph Priestley
4. Bile breaks down fat and increases 
its absorption.
5. Marilyn Monroe
6. Nicaragua
7. Italy
8. “Course of life”
9. “2001: A Space Odyssey”
10. “Mad Max Beyond Thunder-
dome”
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Bryant Shain
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/27/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/27/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, February 27, 2019
ACROSS
1 Old Russian ruler
5 Landlocked 
African nation
9 Wedding registry 
category
14 Famous final 
question
15 “Ducky” Mallard’s 
alma mater, on 
“NCIS”
16 Support people
17 Prefix in juice 
names
18 Tends to the 
lawn
19 ’50s four-wheeled 
failure
20 Particular
23 Kitchen counter?
24 “__ thought”
25 Place to unwind
28 Hospital bigwig
31 Gig gear
34 Lessen
35 Tweak, as text
36 Some trucks
38 The North Pole, 
for Santa
41 Opposite of endo-
42 Flat-bottomed 
vessel
43 Daisy Ridley’s 
“The Last Jedi” 
role
44 Formally accuse 
of wrongdoing
49 Blue Jays’ home: 
Abbr.
50 Mimicked
51 Small lizard
54 Game played on 
a floor or table, 
and a hint to this 
puzzle’s circled 
letters
57 Fluffy-eared 
“bear”
60 Hair-removal 
brand
61 Vintage ski lift
62 Arouse, as wrath
63 Basic French 
verb
64 Theta follower
65 Tank fish
66 “Keep it __”
67 Provide job 
support for?DOWN
1 __ support
2 Classic Fender 
guitar, for short
3 Arcade pioneer
4 “Walk This Way” 
rap trio
5 Many a D.C. 
landmark
6 Perched on
7 Good-for-nothing
8 Mini-maps
9 14-Across 
speaker
10 Go underground
11 Cards checked at 
the door
12 French word in 
bios
13 Syst. for the 
hearing-impaired
21 Giggle
22 Sun Devils’ sch.
25 Passover feast
26 Self-assurance
27 On pins and 
needles
29 Curvy letter
30 Berlin’s home: 
Abbr.
31 Showing 
mastery32 Prefix with 
brewery
33 Rocker Frampton
37 Scrubbing brand
38 Unlike this ans.
39 Technically 
flawed comic 
poetry
40 Nerdy sort
42 Tragic end
45 Much of North 
Africa
46 PC brain47 Noted bunny 
lover
48 Nova __
52 Skewered meat
53 Give a political 
speech
54 Put-down
55 Turkey bacon?
56 “Well, shoot”
57 Modeling 
convenience
58 Tip jar bill
59 Perform
By Peter Koetters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Brewery in 
Golden, Colorado
6 Fast-food 
package deal
11 Color variant
14 Gelatin garnish
15 French word of 
farewell
16 24-hr. cash 
source
17 *Wonderland 
feline known for 
disappearing
19 Nonstick spray 
brand
20 “Hints from” 
columnist
21 Weaken from 
disuse
23 Manhattan area 
to the right of 
Central Park, on 
maps
25 __ a soul
26 Corp. symbols
27 Stopgap remedy
31 Small jazz 
groups
34 “Designing 
Women” actress 
Delta
35 Senate approval
36 One of a bath 
towel pair
37 Rocky 
outcroppings
38 Capone facial 
mark
39 Prefix with dermis
40 Laundry slide
41 7-Down and such
42 Virus-transmitting 
insect
44 __ Francisco
45 Sting or smart
46 Musical wrap-ups
51 Free sample 
restriction
54 Title savant in 
a 1988 Oscar-
winning film
55 Invest in
56 *Da Vinci’s “La 
Gioconda,” to 
some English 
speakers
58 Scratch (out)
59 Dog-__: folded at 
the corner
60 In finer fettle
61 “Absolutely”
62 Swiped
63 Gothenburg 
nativeDOWN
1 Secret stash
2 “Straight Outta 
Compton” actor 
__ Jackson Jr.
3 Some German 
cars
4 Italian rice dishes
5 Religious rifts
6 Gave a darn
7 Neruda wrote 
one to common 
things
8 Layered mineral
9 ’50s-’60s 
nonconformists
10 Run faster than
11 *“Have a nice 
day” graphic
12 Great Salt Lake 
state
13 TV award
18 Egyptian fertility 
goddess
22 “Mork & Mindy” 
planet
24 Largest ring of 
latitude
28 Hard-to-ignore 
impulse
29 Start of Popeye’s 
existential 
maxim
30 Gen-__: post-
boomers31 The bad guys
32 Auctioned auto, 
perhaps
33 *Celtic peepers 
of song
34 Champagne 
choice
37 Idle talk
38 Kin by marriage
40 Oversees, as a 
gallery collection
41 Social outcasts
43 “__ Sera, Sera”
44 Stretch across47 Slowly wear 
down
48 Expression 
shared by the 
answers to 
starred clues
49 Relaxed, as 
rules
50 Hunter’s trap
51 Do as you’re told
52 Zap for dinner
53 Courageous one
57 Country singer 
Tillis
1.  Home to Georgetown
1.  Dreary 5.  Last Greek letter
2.  Gave in6.  Pipe ____
3.  Closest7.  Copy ____
4.  Seethe, smolderUGAANY
OYOGMLMAGOE
AEMDR
DIYEDEL
ASTENREOITDER
MRESMIANSWERS: 1A-Guyana  5A-Omega  6A-Dream  7A-Editor
1D-Gloomy  2D-Yielded  3D-Nearest  4D-Simmer  B-Maya Angelou2-27-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was an avid chef 
and wrote two cookbooks. BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators lacrosse nabs weekly award
Florida goalkeeper Haley Hicklen and attacker Lindsey Ronbeck were 
named to the AAC Honor Roll for their performances against Loyola on Sat-
urday. Hicklen recorded 10 saves, while Ronbeck scored three goals.Grant Holloway earned his second 
USTFCCCA National Athlete of the 
Week award this season following 
his performance at the SEC Indoor 
Championships.BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Jud Fabian was 0 for 4 when he walked 
to the plate in the top of the 10th inning 
with fellow freshman Cory Acton standing 
on ﬁ  rst base.
Fabian improved to 1 for 5 on the big-
gest hit of the night. He launched a ball to 
right-center ﬁ  eld, and Acton came around 
to score. Fabian tried to turn a double 
into a triple but was tagged out at third. It 
didn’t matter.
The Gators broke the 4-4 stalemate and 
had another freshman difference maker 
ready to close out the game.
Nolan Crisp earned his ﬁ  fth save of the 
season, and the Gators followed up their midweek struggles last week with a 5-4 ex-
tra-inning victory on the road. No. 7 Flor-
ida (6-3) won its third-straight game after 
a three-game losing streak last week while 
Jacksonville (3-4) fell below .500.
Wil Dalton and coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
were both ejected in the third inning after 
Dalton argued balls and strikes with the 
home plate umpire. As a result, the Gators 
played seven innings without their coach 
and one of the most experienced players 
on the team.
Brady McConnell led off the game with 
a walk and Austin Langworthy followed 
with a single. McConnell advanced to third 
on the hit, setting up runners on the cor-
ners for Kendrick Calilao, who has been  Freshmen shine in extra 
innings UF's road victory
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF outfielder Jud Fabian went 1 for 5 during Florida's 5-4 win over Jacksonville 
in extra innings. His only hit of the game came in the top of the 10th inning when 
he hit a double to right-center field.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Mike White has never beaten Vander-
bilt in Nashville. 
He didn’t do it as a player at Ole Miss. 
He hasn’t done it yet as the coach of the 
Gators men’s basketball team. His teams 
just always come up short. 
Florida lost in the ﬁ  nal two minutes 
last season. White’s team lost to the Com-
modores twice in Nashville in 2017, once 
in the regular season and again in the SEC 
Tournament. The year before that, UF fell 
to Vandy by one point. 
“Not many fond memories playing at 
Memorial,” White said. “A lot of good 
teams though, it’s always a great environ-
ment. Life on the road in the SEC, take 
off here in a little bit. Excited for the op-
portunity.”
All of that can change this year. The 
Gators will put their four-game winning 
streak, their longest of the season, on 
the line when they face off against the 
Commodores on the road Wednesday at 
9 p.m. The streak includes wins against 
Vanderbilt and Missouri at home and Ala-
bama and LSU on the road. 
The Commodores are winless in the SEC so far. They have struggled to ﬁ  nd 
a consistent scoring option since guard 
Darius Garland went down with an injury 
and left the team to focus on the NBA 
draft. 
Guard Saben Lee, Vandy’s second-
leading scorer, managed just four points 
in 37 minutes of play against Florida on 
Feb. 13. Meanwhile, freshman forward 
Aaron Nesmith scored a season-high 26 
points against UF and 24 against Auburn 
but has faltered in the Commodores’ last 
two contests, dropping 13 and 14 against 
Tennessee and Alabama, respectively. 
“It’s the scouting report on the Com-
modores,” White said. “Finding Nesmith 
early and not losing Matt Ryan in transi-
tion. That’s all it is.”
Ryan, a redshirt junior forward, was 
not a problem for Florida last time it 
played Vanderbilt. He scored nine points 
on 3-of-11 shooting and grabbed ﬁ  ve re-
bounds. He didn’t play well in transition 
against UF, but was doing well in the role 
earlier in the season.
Another player the Gators will want to 
look out for is freshman forward/center 
Simisola Shittu, the Commodores’ leader Gators look to earn ﬁ  rst win 
in Nashville under White
Mark My Words / Opinion
It’s no secret that the Uni-
versity of Florida has a top-
notch athletics department, 
and the Gator Nation is one 
of collegiate sports’ most 
extensive fan bases. 
Yes, UF is best known for its 
football program. It’s basketball 
team and 2017 National Cham-
pion baseball club also draw a 
lot of attention, and for good 
reason. 
But the women’s programs don’t get as 
much attention as they deserve. Florida has 
some of the top women’s teams in the coun-
try, and they draw a small fraction of the 
crowds that the men’s teams draw. 
The Gators gymnastics team routinely at-
tracts thousands of fans. No. 3 Florida aver-
ages 8,715 attendees at its home meets in 
2019, and this is nothing new. It’s a ﬁ  xture 
in the NCAA ﬁ  nals every spring, including 
its three-peat as national champions from 
2013-15. But other women’s pro-
grams, like softball, lacrosse  
and even basketball, deserve 
more attention, especially from 
the UF student body. 
The new and improved Ka-
tie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
is quite a spectacle. The No. 3 
Gators have played eight home 
games (if you include the home-
opening exhibition against Ja-
pan), and the biggest crowd they’ve drawn 
was 2,175 from Saturday. 
That’s not a bad showing, but the attend-
ees mostly weren't students (don’t worry, I 
saw you, Kyle Trask). 
The softball team has a consistent follow-
ing of season-ticket holders, and it beneﬁ  tted 
on Saturday and Sunday from a high school 
softball tournament hosted in Gainesville. 
This team is exciting to watch. It cracks 
more than one home run a game, and there 
arguably isn’t a better pitcher in the country Florida's women’s sports 
deserve more student support 
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
It was over early. 
Florida was down 12 points against Texas 
A&M before fans could settle into their seats, 
and it only got worse from there. Where the 
team usually looks for a spark from one of its 
veteran leaders, only an empty seat on the end 
of the bench occupied the space. 
The Gators were without junior guard Deli-
cia Washington against the No. 19-ranked Ag-
gies on Monday for an undisclosed, non-injury 
reason. 
This was the third game this season that 
Florida did not have her in the lineup. Wash-
ington was sidelined on Jan. 27 with a concus-
sion and missed a game on Dec. 21, when she 
was held out due to a “coach’s decision” that 
was never explained further. 
But Monday seemed different. Washington 
wasn’t even on the bench motivating her team-
mates. She didn’t attend the game at all.
Coach Cam Newbauer declined to comment 
on the reasoning for her absence or whether 
she will return for UF’s final home game on 
Thursday against Georgia.
Washington’s disappearance left a big hole 
in the Gators’ lineup. 
With her out, — along with 6-foot-1 for-
ward Kristina Moore, who broke her arm Jan. 
27 — Florida had few remaining players with 
the ability to get close to the basket for high-
percentage scoring chances. 
Washington is second on the team in scor-
ing with 10.2 points per game, most of that coming in the paint using her speed and ath-
leticism to blow by defenders. 
With her out, Florida instead opted to shoot 
even more from beyond the arc. The Gators, 
who lead the SEC with 26 three-point attempts 
per game, threw up 31 against Texas A&M. 
They did well, tying a season-high 13 threes 
made, but the one-dimensional game plan was 
not enough in what resulted in UF’s 14th dou-
ble-digit loss of the season.
Washington’s scoring comes second to her 
rebounding ability. The 5-foot-10 guard leads 
the team in rebounds per game (7.7). Without 
her physicality and high vertical, UF was out-
rebounded 44-24 by the Aggies. 
Even the Texas A&M coach, Gary Blair, 
chimed in on how UF looked out of sorts with-
out one of its leaders on the court. 
“I think it really hurt (Florida) not having 
Washington,” he said after the game. “Wash-
ington’s a very good player. Florida was short 
(without) her tonight, and I think it showed.”
Washington made both game-winning 
shots in the Gators’ two conference wins and 
provided a spark for her team late in other 
games. Her absence on Monday left a notice-
able gap in the team’s morale and style of play.
Washington’s vanishing act adds to a list of 
problems during a season that has had more 
than its fair share. Newbauer has tested 10 dif-
ferent starting lineups trying to find the right 
combination to compete at a high level. 
It is still unclear whether Washington will 
return to the lineup on Thursday. With or 
without her, Florida will have no easy task. 
Georgia dominated the Gators earlier in the season, routing them 93-59 on Feb. 10. Wash-
ington played 20 minutes and had 12 points, 
but the Bulldogs still tyrannized on the glass, 
outrebounding UF 42-25 with 6-foot-3 forward 
Caliya Robinson hauling in a team-high 12 and scoring 17 points. 
If Washington is indeed out for Thursday, 
UF’s issues will only magnify. 
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org.Washington’s absence felt on floundering Florida team
SOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The No. 3 Gators have been 
waiting nearly nine months for this. 
Wednesday’s midweek show-
down with No. 2 UCLA (14-0) in 
Fullerton, California, is not only 
the UF softball team’s biggest test 
of the season, but it’s also an op-
portunity for redemption. 
The Bruins defeated Florida in 
last year’s Women’s College World 
Series 6-5. 
Florida led 4-0 after three in-
nings in that game, but a collapse 
in the top of the fourth inning gave 
the Bruins a 5-4 lead, and UCLA 
held on to win. 
“I’m extremely excited,” out-
fielder Jaimie Hoover said. “Words 
don’t even explain how I feel, it’s 
going to be a good one.”
This battle of unbeatens is a 
prime opportunity for the Gators 
(18-0) to obtain a statement win 
far from home early in the season. 
They haven’t faced a team current-
ly in the top 10 and have played 
only one team ranked in the latest 
USA Today/NFCA Division I Top 
25 Poll (No. 12 Arizona). 
UCLA, on the other hand, beat 
No. 4 Oklahoma 7-1 and run-ruled 
No. 17 Kentucky 12-4. 
The Bruins are led by dual-threat 
redshirt junior Rachel Garcia, the reigning Honda Award winner. 
Garcia has a 0.71 ERA in the circle 
this season with 68 strikeouts, the 
seventh-most in the country. She’s 
batting just .297 this season but has 
crushed two home runs. Garcia, along with freshman 
Megan Faraimo and sophomore 
Holly Azevedo, have combined 
for the country’s eighth-lowest 
ERA (1.11), six spots behind Flor-
ida’s 0.97. UCLA’s offense boasts a .370 
batting average that is tied for sev-
enth in the country and the 10th-
best slugging percentage. Redshirt 
sophomore Aaliyah Jordan and ju-
nior Bubba Nickles have combined for nine of UCLA’s 15 home runs. 
Florida, comparatively, has a 
lower team batting average and 
slugging percentage, but it has a 
higher on-base percentage thanks 
to its 82 walks and 31 hit by pitch-
es. The Gators are going to need to 
continue that level of bat control 
against a UCLA pitching staff that 
is stingy with walks. Its strikeout-
to-walk ratio (8.56) ranks third in 
the country. 
Florida has to rely on their pow-
er in the lineup, which has belted 
21 home runs and scored just over 
seven runs per game this season. 
UF will also counter whoever 
UCLA starts in the circle with either 
senior ace Kelly Barnhill, who won 
SEC Pitcher of the Week for the 
third week in a row, or sophomore 
Natalie Lugo, who has had a solid 
start to the season. 
If the Gators do not win Wednes-
day’s bout with the Bruins, they’ll 
get another shot at it on Friday in 
the third game of the Judi Garman 
Classic, also being held in Fuller-
ton. 
“We’re gonna have to take it 
to another level now,” said coach 
Tim Walton. “That’s why our play-
ers play the game, they wanna play 
against the best.” 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgUCLA presents Gators’ toughest test of 2019 seasonAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF guard Delicia Washington scored seven points in Florida’s 90-42 loss to 
Mississippi State on Jan. 24.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Kelly Barnhill is fourth in the SEC in ERA at 0.59 with the second-highest innings 
pitched (47.2). She has earned SEC Pitcher of the Week three weeks in a row.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSin rebounds (186). He didn’t do well offen-
sively last time — ﬁ  ve points on 2-of-5 shoot-
ing — but his 6-foot-10 frame is enough to 
be a threat on the defensive boards. 
White said it doesn’t matter if Vanderbilt 
is winless in the SEC. He just wants his team 
to go to Nashville and collect a win on the 
road. If the Gators were to play for anyone, 
they should play for their seniors, KeVaughn 
Allen, Kevarrius Hayes and Jalen Hudson, 
who have yet to win at Memorial Gym.
“These guys — including myself — have 
not won there,” he said. “That’s where our 
focus is. Giving ourselves a chance by play-
ing well to maybe go steal one on the road. 
That’s it.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
the Gators’ best hitter through nine games.
Calilao hit his team-leading seventh 
RBI of the season on a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y to right 
ﬁ  eld that allowed McConnell to score. Jor-
dan Butler, in his ﬁ  rst plate appearance of 
the season, doubled to right ﬁ  eld to bring 
home Langworthy and put the Gators 
ahead 2-0 in the ﬁ  rst inning.
Florida built on its lead in the second 
inning. Blake Reese was hit by a pitch, 
stole second and came around to score on 
a McConnell single to put UF ahead 3-0.
Justin Alintoff made his ﬁ  rst start of the 
season for the Gators on Tuesday. After a 
scoreless ﬁ  rst, Alintoff allowed back-to-
back two-run innings by the Dolphins to relinquish the lead.
Jacob Southern began the two-out rally 
for Jacksonville in the second with an in-
ﬁ  eld single and Alintoff walked Duncan 
Hunter in the next at-bat. They both scored 
on a Cory Heffron double down the right-
ﬁ  eld line to make it a one-run game, 3-2.
Jacksonville took the lead in the fourth 
inning. With Scott Dubrule on second and 
Dakota Julylia on third after a single and 
an error, respectively, Cory Garrastazu tri-
pled to right ﬁ  eld, scoring them both and 
putting the Dolphins ahead 4-3.
Only one run was scored over the next 
ﬁ  ve innings. It came in the seventh when 
Langworthy scored from second on a Nel-
son Maldonado double to tie the game at 
4 apiece.The Florida bullpen was stellar. The 
freshman trio of David Luethje, Christian 
Scott and Crisp combined to throw seven 
scoreless innings in relief.
Jacksonville called on ﬁ  ve pitchers out 
of the bullpen after starting pitcher Austin 
Temple allowed three runs on ﬁ  ve hits in 
4.1 innings and struck out three batters.
Strikeouts were once again an issue for 
the Gators. They struck out 12 times, but 
nine hits and ﬁ  ve runs overshadowed that 
mark.
Florida returns to Gainesville on 
Wednesday to host the UCF Knights (5-2).
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org
 MEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14
BASEBALL,  from pg 14Shittu shot 2 of 5 for ive points against UF on Feb. 13
Gators struck out 12 times, collected nine hitsthan Kelly Barnhill. The senior has won 
SEC Pitcher of the Week three times since 
the season started on Feb. 8. 
The No. 13 lacrosse team isn’t far be-
hind in terms of star power. 
Goalkeeper Haley Hicklen and attacker 
Lindsey Ronbeck have twice earned Amer-
ican Athletic Conference weekly honors. 
The Gators have a loaded non-confer-
ence schedule. Their home opener was a 
date with No. 2 Maryland on Valentine’s 
Day, a matchup that deserved a little more 
than 574 fans. And that was a top-10 
matchup at the time. 
UF has four more matchups against top-
20 opponents, three of which are at home 
(No. 4 Syracuse on March 13, No. 3 North 
Carolina on March 16 and No. 15 Princeton 
on March 19). It needs a more signiﬁ  cant 
home-ﬁ  eld advantage in those matchups. 
The women’s basketball team (6-21) 
isn’t riddled with top players like the soft-
ball and lacrosse squads. Yes, it’s difﬁ  cult 
for fans, especially students, to get behind 
a losing club. But this is a developing team 
that plays decent basketball at home.
It drew its second-largest home crowd 
(2,218) in its upset win over Missouri, and 
it holds a 6-8 record in the O’Connell Cen-
ter. 
The Gators host Georgia, a mid-tier 
conference opponent, in their last home 
contest on Thursday. With its ﬁ  nal game 
against last-place Vanderbilt to conclude 
the season, a win against the Bulldogs can 
give UF some momentum heading into the 
SEC Tournament. A crowd rivaling the 
showing against Missouri can help fuel 
that momentum. 
So, next time you’re planning on go-
ing to a baseball game over the weekend, 
maybe catch the softball game beforehand. 
The next time you’re not doing anything 
on a Saturday afternoon, hit up the la-
crosse game. 
You’ll never know how much you’ll en-
joy it, and these teams will probably have 
you coming back for more. 
Mark Stine is assistant sports editor 
of the Alligator. Follow him on Twitter 
@mstinejr or contact him at mstine@al-
ligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg 14
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White has never defeated Vanderbilt in Nashville in his career.
