We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Former RA faces new charge
He was released but now faces sexual battery charges, pg. 4
Cheesecake Factory to open Tuesday
The restaurant will employ more than 300 people, pg. 5Feleipe Franks is out for season 
with ankle injury
Franks dislocated his right ankle on a 
fourth-and-one play at UK, pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 11
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Florida’s 29-21 comeback win 
over Kentucky on Saturday came 
at a cost.
Starting quarterback Feleipe 
Franks, who led the Gators to a 
Peach Bowl victory last season, 
was lost for the season late in the 
third quarter when he dislocated 
his right ankle underneath UK 
lineman Calvin Taylor Jr. while 
attempting to run for a ﬁ  rst down. 
It’s the type of injury that can 
derail a team’s season, but redshirt 
junior backup Kyle Trask stepped 
up in Franks’ absence, leading No. 
9 UF to a 19-0 run and the win.
It was only one quarter of ac-
tion, however, and there are still 
plenty of questions around this 
Florida team. Here are three of the 
most pressing following Saturday’s 
win:
Can Trask be the guy?
It hurt just to watch Franks’ in-
jury. Legs should not bend the way 
his did. The Gators recognized the 
severity of what happened, and 
virtually the entire UF team 
surrounded its quarterback as he 
laid stricken on the ﬁ  eld. It was 
a touching moment, but also one 
that could’ve buried the team 
psychologically. 
Instead, Trask played the 
quarter of his life.
It’s a small sample size, but 
early signs were encouraging: 
Trask was 9 for 13 with 126 yards 
and a rushing touchdown. His 
decision-making was adequate 
while his throws were accurate 
and crisp. 
Trask is nearly identical to 
Franks in size, and coach Dan 
Mullen utilized his backup in a 
similar way to what he does with 
his starter. That should make the 
quarterback transition easier for 
the entire offense going forward. 
Another factor in Trask’s favor 
is the fact that Florida was never a 
team that was going to rely on stel-
lar quarterback play. Like Franks, 
he simply needs to be serviceable, 
and his performance on Saturday 
shows that he’s more than capable.Can the running game (and 
O-line) improve?
Florida’s offensive line – which 
returned just one starter from last 
year – has had plenty of issues to 
start the season. 
The run game in particular is 
a major cause for concern. The 
Gators rank just 12th in the SEC 
with 140 yards on the ground per 
game, and it would be even worse 
if not for a 200-yard plus perfor-
mance against FCS opponent UT-
Martin in Week 2. 
No. 1 running back Lamical 
Perine was stuffed near the line 
of scrimmage on play after play 
against Kentucky. He ended up 
with just 27 yards on 14 carries. 
Mullen tried to alleviate the 
problem mid-game on Saturday 
by shifting Stone Forsythe from 
left tackle to right tackle, bringing 
Richard Gouraige into the game 
and benching Jean Delance in the 
process.
It’s hard to draw any conclu-
sions from that move because UF UF’s win over UK raises questions
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 11
STUDENTS WILL PROTEST 
TUESDAY AFTERNOON
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
One strip of land on UF’s campus has no 
controversial blue light poles. 
The lights are meant to be blue beacons 
of safety that call law enforcement at the 
push of a button. But without action from 
UF Student Government or UF administra-tion, more than 100  protestors are expected 
to stand down the road from Fraternity Drive 
demanding for administration to install blue 
lights.
Students Emily Hyden, Alfredo Ortiz, 
William Zelin, Samantha Gildea and Mark 
Merwitzer announced the Protest for Blue 
Lights on Frat Row on Sept. 6.    
Here’s a breakdown of the roles 
administration, University Police, SG, Greek 
organizations and students play in the blue 
light debate. UF administration places blue lights, 
and UPD responds to calls 
Student safety is administration’s top 
concern, said UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando.
UF installs blue lights on campus with 
the help of outside contractors, he said.
Mackintosh Joachim, the Inspire Party 
senator for District D, was at the forefront 
of a blue light installation at Graham Hall, 
which started in 2017 after black students 
in the area felt unsafe after white nationalist Richard Spencer spoke at UF. 
“That’s when the long process to install a 
light began,” he said.
The light, installed in January, used funds 
from the SG reserve account. According to 
public records obtained by The Alligator, the 
SG reserves account has $4.3 million as of 
Aug. 1. A blue light costs between $15,000 
and $20,000, Joachim said.
The total cost of installation depends on Everything to know about the blue lights debate
SEE BLUE LIGHTS,  PAGE 4WITNESSES SAY A SHOOTING 
TOOK PLACE BEFORE 9 P .M.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
 Witnesses and plaza ofﬁ  cials said there was 
an attempted robbery that resulted in a shoot-
ing at Butler North’s Walmart Sunday night.
Butler Plaza released a statement on Face-
book that said all those involved involved in a robbery attempt were taken to the hospital 
or are in custody with non-life-threatening in-
juries. 
Neither Butler Plaza nor Gainesville Po-
lice publicaly said how many people were in-
volved, but GPD conﬁ  rmed an investigation is 
underway. Police did not release a statement 
mentioning a robbery as of Sunday night. 
Just before 9 p.m., a man ran into the Jer-
sey Mike’s Subs across the street from the 
Walmart, bleeding profusely, said Nico Diaz, a 
22-year-old Jersey Mike’s Subs employee. A gray-colored Hyundai was shot with what 
looked like at least 10 bullet holes outside the 
Jersey Mike’s Subs.
Rags and towels soaked in what looked like 
blood littered the ﬂ  oor of the sandwich shop 
while Gainesville Police was on the scene. 
Hours later, GPD published a tweet that con-
ﬁ  rmed the reported shooting. 
“All persons involved are accounted for and 
detectives are investigating,” GPD wrote in the 
tweet. 
The store was about to close and Diaz said he stepped away from the front for a moment.
“I come out because I hear all the 
commotion,” he said outside of the restaurant. 
“I just didn’t know what to do so I called 911.”
Law enforcement at the scene declined to 
speak to The Alligator. 
This is a breaking news story. It will be 
updated on alligator.org as more information 
becomes available.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGPD investigates shooting outside of Butler Plaza Walmart
UF VS. UK
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior quarterback Kyle Trask came in when starter 
Feleipe Franks  was injured during the third quarter Saturday night 
against Kentucky, leading the team to a 19-0 run for the win.  T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  92° LOW  70°
Correction: Diane McFarlin’s 
research initiative is called the 
Trust Consortium, not the Truth 
Consortium. The Alligator previ-
ously reported differently.
WHAT'S HAPPENING
J.J. Finley Park ribbon cutting 
ceremony
When: Sept. 18, 1:30 to 2:30 PM
Where: 1912 NW 5th Ave
What: The City of Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural 
Affairs Department and the Wild 
Spaces and Public Places program 
invites residents to celebrate the 
completion of a new neighbor-
hood park. The new park is a 
partnership between the city 
and the School Board of Alachua County. Improvements include 
a new playground with outdoor 
musical instruments, picnic tables 
and benches, trash and recycling 
containers, striped basketball 
courts and goals and painting the 
covered pavilion. 
Hearoes for Hearing Benefit 
Concert
When: Sept. 29, 5 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: High Dive
What: The concert proceeds 
will benefit the cochlear implant 
patients at the UF Health Speech 
and Hearing Center. Soup to Nuts 
Food Truck will be available for 
purchasing refreshments. Tickets 
will be sold on Ticketfly through 
the High Dive website for $10 and 
can be purchased the day of for 
$15.October
Friends of the Library Fall 2019 
book sale
When: Oct. 19 to Oct. 23
Where: Friends of the Library of 
Alachua County, 430 North Main 
Street
What: The Friends of the Library 
is holding its annual fall book sale. 
The sale will be held Saturday 
from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday 
through Wednesday from 12 p.m. 
to 6 p.m. The sale will include 
multiple items including  books, 
comics, manga, artwork, post-
ers, puzzles, DVDs, vinyl records, 
sheet music and the Collector’s 
Corner, which has a selection of 
first editions.
HHM Art Fest: "Pasión y Resis-
tencia"
When: Oct. 1, 5 to 7 p.m.
Where: UF Architecture Yard
What: The event looks to cel-
ebrate Hispanic-Latinx culture 
through beautiful works of art and 
performances by the people and 
students of the community. The 
overall theme of the event will 
be “The Streets of Old San Juan,” 
inspired by Puerto Rican streets, 
colors, rhythm and livelihood. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 11
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
Walk-ins Welcome
352-379-4686INTERVIEW
Quality haircuts 
for men and 
women for 
Career
Showcase!
Monday - Friday 
8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday
9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Located on the 
GROUND LEVEL
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Ja’Keil Norris, 5, runs away from the ﬁ  retruck hose while 
carrying two water balloons during Beat the Heat Water 
Day. The event featured kids-versus-cops water balloon 
battles along with blasts of water from the deck gun of 
a ﬁ  retruck, which was advertised as “the world’s largest 
sprinkler. ” Fireﬁ  ghters on top of the ﬁ  retruck sprayed  
water over the children about every 10 minutes.
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Louis Derousie, 31, sprays water from the deck gun of a ﬁ  retruck over a group of playing 
children in the grass lot of the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. Derousie, a ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter 
paramedic who was awarded Fireﬁ  ghter of the Year, used a fog nozzle on the deck gun to 
break the water into small droplets so that it would not spray too hard on the children. “It’s 
always been on my bucket list to use it, ” Derousie said of the deck gun. “It’s nice to have fun 
with it. ” Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Kids throw water balloons at police ofﬁ  cers during the ﬁ  nal battle of the day. After the last balloons on the 
battleﬁ  eld fell, the group determined that the children were victorious.
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Dealijah Seay, 12, winds up to throw a water balloon Saturday during one of the 
kids-versus-cops water balloon battles. The battle featured children and deputies 
facing off on opposite sides of the grass lot and racing to a line of three inﬂ  atable 
pools ﬁ  lled with water balloons between them. Dealijah said he hit at least 14 
people during the last water balloon battle, getting all of the cops and some of the 
kids too. Even though the kids were technically on his team, Dealijah shrugged 
and said, “I was throwing at whoever I saw. ”
About 200 people came to the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
Saturday afternoon to cool off 
for the ﬁ  rst annual Beat the Heat 
Water Day with  ﬁ  rst responders on 
Saturday. The event was organized 
by the Youth and Community 
Resource Unit of the Alachua 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, which creates 
community programs throughout 
the year. Sgt. Paul Pardue, who 
runs the Youth and Community 
Resource Unit, said ASCO held 
last year 64 events. Beat the Heat 
Water Day included water balloon 
ﬁ  ghts, a dunk tank, a relay race and 
more. Beat the Heat4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
the contractors, and the Graham light cost a 
total of $22,000.
UPD spokesperson Maj. Brad Barber said  
UPD Chief Linda Stump-Kurnick supports 
the protest. UPD recognizes the instant 
connection blue lights provide students, 
but the department suggests using the 
GATORSAFE app, which he said provides 
safety resources and communication with 
the police.
SG provides funds, voted no in Spring
SG serves as the Student Body’s voice, said 
Ashley Grabowski, Inspire Party campaign 
manager. She was the primary author of the 
so-called blue light bill, originally Student 
Senate Bill 2019-1061, and submitted it as a 
bill on March 22.
“The vast majority of students on 
campus may end up being ignored because 
the ‘ofﬁ  cial voice,’ the majority party, isn’t 
acting with their best interests,” Grabowski 
said.  
During an SG Judiciary Committee 
meeting on April 8, senators verbally 
opposed the suggested bill. Now-Gator 
Party President and then-Pro-Tempore 
Emily Dunson and Judiciary Committee 
Chair Will Sandifer voted against it. They 
said presidents of fraternities and sororities 
weren’t consulted before it was presented. 
The resolution failed. 
“It’s not taking into account all of the relevant actors in the situation,” Sandifer 
said during the committee meeting.
On Friday, the UF Interfraternity 
Council released a statement saying it is 
“not opposed” to blue lights anywhere on 
campus.
Dunson, who voted against the blue light 
bill when she was still afﬁ  liated with Impact 
Party, declined to directly comment after 
The Alligator sent her texts, calls and emails. 
Two weeks after the April Judiciary 
Committee meeting, Senate President Libby 
Shaw broke the tie when Senate voted to 
bring the bill up for discussion. She voted 
against the bill, despite original support, 
according to voting records. Shaw was a 
sponsor on the original bill. 
According to Alligator archives, when 
Shaw co-founded the Panhellenic Council’s 
Sister Support Ambassador Program, she 
said, “I know dozens of women who have 
been sexually assaulted in college, and that’s 
kind of where my passion came from.” 
After text messages, calls, emails and 
in-person communication, Shaw didn’t re-
spond to inquiries about her voting record.
On July 27, the blue light resolution was 
redrafted by Inspire Party president Zachary 
Amrose, who sent a reserves transfer request 
for $25,000. As of Sunday, Amrose said he 
hadn’t heard back.
SG parties have a say 
Blue light expansion on campus is Inspire 
Party’s ﬁ  rst point on their Fall 2019 platform. 
Amrose said the party supports the protest. When student organizers asked 
for support, he said Inspire joined the 
movement.
“Some people will say that this is not a 
political issue, but really, it is,” Amrose said.
When asked speciﬁ  c questions on its 
stance on the protest, Gator Party responded 
with an email it said represents the views of  
Dunson, spokesperson Wynton White and 
treasurer Richard Doan.  
“Gator Party supports students’ rights 
to assemble and hopes that together we 
can work to make UF a campus where all 
students are safe,” the party wrote. Student Body President Michael Murphy, 
who is Impact-afﬁ  liated, submitted a Letter 
to the Editor in lieu of commenting to an 
Alligator reporter.
He wrote that additional blue lights are 
a “tremendous waste of student fees” and 
protest organizers are using “scare tactics.”
“Protestors should not let Student 
Government election season get the best of 
them,” Murphy wrote.
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.org BLUE LIGHTS,  from pg. 1
IAN MILASKI’S COURT DATE HAS 
NOT YET BEEN SET
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Former UF Resident Assistant Ian Milaski, 
arrested on battery and false imprisonment, is 
now facing an additional charge of attempted 
sexual battery as of Friday. 
The 21-year-old UF economics senior was arrested on Aug. 28. The motion to reduce his 
original bond of $125,000 was granted as a 
judge agreed he is a “high achieving” student, 
according to court records.
UF Spokesperson Steve Orlando said 
Milaski is no longer an RA at the university.
He was released from jail on his own 
recognizance Sept. 6, according to court 
records. He is no longer allowed back on the 
UF campus or in Alachua County as of last 
Friday.There is no court date set as of last Friday 
evening. 
A female student accused Milaski of 
repeatedly asking her to have sex, grabbing 
her and trying “to ﬁ  nger her,” according to 
a University Police arrest report. Hours later, 
Milaski went to her dorm and tried lying next 
to her again until another person stopped him.
The motion to reduce Milaski’s bond said he 
wished to be released due to ﬁ  nancial troubles 
as well as to complete his school assignments on time and help his parents in Cape Coral, 
Florida, to prepare for Hurricane Dorian. 
The attorney also wrote that further 
evidence will show the incident to be a 
“misunderstanding among platonic friends 
fueled by alcohol.”
@danacassidy_
Dcassidy@alligator.orgFormer UF RA faces attempted sexual battery chargeCourtesy to The Alligator
UF students are protesting the lack of blue lights on campus surrounding fraternity row. 
The nearest blue light is located at the basketball practice facility on Woodlawn Drive. 
MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Courtesy of Shane Gross to The Alligator
Actress Shailene Woodley joined UF researchers Nerine Constant and 
Alexandra Gulick on a Greenpeace expedition to the Sargasso Sea. Woodley 
wrote a Time magazine article detailing her experiences on the expedition 
and how she will continue to advocate for protecting the oceans.
THEY STUDIED SEA 
TURTLES ON THE 
EXPEDITION TRIP
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Shailene Woodley and UF re-
searchers saw sperm whales, a 
single ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  op and thousands of 
microplastics in the middle of the 
ocean. 
Nerine Constant and Alexan-
dra Gulick, 29-year-old UF doctor-
al students who study sea turtles, 
participated in a sea research ex-
pedition as part of the Greenpeace 
Protect the Oceans campaign with 
Woodley, an activist and “Diver-
gent” actress. The goal of the ex-
pedition is to study how climate 
change affects the ecosystem.
The campaign pushes for a 
Global Ocean Treaty to protect 
open oceans that are offshore 
from any country’s national wa-
ters because they lack protection 
and oversight, Gulick said.
The yearlong expedition, 
which began in the Arctic and 
ended in Antarctica, started in 
April. The UF duo, who joined the expedition from July 29 to Aug. 
12, researched free-ﬂ  oating algae 
that congregates into thick mats in 
the Sargasso Sea. 
Woodley joined the expedi-
tion, which researched key loca-
tions and ecosystems in the high 
seas. She wrote an article for Time 
magazine detailing her experi-
ence. The expeditioners’ goals are 
to highlight threats to the ocean. 
The Sargasso Sea has a diverse 
ecosystem and could potentially 
be a part of the ocean where dis-
carded waste collects, Woodley 
wrote. 
“Staring at the vast blanket of 
blue ahead of us, the baking sun 
tanning our legs, the fresh, clean 
air ﬁ  lling our lungs, its difﬁ  cult 
to imagine this paradise being 
declared a ‘climate emergency’,” 
Woodley wrote.
The UF students’ research is 
focused on if algae acts like in-
cubators for baby loggerhead sea 
turtles. The warmth from solar 
radiation causes increasing tem-
peratures in algal areas, which 
prevents the baby turtles from 
growing at a normal rate.
Turtles get caught in the cur-
rents that surround the Sargasso Sea, and they end up in the algae 
mats, Constant said. 
The algae are a developmental 
habitat for young turtles as they 
stay in the open waters for ﬁ  ve to 
10 years, Gulick said. 
Expeditioners saw plastic in the 
open water more than 200 miles 
from shore. Gulick said everyone 
on the trip reﬂ  ected on their use 
of plastic. One of the scientists on 
the expedition grabbed a patch of 
seaweed and shook out thousands 
of microplastics.
“Even though we were aware 
that there was a plastic issue in 
the ocean, that’s a huge problem,” 
she said. “There’s just something 
about it once you go out and see 
it.” 
Constant and Gulick said 
Woodley helps raise awareness 
about issues in unregulated wa-
ters. 
“She didn’t just show up to the 
expedition for the photo ops. Even 
now that the expedition is over, 
she’s really trying to maintain the 
presence in the press and in the 
public eye to really raise aware-
ness,” Gulick said.
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgShailene Woodley joins UF researchers on sea protection expedition
THE RESTUARANT SERVES 
BRUNCH, LUNCH, DINNER
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville is not only home to a 
Top 10 university, it’s now also home 
to 34 different ﬂ  avors of cheesecake. 
A new Cheesecake Factory will 
open at the Butler Town Center on 
Tuesday at 11 a.m. Previously, the 
closest locations were in Jacksonville and Orlando.
Corbin Ketchum, an 18-year-
old UF ﬁ  nance freshman, is one of 
300 new employees hired at this 
Cheesecake Factory. He started 
training on Aug. 28 as a busser and 
said he is looking forward to putting 
all of his training into practice.
“The grand opening is expected 
to be a huge success,” Ketchum 
said. “Everywhere I go, someone 
has stopped and asked about when 
we’re opening.” The restaurant will be open 
Monday through Thursday from 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Friday from 11 
to 12:30 a.m., Saturday from 10 to 
12:30 a.m. and Sunday from 10 a.m. 
to 11 p.m, Ketchum said. The menu 
will include more than 250 brunch, 
lunch and dinner options and more 
than 50 cheesecakes and desserts.
Ketchum worked the soft 
opening, which took place Thursday 
and Friday. He said 1,000 people 
attended the four lunch and dinner sessions over the two days.
“There wasn’t a time it wasn’t 
packed,” Ketchum said. “I had a lot 
of fun, and I felt like it was a good 
representation of how the restaurant 
will really work.” 
The Cheesecake Factory seats 
215 people inside and 88 people 
on its outdoor patio, Ketchum said. 
He expects the restaurant to be at 
capacity opening night.
Andrea Tamayo, a 19-year-old 
UF biochemistry sophomore, said she loves going to The Cheesecake 
Factory with her family home in 
Tampa for special occasions. She is 
excited to ﬁ  nally have one close by 
so she can take her parents out when 
they visit.
“I can’t wait to order the chocolate 
mousse cheesecake,” Tamayo said. 
“It’s my go-to whenever I eat at The 
Cheesecake Factory.”
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgNew Butler Plaza Cheesecake Factory opens TuesdayEditorialMONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
Student Body president speaks on blue lights
A number of students filed a permit to hold a pro-
test on Fraternity Row tomorrow in support of 
installing an additional emergency blue light in 
the area. These students claim the additional 
blue light will improve student safety and re-
duce instances of sexual assault on campus, but these 
students are misinformed. 
Installing additional blue lights on campus would 
be a tremendous waste of student fees, as universities 
across the country are removing blue lights due to their 
lack of use and outdated technology. Blue lights first ap-
peared on college campuses in the ’80s and ’90s when 
pagers were a primary form of communication. Since 
that time, the proliferation of mobile phones have made 
emergency blue lights obsolete at universities. The Uni-
versity of Colorado Boulder, University of Nebraska-
Lincoln and the University of Connecticut have all taken 
steps to begin removing blue lights from their campuses 
entirely. Put simply, emergency blue lights are not be-
ing utilized at UF or at other universities, and the cost of 
upkeep is a serious detriment to other safety programs. 
Moreover, if the installation of a new blue light costs as 
much as the last blue light installed on campus, it will 
cost $22,000 of your student fees.
While the students organizing the protest are certain-
ly well intentioned, their rhetoric may in fact worsen 
campus safety. By stating that additional emergency 
blue lights are the only way to improve campus safety, 
these students create the impression that there are not 
additional resources and programs on campus working 
to keep students safe. In fact, UF Student Government 
already funds the GATORSAFE app, which functions as 
a mobile blue light right inside your pocket. It even in-
cludes additional features not available at emergency 
blue lights. Instead of utilizing scare tactics, doomsday 
scenarios and painting campus Greek life as rife with sexual assault, these students would be well served by 
advertising more effective campus safety programs such 
as the GATORSAFE app. 
The GATORSAFE app provides many safety-focused 
resources including a mobile BlueLight which sends the 
user’s location to University Police and initiates a phone 
call to UPD dispatch. The main “emergency contacts” 
feature allows the user to call or text 911, chat with 
UPD, access non-emergency contact information and 
utilize the mobile BlueLight. Additionally, the app has 
a feature called “Friend Walk” that allows students to 
send their location in real-time to a friend until they 
reach their destination. There are many informational 
and preventative features included in the app as well. 
This includes information regarding what actions to 
take in specific emergency situations, a platform to re-
port a crime tip to UPD, a safety toolbox to enhance 
student safety, the ability to view UF Alerts, access to 
a variety of transportation services as well as a cam-
pus crime map and contact information for U Matter, 
We Care. The GATORSAFE app can be downloaded and 
installed via the app store of all mobile devices. It also 
goes without saying that all students can simply dial 
911 in an emergency.
 It is my goal that all students are aware of all of the 
safety programs working to keep them safe. Painting 
the picture that students are left without recourse in an 
emergency due to the absence of a blue light isn’t just 
false, it’s dangerous. Protestors should not let Student 
Government election season get the best of them and 
should instead work together to keep students informed 
of all the programs SG works hard to implement for 
students.
Michael Murphy is the UF Student Body president.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.How sexual assault 
victims are let down 
every step of the way
This week, Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh was 
once again accused of sexual assault during his time at 
Yale University. The accusation comes from Deborah 
Ramirez, a former classmate of Kavanaugh’s, who 
claims the current justice exposed himself to her. While 
it stands as an accusation as of now, we need to take these cases 
seriously no matter our politics. 
Time and time again, we see young white men in America 
receive lessened sentences or be treated as victims in cases of 
sexual misconduct and assault. We’ve even seen this on our 
own campus recently, with a resident assistant who was accused 
of attempted sexual battery being released for being a “high 
achieving” student leader. According to his attorney, “Further 
evidence will show the incident to be a misunderstanding 
among platonic friends fueled by alcohol.” 
Sound familiar?
Brett Kavanuagh said he had too many beers. Brock Turner’s 
judge, Aaron Persky, said the Turner case “may be considered 
less serious due to (his) level of intoxication,” opting for a six 
month sentence instead of the prosecutors recommended six-
year sentence. But why are these young men receiving these 
light sentences? Why are victims not being taken seriously? 
What sets these cases apart? 
Perhaps some answers lay in the privilege of the perpetrators, 
with imprisonment rates for African American and Hispanic 
adults being 5.9 and 3.1 times the rate of white adults, 
respectively. Maybe it’s the idea that we treat the perpetrators 
as the victims and then mock the accuser. 
The New York Times opinion section’s Twitter account is 
guilty of making light of an extremely sensitive accusation. 
The section published an article Saturday detailing concerning 
allegations against Kavanaugh as a Yale freshman. Ramirez, 
who was also a freshman at the time, says Kavanaugh “thrust 
his penis” at her while at a dorm party. It’s bad enough that 
Kavanaugh became a Supreme Court justice despite Christine 
Blasey Ford’s credible accusation that he attacked her, but he’s 
also accused of having a habit of pulling down his pants to 
harass girls at parties. 
Where did @nytopinion fumble? The fault lies in its bizarre 
tweet that said, “Having a penis thrust in your face at a drunken 
party may seem like harmless fun. But when Brett Kavanaugh 
did it to her, Deborah Ramirez says, it confirmed that she didn’t 
belong at Yale in the first place.” 
Harmless? Fun? There’s far too much to unpack in that one 
(now deleted) tweet, but it’s a perfect example of how easily the 
experiences of victims are turned into an edgy wisecrack and 
not taken seriously.
This culture of blaming the victim for coming forward for 
potentially “damaging” the credibility of the man with goals and 
a future (who knows, maybe they’ll be a Supreme Court Judge 
if they set their mind to it) is nothing new. But, it’s coming to 
an end as we continue to search for the truth. 
It’s time to stop thinking of the victim as a political tool 
instead of a human being. Her assailant’s hopes and dreams are 
not more important than her trauma. 
Who knows? Maybe she wants to be a Supreme Court 
Justice.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORMONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
T  en Democratic presidential 
candidates gathered 
Thursday for the party’s 
third primary debate, and 
once again Joe Biden was 
in the news afterward. In June, 
a confrontation between Biden 
and Kamala Harris concerning 
his previous stance on school 
integration using buses splashed 
across headlines. This time, it 
was Biden’s rambling and confusing response 
to a question about racial inequality and 
reparations. What struck people the most 
was when he told parents to “make sure you 
have the record player on at night,” so kids 
would hear more words. Obviously, record 
players are no longer common use. Combined 
with Biden’s other outdated references, the 
76-year-old former vice president seems out 
of touch with the modern world. 
However, Biden is not the only old candidate 
in the 2020 Democratic primaries. In fact, the 
top three candidates in the polls (Biden, Bernie 
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren) are 76, 78 and 
70, respectively. Some people may feel like 
the Democratic Party is dominated by old farts 
who don’t know anything about the problems 
young people face, but the truth is more 
complicated.
While one could argue that older people are 
too unfamiliar with present challenges to be 
capable presidents, the argument for more se-
nior hopefuls also makes sense. After all, older 
candidates have a lifetime of experience. There 
could also be an empirical reason explaining 
their domination: Older people vote more. 
According to Psychology Today, Americans 
over 60 are 15 percent more likely to be 
registered to vote than Americans ages 18 to 30. Because 90 percent of registered 
voters reported voting in 2008, you 
can see older people’s electoral 
advantages. This higher registration 
rate is because people often delay 
or neglect changing their voter 
registration when they relocate. 
Older Americans are more likely to 
remain in the same location, so they 
stay registered. 
In the 2012 election, people ages 
18 to 29 were only 19 percent of the 
electorate. Reasons include not knowing how to 
register, difﬁ  culties changing your registration 
after you go to college and laws on residency 
and photo IDs that make it difﬁ  cult to register. 
The result is older people’s concerns count 
more because they vote more, and younger 
people’s concerns are ignored.
Thankfully, there was a recent shift. 2018 
was a landmark year for youth participation. 
A 31 percent youth turnout rate made it the 
highest for a midterm election in the past quar-
ter-century. 2018 also saw young people get 
involved in others ways, such as 29-year-old 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez becoming the young-
est woman elected to Congress. This may have 
increased discussions about younger voters’ 
concerns, including student loan debt, in this 
election cycle. 
Young people have enormous voting power 
right now. Now is the perfect time for us to 
harness that power. If you haven’t already, reg-
ister to vote. Once you’re registered, research 
the candidates and parties so you can be an in-
formed voter. Look up directions to your poll-
ing station. This may seem like a lot of work 
now, but making an impact is worth the effort.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Don’t underestimate young Democrats
I’ve often asked why I had 
to take so many general 
education classes to earn 
my bachelor’s degree in 
computer science, especially 
those entirely unrelated to my 
major and teaching skills seldom 
useful in a professional setting. 
You know the classes I’m talking 
about: History of Astronomy, Man’s Food, 
Age of the Dinosaurs and so on. But 
whenever I gripe about being forced to take 
these classes, people echo some variation 
of the same response: “College is about 
expanding your horizons” or “College is 
about making you more well-rounded.” At 
this point, I’m sick of hearing it.
If college was genuinely about expanding 
horizons instead of gaining clout to compete 
in the job market, none of us would be 
enrolled at UF, because it wouldn’t be 
worth the investment of time and money. 
It’s difﬁ  cult to justify thousands of dollars of 
debt, other out-of-pocket expenses, dozens 
of stress-induced cram sessions and four 
of the most dynamic years of your life as a 
reasonable price for the highly ambiguous 
goal of becoming more “well-rounded.”
None of this is to say I don’t enjoy learn-
ing about other subjects. I’m deeply inter-
ested in psychology, pharmacology and 
chemistry, but I study them on my own 
time at my own pace. I don’t have to fork 
over thousands of dollars to a university, 
and my ability to graduate, and ultimately 
ﬁ  nd a job, isn’t tied to my knowledge on 
how serotonin is biosynthesized or what the 
early symptoms of schizophrenia look like. 
I know I’m not alone in my assessment 
of the uselessness of these classes. I once had a physics professor ask 
the class how many of us were 
computer science students on 
the ﬁ  rst day of class. About 
half of us raised our hands. 
“You’re never going to use this 
again, but let’s just get through 
this,” he said. I remember that 
moment more vividly than any 
of the concepts he taught us 
that semester. 
While this frustrates me, I can tolerate 
most of it. Astronomy isn’t a complete waste 
of time, and balancing chemical equations 
never killed anyone. What I absolutely 
cannot stand is the foreign language 
requirement in the UF College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences. The idea that I’m going 
to become proﬁ  cient in Spanish after a mere 
two semesters or that I’ll retain anything 
useful after the ﬁ  nal exam is utterly absurd. 
Classes have been in session for a month, 
and I can barely string together a handful 
of coherent sentences. Worse yet, as I’m 
constantly reminded by my Honduran 
roommate, the form of Spanish being 
taught is highly formal and a long way from 
what most people speak on a daily basis. 
Even if I did learn and remember a decent 
bit of Spanish, what am I going to do with 
it? Code in the Spanish edition of the Java 
programming language? I’m not even sure 
they make that. 
I can’t say I’m surprised. Universities 
are government-run businesses, and they 
have all the proﬁ  t incentive in the world to 
hold your degree hostage while demanding 
a ransom of ludicrous courses. I’m just 
disappointed.
Cameron White is a UF computer 
science senior.Gen-eds don’t expand our horizons
Cameron White
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.orgNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Fun fact: Spanish explorer Pedro Menéndez de Avilés 
established the first permanent European settlement in 
the United States at St. Augustine, FL in 1565.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately
Blocks away from Univ & shopping. 2BR unit 
& rooms for rent. Call Brenda 352-672-8657    
9-25-19-15-1D
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  Provision
1.  Red table wine5.  Ohio city
2.  ____ Lincoln6.  Dog-like carnivore
3.  Earnest 7.  Current unit
4.  Crushed pulpSCLUAE
TECRALONKAR
YHAEN
BAAHMAR
NEECSRIAEEPRM
CEOAPMANSWERS: 1A-Clause  5A-Akron  6A-Hyena  7A-Ampere
1D-Claret  2D-Abraham  3D-Sincere  4D-Pomace  B-Mark Hamill9-16-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor was the voice of the Joker 
in “Batman: The Animated Series.”
BONUSEyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.
SOLUTION ON PG. 9 
SOLUTION ON PG. 9 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
“The liberty of the press is essential to the 
security of the state.” – John Adams
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14D
Legal Assistant P/T to F/T - excellent commu-
nication skills, EYE FOR DETAIL, avid reader, 
computer fluency, fitness a plus. 1+ yr com-
mitment. $11.50+/hr. Resume to 626 NE 1st 
Street, 32601 or paulsrothstein@gmail.com    
9-16-19-5-14DWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.ISO 3 health + wellness brand reps
work from your phone on your own time
all training + resources provided
must be a motivated self-starter
no cap on income - get paid for results
call/text mary @ 954-662-1878
9-16-5-14D
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES hiring for all 
positions in a fast-paced, friendly atmosphere. 
Must have good people skills, multitasking, 
have reliable transp. Day and night time open. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th St     
9-18-19-6-14D
Seeking household help for 4 hrs per wk at 
@ $20. per. hr. SW G'ville, must have own 
transportation. Equip & supplies provided. 
Clean home; no kids or pets. Some ironing 
required. Contact: nhoover27@gmail.com    
9-16-19-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
Ketamine therapy for Depression, 
Anxiety, PTSD, and Suicidal Thoughts.
You don't have to suffer. Start feeling bet-
ter today. Call (352) 448-6062 or visit www.
flmindhealth.com.    9-16-19-5-16D
Looking for professional and affordable 
Homemaker and companion services?
Contact us @ 800-727-1559
email: Divinehealth1@ymail.com     9-23-19-
4-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Really big hit
6 Numero uno, with 
“the”
10 One always 
ready with quick 
comebacks
13 W.C. Fields 
persona
14 Strand during a 
sleet storm, say
16 Green prefix
17 Football non-
passing offense
19 Fish eggs
20 __ the table: 
arrange 
silverware and 
such
21 MBA or MFA: 
Abbr.
22 Behind, or hit 
from behind
24 Farm song 
refrain
26 Hasenpfeffer, e.g.
27 Open-and-__ 
case
30 Get one more 
card for twice the 
bet, in blackjack
34 36-Across skunk 
Pepé
36 Warner Bros. 
creation
37 Author Tolstoy
38 European peak
39 “Gosh, look at the 
time”
42 Sundial seven
43 You, to Goethe
44 “Peter Pan” dog
45 Sediment
47 Car engine 
measure
51 Arthur of tennis
52 “Unforgettable” 
singer
53 Peter, Paul or 
Mary
55 Philosophy 
school with no 
classes?
58 Biol. or geol.
59 “Bingo!”
62 Australian bird
63 Opening kickoff, 
say, and what 
both parts of 
17-, 30- and 
47-Across can be
66 Sailor’s “Help!”
67 Woodsy path68 Deed
69 Gallery hangings
70 Bldg. with a pool
71 “I Am of Ireland” 
poet
DOWN
1 Lat. and Est., 
once
2 Grimace
3 Em, to Dorothy
4 Nine-digit ID
5 Alpine heroine
6 Astros Hall of 
Famer Craig __
7 Cardio readout
8 Blacken
9 Schedule 
opening
10 Human/canine 
shape-shifters
11 Screen symbol to 
click on
12 Open-__ shoes
15 Tidied, as a 
room
18 Require
23 Cabernet color
24 Summer in Lyon
25 Western bad 
guys
27 Cut drastically, 
as prices
28 Prefix for “sun”29 Elite group
31 Fancy neckwear
32 Mull over
33 Bam, bang or 
boom
35 Sommelier’s 
menu
40 Complex woven 
textile
41 __-Caps: candy
46 Backstabber
48 Fenway team, 
familiarly49 SoCal Latinx 
neighborhood
50 Puerto __
54 Really cool
55 Big butte
56 Love, in Lima
57 Hat-tipper’s word 
of address
59 Opposite of baja
60 “Stop right there!”
61 Shipboard yeses
64 Rocker Ocasek
65 Dessert pastry
By Greg Johnson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, Saturday 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Suggestion for 
stress relief
16 Enjoying a solo 
walk in the woods
17 It makes a good 
point
18 Big boat
19 Needs to remit
20 Trick
21 Yellowy insides
24 Farm structures
25 Enters unnoticed
28 Paratha roti 
ingredient
31 Showed joy, 
ironically
32 Tricky hoops 
move that’s often 
an assist
37 In the past
38 Supporters
39 Summary 
usually including 
a photo
40 Treatment for 
dry skin
42 It’s just above 
street level
43 Road game
44 Ancient French 
region
46 Summer hire
49 Check for fit
50 Chemical suffix
51 Vegas hotel 
with an operatic 
name
54 Hosp. tubes
56 Pasta for 
vegetarians
62 “Pass”
63 Scopes Trial site
DOWN
1 Dancing suitable 
for radio
2 Put away
3 Hawaiian coffee 
district
4 Protect from 
theft, in a way
5 High-end 
watches
6 Barn __
7 Appropriate 
prefix for an 
embezzler?
8 Guiding beliefs9 Spring harbinger
10 Memo opener
11 Guides with 
scales
12 Tanning time on 
the Riviera
13 Smidgen
14 Trademarked 
refrigerant
15 Decorative 
greenery
22 Pregame 
managerial 
decision
23 Complicated
24 Cheerleader’s 
asset
25 Makeup-
applying aid
26 Toy brand with a 
Taj Mahal set
27 2001 Apple debut
28 Approach
29 Like most labor 
rates
30 Squeak (out)
33 Short stories?
34 Border on
35 “Hey” assistant
36 Polite-to-slurp 
Japanese 
noodle38 NFL ball  
carriers
41 Pup squeak
42 Solicit support 
from, as voters
45 “Indeed”
46 Hardly  
outgoing
47 Swelling
48 Not-so-nice sort
49 Sample
51 Vocal range
52 Bit strap53 “And __ it ironic”: 
Alanis Morissette 
lyric
55 Mil. ranks
57 Day care 
attendee
58 Super Bowl IV 
MVP Dawson
59 Valiant’s boy
60 Formerly  
named
61 Drink suffix with 
Power
09/13/19
SUDOKU Solution from pg. 8 PUZZLE ANSWERS
10  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
Former Gators kicker Eddy 
Pineiro made the game-
winning ﬁ  eld goal on a 53-yard 
kick in the Bears’ 16-14 Week 
2 win over the Broncos. Gators women’s golf takes on Glass City Invitational
The women’s golf team will build on its early season momentum at the Glass 
City Invitational, hosted by the University of T oledo, on Monday. The Gators 
join No. 16 Illinois, No. 19 Michigan State and No. 15 Northwestern at the 
tournament. Check out the story online at www.alligator.org/sports/Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
one thing is certain: The Gators 
will have to rush better with an 
inexperienced quarterback taking 
over. 
How much of a concern is the 
secondary?
Kentucky graduate transfer 
quarterback Sawyer Smith – 
making his ﬁ  rst start at UK – 
looked poised in the ﬁ  rst half 
against UF.The ease at which Smith picked 
apart the Florida secondary – he 
went 10 for 13 with 128 yards and 
a touchdown – was alarming.
The Florida defense settled 
down in the second half with three 
interceptions, but the problem 
remains: two inexperienced 
quarterbacks (Smith and Miami 
redshirt freshman Jarren Williams) 
had success against the secondary. 
The Gators will have major 
problems against quarterbacks 
like Georgia’s Jake Fromm if 
things don’t improve. The return of C.J. Henderson, 
the team’s best corner (who 
missed the UK game with a high 
ankle sprain), should help. But 
Marco Wilson, the No. 2 corner, 
needs to improve. He was burned 
multiple times against Kentucky, 
including a play in which UK’s 
Ahmad Wagner reached over his 
head for a 26-yard reception. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org  FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Franks will miss season with injury
There’s no way 
around it.
Kyle Trask 
looked good. 
Really good.
The redshirt 
junior quarterback 
got his shot on 
Saturday night 
after starter Feleipe 
Franks exited the 
game with a season-
ending ankle injury. 
He took full advantage, leading 
the Gators to an 11-point 
comeback over Kentucky in the 
fourth quarter.
Trask completed nine of his 
13 passes for 126 yards and 
scored the go-ahead touchdown 
on the ground.
It’s hard not to be impressed 
by all of that.
But the sentiment from the 
Gators fan base seems to be 
that Trask looked better than 
Franks. Within the context of 
the game against the Wildcats, 
that’s true. But those fans have 
quickly forgotten how Franks 
marched into Doak Campbell 
Stadium and put up 41 points on 
the Seminoles. They’ve forgotten 
that, a month later, he did it again 
— this time in a New Year’s Six 
Bowl against a Michigan team 
ranked in the top 10.
Franks was far from perfect 
in his 11 quarters of 2019 play, 
but coach Dan Mullen named 
him the starter for a reason: He 
thought Franks gave the team 
the best chance to win.
Mullen said after Saturday’s 
game that he feels comfortable 
with Trask running the offense. 
The thing is, he also said the 
same about redshirt freshman 
Emory Jones.
Jones didn’t see any reps 
against Kentucky, but Mullen 
said they had packages for him they didn’t get to 
because they didn’t 
want to take Trask 
out and interrupt the 
momentum.
That tells me that, 
despite what Mullen 
says, he doesn’t have 
the same conﬁ  dence 
in Trask he had in 
Franks.
I won’t deny 
that Trask was the 
catalyst for UF’s comeback. 
But assuming that Trask was 
actually Florida’s best passer 
this whole time because a 
quarterback change sparked the 
offense seems a tad reactionary. 
Especially considering it followed 
a gruesome and emotional injury 
to the unit’s outspoken leader, 
as well as the fact that Kentucky 
ran a prevent defense (for some 
reason) throughout the fourth 
quarter.
Now, does losing Franks 
mean the Gators’ season is 
derailed? Most deﬁ  nitely not.
But the team’s problems 
outside of the quarterback spot 
still remain. The offensive line 
is decent in pass protection 
but abysmal in run blocking. 
Running back Lamical Perine is 
averaging 3.5 yards per carry, a 
stark contrast from his average of 
6.2 in 2018. Unless the blocking 
improves, running the ball won’t 
be a reliable option.
That put a lot of pressure on 
Franks, and it will put even more 
on the inexperienced Trask.
He will likely replicate his 
solid performance against 
ﬂ  oundering Tennessee and FCS 
opponent Towson. But against 
Auburn — who likely has the 
best defensive line in the nation 
— on Oct. 5? That game could be 
an entirely different story.Is Trask ready to go?Nothing but Nettuno SOCCER
VOLLEYBALLBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Cassidy Lindley, Deanne Rose and Lauren 
Evans picked up the cooler full of ice and water 
while coach Becky Burleigh was speaking to the 
SEC Network for a post game interview. The three 
players lifted the cooler, took Burleigh’s headset off 
and gave her a celebratory shower.
Burleigh’s had just won the 500th game of her 
Florida career, the ﬁ  rst female coach to achieve that 
in Division I soccer history. 
“I told our team that’s just what happens when 
you’re around a long time,” Burleigh said. “That 
means you’re old.” 
Entering last Thursday on a four-game losing 
streak, Florida’s soccer team ﬁ  nished the weekend 
on a two-game winning streak, putting its record 
back at .500 at 4-4. UF made this true when it de-
feated Miami 3-0 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium on Sunday. 
The Gators dominated possession early. 
Seemingly everything was in Miami’s half of the 
ﬁ  eld. The Hurricanes’ goalkeeper, sophomore Tyler 
Speaks, was tested often in the early going, as 
defender/midﬁ  elder Kit Loferski terrorized the left 
side of Miami’s defense. 
Miami forward Dejah Cason played left back in 
this game and struggled to keep up with the speed 
of Loferski. She continuously got behind Cason and 
center back Mari Horpestad to play in winnable 
crosses. 
“Kit (Loferski) had an amazing half,” forward 
Vanessa Kara said. “She just kept ﬁ  nding me in the 
box.”
The Hurricanes did get a few chances midway 
through the ﬁ  rst frame, but they were sparse and 
futile. UF goalkeeper Susi Espinoza had a relaxing 
half relative to her usual busy days. 
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators volleyball team 
(5-2) wrapped up a perfect 3-0 
weekend on Saturday following a 
wild 3-2 win against Long Beach 
State. Here are two takeaways:
Gators’ depth shines
The greatest advantage the 
Gators had coming into the sea-
son was that they were returning 
much of the same roster that won 
26 matches last season. The team 
does not have any freshmen, and 
that came in handy this weekend. 
UF’s depth was on display in 
a couple different ways during 
the tournament. Florida’s depth allowed it to spread the offense 
around multiple players. While 
the most kills any UF player had 
in a match this weekend was just 
15, there were seven instances of 
a player with double-digit kills. 
Florida also has the capability 
to change its gameplan to suit 
which players are hot or not 
and prevent opposing defenses 
from focusing on just one player. 
For example, on Saturday night 
against LBSU, when sophomore 
Thayer Hall and redshirt junior 
Holly Carlton were hitting a 
combined .212, Florida instead 
turned to its middle blockers. 
Redshirt junior Darrielle King 
and sophomore Lauren Dooley 
in turn combined for 19 kills and only one error and scored several 
key points down the stretch in 
Florida’s comeback victory over 
the Beach. 
Coach Mary Wise also wasn’t 
afraid to turn to some of her other 
bench players, like defensive 
specialists Chanelle Hargreaves 
and Riley Fischer and outside 
hitter Mia Sokolowski. 
Florida middles need more bal-
ance without Kramer
Despite the perfect record over 
the weekend, UF suffered a major 
blow when Rachael Kramer left 
the match against USF with an 
unknown injury. If the Gators are 
going to be without Kramer long-Gators defeat Miami, back at .500
Takeaways from UF’s 3-0 weekendSEE SOCCER,  PAGE 12
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 12Chris King / Alligator Staff
Mullen: “I think, they feel pretty certain there was a break and some 
dislocations, so he’ll be out for the year. Obviously a huge loss for us. ”
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s tennis team start-
ed the fall season the same way it 
ended the spring season: with domi-
nation.
The Gators spent the weekend 
competing in the Seahawk Invite at 
Porters Neck Country Club in Wilm-
ington, North Carolina.
On Friday, juniors Brian Berdus-
co and Josh Goodger picked up a 
6-3 victory in doubles, as did junior 
Duarte Vale and freshman Blaise 
Bicknell. The Gators suffered a set-back when sophomores Greysen and 
Harrison Cacciatore lost to Georgia 
Gwinnett’s Federico Herrera Duran 
and Jose Dugo 6-4. 
Singles play was a mixed bag. 
Vale and Goodger received byes 
into Saturday’s action as the top two 
seeds and Bicknell won his ﬁ  rst-ever-
singles match for the Gators, besting 
Duran 6-2, 6-4. However, Berdusco 
fell in a tough three-set battle 2-6, 
6-3, 7-6.
Saturday saw similar results. Vale 
and Bicknell advanced to the ﬁ  nals 
with a 6-4 win, but No. 1 seed Ber-
dusco and Goodger were upset 6-2. In singles, Vale made his ﬁ  rst ap-
pearance and cruised to a 6-2, 6-1 
win over UNF’s Dominic Barton in 
the quarterﬁ  nals before defeating 
UNC Wilmington’s Bruno Caula in 
the semiﬁ  nals. 
On the other side of the bracket, 
No. 3 seed Bicknell and No. 2 
Goodger each won their quarterﬁ  nal 
matches, setting up a match against 
each other, which Bicknell took 4-6, 
7-6, 6-3 to advance to the ﬁ  nal and 
face his teammate Vale.
Before Vale and Bicknell dueled 
in the singles ﬁ  nal, they teamed in 
the doubles ﬁ  nal and took the title up with a 7-5 win over Georgia 
Gwinnett. Vale then took the singles 
championship with a 6-3, 6-1 win, 
capping off the tournament for UF.
“We faced a lot of adversity, 
mentally and physically, today and 
were able to meet it head on with re-
silience,” associate head coach Tan-
ner Stump said in a release. “I am 
certainly proud of the guys for that.”
Florida also began competition 
this weekend at the Texas Tamale 
Co. Houston Cup at Rice University. 
The weeklong tournament began 
on Sunday and featured 100 
players ranked 250-800 in the ATP 
rankings. Junior Oliver Crawford 
and sophomore Sam Rifﬁ  ce received 
byes to the main draw. Sophomores 
Lukas Greif and junior Andy Andrade won their qualifying matches on 
Sunday, with Greif beating No. 11 
Abraham Asaba 5-7, 6-4, 10-3 and 
No. 10 Andrade besting William 
Mottet 6-2, 6-4.
Qualifying matches will continue 
through Monday with the main draw 
starting on Tuesday.
“Andy (Andrade) played well and 
Lukas (Greif) had a tough match but 
competed like a champion and found 
a way to win,” associate head coach 
Scott Perelman said in a release. “We 
are all looking forward to tomorrow 
(Monday) as the competition gets 
better and better.”
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgUF ﬁ  nishes weekend of action
In the 27th minute, Florida midﬁ  elder 
Parker Roberts played a perfect through 
ball to forward Lindley. Lindley got there 
milliseconds before Speaks could and 
redirected the ball to the right side of the 
goal. Even with an empty net, her shot 
angle was unfavorable so she played a 
ground pass back towards the middle of the 
18-yard box to midﬁ  elder Laney Steed. 
Steed had what seemed like a guaranteed 
goal, but the Miami defense did just enough to recover at the last second to deﬂ  ect the 
ball harmlessly out of play. 
With one minute remaining in the ﬁ  rst 
half, the Gators came close again off a 
corner kick. Roberts got a solid head on 
the play to the right of the 6-yard box. She 
played it back across into the middle for a 
favorable chance but no Gator was able to 
get anything on it. The Hurricanes booted it 
again to safety and to a scoreless halftime. 
The second half was very similar to the 
ﬁ  rst, except the Gators made the chances 
count. 
At the 50-minute mark, UF ﬁ  nally broke the scoring seal. A corner kick from Roberts 
for the Gators got the ball back to Lindley 
at the top of the 18 where she ripped a shot 
to the right side of the goal and it slid just 
inside the post past Speaks. The shot from 
distance gave Florida a 1-0 advantage early 
in the second half.
“If I’m approaching the 18, I’m most 
likely going to shoot it,” Lindley said. 
In the 62nd minute, UF struck again 
when Kara received a ball from Loferski on 
the right side of the 6-yard box, and Kara 
got a cleat to the ball before Speaks could 
get a glove to it. Kara softly rolled it into 
the right side of the goal and bumped the 
score to 2-0. 
Six minutes later, Roberts got the second assist of the day when midﬁ  elder Sammie 
Betters had a terrible angle on the right side 
of the goal, but snuck the ball past Speaks 
to the back of the net anyway. 
Twenty-two minutes later, the referee’s 
ﬁ  nal whistle concluded a successful 
weekend for the Gators. The team will 
begin conference play on Thursday when 
it travels to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to play 
against LSU. 
“Two shutouts, really important for us,” 
Burleigh said. “We really have to recover 
and get ready to go. You’re almost starting 
a brand new season.”
gmarsh@alligator.org
@GrahamMarshUFSOCCER,  from pg. 11Burleigh notches 500th career win  
term, this weekend was a good indication 
on how the team will compete without her 
in the matches to follow, beginning with 
No. 25 Florida State on Tuesday. 
As mentioned earlier, King and Dooley 
were dynamic offensively against LBSU, 
with King converting on 15 of her 19 
swings.
However, the defense without Kramer 
was inconsistent. The Gators were 
dominant defensively against James 
Madison in its ﬁ  rst match without their 
senior middle blocker, limiting the Dukes 
to a .080 hitting percentage in a sweep.
But against the Beach, Florida’s defense 
resembled a rollercoaster. In the two sets 
that it won, LBSU hit an unreal .471 and 
.486 percent. Yet, in the two sets that 
Florida prevailed in before the ﬁ  fth set, 
the Beach were held to a measly .029 and 
.167 hitting percentage. LBSU’s Kashauna 
Williams amassed 26 kills.
Part of the reason behind that was that 
the Gators lost more battles at the net 
without the 6-foot-8 Kramer. Wise noted 
that the Gators lost a lot of points off their 
block. 
“From an offensive standpoint, (King’s) 
game was ﬂ  awless,” Wise said. “We’ve 
had All-American middles that don’t go 
15 for 19. We’ve got to get better from 
the blocking standpoint. We’re just not 
blocking as many balls as she will in her 
future.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 11
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior middle blocker Darrielle King played an integral role in Florida’s sweep weekend at home against South Florida, 
James Madison and Long Beach State. The 6-foot-3 attacker notched a career-high 15 kills against the Beach and tallied 25 on 
the weekend. She will be one of Florida’s key players when the team takes on the Seminoles at 6 p.m. on Tuesday. 
