We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF gymnastics eighth in NCAA on vault
Trinity Thomas was the only Gator to score more 
than 9.9 in vault at the SEC Championships, pg. 14Saving Gainesville’s history
Some Gainesville residents are trying to preserve Gainesville’s 
historical buildings, pg. 8
Local Cubana culture
Dominos, cigars and music were in Gainesville, pg. 3MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 72
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
Joel Buchanan’s voice ﬂ  ooded students 
ears as he discussed the hardships of segre-
gation on Thursday.
But the civil rights activist wasn’t there 
in person. He died in 2014.
Students listened to an audio clip from 
the ﬁ  rst UF African American Oral History 
Symposium, a three-day gathering to unveil the Joel Buchanan Archive of African Amer-
ican Oral History.  
Buchanan was a longtime member of 
the community, a civil rights activist and a 
librarian at UF, said Paul Ortiz, the direc-
tor of the UF Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program. 
He is well known for being the ﬁ  rst Af-
rican American male student to integrate 
Gainesville High School in 1964. Buchanan 
died in May 2014 at the age of 65.
“Joel was an icon in the African Ameri-can community,” Ortiz said. “People loved 
him. He brought people in our community 
together across lines of race and class.”
UF President Kent Fuchs helped welcome 
those in attendance Thursday morning. He 
said he believed it was one of the largest 
and most signiﬁ  cant events dedicated to Af-
rican American history ever held at UF.
“There’s no better inspiration for our 
continued civic engagement or active par-
ticipation in democracy than the account of 
the African American pioneers in the Bu-chanan archive,” Fuchs said in his opening 
remarks.
This year also marks the 10th Anniver-
sary of the African American History Proj-
ect, Ortiz said. The project is an archive of 
more than 600 oral interviews with African 
American residents of Gainesville and from 
across Florida in the form of audio clips and 
accompanying transcriptions detailing black 
life in Florida, Ortiz said. 
These interviews were conducted in The UF connects students to African American history with sound
SEE SYMPOSIUM,  PAGE 5
Chris King / Alligator Staff 
Night with Noah
Noah Cyrus entertains hundreds Friday during the Big Orange Festival on the Reitz North Lawn. The 
festival included amusement rides, cotton candy, snow cones and an opening performance by Ocean 
Park Standoff. The Reitz Programming Board paid Cyrus $65,000 to perform. 
50,880 PEOPLE IN 
ALACHUA COUNTY ARE 
FOOD INSECURE 
Alligator Staff Report
Mary Ewing’s car overﬂ  owed 
as she loaded it with blue reusable 
bags ﬁ  lled with green apples, let-
tuce and chips.
She had just ﬁ  nished shopping at Bread of the Mighty Food Bank 
for the nonproﬁ  t CHAMP, which  
she and her husband are involved 
with. The charity distributes food 
to individual, local families. 
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank 
distributes and sells food based on 
weight to local charities. Walking 
down the aisles of the showcase 
area, one could quickly mistake the 
bank for a grocery store. 
“This is about poverty and working people,” said Karen 
Woolfstead, the spokesperson and 
a director of development for the 
food bank. “One of the biggest 
things I’ve learned here is there is 
no face of hunger.”
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank 
is used by 190 agencies to shop and 
distribute the food directly to the 
hungry in and around Gainesville, 
Woolfstead said.
Although there are about 900 homeless children in Alachua 
County, there are 10,000 food in-
secure children and 50,880 food 
insecure people as of 2018 out of 
the county’s 266,944 residents, she 
said. 
In 2018, Bread of the Mighty 
Food Bank distributed 7.9 million 
pounds of food, with 5.2 million 
going to Alachua County, Woolf-
stead said. Food insecurity is deﬁ  ned as 
an experience where individuals 
or households don’t have access 
to healthy, affordable food, said 
Nicole Owens, a state specialized 
agent with the UF Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences.
This insecurity relates to food 
deserts, low-income areas which 
are located more than one mile How Gainesville tries to help feed those in need
SEE FOOD DESERT,  PAGE 4By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
More money, more problems 
became the reality for Natwaina 
Clark, who allegedly spent stolen 
city funds on a Brazilian butt lift.
Clark, 36, of 
Gainesville, was 
arrested in 2017 
after she was 
accused of mis-
using more than 
$91,000 from at 
least three City 
of Gainesville 
credit cards 
when she was a Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs employee.
Clark will go to court in May af-
ter rejecting to sign a deal to plead 
guilty, according to court records. 
Jury selection is set for May 6.  
Almost two years after her ar-
rest, Clark faces seven felony 
grand theft charges, which have 
a maximum of 35 years in prison 
upon conviction, the report said. She has pleaded not guilty. 
City ofﬁ  cials told Clark verbally 
and in writing that the credit card 
was only for business purposes, ac-
cording to court records.
From 2015 to 2017, Clark made 
169 fraudulent purchases using 
three separate cards, the report 
said. Some of her other purchases 
included a a Brazilian butt lift, 
plane tickets to Houston, Texas, 
gift cards to various stores and 
multiple fruit arrangements. 
During an audit, two city em-
ployees in the department noticed 
it was over budget, the report said. 
After further investigation, the em-
ployees found unapproved credit 
card purchases made by Clark. 
She was arrested after city of-
ﬁ  cials found she was using city-is-
sued credit cards for unauthorized 
purchases, the report said. 
Clark could not immediately be 
reached for comment.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgFormer city employee 
prepares for theft trial 
Police said she misused more than $91,000
Clark
T oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
TODAY
Adulting 101: How to Manage 
Money After Graduation
When: 3-3:50 p.m.
Where: UF Career Connections 
Center, C3 Inspiration Room
What: A financial planner will 
cover topics such as budgeting, 
preparing for the regional cost 
of living and understanding the 
importance of credit, debit and 
savings after graduation. 
Heat Week: Monday Art Build
When: 7-9 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center, 
433 S. Main St. 
What: Divest UF will cre-
ate banners and signs to use 
throughout this week. The 
group wants to pressure the 
UF Board of Trustees to divest 
from fossil fuel use. Attendees 
can join in making these ban-
ners and signs and are asked 
to bring posters, sheets and art 
supplies. 
Half Millionth Meal Celebration 
and Campus Tour
When: 5-7 p.m.
Where: Grace Marketplace, 
3055 NE 28th Drive
What: Grace Marketplace 
will celebrate their half mil-
lionth meal at Café 131. John 
DeCarmine, the executive di-
rector of the homeless shelter, 
will make a welcome speech 
at 5:15 p.m. A tour of the facil-
ity will begin at 5:30 p.m. fol-
lowed by dinner from the St. 
Augustine Catholic Church. At 
6:15 p.m. there will be a cake 
cutting. 
TUESDAY
March Coffee and Careers
When: 9-11 a.m.
Where: UF College of 
Agricultural and Life Sciences
What: This is an informal at-
mosphere for students to con-
nect with employers, alumni 
and career service profession-
als. Students can drop in to get 
advice on career-related issues 
like resumes, cover letters, 
personal statements, job and 
internship searches and identi-
fying potential majors or career 
paths. Coffee and donuts will 
be provided. 
Spotlight Speaker: Fred LevinWhen: 5-7 p.m.
Where: UF Levin College of 
Law, Holland Hall 180
What: The UF Law Student Bar 
Association will present attor-
ney Fred Levin, the UF College 
of Law’s namesake. Levin 
earned his undergraduate de-
gree from UF in 1958 and grad-
uated third in his class from UF 
Law in 1961. There is no cost to 
attend, but an RSVP is required 
at ufl.qualtrics.com. Each 
registration comes with two 
complimentary beverages at a 
reception in the Commons fol-
lowing the address. Attendees 
are asked to dress profession-
ally.
“Sex and the City” Trivia
When: 9 p.m.
Where: Original American 
Kitchen, 15 SE First Ave. 
What: The trivia will be fo-
cused on the series of the “Sex 
and the City” show. The first 10 
teams between two to six peo-
ple to sign up for trivia between 
8-8:30 p.m. will get a $10 gift 
card. Drink specials include $3 
house wine, $5 Stella Artois, $5 
appletinis and cosmos and $5 
white or red sangria. Prizes in-
clude $50 for first place, $30 for 
second place and $20 for third 
place. The halftime and final 
bonus questions will be from 
the movies. 
WEDNESDAY
Dumisani Washington: The Top 
Anti-Semitic Myths About 
Israel
When: 7 p.m.
Where: McCarty Hall A, Room 
1142
What: Dumisani Washington, 
a pastor, composer, author and 
teacher in northern California, 
has spent years studying the 
Jewish diaspora in Ethiopia, 
India, Myanmar and other 
countries. Washington will dis-
pel the top anti-Semitic myths 
surrounding Israel, discuss 
the pro-Israel stance of the 
civil rights movement and talk 
about the relationship between 
the U.S. and Israel. The speech 
will be followed by a 30 minute 
Q&A session. Chick-fil-A will 
be provided.  
Plant Nite at First Magnitude 
Brewing Co. 
When: 7-10 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude 
Brewing Co., 1220 SE Veitch St. What: The featured project will 
be a Buddha Zen Garden or 
Lily Bowl Terrarium for about 
an hour and a half. Attendees 
will learn how to create these 
projects and how to decorate 
homes with succulent plants. 
Tickets are $46 per person and 
can be bought at yaymaker.
com. Attendees can save $10 
on tickets with the code Yay10. 
Planting supplies include a sol-
id container, soil, plants, rocks, 
decorative elements, a smock 
and music.
RPB Presents: Open Mic Night 
When: 8-10 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Orange 
and Brew
What: This will be the last 
open mic night of the semester. 
Attendees can showcase talents 
as a singer, comedian or poet. 
Sign-ups start at 7:30 p.m.
UF Bike to Campus Day
When: 7:30-11 a.m.
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: Sustainable UF will 
celebrate bicyclists who cycle-
commute to campus with free 
breakfast and information 
about bike programming on 
campus. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Correction:
In an article titled "New bar 
called The Holy Pipe to open 
in downtown Gainesville" that 
ran in Friday's edition, the bar 
will open Friday. The Alligator 
reported differently. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  58°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 72MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
ABOUT 150 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE DOMINO 
TOURNAMENT 
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dominos were thrown around, 
cigar smoke hung in the air and rap-
id-ﬁ  re Spanish insults were thrown 
around. This wasn’t at your Abue-
lo’s backyard, it was Mi Apá’s park-
ing lot. 
On Saturday, Mi Apá Latin Café 
and Bulla Cubana hosted their ﬁ  rst 
domino tournament. Bulla Cubana, 
which translates to Cuban Noise, is 
a Cuban art and culture festival that 
began March 9 and ﬁ  nished its three-
week-long event at Mi Apá.
“We try to support the spread of 
Cuban culture and art whenever we 
can,” Peter Ynigo, the owner of  Mi 
Apá said. 
Dominoes is a traditional Cuban 
game where players match the dots 
from the pieces until they run out of 
dominos in their hand.
The tournament brought out 
about 150 players from across North Central Florida, said Randy Batista, 
the founder of Bulla Cubana. Cubans 
and Americans alike from neigh-
boring cities, like Jacksonville and 
Tampa, came to show their support 
and partake in the traditional Cuban 
game. 
“Every afternoon in Cuba, people 
pull their tables out and they scream 
and yell,” Batista said. “Dominos is a 
big part of our culture.”
Originally started in 2017, Bulla 
Cubana aims to celebrate Cuban-
American ties in the North Central 
Florida region, Batista said. This 
year’s theme was “Cuban Ingenu-
ity,” which showcased the creativ-
ity of Cuban residents’ inventions 
throughout political instability. The 
festival’s events included an exhibit 
at the Cade Museum for Creativity 
and Invention and a concert at the 
Historic Thomas Center. 
Rolando Peñas attended Mi Apá’s 
15th-anniversary celebration in June 
where residents came and brought 
dominoes to play. He said he attend-
ed this year’s domino tournament to 
experience the same energy of the 
Cuban community he grew up in.“Dominoes has been played in 
my family for generations,” Peñas 
said. “I played with my grandfather 
when I was a little boy in Cuba. 
More than a game, it’s a part of who 
we are.”
Elio Piedra, an award-winning 
Afro-Jazz artist, and his Conga Drum 
Ensemble performed covers of popu-
lar Spanish music as guests swayed 
to salsa and bachata in the small pa-
tio space and parking lot of the res-
taurant. 
Sophia Alday, an 18-year-old 
UF tourism, events and recreation 
management freshman, felt at home 
while playing dominoes with her 
grandmother at the event. She said 
it was important for the Latin com-
munity to come together and put on 
cultural events that allow her to feel 
more connected to her roots.
“Being half Cuban, it’s really hard 
to ﬁ  nd spaces in Gainesville that let 
me celebrate my culture and play 
with my family like this,” Alday said. 
“It feels great knowing that there are 
people in this town who share the 
same background and experiences 
as me.”Dominoes, Bachata and Cuban Ingenuity celebrated at Mi Apá
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Juan Martinez, a 49-year-old Gainesville resident, plays dominoes 
Saturday during the Mi Apa Domino T ournament. Elio Piedra and 
his Conga Drum Ensemble also played at Mi Apa Latin Cafe, 114 
SW 34th St. More than 50 people participated in this event.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
THE TRUCK ALSO HIT TWO 
TREES
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer 
Early Sunday morning, a truck missed a 
turn, hit a tree and then a CVS Pharmacy, 
before crashing into another tree. 
At 1:29 a.m., Gainesville Police and Gainesville Fire Rescue responded to a 
crash at the intersection of NW 23rd Av-
enue and NW 43rd Street, where a truck 
hit the CVS Pharmacy, at 4354 NW 23rd 
Ave., and trees, District Chief Jeff Schuh-
macher said.
Two men were trapped in the truck and 
freed by ﬁ  re rescue, Schuhmacher said. 
Both men were taken to UF Health Shands 
Hospital. One was taken as a trauma alert. The truck was heading west on 16th 
Boulevard and didn’t make the turn at the 
intersection of NW 23rd Avenue and NW 
43rd Street, Schuhmacher said. The car hit 
a tree before it hit the building then crossed 
the parking lot and hit another tree.
The CVS was closed and no one was in-
side or injured, said CVS shift supervisor 
Justin Lewallen. A manager was called in 
because the crash set off the store alarm. Lewallen said the building was dam-
aged but has not yet been evaluated. 
Gainesville Police are investigating the 
situation, Schuhmacher said. The reason 
for the crash is still uncertain. 
GPD could not be immediately reached 
for information about the crash.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgTwo men trapped in truck that crashed into CVS 
away from a grocery store, Owens 
said. 
Owens worked with a master’s 
student in the department of UF 
Food Science and Human Nutri-
tion, Vanessa Berthoumieux, who 
published her thesis on Alachua 
County Food Deserts in May 2017.
The study looked at corner 
stores located in food deserts in 
Alachua County and discovered 
these stores lacked healthy, afford-
able food, Owens said. 
“The goal is to help them sell 
and promote healthier items that 
individuals and food deserts don’t 
necessarily have access to,” Owens 
said. 
For UF students, staff and fac-
ulty who are food insecure, the UF 
Field and Fork Pantry, established 
in 2015, provides nutritious food, 
said Anna Prizzia, the director of 
the Field and Fork Program.
“People who are experiencing 
food insecurity should have access 
to the same quality of food that 
anyone has access to,” Prizzia said.
In the past four years, the Field 
and Fork Pantry’s garden has 
grown 5,000 pounds of produce 
to be donated to the pantry. When 
there is a surplus, Prizzia said the garden donates to community food 
banks like Bread of the Mighty.
The goal of the community 
garden is to address where food 
insecurity stems from and to give 
everyone access to fresh, healthy 
food, she said. 
“We can change the issue of 
food insecurity in our community, 
and hopefully in our nation and on 
our globe by addressing these root 
causes,” Prizzia said. 
The Family Nutrition Program 
looks for people eligible for the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program, formerly known as food 
stamps in Florida, said Lauren 
Sweeney, the program coordinator 
for the Family Nutrition Program.
The program is established in 
40 counties across Florida, includ-
ing Alachua County, Sweeney said. 
The program is funded by the 
Farm Bill, a piece of legislation that 
dictates federal food and agricul-
tural policy, she said. This funding 
comes from the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 
“We’re teaching people how 
to stretch their food dollars, eat 
healthier and shop on a budget,” 
Sweeney said. 
A team of six individuals from 
the Family Nutrition Program locat-
ed at UF have educators through-out the state working with different 
community partners like farmers 
markets and school districts to help 
make policies related to accessing 
healthy foods in the classroom and 
beyond, Sweeney said.
“This is focused on how our 
participants are accessing fresh, 
healthy foods in the communities 
in which they live,” Sweeney said. 
Another program working to al-
leviate food disparities is Alachua 
County Public School’s Farm to 
School to Work program, which 
started off as a small idea in 2011, 
said Maria Eunice, the director of 
Food and Nutrition Services.  
Eight years later, the program 
has expanded to include all schools 
in the county, 13 local farms and 
13 school gardens, she said.
“When the students are grow-
ing the produce items in the school 
garden they feel very proud of what 
they’ve harvested,” Eunice said. 
Local farmers participate by 
dropping off produce at the Farm 
to School to Work Hub at the Hori-
zon Center, Eunice said. Then, stu-
dents in the Growing Educational 
Training program, where students 
with disabilities receive job train-
ing, help organize, package and de-
liver the food to school cafeterias.  
Other partner organizations that have helped contribute to the pro-
gram’s success are Working Food, 
a nonproﬁ  t that works to sustain 
the local food community in North 
Central Florida, and the Family 
Nutrition Program at UF Institute 
of Food and Agriculture Sciences. 
Outside of the Alachua County 
Public School System, Bread of 
the Mighty emphasizes nutrition 
among hungry children, Woolf-
stead said.
The food bank provides dairy, 
meats and fresh produce in order 
to give families the chance to cook 
healthy meals, she said. 
“It just brings me joy every time 
because I know that the families 
are getting some nutrition, espe-
cially the kids,” she said. “They 
need to be eating more than just 
cereal and birthday cakes.”
Food for children and senior 
programs at Bread of the Mighty is free, she said. The food bank funds 
at least 21 after school programs 
in the surrounding area, as well 
as eight food pantries located at 
schools that parents and students 
can take from. 
Despite the problem of hunger 
in Gainesville, Woolfstead is opti-
mistic. On May 2, the food bank 
will be holding its Empty Bowls 
banquet for the eighth year, where 
the organization hopes to fund-
raise. 
“That’s one of the biggest things 
for us is you never know who’s 
hungry,” she said. “You go to 
church, you could be sitting next to 
somebody who doesn’t know what 
they’re having for dinner.”
Alligator staff writers Kelly 
Hayes, Mikayla Carroll, Hannah 
Beatty and Lakshmi Gomez 
contributed to this report. FOOD DESERT,  from pg. 1‘W e can change the issue of food insecurity’Hunger in Alachua County by the numbers:
• 5.2 million pounds of food were distributed in Alachua County from 
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank
• Total Population: 266,944 
• 900 children are without their own, permanent residence in the county
• 10,000 children are food insecure 
• 50,880 individuals total are food insecure SHE HAS A $20,000 BOND
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A woman who was accused of stealing from 
a Target in February is being accused again for 
stealing from the same store in January. 
Laurel Anne Haas, 33, of Gainesville, stole 
from a Target, at 3970 SW Archer Road, three 
times, according to a Gainesville Police sworn 
complaint afﬁ  davit. 
Haas was arrested on Feb. 1 after she stole 
15 household and clothing items from the store, 
the report said. The items cost $454.59 in total.
She was released from the jail the next day, 
according to the Alachua County Jail.
Sometime later, police learned she stole 
from the same Target on Jan. 10 and 29, the 
afﬁ  davit said. On both dates, Haas grabbed a garden prun-
ing tool from the store and used it to cut open 
Fitbits, put them in her handbag and then hide 
the tool in the store, the afﬁ  davit said. She left 
the store before police could stop her. She stole 
three Fitbits that cost $699.85 in total.
Haas was arrested on a warrant on Friday, 
according to court records.
She was charged with grand theft and 
scheme to defraud and obtain property, the af-
ﬁ  davit said.
In 2017, she was found guilty for stealing 
two perfumes and hiding them in her handbag 
from a Belk at the Oaks Mall, at 6419 W New-
berry Road, according to court records. The 
perfumes cost $144. 
Haas remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday in lieu of a $20,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgPolice arrest woman after she was 
accused of stealing Fitbits at Target
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A man allegedly broke into his ex-
girlfriend’s home Sunday after she didn’t 
respond to his text messages. 
At about 1 a.m., Joseph Theophilus 
Mack II, 28, of Newberry, Florida, peered 
through the woman’s bedroom window, 
according to a Gainesville Police arrest 
report. He saw her with another man.
He then punched and broke the win-
dow and climbed inside, the report said. 
Mack repeatedly asked her what she was 
doing and grabbed her cellphone as he 
walked out the front door.
She followed him outside, and Mack 
punched her twice, the report said. As 
she was on the ground, Mack took off 
her necklace and then drove away. He 
was stopped by police less than a mile away. 
Her left ear was cut and the left side 
of her face was bruised and swollen, the 
report said. Her upper body was covered 
in Mack’s blood. 
Mack had cuts on his hands from 
breaking the window, the report said.
He told police he wanted to check on 
the woman because she was not answer-
ing his text messages, the report said. He 
said he only knocked on the window and 
it broke by accident. 
Mack was charged with unarmed rob-
bery and battery during a burglary, the 
report said.
Mack bonded out from the Alachua 
County Jail on a $25,000 bond on Sun-
day. 
He declined to comment.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org Man accused of punching 
window, breaking into home  MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
collection includes topics ranging from life 
under Jim Crow laws, which enforced seg-
regation in the southern U.S., to food secu-
rity to civil rights activism, Ortiz said.
The process of archiving oral interviews 
will cost about $5,000, Ortiz said. 
The Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost has been a 
main sustainer for the project, but funding 
and organizing the event has been a group 
effort, Ortiz said. The College of Medicine, 
the African American Studies program and 
Student Government are just a few others 
on an extensive list of supporters.
“In my 20 years as an academic, I rarely 
have ever seen people come together so 
beautifully for one event,” Ortiz said. “I 
think that is really a testament to Joel Bu-
chanan’s legacy.”
Ortiz also hopes Buchanan’s legacy will 
reach the rest of Alachua County. Teach-
ers and educators were welcome to pick up 
a ﬂ  ash drive with eight gigabytes of his-
tory information downloaded onto it, Ortiz 
said. The history is in the format of lessons 
and can be easily used by public school 
teachers.“Teachers in Alachua County and across 
the state and the country are really hungry 
for African American history lessons,” Or-
tiz said. “At UF, we can give them material 
that’s classroom ready.”
Many students, like Youssef Mohamed, 
a 20-year-old UF biomedical engineering 
junior, attended the symposium to gain a 
new perspective on African American His-
tory. 
The oral history aspect of the event in-
trigued Mohamed, he said.
“Much of the history that we know is 
written, so sometimes it can get distorted,” 
Mohamed said. “In some cultures, the 
main form of history is oral history, and 
this can have more cultural references and 
legends.”
Mohamed is part of Gators for Refugee 
Medical Relief, an organization that tutors 
refugees from the Congo, he said. He hopes 
the information he received at the sympo-
sium will help him relate to the children he 
tutors on the weekends.
“Now that they’ve assimilated into 
American culture, they’ve somewhat be-
come accustomed to African American is-
sues,” Mohamed said. “I feel that having a different perspective and knowledge base 
will help me communicate with them bet-
ter.”
Ebony Love, a 23-year-old UF law stu-
dent, was a part of the early stages of the 
symposium, she said. Love served as an 
intern for the Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program for a year in 2017.
As part of the African American History 
Project, Love helped transcribe the oral 
history being collected for the project, she 
said. 
After researchers conducted their inter-
views, which ranged anywhere from a few 
minutes to a few hours long, Love wrote 
up the transcripts in order to make these 
histories more accessible for researchers.
“Anyone researching the black voices or 
the marginalized voices in Gainesville or in 
the state of Florida now has the opportu-
nity to do that using these documents that 
we’ve transcribed,” Love said.
She appreciates the approach to the 
Samuel Proctor Oral History Program be-
cause it gives people the opportunity to 
hear the voices that are typically left be-
hind, she said.
“In academia, we tend to value written 
documents, or tangible items, more than 
we are willing to value the voices of other 
people,” Love said. “At the symposium, we’re able to hear from the people who 
have lived through these experiences, and 
we can put value to their voices.”
Love, a member of the Zeta Phi Beta 
sorority chapter in Gainesville, found 
that one of the oral histories came from a 
charter member of her organization, Cora 
Roberson, who helped establish the ﬁ  rst 
African American Greek letter organization 
in Gainesville in 1951. 
Love, living in the time of the Black 
Lives Matter era, was able to ﬁ  nd a connec-
tion with Cora Roberson, who lived during 
the era of segregation.
“I hope that people can feel that they’re 
a part of something bigger than just going 
to a symposium,” Love said. “They’re actu-
ally telling the story of their own personal 
life as well as other people’s lives who 
have come before us.”
Love said the unveiling of these his-
torical collections will show that inequities 
from the past are still present today in the 
form of disparities, whether health-related 
or economic.
“Perhaps looking at the past may give 
us a guide to how we can cure current 
ails that are happening in our society and 
Gainesville speciﬁ  cally,” Love said.
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgSYMPOSIUM,  from pg. 1‘W e can put value to their voices’The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnLockdowns aren’t 
what we remember 
Most of us grew up with lockdowns. They usually consisted 
of a teacher flicking off the lights, maybe even blacking out 
a window with dark paper and pointing the entire class to 
a corner of the classroom, where we’d sit in agonizing si-
lence until an administrator came to give the “all clear.” The 
Columbine shooting was when people first really began to talk about 
school shootings. However, only in recent years were school shootings 
constantly in the news and talked about in legislation.
In the early 2000s, there were some school shootings that resulted 
in several killings, but those numbers have only continued to grow 
in recent years. The U.S. Naval Postgraduate School did a study on 
school gun violence in the U.S., which is defined as any time a gun 
was brandished or fired in a school property or a bullet hit a school 
property, regardless of the time of the day or week that it happened or 
if any deaths occurred. The study used multiple sources like the media 
and government reports dating back to 1970. The average number of 
school gun violence incidents from 2000 to 2010 was about 33 per year 
and the average number of deaths was 14. The point is that lockdown 
drills were implemented for a good reason. 
But, now after major schools shootings like Parkland and Sandy 
Hook, school drills have grown more serious through the use of local 
law enforcement and companies created solely to implement school-
shooter drills, where someone acts as an active shooter on campuses. 
In Florida, a drill went wrong when a teacher-wide text was sent out 
saying there was a shooter on campus, without any indication it was a 
drill, causing teachers and students to panic. This raises the question: 
How far is too far?
If we look at the data from last year, 2018 is by far the highest with 
55 deaths and 94 incidents of school gun violence. It’s unclear why the 
numbers are so high, but it’s the same year of the Parkland shooting, 
the third largest school shooting in U.S. history. To put those num-
bers into perspective, 2017 had 24 deaths and 43 incidents involving 
gun violence in schools. Those numbers more than doubled in a year, 
causing school districts to double down on their own lockdown drills, 
which are now sometimes called “active-shooter drills.” We grew up 
when lockdown drills were a break in the day, and the worst part was 
having to sit silently for 10 minutes. Now, entire companies have aris-
en to simulate active-shooter drills as an attempt to prepare kids. 
What happens during those drills depends on the school district, but 
they can become disturbingly real. An elementary school in Monticello, 
Indiana, made news after an active-shooter drill resulted in teachers be-
ing taken into a room four at a time and shot execution style with a pel-
let gun by local officers. There’s a difference between being prepared 
for a situation and emotionally scarring someone. 
In 2018, The Washington Post did an extensive amount of research 
on lockdowns. It found that more than 1 million elementary-aged chil-
dren had to partake in lockdowns, a little less than a quarter of those 
children were kindergarteners or preschoolers. It’s hard to say how 
children will react to being exposed to serious topics that usually come 
up during intense lockdown situations, but Steven Schlozman, a Har-
vard Medical School assistant professor and child psychiatrist, says that 
there could be lasting symptoms triggered from these intense situations 
like “depression, anxiety, poor sleep, post-traumatic symptomatology 
and substance abuse.”
Mental health and gun violence are often discussed together, but 
what happens when trying to keep kids safe can cause more mental 
harm. Kids are being exposed to gun violence in a way our generation 
never was, and it’s happening at school, where they’re supposed to feel 
safe. We understand that safety precautions need to be put into place, 
but maybe the best course of action is prevention like stricter gun laws 
and better mental health counseling in schools. Lockdowns and active-
shooter drills aren’t really preventing anything, they’re for worst-case-
scenarios that shouldn’t happen in the first place. While many of us struggle to watch 
policymakers continue ignoring 
the reality and the severity of cli-
mate change, we often forget that 
government offices are not the 
only spaces where change can take place. It 
won’t be the politicians who save our planet, 
it will be individuals who are inspired by the 
idea of a better future. Unfortunately, while 
we remain quick to judge the lack of action 
on the part of our country’s leaders, we fail to recognize 
the lack of action on our own part.
When it comes to climate change and environmen-
tal protection, the only real way to see results is if the 
average person starts to make a conscious effort to live 
sustainably. However, living sustainably means more 
than just recycling and using reusable grocery bags. 
One of the most impactful things an individual can do 
to combat climate change is to reject the meat industry 
and adopt a vegan or plant-based diet, or at the very 
least limit their meat consumption.
According to an article by The New York Times, in 
the U.S., farming is responsible for 574 metric tons of 
carbon dioxide emissions. About 42 percent of these 
emissions come from animal agriculture. Worldwide, 
somewhere between 14.5 and 18 percent of all human-
induced emissions come from livestock.
The environmental benefits of eating a plant-based 
diet are clear. However, we still struggle to see any sort 
of dramatic change in the way Americans consume 
food. This lack of change is especially true for men.
As of 2017, only 0.5 percent of the U.S. population 
adhered to a vegan diet. Of these 1.62 million Ameri-
cans, 74 percent of them are women. This glaring dis-
parity between genders is due largely to gender stereo-
typing and the existence of toxic masculinity.Mainstreamed ideas of masculinity link 
meat to manliness. Although this trope is 
antiquated, it still rings true for most men. 
They have been led to believe from a young 
age that eating meat will make them manly 
(whatever that means).
Vegans fall on the opposite end of the 
spectrum in terms of masculinity. They are 
often stereotyped as frail, sickly and vulner-
able, basically the opposite of how men are 
expected to be. Beyond this, vegans are often character-
ized as weak-minded because they express strong feel-
ings about the environment, as if a passion for activism 
is somehow emasculating. 
No matter how unfair or inaccurate these stereo-
types of the vegan community are, they do still inhib-
it many men from adopting a plant-based diet. Even 
when men want to do more to live sustainably, they 
remain held back by societal pressures to present them-
selves as manly. The risk of becoming a social outcast 
and taking a stance that makes them look weak is too 
much to wager for a safe planet.
I believe the next step we can take to further sustain-
ability efforts in the U.S. is to stop normalizing gender 
stereotypes. We are already seeing this happen in small 
waves, but the demanding nature of climate change 
calls for social upheaval.
Toxic masculinity is a hindrance to many aspects of 
American culture. The impact on our planet, however, 
is what makes it an even more immediate problem that 
needs to be solved. There is no reason half of the popu-
lation should continue to consume destructively. Every-
one should consider a healthier lifestyle. 
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and journal-
ism senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Toxic masculinity hinders sustainability efforts
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
A crash that happened halfway around 
the world should be a warning sign to 
passengers everywhere.
On March 10, minutes after takeoff, a 
Boeing 737 MAX jet operated by Ethio-
pian Airlines crashed near Bishoftu, Ethiopia.  
One hundred and eighty-nine people were killed, 
and the crash was soon followed by an investi-
gation, with almost all 737 MAX jets grounded 
during the investigation. Throughout this time, 
we learned some concerning facts, such as the 
similarities between this crash and another crash involv-
ing a Boeing 737 MAX in October, raising questions about 
the safety of that plane model. However, what should be 
even more concerning to the public is that Boeing knew 
of these problems, and how these problems escaped the 
notice of regulators at the U.S. Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration (FAA).
According to Quartz, the primary problem lay with 
a software system called MCAS, 
which automatically pitched the 
plane downward. While this was 
intended to prevent stalling, the 
mechanical sensor MCAS depended 
on failed, leading to the fatal crash. 
While there were features available 
to avoid a dangerous situation like 
this, a New York Times article showed how Boeing listed 
these important safety features as optional, charging extra 
to airlines that wanted them. Many low-cost airlines like 
Lion Air (the airline involved in the October 2018 crash) 
opted not to get them. 
In addition, a Vox article showed how the FAA in re-
cent years has abdicated its regulatory role over Boeing, 
as budget cuts and an overall cozy relationship with the 
airplane manufacturer led to the agency delegating more 
and more of its certiﬁ  cation work to Boeing itself. In light 
of this, it may come as no surprise that a Seattle Times 
investigation found that Boeing was aware of the MCAS 
issues with the 737 MAX but downplayed them to ofﬁ  -
cials at the FAA, who did not prod further. In essence, 
Boeing was able to largely regulate itself, with few checks from the government agency whose job it is to 
regulate air trafﬁ  c. Furthermore, in an attempt 
to cut costs on training, Boeing claimed prior to 
the crash that pilots didn’t need much training 
to transition to the Boeing 737 MAX, and some 
airlines only required a 1- to 3- hour long self-
administered course as enough training for the 
plane. Boeing said the 737 MAX was similar 
enough to previous models which meant further 
training wouldn’t be required, but the power of 
the MCAS system and its software issues calls 
that assertion into question. 
So, what can we take away from this? A systemic prob-
lem escaped the notice of U.S. regulators, which should 
be a sign that regulators need to keep a closer eye on air-
plane manufacturers like Boeing. The relationship between 
manufacturers and regulators may be getting too cozy. A 
thorough job of inspecting aircrafts for compliance should 
be performed instead of trusting the companies to regu-
late themselves. The FAA should no 
longer take a lenient stance toward 
the commercial aviation industry, 
they need to retake complete con-
trol of the certiﬁ  cation process and 
mandate increased pilot training for 
new planes and they must end the 
self-regulation of favored companies 
like Boeing. Such a move likely wouldn’t be appealing to 
Congress, given that Boeing is America's single largest ex-
porter and contributes a lot to the U.S. economy. J.P. Mor-
gan even predicted a negative impact on GDP if production 
on the Boeing 737 MAX is halted. In addition, Boeing has 
donated over $4.5 million to candidates in the 2018 elec-
tions and spent over $15 million on lobbying, making Boe-
ing a major player in politics. Still, for the sake of air travel 
passengers everywhere, someone needs to keep Boeing ac-
countable and ensure all of their products are as safe and 
that the pilots using them are well-trained in the mechan-
ics of the aircraft they are ﬂ  ying. Lives depend on it. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.Deadly Boeing crash shows the importance of oversightColumn
“A thorough job of inspecting 
aircrafts for compliance should be 
performed instead of trusting the 
companies to regulate themselves.”
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgThe ﬁ  rst column I ever wrote for The Al-
ligator was about the best libraries on 
campus. For this column, I would like 
to expand on my list of “Best of…”  But 
rather than comparing the best on-cam-
pus libraries, I’m going to discuss off-campus 
coffee shops. This is my attempt at a reprise. 
Maude’s Cafe. The ﬁ  rst place you’ll have to 
try is Maude’s, located downtown in the heart 
of Gainesville, near the historic district and Hear 
Again Records. It has an abundant amount of 
outdoor seating in a lovely courtyard next to the Hippo-
drome State Theatre. Inside the cafe are booths and every 
board game imaginable. If you need to study, Maude’s is 
a good place to go, but it’s even better for a board game 
hang out session with friends and food. Speaking of food, 
Maude’s offers the usual coffee and desserts, as well as 
breakfast, lunch and dinner items (some of which are veg-
an). The coffee shop even has a mascot, Keith Richards of 
the Rolling Stones. I’ve yet to ﬁ  gure out why, but I’m not 
against it. It’s a place that has something for everyone. 
Coffee Culture. Like Maude’s, Coffee Culture has an 
equal Alachua County resident to college student ratio. 
They both serve as community hangouts, which is nice in 
such a college-centric town. You never know who you’ll 
run into at Coffee Culture. It seems like everyone frequents 
this quaint joint. My freshman year, I was writing late at 
night in the coffee shop on a weekend, and I happened to 
be sitting next to psychics. I learned more about reading 
tarot cards that night than about the assignment I was sup-
posed to be doing, but I’m not complaining. It could come 
in handy someday. 
Patticakes. The next places to try are the oh-so-cute 
Patticakes, which offer great cupcakes and coffee. There 
are two locations: one in Bo Diddley Plaza, closer to cam-
pus, and another in Haile Plantation. Both locations have the same delicious menu and positive customer 
service. I spent many afternoons at the Haile 
location during my high school years because I 
grew up in Gainesville. I studied for AP tests and 
wrote FRQs in the cozy corners of the cafe. You 
should stop by Patticakes next Wednesday eve-
ning while you’re at the farmer’s market in Bo 
Diddley Plaza. You won’t regret it. Get a blended 
white mocha for me; it tastes like Christmas. 
Curia on the Drag. If you’re feeling some-
thing a bit more sophisticated, yet still down-to-
earth, try Curia on the Drag. Curia offers a wide range of 
teas and drip coffees, as well as a plethora of vegan dishes. 
Unlike other coffee shops in Gainesville, there is no short-
age of seating at Curia. You have the option to sit inside at 
the bar or on groovy couches, outside at lovely tables sur-
rounded by greenery or off in a grassy area with benches 
and an empty bus that has been revamped with seating. 
Sit in the grafﬁ  tied bus and feel as though you’re a part 
of the Magical Mystery Tour or that you’re “On the Road” 
with Jack Kerouac. Curia on the Drag is a small part of a 
larger compound. Also located on the premises is the Auk 
Market, which hosts a regular “indie ﬂ  ea market” that in-
cludes a bar and a food truck. Curia is the hipster hotspot 
of Gainesville. 
If you ever feel cramped on UF’s enormous campus, try 
to get off campus. Plenty of bus routes go downtown, tak-
ing you straight to Maude’s and Patticakes. Alternatively, 
grab a different route to go down 13th Street where Curia 
can also be accessed by bus. If you’re feeling more lei-
surely and are able to do so, take a bike ride to any of these 
spots, and let me know if you’re aware of any new coffee 
shops around town. I love new atmospheres to write in.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.A “latte” love for Gainesville’s coffee shopsColumn
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
Undergraduate students are constantly on the prowl 
for what will give them that extra leg up, whether 
it be for graduate school or to stand out to an em-
ployer. If you're in a STEM, Liberal Arts or any kind 
of major that offers research that you're interested in, 
it could give you valuable experiences and connections. 
Undergraduate research is one of the most valuable ways 
students can spend their time if you're for looking something 
to bolster your academic resume. At UF, luckily, research op-
portunities are abundant, specialized and interesting. UF is 
a research university, so the pursuit of knowledge is highly 
encouraged.
Research is beneﬁ  cial for certain majors because it adds 
depth to your skillset. Conducting studies for professors in 
your ﬁ  eld  looks great to future employers and improves your 
ability to perform tasks that might dictate your pay down the 
line.
In the modern job market, having a clean and impressive 
resume is expected in most jobs. Interviews are stressful, I get 
it. Your sweaty palms are warranted. However, the hiring war 
won’t feel like as much of a battle if you put in the ground-
work beforehand, whatever that means for you. With an in-
creasing supply of college graduates, companies have to be 
more selective. This is where research could be beneﬁ  cial. Re-
search experience in certain ﬁ  elds is what employers in those 
ﬁ  elds look for to see if someone is the right ﬁ  t for a job. The 
right project could easily land you an interview, sometimes 
even a job. In addition, connecting with the faculty conduct-
ing the research could even lead to relevant references, which 
are always welcome.
Jobs are also becoming more demanding. In English, my 
major, I’m basically saying good, high-paying jobs can be 
hard to come by. If you want the second house in the Hamp-
tons, you have to have skills that are transferable in the job 
atmosphere. You need experience and training to stand apart 
and excel in whichever line of work you go into, maybe help-
ing to conduct research on the brain if you want to be a physi-
ologist or simply polling for an advertising class. 
So, does this research stuff have your mouth watering? Un-
derstandable. Here’s how to get in on the action.
You might be better suited for some projects over oth-
ers. If math isn’t your forte, but you’re the next Hemingway, 
do some literary research. If you don’t know where to put a 
comma, maybe try your hand at some of the "sciencey" stuff. 
Knowing what you’re capable of will help you whittle down 
the ﬁ  eld of options when it comes to research, if that's what 
you're looking for. 
Next, and most importantly, be persistent. The best things 
in life take work. I mean, where would we be if The Aveng-
ers gave up after Thanos secured the dub in “Inﬁ  nity War.” 
We would all be a couple of dollars richer in April, but there 
would be an Inﬁ  nity Gauntlet sized hole in our hearts. In-
stead, The Avengers don’t quit. Be like The Avengers. If you 
want to do research, and by now you should, then go do it. 
People value feeling valued, and if you show persistence and 
dedication when pursuing a research opportunity the odds 
will often fall in your favor.
Research opportunities for undergraduates may be hard to 
come by, but they can help change the scope of a person’s 
career. Research isn't going to be beneﬁ  cial for everyone, but 
it's an option for those of us out there who are looking to 
boost our academic record. At UF we’re incredibly lucky. If 
you want to be a part of a research project, go for it. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English freshman. His column 
appears on Mondays.Research could help 
you in your upcoming 
job searchColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville’s land developments 
may put the city’s architectural his-
tory at risk.
The city showcases a mid-twenti-
eth modern style in its buildings that 
emphasizes functionality instead of 
just design.
A national register for the land-
marks can protect the buildings, but 
it isn’t guaranteed.
New construction and progress is 
good for the city, but it means people 
need to take the extra step to protect 
the history within Gainesville, said 
Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney, the curator of 
collections at Matheson History Mu-
seum. 
“Preservation is not anti-prog-
ress,” Hof-Mahoney said. “These 
buildings can be reused in creative 
ways.”
In its efforts to promote build-
ing preservation, the Matheson His-
tory Museum hosted its sixth annual 
Gainesville Modern Weekend, from  
Thursday to Saturday. The event 
showcased Gainesville’s modern 
landmarks that could potentially be 
listed on the National or Local Regis-
ter of Historic Places, Hof-Mahoney 
said.
To qualify for the national regis-
ter, a property has to be at least 50 
years old and either be associated 
with a significant event or the life of 
a significant person.  
Gainesville has five local historic 
districts, protecting more than 1,500 
structures and 10 buildings listed on 
the Local Register of Historic Places. 
Some of the buildings included are 
the Hippodrome State Theatre and the Matheson House, both listed in 
1984. 
Places such as the Old Gainesville 
Depot, listed in 1996, and Star Ga-
rage Building, listed in 1985, are in-
cluded on the National Register.  
Some of the structures recom-
mended to be included are the Uni-
versity Lutheran Church, at 1826 
W. University Ave., built in 1961 
and Gainesville City Hall and former 
Public Library, built in 1969.
Among these buildings, the Uni-versity Lutheran Church’s congrega-
tion has decided to move ahead with 
seeking historical landmark status, 
Hof-Mahoney said.  
Several UF buildings are also 
considered modern landmarks, she 
said. Rawlings Hall, The Hub, Ar-
chitecture Building and Yulee-Mal-
lory-Reid Dorm Complex reflect the 
transition from the collegiate gothic 
style, which is inspired by medieval 
architecture, to a more modernist ap-
proach. Construction in Gainesville took 
off after World War II, said Morris 
Hylton, UF’s Historic Preservation 
Program director and president of 
Gainesville Modern, a non-profit 
working to preserve the city’s archi-
tectural past. 
“It’s time for the next generation 
of buildings to start becoming part 
of that landscape to help connect 
the city with its recent past,” Hof-
Mahoney said.
A survey conducted in Fall 
2017, in partnership with UF’s His-
toric Preservation Program, City of 
Gainesville Department of Doing and 
Gainesville Modern, showed 70 to 80 
percent of buildings in the city were 
built between 1945 and 1975 and fol-
lowed the style, Hylton said.
Passing the G.I. Bill, a law that 
provides benefits to returning World 
War II veterans including low-cost 
mortgages, spurred construction. 
Because of this, a large portion of 
Gainesville follows the mid-twenti-
eth century architecture style, Hylton 
said.  
However, this rapid construction led to large homes near downtown 
being destroyed and replaced by law 
offices, banks and parking lots, Hyl-
ton said.
In the early 1970s, newer resi-
dents began to fight to preserve these 
neighborhoods, Hylton said. The city 
also sponsored restoration projects 
like the Thomas Center, the Hippo-
drome and the Seagle Building.
“Gainesville has long been a city 
characterized by innovation and cre-
ativity, and mid-century architecture 
reflects these qualities,” Hylton said. 
Preservation is about honoring a 
place’s history and managing change 
in an effective way, Hylton said. 
However, people have misconcep-
tions and a hard time realizing some-
thing built during their own lifetime 
is significant and worth saving. 
“These houses have this amaz-
ing history, so we’re not just owners 
we’re stewards of history,” Hylton 
said. “It’s not just about architecture 
or buildings, it’s about people.” 
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org Gainesville modern landmarks seek more recognition 
Places on the local 
register for Gainesville:
Seagle Building 
Bailey House 
Bethel Gas Station 
Places wanting to be added:
University Lutheran Church 
City Hall and former Public Library 
Yulee-Mallory-Reid Dorm Complex Lakshmi Gomez / Alligator Staff
The layout of the current Bo Diddley Plaza displayed during Gainesville Modern Weekend at Matheson 
History Museum. City Hall follows the mid-century modern architectural style and qualifies to be on 
either the National or Local Register of Historic Places.
Lakshmi Gomez  / Alligator Staff
A model of the unbuilt Zeta Beta T au Fraternity House designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The design for the house was drawn in 1954 and 
followed the mid-century style, but due in part to code issues, the house was never built.  
Gainesville has five local historic districts that protect 1,500 structures MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Motocross racers get ready at the starting line Sunday for the first race of the day at Waldo Motorsports, at 16258 NE US Highway 301 in Waldo, Florida. The event 
was part of the 2019 Race T ech National Post Vintage MX Series hosted by the American Historic Racing Motorcycle Association. Racers rode vintage and post-
vintage bikes from before and after the 1970s, respectively.
Wheels in Waldo
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Jada Conner, 9, from Hilliard, Florida, high-fives Bill Hobson, 56, Sunday before 
a race at Waldo Motorsports. Conner has raced for four years and goes to events 
“every weekend that there is a race. ” 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
A referee waves a checkered flag Sunday at Waldo Motorsports. The event 
was part of the 2019 Race T ech National Post Vintage MX Series hosted by the 
American Historic Racing Motorcycle Association.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Amber Galloway, a 42-year-old ASL interpreter, performs “Every Little Step” by Bobby Brown in 
sign language Saturday at the Sound of Silence deaf awareness event at Santa Fe College. Galloway 
specializes in interpreting concerts, and she interpreted Wiz Khalifa’s music on Jimmy Kimmel Live! 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Joshua Kittles, a 22-year-old Santa Fe College American Sign 
Language major, performs “This is Me” from the movie “The 
Greatest Showman” in sign language Saturday at the Sound of 
Silence deaf awareness event at Santa Fe. 
Deaf Pride
By Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — Special counsel 
Robert Mueller did not find evidence that Pres-
ident Donald Trump’s campaign “conspired 
or coordinated” with Russia to influence the 
2016 presidential election but reached no con-
clusion on whether Trump obstructed justice, 
Attorney General William Barr declared Sun-
day. That brought a hearty claim of vindication 
from Trump but set the stage for new rounds 
of political and legal fighting.
Trump cheered the outcome but also laid 
bare his resentment after two years of inves-
tigations that have shadowed his administra-
tion. “It’s a shame that our country has had to 
go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that 
your president has had to go through this,” he 
complained.
Democrats pointed out that Mueller found 
evidence for and against obstruction and de-
manded to see his full report. They insisted 
that even the summary by the president’s at-
torney general hardly put him in the clear.
Mueller’s conclusions, summarized by Barr 
in a four-page letter to Congress, represented a 
victory for Trump on a key question that has 
hung over his presidency from the start: Did 
his campaign work with Russia to defeat Dem-
ocrat Hillary Clinton? That was further good 
news for the president on top of the Justice 
Department’s earlier announcement that Muel-
ler had wrapped his investigation without new 
indictments. The resolution also could deflate 
the hopes of Democrats in Congress and on the 
2020 campaign trail that incriminating findings 
from Mueller would hobble the president’s 
agenda and re-election bid.
But while Mueller was categorical in ruling 
out criminal collusion, he was far more circum-
spect on presidential obstruction of justice. De-
spite Trump’s claim of total exoneration, Muel-
ler did not draw a conclusion one way or the 
other on whether he sought to stifle the Russia 
investigation through his actions including the 
firing of former FBI director James Comey.
According to Barr’s summary, Mueller set out “evidence on both sides of the question” 
and stated that “while this report does not con-
clude the president committed a crime, it also 
does not exonerate him.”
Barr, who was nominated by Trump in 
December, and Deputy Attorney General Rod 
Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller in May 
2017 and oversaw much of his work, went fur-
ther in Trump’s favor.
The attorney general said he and Rosen-
stein had determined that Mueller’s evidence 
was insufficient to prove in court that Trump 
had committed obstruction of justice to ham-
per the probe. Barr has previously voiced a 
broad view of presidential powers, and in an 
unsolicited memo last June he cast doubt on 
whether the president could have obstructed 
justice through acts — like firing his FBI direc-tor — that he was legally empowered to take.
Barr said their decision was based on the 
evidence uncovered by Mueller and not affect-
ed by Justice Department legal opinions that 
say a sitting president cannot be indicted.
Mueller’s team examined a series of actions 
by the president in the last two years to deter-
mine if he intended obstruction. Those include 
his firing of Comey one week before Mueller’s 
appointment, his public and private harangu-
ing of then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions for 
recusing himself from the Russia investiga-
tion because of his work on the campaign, 
his request of Comey to end an investigation 
into Michael Flynn, the White House’s first na-
tional security adviser, and his drafting of an 
incomplete explanation about his oldest son’s 
meeting with a Russian lawyer during the cam-paign.
Mueller’s findings absolve Trump on the 
question of colluding with Russia but don’t 
entirely remove the legal threats the president 
and associates are facing. Federal prosecutors 
in New York, for instance, are investigating 
hush-money payments made to two women 
during the campaign who say they had sex 
with the president. Trump’s former personal 
lawyer, Michael Cohen, implicated Trump in 
campaign finance violations when he pleaded 
guilty last year.
The special counsel’s investigation did not 
come up empty-handed. It ensnared nearly 
three dozen people, senior Trump campaign 
operatives among them. The probe illuminat-
ed Russia’s assault on the American political 
system, painted the Trump campaign as eager 
to exploit the release of hacked Democratic 
emails to hurt Hillary Clinton and exposed lies 
by Trump aides aimed at covering up their 
Russia-related contacts.
Thirty-four people, including six Trump 
aides and advisers, were charged in the inves-
tigation. Twenty-five are Russians accused of 
election interference either through hacking 
into Democratic accounts or orchestrating a so-
cial media campaign to spread disinformation 
on the internet.
Sunday’s summary — and its suggestion 
that Mueller may have found evidence in sup-
port of obstruction — sets up a fight between 
Barr and Democrats, who called for the special 
counsel’s full report to be released and vowed 
to press on with their own investigations.
“Attorney General Barr’s letter raises as 
many questions as it answers,” House Speak-
er Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader 
Chuck Schumer said in a statement.
“Given Mr. Barr’s public record of bias 
against the special counsel’s inquiry, he is 
not a neutral observer and is not in a posi-
tion to make objective determinations about 
the report,” they said. Trump’s own claim of 
complete exoneration “directly contradicts the 
words of Mr. Mueller and is not to be taken 
with any degree of credibility,” they added.Trump didn’t coordinate with Russia in 2016, report declares
(AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) 
President Donald Trump boards Air Force One, Sunday, March 24, 2019, at Palm 
Beach International Airport, in West Palm Beach, Fla., en route to Washington.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
1 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT- 
THE OAKS SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM 
APARTMENT WITH BALCONY FOR RENT. 
WALK TO OAKS MALL, RESTAURANTS- 
CALL 404-323-9338     3-29-5-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during the fall and spring semesters. Schedule changes to Monday and Wednesday during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business ServicesGET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)Financial transcription positions available.We'll train you!Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    4-24-17-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALESpinal Cord Injury with QuadriplegiaSafe Central Gainesville Location 6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly $17 to $20 hour - CNA or EquivalentDetails Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    3-27-19-3-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St
PLEASE APPLY IN PERSON
4-1-19-5-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
●LOCAL
●TARGETED
●EFFECTIVE
●ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.State Farm, Starke, FLSales rep/CSR position, FT/PTAgency Internship availableBusiness ownership possibilityCall Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14 Rockycreek Paintball
In Gainesville, now hiring PT, Sat & Sun.
Call 352-371-2092     3-29-19-3-14
Designated drivers are the greatestHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMPWant to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
WEEKEND SERVER NEEDEDCountry Foodly is now hiring. Please drop off a resume during our operating hours (7AM to 1PM). Open six days a week and closed on 
Tuesdays. 5240 NW 34th Blvd    3-25-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional man -
ner and have a positive attitude. Retail, cus -
tomer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 222980 at www.gatordining.com      3-27-19-6-14  
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/25/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/25/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, March 25, 2019
ACROSS
1 Super bargain
6 Effective on
10 Ed.’s backlog
13 Bisect
14 “Good Morning 
America” 
co-anchor 
Spencer
15 Boarding site
16 Sellers of build-it-
yourself furniture
18 Mythical monster
19 Delt neighbor
20 Mets’ home 
before Citi Field
22 Enemies
23 Puts up, as a 
skyscraper
24 Climate-affecting 
Pacific current
27 Citrus-flavored 
soda, on its 
labels
29 Minnesota’s state 
bird
30 Final Four org.
32 Eye-boggling 
work
35 __-di-dah: 
pretentious
36 Five-armed 
ocean creature
38 “I’ll pass’’
39 Decree
41 Wander about
42 Warehouse gds.
43 East Asian home 
of Acer and Asus
45 Like partly melted 
snow
47 Merkel of 
Germany
49 Molecule 
component
50 Leaves-catching 
brewing sieve
53 Drag to court
56 Witty Bombeck
57 Arabian 
Peninsula region, 
and what 16-, 
20-, 36- and 
50-Across literally 
have
59 Done with
60 Falco of “Nurse 
Jackie”
61 Wheel 
connectors
62 Mario Bros. 
console
63 Ruby and scarlet
64 Suspicious (of)DOWN
1 Cruise vessel
2 Box office 
income
3 Monthly util. bill
4 “Selma” director 
DuVernay
5 Classroom 
session
6 Soothing 
medicinal plants
7 __ Lee cakes
8 Mine extractions
9 Make secure, as 
a seat belt
10 “Presto!” sticks
11 Peacock’s gait
12 Appears to be
15 Try for a long 
pass, in football 
lingo
17 Romantic ideal
21 Fervent feeling
22 Dolphin feature
24 Vogue 
competitor
25 Laundry batch
26 Pitching 
masterpieces
27 Bricklayer
28 “Ciao!”
31 Irene of “Fame”
33 Poison ivy 
symptom34 Rock music’s __ 
Might Be Giants
36 Prop for a clown
37 Dutch beer 
brand
40 Ides of March 
victim
42 Tight-lipped
44 Not as cold
46 Parent of 
Maybelline
47 Used, as china
48 Chutzpah49 South  
American 
mountain range
51 Staff assistant
52 “Look what __!”: 
“Yay me!”
53 Bargain hunter’s 
delight
54 App downloader
55 Site for 
handmade art
58 Application file 
suffix
By Kyle Dolan
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, March 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Source of moving 
fare
10 Each of its 
chapters is called 
a “sura”
15 Georgian Bay is 
part of it
16 Fifth sense?
17 “Regardless ... ”
18 Park with an 
“Innoventions” 
museum
19 Humanities subj.
20 Small white toy
22 Time of 
expectation
23 Old Route 66 
city
24 Solution
26 Flag of Chicago 
quartet
29 Mainland Africa’s 
smallest nation
31 Decorated one
32 Pot seen in a bar
35 Charges up
37 Whitewater sight, 
perhaps
39 Sit out
41 Lock fixers
42 Maker of Oikos 
Greek yogurt
43 Big Ten team 
since 2014, 
familiarly
44 Actually being
46 Match.com 
results
49 Brief storage unit
50 “The Murder 
Room” author
52 Red choice
55 Up
57 In agreement with 
the party
59 Jackie’s 
predecessor
60 Posted
61 Place
62 Egg sources
DOWN
1 Controversy
2 Stable diet
3 “Agreed”
4 Show watcher’s 
room
5 Gland essential 
to T cell 
maturation
6 Pastoral7 Range with 
one end in 
Kazakhstan
8 Weekend 
getaway
9 Hopping joint?
10 Artist with the 
2016 album 
“Lemonade,” to 
fans
11 One verifying 
a tag
12 20km Summer 
Olympian
13 “Don’t make __!”
14 Fertilizer 
ingredient
21 Ballroom dances
23 Three-horse 
carriages
25 Preserved 
fodders
26 “__ Came in 
Through the 
Bathroom 
Window”: Beatles
27 One might 
include an emoji
28 Dance Dance 
Revolution, e.g.
30 Sacred chests
32 More than 
brushed back33 First NHL player 
with a 100-point 
season, familiarly
34 Site with many 
pans
36 State-of-the-art 
1970s bike
38 __ feed: online 
news aggregator
40 Slowish tempo 
marking
43 One of 
Corleone’s capos44 10-Across 
preachers
45 Unaccustomed to
47 Jordan’s capital
48 Effectiveness
51 Rib
52 Recycled items
53 “Permit Me 
Voyage” poet
54 Flower holders
56 Hyundai 
competitor
58 Paltry quantity
1.  Tough, wiry
1.  Positively 5.  Cuban dance
2.  Wandering6.  Number
3.  Fight, argue7.  Plot, maneuver 
4.  TeapotWYNISE
RUSYELBRAUM
IGTDI
CIMNDAO
WLANGERHSMECE
ETLKTEANSWERS: 1A-Sinewy  5A-Rumba  6A-Digit  7A-Scheme
1D-Surely  2D-Nomadic  3D-Wrangle  4D-Kettle  B-Mark Twain3-25-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “Age is an issue of mind over 
matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.”
BONUS1. Who holds the major-league 
record for most All-Star Games 
pitched?
2. Name the last player before Jose 
Altuve and Enrique Hernandez in 
2017 to hit three home runs in a post-
season game.
3. When was the last time the Tam-
pa Bay Buccaneers reached the NFL 
playoffs?
4. In 2018, Villanova’s men’s bas-
ketball team set a Final Four record 
with 18 3-pointers made in a game. 
Which two teams had held the mark?
5. Florida’s Roberto Luongo, in 
2019, moved into second place on 
the career games played list for NHL 
goaltenders. Who is first on the list, 
and who is now third?
6. Canada’s men’s hockey team has 
won nine Olympic gold medals. How 
many silver and bronze medals has it 
captured?
7. When was the last time before 
2018 that a team won golf’s Ryder 
Cup by at least seven points?
Answers
1. Roger Clemens, with 10 games 
between 1986 and 2005.
2. San Francisco’s Pablo Sandoval, 
in 2012.
3. It was the 2007 season.
4. UNLV (1987) and Duke (2010), 
with 13 each.
5. Martin Brodeur (1,266) and Pat-
rick Roy (1,029 games).
6. Four silver and three bronze 
medals.
7. It was 2006, when Europe won 18 
1/2 to 9 1/2.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Jawaan T aylor (pictured) and 16 
other former Florida football 
players will be participating at Pro 
Day on Wednesday. It is open to 
the public starting at 9:30 a.m.Three Gators collect First-T eam All-American honors 
The Florida women's swimming and diving team ended its season on Sat-
urday with three First-T eam All-American selections. Sherridon Dressel 
earned it in the 100 back, Kelly Fertel in the 400 IM and Brooke Madden 
in the 1-meter dive.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
What would you do when two of your 
top-three scorers and your starting center 
graduate, and there are no clear replace-
ments for them?
This is the dilemma Florida men’s bas-
ketball coach Mike White faces in the off-
season after No. 10-seed UF was bounced 
in the Second Round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment by No. 2-seed Michigan.
It won’t be easy.
Guards KeVaughn Allen and Jalen Hud-
son averaged 11.8 and 9.3 points per game, 
respectively. Center Kevarrius Hayes fin-
ished his career second on the all-time UF 
blocks list and was the main option for the 
team under the basket.
Hayes also found his offensive rhythm 
late into the season. He averaged 13 points 
per game in his last six contests.
Allen, Hudson and Hayes will be tough 
to replace, but that isn’t the only question 
surrounding the Gators. The end of the sea-
son left a lot of uncertainty for the future, 
and it will certainly leave fans guessing on 
what’s coming next.
Who’s going to step up and lead?
There were usually nine players at the 
beginning of the season who received significant playing time: Allen, Hudson, 
Hayes, guards Andrew Nembhard, Noah 
Locke, Deaundrae Ballard and Mike Oka-
uru, and forwards Keyontae Johnson and 
Keith Stone.
Then, Stone tore his ACL, Hudson saw 
his minutes reduced because his shots 
weren’t falling — and he wasn’t playing 
good defense — and Locke was playing in-
jured.
That leaves very little in terms of vet-
eran leadership. Stone and center Gorjok 
Gak will be the only seniors next season, 
but it’s unknown when Stone will be back 
on the court, and Gak hasn’t panned out 
during his time at UF. 
Gak also has the possibility of being a 
redshirt junior if he petitions for a medical 
one because he didn’t play this year.
Next come the juniors. Okauru played 
backup to Nembhard, and Ballard rarely 
saw the court for more than 10 minutes 
toward the end of the 2018-19 campaign. 
Forwards Dontay Bassett and Isaiah Stokes 
can fill the void left by Hayes, but with the 
addition of incoming 6-foot-9 freshman for-
ward Omar Payne, Bassett might be staying 
in the backup role.
All of Florida’s current freshmen, Nemb-
hard, Locke and Johnson, will continue to End of season leaves Gators with more questions than answers
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF guard Jalen Hudson (second from left) averaged 9.3 points per game this season. In 
the last six games of the year, he averaged 12.5. 
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
GYMNASTICS BASEBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
For Florida, one of the top gymnastic 
teams in the nation, an eighth-place rank-
ing is unusual.
The Gators' National Qualifying Score 
(NQS) for the floor is third in the country. 
They’re third on the uneven bars. Third 
on the balance beam.
For the vault, their NQS score sits at 
No. 8, and the large discrepancy between 
that event and the Gators’ other three is 
what caused them to miss out on first 
place at the SEC Championships in New 
Orleans on Saturday.
It’s an event that has plagued them 
since their first meet of the regular sea-
son against Missouri. After Florida’s loss 
against No. 1 Oklahoma in early Febru-
ary, freshman Trinity Thomas specifically 
keyed the team’s vault landings as an area 
of improvement.
“I think we’re lacking landings on 
vault,” Thomas said in a release after that meet. “Once we get those down, watch 
out.”
Saturday showed that it still hasn’t, 
and it was in that moment of weakness 
that LSU sealed Florida’s fate during its 
last rotation on the floor. 
The Gators were always either the first 
or second to participate on the vault dur-
ing the regular season. Now, they’ll head 
into the NCAA Championships where 
having to do a lackluster event to close 
can very well be the Achilles' heel it was 
for them on Saturday.
The other teams competing for the top 
spot, such as Oklahoma, UCLA and LSU, 
don’t have bad events. The Sooners and 
the Bruins are either No. 1 or No. 2 in 
NQS for every event, and the Tigers are 
No. 4 in every rotation. If Florida contin-
ues to struggle with its vault landings, it 
could be quickly swallowed up among the 
field of elite teams at the NCAA Champi-
onships next month.By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The 14th-ranked UF baseball team entered 
its three-game series against No. 8 Vanderbilt 
looking to be competitive after opening SEC 
play losing 2 of 3 to Mississippi State last 
weekend.
The Gators were anything but, getting out-
scored 34-6 on their way to being swept by 
Vandy for the first time in over a decade.
The Commodores’ pitching staff had its 
way with Florida’s lineup, striking out the 
Gators 27 times during the series.
On Thursday, Vandy starter Drake Fellows 
(5-0, 3.68 ERA) threw a complete-game shut-
out, holding the Gators (16-10, 1-5) to just five 
hits and handing them their first shutout de-
feat of the season.
UF had its opportunities against the Com-
modores (19-5, 4-2) on Thursday. The team 
put five runners in scoring position during the 
contest but were unable to capitalize. For the 
entire series in Nashville, it stranded 22 run-
ners.The missed chances to score on the base 
paths put added pressure on Florida starter 
Tommy Mace (4-2, 3.99 ERA). The sophomore 
threw 6.2 innings and allowing four earned 
runs off seven hits.
Instead, the right-hander picked up his 
second-straight SEC loss after the 5-0 decision.
Things only got uglier for Florida as the se-
ries continued.
Friday, the Gators couldn’t get off the field 
as Vanderbilt clinched the series, punishing its 
opponent 15-2.
UF starting pitcher Jack Leftwich (4-2, 4.65 
ERA) had his roughest outing of the season, 
getting pulled after just 3.2 innings of work.
Leftwich gave up 12 hits and eight runs (six 
earned), losing his second-straight start after 
beginning the season 4-0.
The Commodores asserted themselves in 
the bottom half of the third, scoring six runs. 
It marked the first time a team has put five-
plus runs on the board in one inning against 
the Gators all season.UF could be in trouble if it 
doesn’t fix its vault problemFlorida falls to 1-5 in SEC after 
disastrous Vanderbilt series
SEE STORY,  PAGE 16 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE  16MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
UF catcher Kendyl Lindaman jogged to 
first base in the bottom of the fourth inning. 
Mercer pitcher Stella Preston pitched 
around the Minnesota transfer and gave up 
a walk after Lindaman had already crushed a 
home run in the first inning.
However, the Bears didn’t avoid another 
home run. They merely delayed it. 
Designated player Jordan Roberts belted a 
2-0 offering from Preston on the next at-bat, 
and the softball traveled over the scoreboard 
in left-center for a three-run homer. 
Roberts’ long ball was one of four for the 
No. 6 Gators on Sunday. It put the game out 
of Mercer’s reach at 7-2, as UF collected a 
9-3 victory. 
Florida (27-6) knocked nine hits and only 
struck out once. 
The top and middle of the batting order 
were the main sources of its offense, and 
they gave UF the lead in the first inning. The 
team’s three through six hitters combined for 
all nine RBIs. 
Center fielder Jade Caraway led off and went 2 for 4 with two infield singles and 
scored a run. Two-hole hitter Hannah Adams 
had a 3-for-4 day that included a double and 
a triple, and she scored three runs. 
“Obviously the more they (Adams and 
Caraway) get on base, the better opportunity 
we have to score runs,” coach Tim Walton 
said. “You’re going to give your two best 
hitters and two biggest RBI getters an oppor-
tunity to get RBIs in Amanda (Lorenz) and 
Kendyl (Lindaman).”
First baseman Amanda Lorenz batted 
third. While she didn’t record a hit, the All-
American launched two RBI sacrifice flies 
into deep left field, including one in the first 
for the opening run of the contest. 
Lindaman hit fourth and went 2 for 3. 
Her two-run home run in the first made it 
3-0, and she added a solo shot in the sixth. 
Lindaman muscled four homers against Mer-
cer (13-20) in the two-game series, and she’s 
hammered eight in the past eight games.
Roberts and right fielder Danielle Ro-
manello each added home runs in the fifth 
and sixth spots, respectively. Romanello un-
leashed on a 2-2 pitch and drove a solo home 
run to straightaway center for the third in-ning’s only run. 
Freshman Elizabeth Hightower toed the 
rubber for the Gators in the first three in-
nings. She allowed only one hit and one 
walk and struck out three of the 11 batters 
she faced. 
Sophomore Natalie Lugo (7-3) finished 
the final four innings and picked up the win. 
The Bears had more success against her. 
They scored two runs on two hits in the top 
of the fourth to make the score 4-2. Then, 
Mercer center fielder Allie Jones pumped an 
RBI single up the middle in the fifth in re-
sponse to Roberts’ homer. 
Lugo settled down after giving up her 
third earned run. She retired two hitters on 
strikes to end the fifth and struck out the side 
in the seventh to end the contest. 
“She made some good adjustments to-
day,” Walton said about Lugo. “I thought 
part of the things… that you don’t see in the 
stands at times are the cat-and-mouse games 
that you have to do to be good. And I thought 
she took a step forward today getting better.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFlorida sweeps Mercer behind four home runs on Sunday
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF catcher Kendyl Lindaman had four home 
runs and nine RBIs over the weekend in two 
games against Mercer. 
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s women’s golf team entered the second round 
of the Evans Derby Experience in second place at even 
par.
It got off to a promising start after two birdies in the 
first two holes on the front nine.
But a barrage of bogeys and double-bogeys the rest of 
the way saw the No. 7 Gators fall to sixth place with a 
score of 16 over on Sunday in Auburn, Alabama.
Redshirt sophomore Elin Esborn and junior Sierra 
Brooks ended the first round in a tie for 21st place at 1 
over.
Both players had a difficult time on the front nine 
of the second round. Esborn posted two bogeys, while 
Brooks recorded four bogeys and one double-bogey.
Esborn’s 3 over on Sunday brought her overall score 
to 4 over, good for a tie for 25th, while Brooks’ 6 over 
dropped her to a tie for 42nd place (7 over) with sopho-
more Addie Baggarly.
Baggarly, who tied for second place in the Florida 
Gators Invitational, entered the second round of the Ev-
ans Derby Experience at 2 over. Four bogeys on the back 
nine led to a 5 over on Sunday, bringing her overall score 
to 7 over.
Freshman Clara Manzalini had a better start to the 
tournament.
She finished the first round tied for first place (-4) 
thanks to three birdies on her first five holes and two on 
her last four. 
Manzalini maintained her spot tied at the top of the 
leaderboard despite shooting a 2 over in the second round.
The freshman’s overall score of 2 under makes her 
one of only seven players who sit under par through two 
rounds.
UF finds itself 13 strokes behind first-place Texas 
heading into the final round on Monday. 
@bmatamoros
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators fall to 
sixth, Manzalini 
remains in firstWOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Freshman Sydney Berlin was in a 
familiar position. 
Just two days ago, the Gators were 
squared at three against Kentucky as 
Berlin and UK’s Anastasia Tkachenko 
fought for the final point. 
Kentucky prevailed.
She had another opportunity on 
Sunday against Vanderbilt to clinch 
the victory for Florida in her second 
SEC match but fell short again. 
The No. 31 Gators lost 4-3 to No. 5 
Vanderbilt at the Currey Tennis Center 
in Nashville, Tennessee, after fighting 
their way out of a 3-0 hole.
“Sydney (Berlin) carried herself re-
ally well when the attention shifted 
to her court, and I was very proud of 
that,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release. “Going up against a high-
caliber veteran player, she definitely 
held her own ... it’s just so valuable for 
younger players to play in moments 
like that.”
No. 97 Emily Smith proved too 
much for her in the 6-3, 6-3 loss.
Florida (7-8, 4-4 SEC) started the 
day at a disadvantage after dropping 
the doubles point to the defending na-
tional runner-ups. 
Vanderbilt’s Emma Kurtz and Smith 
made very quick work of sophomores 
Victoria Emma and McCartney Kessler 
on Court 1 in a 6-1 rout. No. 37 Fer-
nanda Contreras and Summer Dvorak 
finished off the freshman duo of Mar-
lee Zein and Berlin 6-3 to claim the 
opening point. Berlin, filling in for An-
astasia Kharitonova, and Zein played 
their first match together this season.
The Commodores (11-5, 6-2 SEC) rode their momentum into singles 
play by picking up victories on Courts 
3 and 5 to take a commanding three-
point lead. No. 67 Emma managed to 
win just three games against No. 62 
Georgia Drummy in a 6-0, 6-3 loss, 
while Tsveta Dimitrova fell to Vander-
bilt’s Carolyn Campana 6-4, 6-2. 
Florida’s top ranked players 
wouldn’t have it, though. 
No. 16 Jarlskog and No. 38 Kessler 
picked up two victories on Courts 1 
and 2 to put Florida on the board. 
Jarlskog claimed her first top-10 
win over No. 6 Contreras 6-2, 6-4 to 
pick up a team-best 10th singles win 
this season. Kessler defeated No. 13 
Christina Rosca in three sets (2-6, 6-3, 
6-1) to win her fifth-straight singles 
match.
“I’m proud to see us fight back after 
starting off so poorly in doubles and at 
the beginning of singles,” Thornqvist 
said. “We really changed our mindset 
and showed tremendous resiliency and 
resolve to come back the way we did.”
Zein subsequently finished off 
Dvorak 1-6, 6-2, 6-4 to tie the match at 
3-3, but Berlin failed to complete the 
comeback. Florida’s struggles of clos-
ing tight matches has been a common 
motif this season. 
The loss to Vanderbilt marks the 
seventh time this season a match for 
Florida has ended 4-3. The Gators 
have been on the losing side six times.
“I feel bad for our players after this 
one because they really gave it all they 
had,” Thornqvist said. “It was all you 
can ask for. But like I’ve talked about 
a lot this season, we continue to grow 
collectively and experiences like these 
are truly invaluable for a group as 
young as ours.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgUF comeback against Vanderbilt falls short
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Victoria Emma (pictured) fell to Vanderbilt’s Georgia Drummy 6-0, 6-3 on 
Sunday in Florida’s 4-3 loss to the Commodores.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019
stay in the starting lineup or be the first off 
the bench.
Only time will tell as to who will step up 
in the absence of UF’s seniors.
What happens if the Gators have an-
other season like 2018-19?
White just finished his fourth season at 
the helm and already some fans are calling for him to be put on the hot seat.
During that span, White led the Gators to 
an Elite Eight appearance, three consecutive 
NCAA Tournament appearances and four 
straight 20-win seasons. At the same time, 
his teams haven’t shown vast improvement.
It took UF beating LSU in the SEC Tourna-
ment for it to make March Madness. It took 
beating Nevada in the First Round for Florida 
to reach 20 wins. And in back-to-back sea-
sons, the Gators were eliminated during the 
first weekend of the tournament.Does Mike White deserve to be in danger 
of losing his job? It depends on who you ask. 
But next season will be important for the fu-
ture of the program. 
The Gators are looking at a young starting 
lineup, especially with five-star recruits Scot-
tie Lewis (ranked 12th nationally) and Tre 
Mann (26th) coming next year.
Other questions that need answers 
How will Florida do now that the SEC is a 
stronger basketball conference? Can UF overcome not having a true center 
for the third-straight season? 
Can Locke regain his confidence from be-
yond the arc?
Will White use up that final scholarship 
slot to bring in a transfer?
We won’t know until next season, but 
we do know these issues will need to be ad-
dressed if the Gators want any shot at a suc-
cessful campaign. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14White led the Gators to three straight NCAA Tournaments
Vandy starter Patrick Raby (4-0, 0.57 ERA) 
has been dominant so far, and he showcased 
why in Game 2 of the series.
The Gators only mustered three hits in Fri-
day’s game, plating two runs in the seventh 
inning after the game was out of reach.
The 15-run offensive outburst for Vander-
bilt is the most Florida has given up at this 
point in the season.
The series finale on Saturday held many of 
the same problems UF faced in Friday’s con-
test:
An inability to get off on defense and mini-
mal run production.
Saturday’s game took an early turn in Flor-
ida’s favor as it took a 2-0 lead in the top of 
the third after catcher Brady Smith hit a solo 
homer and second baseman Jacob Young 
scored after a Kumar Rocker (2-2, 4.43 ERA) 
wild pitch.UF held that lead until a grand slam in the 
bottom half of the fourth put the Commodores 
up for good on their way to a 14-4 victory.
Florida’s Tyler Dyson couldn’t continue his 
recent success since moving to the end of the 
weekend rotation, taking his first loss of the 
season.
He gave up eight earned runs off five hits 
and was relieved after just five innings of 
work.
The team’s starters combined to give up 18 
earned runs off of 24 hits.
The Gators will look to rebound on Tuesday 
in Jacksonville against a Florida State team 
they dismantled in Gainesville on March 12. 
Next weekend, Florida will host the Ala-
bama Crimson Tide (19-6, 2-4), hoping to halt 
its less-than-ideal start to conference play.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Vandy scored 15 runs on Friday, the most UF let up this seasonThat isn’t to say there hasn’t 
been improvement, even if it’s 
been minute. Thomas, in particu-
lar, has stepped up her game on the 
vault. In the Gators’ last two meets, 
she’s scored a 9.950 on her vault 
routines, cementing her status as 
the team’s most valuable gymnast 
in the all-around position.
But no other UF gymnast hit 
above the 9.9 mark on the vault 
on Saturday, and it was in a time 
where Florida desperately needed 
to cling on to the small lead it held 
for the first three rotations. The 
Gators were forced to keep a 9.775 
from sophomore Megan Skaggs 
after freshman Savannah Schoen-
herr’s routine of 9.750 became the 
drop score.
Perhaps a lineup change is the 
answer. Maybe Florida just needs 
to practice on the vault more vig-
orously, but one thing is certain: 
UF has 11 days until it heads to 
Fort Worth, Texas, for its first 
competition at the NCAA Champi-
onships. If it doesn’t have its vault 
problem fixed by then, it could be 
headed home far earlier than it 
would like to.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14Florida kept a 9.775 score on vault
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
T ommy Mace allowed seven hits and four runs against Vanderbilt on Thursday.
TRACK AND FIELD
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
 
Hakim Sani Brown, the sopho-
more sprinter from Tokyo, placed 
the baton cleanly into the hands of 
junior Grant Holloway. Holloway 
rounded the curve to give it to senior 
Ryan Clark, who finished the relay 
with nobody on either side of him, 
clearly in first place.
The Florida men’s 4x100 team set 
the fastest time in the nation (38.74 
seconds) on Friday at the FSU Re-
lays at Mike Long Track. The team 
missed the school’s top 10 all-time 
record list by only six hundredths of 
a second. 
The Gators track and field team 
earned four NCAA leads at its first 
meet of the outdoor season.
Holloway had the farthest long 
jump in the nation with a length of 
7.97 meters. Senior Yanis David se-
cured the top-ranked distance on the 
women’s side at 6.48 meters. Junior 
transfer Kala Penn earned a No. 2 
ranking of 6.43 meters.
Redshirt senior Jhonny Victor also 
contributed to the success the Gator 
jumpers enjoyed over the weekend. 
He tied the nation’s No. 1 ranking in the high jump at 2.21 meters.
UF football player Adam Shuler 
made his debut as a two-sport ath-
lete. He finished second in the discus 
throw at 53.15 meters.
Some Gators didn't participate in 
all of their typical events, and some 
didn't even compete at all. 
The meet did not have any hurdle 
events, so Holloway didn't compete 
in his best event. David will not be-
gin her outdoor triple jump season, 
the event she won at the NCAA In-
door Championships, until the Pepsi 
Florida Relays in Gainesville. 
Senior thrower and SEC weight-
throw champion AJ McFarland did 
not compete at FSU at all and will 
make his outdoor season debut at 
home as well.
The Florida Relays will also be 
senior night for those in their last 
year such as David and McFarland. 
The FSU Relays were the second-to-
last time the seniors competed in the 
state of Florida. The Florida Relays 
will be the last. 
 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgGators take four NCAA leads 
in opening outdoor meet
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF freshman Trinity Thomas won the vault title at the SEC 
Championships on Saturday in New Orleans.
