We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF president to work without contract
Kent Fuchs will work at UF until he retires or is dismissed, pg 4
Did an SG party block alumni on Facebook?
Gator Party said it blocked accounts that spammed or harrassed 
users , pg 8Diagnosing Florida’s run problem
The Gators have struggled to run the football. 
With a quarterback change, that could be a 
problem,  pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 13
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
By Sam Campisano
Alligator Staff Writer
A family is alleging former UF 
football player John Huggins raped 
an underage teenager earlier this 
year when he was still with the pro-
gram.
The rape allegation against Hug-
gins and its timing — just weeks be-
fore UF’s season opener against Mi-
ami — offers new insights into his 
mysterious departure from Florida’s 
football program.
At a press conference on Aug. 6, 
Florida football coach Dan Mullen 
said he had “great clarity” on when 
defensive back Huggins would re-
turn to training camp from what the 
team called a “family issue.” 
The grandmother of the alleged 
victim spelled out the allegations in 
an email to university ofﬁ  cials, ath-
letic ofﬁ  cials and reporters the next 
day, describing the circumstances of 
the alleged rape. 
Three days later, Huggins was 
dismissed from the team. 
Huggins — who played in eight 
games as a freshman for UF last season as a 
reserve defen-
sive back and 
a member of 
special teams 
— transferred 
to Robert Mor-
ris University 
(a private FCS 
college near 
Pittsburgh) 
earlier this 
month and is listed on the team’s 
roster. 
He could not be reached for com-
ment for this story — The Alligator 
attempted to reach him multiple 
times through Instagram, but he 
blocked the reporter’s account. 
The grandmother’s email was 
sent in response to a report from 
the Tampa Bay Times after Mullen’s 
press conference on Aug. 6 revealing 
that Huggins was accused of chok-
ing a female tutor in October 2018. 
Mullen said he was aware of it at 
the conference but said it had “been 
handled,” referring to Huggins’ ﬁ  ve-
game absence in the aftermath of 
last season’s allegation.The Alligator is not identifying 
the grandmother in order to protect 
the privacy of the alleged rape vic-
tim. The newspaper subsequently 
interviewed the young woman, who 
corroborated the events in the email 
and described what happened.
The grandmother said she was 
reaching out to “as many people at 
the University of Florida as I can, to 
ensure my voice is heard by at least 
one person.”
An incident report was ﬁ  led, but 
charges were never pressed against 
Huggins due to a lack of evidence, 
according to the grandmother’s 
email.
The Alligator obtained a copy of 
the report using the incident num-
ber provided by the family. Due to 
the Florida Public Records Law, the 
report is almost entirely redacted ex-
cept for the time, date and location 
of the alleged incident. The name of 
the accused perpetrator is redacted 
in the report.
Ron Kozlowski, Huggins’ attor-
ney, declined to discuss the rape Dismissed football player accused of rape
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Kuwa the cougar looks out her cage Monday evening in Alachua. Read the Feature Friday on page 3.IAN MILASKI ORIGINALL Y 
FACED BATTERY AND FALSE 
IMPRISONMENT CHARGES
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The judge for former UF Resi-
dent Assistant Ian Milaski’s case 
is no longer presiding over it after 
releasing him from jail for being a 
“high-achieving” student. 
A recusal was ﬁ  led for Judge 
Mark Moseley to be removed from 
the case Wednesday, following na-
tional attention, according to court 
records. Another judge replaced 
him Thursday. 
Judge Moseley declined to com-
ment, citing pending litigation.
Moseley was a state prosecu-
tor in Alachua before becoming a 
judge, according to court records. 
He has worked dozens of cases 
involving domestic violence, child 
abuse and sexual battery.
Milaski, a 21-year-old UF econom-
ics senior, will appear in court on 
Oct. 7 at the Alachua County Crimi-
nal Justice Center, according to court 
records. He was previously set to ap-pear on Oct. 10 until Moseley was 
recused.
Police arrested Milaski after he 
was accused of repeatedly asking 
a female student to have sex with 
him and trying to put his ﬁ  nger in 
her vagina.
He was later arrested and ini-
tially charged with simple battery 
and false imprisonment. Milaski’s 
case received national attention af-
ter the judge agreed to reduce his 
original bond of $125,000.
He remained in Alachua County 
Jail for two days. His lawyer, Ron 
Kozlowski, wrote a letter to the court 
pleading for his release that detailed 
Milaski’s need to help his parents 
for Hurricane Dorian and complete 
school assignments on time.
Moseley agreed with Kozlowski 
and ordered for Milaski’s release.
This decision was made before 
the state attorney replaced his sim-
ple battery charge with attempted 
sexual battery without using force 
last Friday.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgJudge on RA case removed 
DAVID COLBURN DIED 
WEDNESDAY AT 76
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
David Colburn wasn’t a fan of long, 
drawn-out obituaries.
In fact, for his own obituary, friends said 
Colburn wouldn’t have wanted someone to 
talk about him for more than ﬁ  ve minutes.
When those close to him think of the in-
tellectual and thoughtful professor and for-
mer UF provost, they bring up his passion 
for the humanities and education. 
On Wednesday, Colburn died at UF 
Health Shands Hospital at 76 due to com-
plications from an extended illness, a day Former UF provost diesHuggins
SEE HUGGINS,  PAGE 4
YAHTOK’YA ANIMAL SANCTUARY
SEE OBITUARY,  PAGE 8ColburnT oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Engaging the World Through 
the Fulbright Program with 
Dr. Christopher Silver
When: Sept. 24, 3 p.m.
Where: 140 Rinker Hall
What: The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to invite 
the UF community to a lecture by 
Christopher Silver, Ph.D., FAICP. 
Silver is a professor of urban and 
regional planning and former 
dean of the UF College of Design. 
Earlier this year, Silver served 
as a Fulbright Senior Scholar in 
the Department of Architecture 
at the University of Indone-
sia, teaching courses on urban 
sustainability. Light refresh-
ments will be served after the 
lecture. For more information, 
please contact Claire Anumba at 
canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. 
RPB Presents: Nicole Byer
When: Sept. 25, 7 p.m. 
Where: J. Wayne Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom
What: RPB is happy to present 
hilarious stand-up comedian 
Nicole Byer. Known best as the 
host of Netflix's "Nailed It" and 
for her guest appearances on 
shows like "Brookyln 99" and "The Good Place," Nicole prom-
ises to deliver a show you don't 
want to miss. This event was 
originally planned to occur on 
Aug. 21, but due to scheduling 
conflicts, it is now rescheduled 
for Sept. 25. The event is free for 
UF students with a valid Gator 1 
ID, no tickets required.
Tobacco Free Alachua Quar-
terly Meeting
When:  Sept. 25 , 3:30 p.m.
Where:  UF Health Street, 2401 
SW Archer Road
What:  Discussion of the upcom-
ing local Alachua County To-
bacco 21 policy implementation 
which will occur Oct 23, 2019. 
This meeting is free and open to 
the public, all are encouraged to 
attend.
October
Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Oct. 18-20, 9 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 200 SE 
Depot Ave
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville na-
tive and music legend. Over 20 
local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests  can upgrade 
their experience with the Petty 
For The People Packages to re-
ceive additional merchandise 
and support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
In Medicine. 
2019 Fall Art Show Submis-
sions
When: Submissions displayed 
Oct. 19-20
Where: Alachua County Library, 
401 E University Ave. in Meeting 
Room A.
What: The Alachua County Li-
brary District invites teen artists 
ages 12 to 15 to submit works for 
the 2019 Fall Art Show through 
Oct. 11. Works will be judged 
by professionals including staff 
members from UF’s College of 
the Arts and the Harn Museum 
of Art on Oct. 18. Winners will 
be announced on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at Headquarters Branch. 
Submissions can be made at any 
Alachua County Library District 
Branch. Prizes will be awarded 
for first through third place. For 
more details or to schedule an 
interview, please contact Rachel 
Cook at 352-334-3909. 
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 13
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  66°
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019    KICKOFF
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
BRUCE AND ERIKA CAPIN HAVE 
CARED FOR COUGARS F
OR THE PAST 20 YEARS 
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
In a fenced enclosement adjacent to a mo-
bile home, an 80 pound cougar slowly inched 
closer to Bruce Capin. 
Dressed in bright orange sweatpants and a 
black T-shirt with a tiger printed on the back, 
Bruce Capin crouched down.
“Talisa,” he called.
He extended his arms, and Talisa trotted 
into his embrace, immediately nuzzling and 
licking his face. 
Erika Capin watched from the other side of 
the chain-linked fence, as her husband calmed 
the purring cat down, stroking its back and 
whispering “I love you.” 
Bruce and Erika Capin are the owners and 
operators of Yahtok’ya Animal Sanctuary in 
Alachua — a home for mistreated or neglected 
big cats, speciﬁ  cally cougars, to live out the 
rest of their lives. 
In Florida, cougars are commonly referred 
to as the Florida Panther, an animal that has 
been listed on the endangered species list since 
1967. The National Wildlife Foundation esti-
mates there are only about 120-130 of the big 
cats left in Florida — Talisa is one of them.
* * *
Erika Capin said taking in cougars was nev-
er part of her and Bruce’s plan. It wasn’t until a 
trip to a wildlife rescue in New Mexico that the 
couple realized this was what they wanted to 
do, but the process of housing cougars proved 
to be more difﬁ  cult than they expected.
Big cat sanctuaries are illegal in their home 
state of New Mexico, so to fulﬁ  ll their dreams 
they needed to move.
“We wanted to live someplace warm, 
someplace where acreage was affordable,” Er-
ika Capin said. “It basically came down to that 
and also obviously someplace that was legal 
to do this.”
The Capins landed in Alachua, where the 
laws and requirements were strict but still al-
lowed them to start their cougar family.
In their 20 years running the sanctuary, the 
Capin’s have taken in 13 cougars from Michi-
gan, Arizona, Texas and Arkansas. They cur-
rently house three cats; two females and one 
male. 
The cougars’ names, Kuwa, Talisa and 
Shasta, all come from the Creek and Lakota 
Native American tribe languages because the Capins believe the names will bless and protect 
the cats.
 Along with inspiration for names, they in-
tegrate Native American traditions into their 
care.
With Tibetan prayer ﬂ  ags hanging around 
the enclosure, Bruce Capin often spends time 
outside playing the ﬂ  ute for the cats. 
He lights sage and sweet grass, hoping the 
burning smoke will carry his prayers for the 
animals “up to be listened to.”
* * *
In addition to the Native American rituals, 
Bruce and Erika Capin stressed the importance 
of bonding with the cougars within the ﬁ  rst 10 
days of arriving at the sanctuary.
“They accept you as one of them because 
you are one of them,” Bruce said. “You just 
happen to walk on two legs and you happen to 
look different, but here, you are one of them.”
Dr. K. Simba Wiltz, CEO and Senior Vice 
President of the Central Florida Animal Re-
serve, agreed that in order to form a bond you 
have to look at the world from the perspective 
of a big cat.
Wiltz also noted that the size or quality of 
a facility does not dictate a successful bond. 
Instead, he likened raising cougars to parenting 
— there is no prescribed approach.
“There are many different parents out 
there, you’ve got some that are living out of 
the back of the car raising fantastic kids and 
you’ve got some that have multimillion dollar 
homes and don’t produce anything of value to 
society,” Wiltz said.
* * *
Although Bruce and Erika have bonded 
deeply with the animals, they both realize the 
dangers of having large animals. Bruce said 
when accidents do happen it’s the cat’s fault.
“You can go into their world as much as 
you want but there are consequences. They 
have rules, and the rules are not the same as 
ours,” Bruce said. “He does love me. But if I go 
in there on the wrong day, he’ll kill me.” 
Since big cats are considered Class I wild-
life, deﬁ  ned by the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Conservation Commission as animals who 
pose a threat to people, the Capins had to go 
through at least two years of training and pro-
cessing before they opened the sanctuary. 
FWC licensing ofﬁ  cer John Cole said the 
Capins had to complete 1,000 hours of hands-
on training, get a $250 Class I license and pass 
annual inspections of the property and ani-
mals.
Additionally, Erika Capin said they had to get approval from their neighbors, a special 
permit from Alachua County and register as a 
nonproﬁ  t organization.
* * *
Financially, the Yahtok’ya Animal Sanctu-
ary has been a struggle for the couple. While 
caring for the cats is a full-time commitment, 
both Erika and Bruce work outside of the sanc-
tuary. 
Erika is a county senior staff assistant and 
Bruce is the UF club fencing coach. They esti-
mate they’ve spent $200,000 over the last 20 
years between annual fees, ﬂ  ights to get new 
cougars, veterinarian appointments and food. 
Despite the high cost, the couple wouldn’t 
change a thing, even the “dump of a trailer” 
they live in. 
“It’s a run down double-wide. But when 
you walk out the front door and you hear 
the cougars calling you, we’re very wealthy,” 
Bruce Capin said.
As of right now, the Capins don’t have any 
plans to take in more cougars. Cougars living 
in captivity typically live to be 18 to 20 years 
old. Their current cougars are 14 to 16 years old. 
Even though most of the cats arrive as 
adults and only live out their ﬁ  nal years at the 
sanctuary, Erika Capin said they will never get 
used to how hard it is when one dies. 
“It’s devastating, they are our family,” Erika 
Capin said. “They’re like our children.”
* * *
While daylight creeped away,  Bruce Capin 
prepared his nocturnal animals for the night. 
In between the thick trees, he ﬁ  lled their 
water buckets and fed them their favorite 
snack, grass.
His time with the cougars began to run out, 
but Bruce Capin didn’t worry. He’d see them 
again in the morning, the sunlight blessing him 
and the cats with a new day.
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgThe cougars of Alachua: Inside a big cat sanctuary
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Bruce Capin sits with T alisa Monday evening after bringing her some grass to eat. 
FEATURE FRIDAY4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019   KICKOFF
STARTSTHE VISION FOR YOUR
RIGHT HERE .FUTURE
Ready to put your ambition to work?
It all starts at ALDI. We’re one of America’s favorite grocery stores, and we’re 
expanding at an unprecedented rate. In fact, we’re planning to open over 
one hundred new stores a year, and we need people like you to guide our 
growth. As a District Manager, you’ll oversee operations for your district 
and lead and inspire your teams, all while managing millions in revenue. 
It’s a tremendous responsibility that requires a solid understanding of how 
we operate our business. That’s why we provide our District Managers with 
an award-winning 51-week training program and ongoing support. We 
also believe in rewarding our employees with great benefits and pay. Our 
District Manager positions start at $80K per year and quickly advance 
to $110K after five years. Take charge of your future with a company 
that’s committed to offering you More.
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.Learn more: careers.aldi.us
FREE CHEESE SLICEw/purchase
of beverage
Present this coupon to receive special. Limit one slice per order. Only valid at 34th Street Location.
(352)745-7798
www.CitySliceFL.com
Daily Lunch Specials: 11am - 2pm, Monday - Friday
MONDAY
ANY 2 
GOURMET SLICES
and Fountain Drink
$4.95TUESDAY
STROMBOLIS 
OR CALZONES
and Fountain Drink
$6.50WEDNESDAY
HOT 
SUBS
and Fountain Drink
$6.95THURSDAY
GOURMET 
SALADS
and Fountain Drink
$6.50FRIDAY
ITALIAN 
ENTREES
and Fountain Drink
$8.503117 SW 34th Street11 am – 10 pm
Monday - Saturday
Closed SundayDownload the FREE 
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
or call 
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol
Operation PetSnip
Feline P ackages 
star ting a t $50
Canine P ackages 
star ting a t $80
Low-cost spay/neuter 
352.373.5855
alachua
humane .org/spa y-neut er
allegation or the redacted 
police incident report ﬁ  led 
in the case. (Kozlowski also 
represents former UF Resi-
dent Assistant Ian Milaski, 
who was recently charged 
with attempted sexual bat-
tery against a student.) 
Kozlowski said the former 
Florida player’s dismissal 
from the team was a mutual 
agreement, and Huggins told 
the team right before he was 
dismissed that he intended to 
transfer to a different univer-
sity because of “all the atten-
tion.”
The team told Huggins it 
would be best to move on be-
cause of certain student con-
duct issues, in regards to the 
choking incident as well as 
marijuana that was found in 
Huggins’ apartment in 2018, 
Kozlowski said.
“To my understanding, 
there’s no event that oc-
curred that precipitated the 
timing of [Huggins’ dismiss-
al],” Kozlowski said. 
When asked about the email that was sent, Ko-
zlowski said, “I don’t think 
it’s good for anybody to com-
ment on … what amounts to 
an anonymous social media 
posting.” 
He also said he had “noth-
ing to say” on the redacted 
incident report.
The incident allegedly oc-
curred in January of this year 
in a small town the family 
asked to not be made pub-
lic to avoid retribution. The 
family said Huggins was left 
alone with the girl after hang-
ing out in a group setting on 
the night of the alleged inci-
dent.
Huggins, listed at 6-foot-
1, 206 pounds on last year’s 
UF football roster (twice the 
weight of the alleged vic-
tim), is accused of “pulling 
her back and [holding] her 
down with his hand around 
her neck” when she tried to 
leave, according to the email.
Then, the young woman 
said, he raped her. 
The grandmother said 
Huggins had “made sexual 
advances” toward the wom-
an before. An Instagram post sent to The Alligator showed 
an account named “jhugg26” 
saying he wished he was the 
inanimate object the girl was 
leaning against.
The Instagram account’s 
description says “John Hug-
gins” and “RMU Defensive 
Back” in the bio as of Thurs-
day night and is followed by 
the ofﬁ  cial UF football Insta-
gram.
The young woman said 
she still thinks about the al-
leged incident regularly. 
“I feel numb,” she told 
The Alligator.
The Florida football team 
did not give an immediate 
reason for Huggins’ dismiss-
al. When asked why Hug-
gins was dismissed from the 
team, Mullen said it was for 
“not living up to what we ex-
pect of the Gator standard,” 
at a press conference. Mul-
len could not be reached for 
comment for this story.
Team spokesperson 
Steve McClain, the football 
program’s senior associate 
athletics director, used that 
quote from Mullen when 
asked for comment on the re-lation between the email and 
Huggins’ dismissal.
Robert Morris Univer-
sity Assistant Athletic Direc-
tor and team spokesperson 
James Duzyk, Jr. gave the 
following statement on Hug-
gins to The Alligator:
“RMU Athletics has not 
been made aware of a rape 
allegation that involves John 
Huggins. It has been brought 
to our attention that John 
was included in an allega-
tion that violated university 
policy, but it is our under-
standing that this event was 
not related to sexual assault. 
To our knowledge, John 
Huggins satisﬁ  ed all of the 
University of Florida’s disci-
plinary requirements. John is 
currently a student-athlete re-
ceiving athletic aid at RMU.”
Dana Cassidy contributed 
to this report.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgHUGGINS,  from pg. 1
HIS CURRENT 
CONTRACT ENDS 
JUNE 2020
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs’ 
ﬁ  ve-year contract will end in 
June 2020, but that will not 
necessarily end his time at UF. 
UF’s Board of Trustees vot-
ed unanimously on Sep. 6 to 
keep Fuchs as president, but 
with one difference — he’ll no 
longer serve under a contract. 
As of July 1, 2020, Fuchs will 
work at UF until he retires or 
the board dismisses him. 
The decision must still be 
approved by Florida’s Board of 
Governors, UF Spokesperson 
Steve Orlando said.
Fuchs will still receive full 
compensation, he said, which 
includes a base yearly pay of 
$860,000, access to the presi-
dential Dashburg House and 
$150,000 per year for his re-tirement fund.
Fuchs said he chose this 
because it makes him equal to 
the employees on his presiden-
tial cabinet, who serve without 
contracts. 
“I plan to be here for the 
long haul. I plan to see the Uni-
versity of Florida reach top-ﬁ  ve 
stature while I’m president,” 
Fuchs wrote in a statement. 
“I’m excited about all the work 
we will all be doing together as 
a university community to get 
us there and beyond.”
Board Chair Morteza Hos-
seini said Fuchs has done an 
outstanding job as president, 
citing UF’s recent rise to No. 
7 best public university in the 
U.S. News and World Report 
as evidence. 
“I have complete conﬁ  -
dence in his leadership and his 
ability to help guide UF to its 
goal of being a top-ﬁ  ve public 
institution,” he said.
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgFuchs without contractJAMES TYGER HELD 
THE POSITION FOR 
SEVEN YEARS
By Emma McAvoy
Alligator Staff Writer
     Between party divides and 
agendas, UF Student Govern-
ment has a new ﬁ  gurehead to 
manage party relations and act 
as a liaison. 
     At the Sept. 10 SG Sen-
ate meeting, Senate President 
Libby Shaw announced that 
Jacobi Bedenﬁ  eld has replaced 
James Tyger as the SG Senate 
Adviser. Bedenﬁ  eld will also 
serve as the new program 
coordinator with SG Advising 
& Operations.  
     Although this is Beden-
ﬁ  eld’s ﬁ  rst UF position, the 
23-year-old has experience as 
a former Santa Fe College SG 
event chair and former Santa Fe Student Body President, he 
said. He is about three weeks 
into his new position and 
will earn a yearly salary of 
$45,000. 
     Tyger, who held the ad-
viser position for seven years, 
became the senior director 
for UF SG Advising & Opera-
tions in Summer 2018. He said 
leaving is bittersweet, but he’s 
excited for Bedenﬁ  eld to step 
into the role. 
     “I have enjoyed spending 
my Tuesday nights with Sen-
ate for the last seven years,” 
Tyger said. 
     Bedenﬁ  eld’s responsibili-
ties include helping senators 
address concerns and provid-
ing resources to reach goals. 
     “I’m new to the University 
of Florida, so it’s been about 
learning, building connec-
tions and just making sure 
my students are good to go,” Bedenﬁ  eld said.
     After his time with Santa 
Fe SG, Bedenﬁ  eld served as 
state president of the Florida 
College System Student Gov-
ernment Association.
     Beyond Senate, he will 
work with Chomp the Vote, an 
organization that helps UF stu-
dents with voting registration 
and education on politics. 
     Adam Kozloski, the Chomp 
the Vote Chair of Program-
ming, said he had his ﬁ  rst 
meeting with Bedenﬁ  eld        
Tuesday to discuss the overall 
framework of the year, explain 
Chomp the Vote’s goals for 
the semester and discuss its 
upcoming voter registration 
drive on Monday.  
     “Bedenﬁ  eld exceeded all 
of my expectations,” Kozloski 
said. “He’s very well-suited to 
the job and proactive.”
     Representatives of both SG parties said they look forward 
to working with Bedenﬁ  eld.
     “The Gator Party is enthu-
siastic about the prospect of 
more resources available in 
assisting in the operations of 
Senate,” the party wrote in an 
email.
     Inspire President Zach-
ary Amrose said he hopes 
Bedenﬁ  eld focuses on growth 
in SG outreach to students, 
especially on something as 
important as student organi-
zation funding. Amrose said 
there have been problems in 
the past with SG’s ability to 
advise impartially between the 
parties. 
     “This is an area where 
there’s room for growth that 
I hope Jacobi will be able to 
bridge the gap with,” he said. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The man behind SG: New adviser begins his ﬁ  rst semester 
IT HAPPENED EARL Y 
SATURDAY MORNING
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
About a week after a report of a 
rape in a UF dorm hall was released 
to students, UPD said another 
student reported she was sexually 
battered at Rawlings Hall early 
Saturday morning. 
UPD emailed a release to stu-
dents Wednesday afternoon about 
the rape, which happened after the 
student left a “fraternity-sorority 
function” with an unknown person, 
according to the email. 
The female student reported the rape to the UF Campus Security 
Authority, which works under UPD, 
“several days” after it happened. 
Police said the student did not tell 
police or UF ofﬁ  cials more details 
about the rape or who the suspected 
rapist is.     
On Friday, the student met 
someone at a sorority and fraternity 
event somewhere off-campus, police 
said. The student and the person 
she met at the event shared an Uber 
together and drove to Rawlings Hall. 
At about 2 a.m., the unknown 
person raped the student, police 
said. It is unclear where in Rawlings 
Hall it happened. 
Gerrica Lamothe, a 17-year-old 
exploratory freshman who lives 
in Rawlings Hall, said she always watches the door close when enter-
ing the building to make sure no 
one slips in behind her.
Now, Lamonthe had to have a 
conversation with her roommate 
to start locking their door every 
night, which they didnt do before, 
after hearing about the rape in her 
building.
“It deﬁ  nitely made me feel 
unsafe,” Lamonthe said. “I didn’t 
expect anyone to be able to be vio-
lated in their own living area.” 
This is the second reported 
sexual battery on UF’s campus to be 
made public by UPD this month.
On Sept. 10, UPD emailed stu-
dents about a female student who 
reported she was raped in Jennings 
Hall in August. Similar to this most recent case, the survivor of the 
August attack declined to tell UF 
ofﬁ  cials details about the incident, 
police said. 
Discussions on sexual assault, 
rape and student safety have been 
points of controversy on campus 
this semester. The debate over 
whether blue emergency light poles, 
which can call law enforcement 
at the push of a button, should be 
installed on Fraternity Drive came to 
a head Tuesday afternoon.
About 200 protesters demanded 
for the emergency lights to be 
installed and expressed outrage over 
UF Student Government and UF 
administration’s inaction. 
The reported rapes also follow 
the arrest and release of former UF Resident Assistant Ian Milaski, who 
is now facing an additional charge 
of attempted sexual battery.
Police arrested Milaski after he 
was accused of repeatedly asking a 
female student to have sex with him 
and trying to put his ﬁ  nger in her 
vagina against her will. Milaski’s 
case received national media atten-
tion after a judge agreed to reduce 
his original bond of $125,000 when 
Milaski’s lawyer argued he was a 
“high-achieving” student leader. 
Jordyn Kalman contributed to 
this report.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgUF student raped at Rawlings Hall, police sayCourtesy to The Alligator
Jacobi Bedenﬁ  eld advises UF Student Government 
Senate and Chomp the Vote. 
EditorialFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Those all-nighters are really starting to catch up to 
you. Your caffeine intake maxed out like a cred-
it card on your fifth cup of Pumpkin Cream Cold 
Brew.
You can’t stop yourself from falling asleep in 
class. At this point, your arms seem like the best substitute 
for a pillow. You start to drift away, but before your eyes 
can shut for good, the sharp sound of chalk scratching 
against a blackboard threatens to make your ears bleed. 
“This information is important for your next exam.” 
Your professor states eagerly. This class doesn’t offer extra 
credit, so it’s time to sit up. You try to pry your eyes open 
to see what it says, but his handwriting is reminiscent of 
a doctor’s scrawl on a prescription. Maybe you shouldn’t 
have chosen a seat in the back. 
Sitting up now, you squint to see what he wrote down. 
On top of the board, you see the date for the exam. Be-
neath it you see…
Darts and Laurels
It’s never OK to snitch, especially when you’re a regis-
tered sex offender and pedophile. Tekashi 6ix9ine testified 
on Tuesday against his former gang, the Nine Trey Gangsta 
Bloods, and even stated that Cardi B was a member of this 
gang. Of course, she denied this, and we have to give him 
a dart for squealing like a pig on top of everything else.  
At least someone is trying to own up to their mistakes 
this week. Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, 
recently apologized again for wearing brownface on three 
separate occasions and admitted he had no idea how many 
times he’s done it in his lifetime. Despite his honesty, he’s 
still getting a dart for his actions and what he hasn’t done 
yet to prove that he isn’t actually racist. 
Madame Tussauds, on the other hand, deserves a lau-
rel for a long-awaited transformation. The wax museum 
recently unveiled their new wax statue of Beyoncé and it 
actually looks like her this time. It is set to reside in the 
Queen’s Palace, a fitting home for the Queen herself. 
Although they aren’t saying it outright, Colt has recent-
ly made a significant change as well. The gun manufac-
turer announced on Thursday they would cease to sell the 
AR-15 rifle, a gun commonly used in mass shootings. It 
may not hinder the entire usage of the weapon, but they 
definitely deserve a laurel for trying. 
Good things can come from surprising places, and the 
last laurel goes to the Area 51 Raid organizers who decided 
to celebrate after the storm. We have to give some respect 
for their creativity and dedication. The Area 51 raid that 
started on Facebook got so popular that the FBI began to 
take precautions, going so far as to contact the creator of 
the event. 
Unfortunately, things that sound good can end up being 
absolutely terrible, and such is the case for lovebugs. They 
deserve the final dart for ruining the pleasant weather with 
their omnipresence. Maybe if they would stop mating with 
their butts, they wouldn’t bump into us every time we step 
outside. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Zora 
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORLetter column
Several years ago at another universi-
ty, I met with the faculty members in 
one of the university’s colleges.  I was 
responsible for leading the search for 
the college’s next dean, and I wanted 
to hear the faculty’s input on the search. 
The college was ranked 13th nationally.  I 
asked the faculty for their goal in raising their 
ranking, expecting to hear that the college 
needed to be in the top 10 or maybe 5.  To 
my surprise, their unanimous response was 
that they did not want their ranking to change.   When 
I asked why they said that they did not want to lose 
their college’s collegiality.  They felt strongly that all the 
colleges ranked higher than theirs were marked with 
internal strife and competitiveness.  
In his 1948 inaugural address, then UF President J. 
Hillis Miller established the goal of UF becoming one of 
the nation’s top 10 public universities.  In 2015, we stat-
ed that UF’s goal was to be a top 5 public research uni-
versity.  Since 2015, UF has moved up in the rankings 
from 14th to tied for 7th, and we are close to achieving 
our goal of being ranked among the top 5.
However, as UF moves up in the rankings, I wonder 
if we are at risk of losing the values, attributes and cul-
ture that are important to who we are. For me, if UF be-
comes a top 5 university or higher and  does not remain 
caring and loving, then the price is not worth the prize.  
If we become a university where we don’t support each 
other and don’t help or celebrate our classmates and 
colleagues, then UF will be weaker and not stronger –—
despite the ranking.  Can we be a university that is even more 
diverse as we become more highly ranked? 
Can we be even more collegial and caring 
as we become more excellent?  
Will we in the future be able to enjoy UF 
and have fun, even as we work harder to 
achieve new heights? 
Can we be a university that continues 
to have our amazing breadth of programs 
— from agriculture to the arts, from public 
health to political science, from entomology 
to anthropology and yet be ranked among the best in 
all that we do?  Can we be among the best nationally in 
both academics and NCAA athletics?  As the impact of 
our research and scholarship grows, can our excellence 
in teaching and education also grow? 
The college that was ranked 13th when I met with its 
faculty members many years ago was still ranked 13th 
in this month’s U.S. News & World Report rankings.  I 
believe UF can and will move to the top of the national 
rankings while still retaining what we value most as 
well as what is most important about our university and 
our community.
If there are attributes of our university that you value 
and that you would like to preserve or enhance as we 
move up in the national rankings, please send a person-
al note to me at kent.fuchs@ufl.edu. We must double 
down on nurturing the things we love about UF in har-
mony with our rising rankings and national visibility.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president.As UF rises in rank, what should endure?
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgTake a moment and imagine a 
world where spraining an an-
kle is a taboo subject. Where 
someone with a fever is too 
embarrassed to see a doctor 
about it. Now, pull back and see that 
this is the world we live in, not with 
physical illnesses, but mental ones. 
In the past decade, the conversa-
tion on mental health has become 
much more productive . Yet, I would wager 
that just about everyone reading this article has 
struggled with their mental health or knows 
someone who has and did not receive help. As 
if people do not equate mental and physical 
struggles with the same level of urgency, even 
though the two are not mutualyl exclusive. 
I’m sure we have often heard people dis-
tinguish between “mind” and “body,” but  we 
shouldn’t do this when discussing health. The 
two are intrinsically linked as poor mental 
health can dramatically affect physical health 
and vice versa. For instance, did you know that 
people with high levels of personal distress are 
32 percent more likely to have died from can-
cer? Or that depression is associated with an 
increased risk of heart disease? And that’s not 
all �— arthritis, diabetes, and asthma have also been associated with certain men-
tal conditions. 
We should all take care to put 
ourselves and our health ﬁ  rst. At 
UF, there are so many things that 
tend to get in the way. Whether it’s 
classes or involvement culture, we 
are all here as students to better 
ourselves and health is a key as-
pect of that. 
Thankfully, there are so many great ways 
to keep ourselves both mentally and physical-
ly healthy. Everyone knows that exercise is a 
huge one, but did you also know that sleep and 
diet are just as important? Eating enough per 
day and incorporating foods like whole grains, 
ﬁ  sh, vegetables, fruits, nuts and healthy fats 
(avocados!) can do wonders in promoting 
healthy living. And absolutely everyone bene-
ﬁ  ts from getting a full night’s rest. So, the next 
time you hit that snooze button, remember 
that you’re doing it for a good cause! 
Matthew Diaz is the Hispanic and Latinx 
Caucus Leader in Student Government.KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I heard through the grape-
vine that a certain some-
one said that installing 
additional blue lights on 
campus would be a tre-
mendous waste of student 
fees, to the vast disapproval 
of the Student Body.
While there have been 
plenty of responses to The 
Alligator Letter to the Edi-
tor in question, I think the 
world needs to know a little more 
about how UF Student Government 
typically wastes its money.
Here are some of my favorite in-
stances of SG’s ﬁ  scal waste over the 
last couple of years.
For the reopening of Newell Hall, 
SG spent $2,645 on commemorative 
coins plus an additional $1,972 on T-
shirts. SG sure knows how to party 
with our money.
The year before that, we spent 
$12,410 on a single order of SG pon-
chos. The next year, we only spent 
$7,184 on them. Ponchos may be nice, 
but I don’t know if they have the same 
life-saving potential as blue lights do.
We also spent $6,600 on phone-
charging stations. Where are these 
charging stations? I’m not totally sure. 
There used to be a couple in Newell, 
but it appears they were returned to 
SG. I believe this because I’ve read an 
email chain that detailed how a stu-
dent got their phone stuck in one of 
the stations. It ends with an adminis-
trator saying “I would like to return 
these machines to SG because they 
have been an issue since we installed 
them.”
I do know that there is at least one 
charging station in the SG ofﬁ  ce, which 
is perhaps why phones running out of 
battery may be inconceivable to some 
Student Body presidents. I would like 
to propose that we put one of these 
stations out on Fraternity Row so ev-
eryone can use GATORSAFE in the ab-
sence of blue lights.Have you ever seen that 
strange metal structure un-
der the Turlington stairs? 
That’s a longboard rack, 
but have you ever seen a 
longboard parked there? We 
spent $2,667.98 on two of 
them, but I’m not even sure 
where the second one end-
ed up (supposedly some-
where by the Reitz Union). 
I actually don’t mind this 
particular case of wasted money, since 
I use the structure as my own personal 
covered bike rack when it rains — but 
to each their own.
This stuff is just the tip of the ice-
berg. One time, we spent $63.59 on 
ice. Was it a lot of ice? Probably, but 
this is the kind of stuff that never looks 
good from an optics standpoint with-
out context (if it was for an ice sculp-
ture, then I say it was a fantastic deal).
Something that has always pissed 
me off is SG’s recurring $190 headshot 
session expenses for legislative and 
executive branch leaders. As the guy 
who runs the Gator Career Closet’s free 
headshot program, I can’t help but pull 
my hair out when I see that ﬁ  gure.
There’s also quite the story behind 
the $400 SG was going to shell out for 
a gong rental. Let’s just say I person-
ally intervened in that case and helped 
prevent what would have been a tre-
mendous waste of student fees.
At the end of the day, let’s be real. 
This is a matter of lives, not money, 
and $22,000 (or however much it will 
ultimately cost to install blue lights on 
Fraternity Row) is a tiny price to pay 
for safety. 
If it helps a single person, then it’s 
worth it.
Don’t let SG ofﬁ  cials who would 
rather party with your money tell you 
otherwise.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political 
science senior and serves as the 
Murphree Area Senator.Blue lights aren’t a waste of money. 
Here’s what is. Column Column
Mental health is physical health
Reading is important. 
This lesson is reiterated 
throughout our education. 
Despite constantly being 
told that reading is crucial 
for a successful life, many Ameri-
cans lack basic reading skills. In 
2017, it was reported that 43 per-
cent of American adults read at an 
eighth-grade level or lower (Zou-
kis). Reading, however, is not just mere enter-
tainment. Reading can determine one’s future. 
There is a direct relationship between low 
literacy rates and the prison industrial com-
plex. The school-to-prison pipeline is tight-
ly bound to literacy rates. Reading skills, or 
the lack thereof, can inﬂ  uence the likelihood 
of one’s involvement in the criminal justice 
system, according to Christopher Zoukis, the 
author of “Federal Prison Handbook.” Zoukis 
reports that about 60 percent of America’s in-
mates are illiterate. Early education is the most 
important aspect of ﬁ  ghting illiteracy and in-
carceration rates. The US Department of Justice 
reports that “the link between academic failure 
and delinquency, violence and crime is welded 
to reading failure.” Also, nearly 66 percent of 
students who are unable to read competently 
by the end of fourth grade will eventually be 
arrested or end up on welfare. Therefore, it is 
imperative we begin to combat these statistics 
by improving reading skills amongst young 
children. Stemming incarceration rates begin 
in childhood. The improvement of literacy 
skills can cause a lasting change in one’s life.
Unfortunately, the academic achievement 
gap in Alachua County is absolutely stagger-
ing. In education, an achievement gap refers 
to “the disparity in academic performance be-
tween groups of students.” Alachua County 
has one of the largest educational disparities 
in Florida. According to ProPublica, black stu-dents in Alachua County are, on 
average, 3.5 grade levels lower 
than their white peers. This di-
chotomy between academic skills 
makes it difﬁ  cult to improve as 
teachers move on to teach students 
that are proﬁ  cient in the subject. 
This is unacceptable. 
Between UF and Santa Fe, there 
are approximately 70,000 college 
students in Gainesville. There is no reason 
why in the county that houses the seventh 
ranked public university in the nation, stu-
dents are falling nearly four grade levels lower 
than their classmates. We should go into our 
community and tutor local students. Luckily, 
there are plenty of local community outreach 
organizations that focus on closing the gap be-
tween students and their reading skills. 
Kids Count is one of these organizations. 
The vision of Kids Count, according to its web-
site, is to “inspire hope, enhance learning, and 
improve self-conﬁ  dence while building social 
skills and concern for others,” as well as “pro-
viding an opportunity for students who need 
extra support in the community to succeed in 
school and life.” This group’s primary focus is 
to improve literacy rates among kindergarten-
ers through third graders to enrich the lives of 
children in our community. Kids Count helps 
students not only learn to read, but love to 
read. 
Passion for reading can have a lasting ef-
fect on one’s life. Helping students not only 
acquire the ability to read, but the desire to 
do so, can greatly impact their lives. We can 
begin to combat the school-to-prison pipeline 
by instilling in the students of our community 
the love of reading.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English junior. How literacy snuffs incarcerationColumn
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019    ALLIGATOR   8 
STUDENTS CAN’T LIKE 
OR COMMENT ON 
FACEBOOK POSTS
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government 
tensions transferred to so-
cial media when Gator Party 
blocked students from its 
Facebook page.
About 30-50 students post-
ed statuses and comments 
on Facebook reporting that 
Gator Party blocked them af-
ter they made comments on 
one or more of its announce-
ment posts. They scan’t like or 
comment on any post made on 
Gator Party’s Facebook page. 
Users said they noticed 
they were blocked from the 
page throughout the semester, 
although it is unknown when 
the blocking started.
The page has more than 
2,000 followers, Gator Party 
representatives wrote in an 
email. “Our social media team 
blocks any page or account 
that engages in spam, harass-
ment, racism, sexism, ho-
mophobia or content that is 
hateful or triggering for stu-
dents,” they wrote. 
Jackie Lu, a 22-year-old UF 
industrial and systems engi-
neering fifth-year, said he was 
blocked about an hour after 
commenting on Gator Party’s 
initial announcement of their 
establishment on Aug. 28. 
“I think I said something 
along the lines of ‘LOL, look 
at this,’” Lu said. “And then I 
tagged one of my friends.”  
He said his comment was 
deleted an hour after he posted 
it, and he couldn’t comment 
again.
“All the comments that 
have stayed on that page are 
ones that are positive on the 
new initiative,” Lu said. “Ones 
that are opposing the ideas that 
they [Gator Party] have, are 
not only deleted, but they’re 
also censored and blocked.” Lu said some of his friends 
were blocked before posts 
were shared on the page.  
UF alumni also said they 
were blocked. 
Tyler Richards, a 23-year-
old UF alumnus, said he was 
blocked from the page before 
it shared its first post.
He said he thinks he was 
blocked because he was out-
spoken against Florida Blue 
Key and the majority Impact 
Party while he was a part of 
the minority Access Party. 
He said this is a pattern 
because he was also blocked 
from Swamp Party’s and Im-
pact Party’s Facebook pages 
— previous majority parties. 
“If you don’t block people 
who have any differing views 
than your own, then the whole 
system kind of breaks down 
quickly and everyone sees 
it for what it is, which is a 
fraud,” Richards said.
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgGator Party blocks students, alumni 
PERMIT TO BE VOTED ON 
BETWEEN NOVEMBER AND 
JANUARY 2020
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
A river is like life: once taken, it cannot be 
brought back.
That is the slogan of the local environ-
mental group, Our Santa Fe River. They 
group is fighting a permit that would allow 
Nestlé Waters North America to use 1.152 
million gallons from Ginnie Springs per day 
for bottled water.
With the permit, Nestle may deplete the 
water supply as citizens pay millions of dol-
lars in taxes to fund projects aimed at replen-
ishing the aquifer, said the nonprofit’s presi-
dent Mike Roth.
Increased water withdrawals pose a seri-
ous environmental risk, Roth said. A “cone 
of depression,” which causes wells to dry, 
could develop in the Florida aquifer, the 
state’s primary source of drinking water. Dry 
wells would disturb surrounding ecosystems 
and affect the availability of clean drinking 
water. 
Roth said the organization was formed 12 
years ago to protect the aquifer, springs and 
rivers within the watershed of the Santa Fe 
River, which includes Ginnie Springs. 
The organization aims to fight the ap-
proval of this permit by educating the public 
and giving out lawn signs and bumper stick-
ers, he said. 
“Any withdrawals at this point hurt the 
case to recover the river,” Roth said. “It’s 
just basically tampering with nature in a way 
that’s kind of dangerous.”
Private company Seven Springs Water Co. 
had a 20-year permit that allowed them to 
pump a maximum of 1.2 million gallons a 
day, but it expired in June 2019. 
The company is applying for a 5-year re-newal of the existing permit which has to 
be approved by the Suwannee River Water 
Management District, Florida’s state water 
agency. The district will vote on the renewal 
sometime between November and January 
2020, Roth said.
Seven Springs will have to pay a one-time 
$115 fee for the permit, though neither com-
pany will pay for the water itself due to the 
Florida Water Resources Act of 1972. The act 
determined spring water, rivers and lakes 
were the property of Florida but did not set a 
price on these bodies of water.
Nestle has been bottling water from the 
springs since its purchase of the High Springs 
plant from Ice River Springs Marianna LLC in 
January. While the renewal is under consid-
eration, the old permit is still in effect, Roth 
said.
A Change.org petition calling for the dis-
trict to deny the permit has more than 30,000 
signatures. Residents can also fill out a pub-
lic input form to voice their opinions.
In a statement released by Nestle Waters 
on Aug. 6, the company said it is adhering 
to all state standards regarding water with-
drawals. It is required to report the total vol-
ume of water used monthly to the district, 
which publishes the reports online. 
Drawing 1.2 million gallons of water per 
day would represent less than .05 percent of 
the total daily volume at the United States 
Geological Survey site on the Santa Fe River 
which would not affect the overall water lev-
els, according to a Nestlé natural resources 
manager, George Ring. 
April Salter, CEO of SalterMitchell PR 
which represents Nestlé, said its team of 
natural resource managers is employed to 
monitor the springs, ensuring their practices 
are sustainable.
“Springwater is a rapidly renewable re-
source when managed correctly,” Salter said. 
“Nestlé Waters North America is committed 
to the highest level of sustainable spring 
water management at all of the springs we manage.”
Gainesville City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos said he is against the permits’ 
approval. 
As a member of the Gainesville Alachua 
County Water Policy Committee, he implores 
the protection of the water supply because of 
its significance to Florida’s ecosystem.
“I would hope that there are ways to 
prevent them from bottling up the water,” Hayes-Santos said. “But with the Republi-
can-controlled state legislature, they have 
made it very easy for companies to take ad-
vantage of our natural resources.”
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgActivists oppose Nestle’s plan to bottle Ginnie Springs water
Ginnie Springs is one of the bodies of water which may be negatively impacted by 
bottling. 
before he was supposed to receive the 
highest honor from the Florida Humani-
ties Council. 
That same award may now be re-
named in his honor, said Cynthia Bar-
nett, an Environmental Fellow at the 
Bob Graham Center for Public Service. 
Colburn didn’t like to brag, although 
his list of accomplishments warranted 
it, said Mark Law, the UF honors pro-
gram director. 
For about 20 years, Law and Col-
burn would eat lunch together, leaning 
against their cars while chatting about 
anything and everything,
Law said Colburn would have liked 
his obituary to focus on his students and 
family. 
“From a legacy point of view, I’m 
sure that if I could ask him, he’d be 
pointing at his students,” Law said.
He is remembered by those who 
knew him as a scholar, a Vietnam War 
veteran, a mentor and a friend. 
Colleagues knew him as a selfless 
family man who “always had a smile on 
his face.” He served as the chair for the 
Department of History, vice provost and 
dean of the International Center,  the 
director of the Graham Center and UF’s 
provost and senior vice president in his 
nearly 50-year career.
Colburn was set to receive the Flor-
ida Humanities Lifetime Achievement Award Thursday. He would have been 
the second recipient of the honor. The 
award honored his lifelong devotion to 
upholding the humanities and empow-
ering others. 
Steve Seibert, the executive director 
of the Florida Humanities Council, was 
a friend of Colburn’s and admired his 
dedication to the humanities. Seibert 
praised him in an obituary published by 
the Graham Center. 
“No one has done more to support 
the humanities, in deed and in cause,” 
he wrote. “We will miss his wisdom, 
friendship, and leadership.”
Colburn loved World War II history, 
public service and his students. 
To those who knew Colburn, the 
latter isn’t surprising. As a mentor, he 
inspired his students to serve their com-
munity.
Caroline Nickerson, a 25-year-old 
UF history and Chinese alumna, was a 
Graham Center Askew Scholar and Col-
burn’s mentee. She said he impacted the 
lives of everyone he interacted with.
“I felt so lucky to know him through-
out my undergraduate career,” Nick-
erson said. “It still hasn’t hit me that I 
won’t see him there next time I visit.”
The service is scheduled for Sunday 
at Holy Trinity Church, at 100 NE First 
St., at 2 p.m. The university plans to 
hold a public tribute later this Fall. 
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgOBITUARY,  from pg. 1Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.● YAMAHA P350  Turntable, cartridge & new 
stylus $100; ● YAMAHA 3-way NS8 speak-
ers $150; ● KLH 4-way 9915 speakers $150. 
OBO Call 724-816-6244    9-27-19-4-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D1For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately
Blocks away from Univ & shopping. 2BR unit 
& rooms for rent. Call Brenda 352-672-8657    
9-25-19-15-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
SOLUTION ON PAGE 10
SOLUTION ON PAGE 1010   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14D
Experienced horse person for weekend 
feeding and cleaning of barn. Must have own 
transportation, farm in NW Marion County. 
Call (352) 591-2121 to arrange an interview.    
10-7-19-8-14
HELP WANTED: 
Provide care for my daughter. Must assist 
with oral hygiene. Mon - Fri, 9:30 - 2:30. 5 
hrs per day. Must have car. Please call 352-
339-2798    9-30-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Looking for professional and affordable 
Homemaker and companion services?
Contact us @ 800-727-1559
email: Divinehealth1@ymail.com     9-23-19-
4-16
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com      9-20-1-
16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 5:00 
- 7:00 p.m. on 9/23 - 9/26.  Verbal on M&W, 
Math on T&R.   To register and learn the 
room location, go to the TC website www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study 
Skills" then "Workshops.”       9-23-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 18 Personals
By Kathy Wienberg and Lewis Rothlein
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 “... harmony 
in the motion 
and magnitude 
of the __ ... ”: 
Copernicus
5 Out, perhaps
9 Maintain
14 Stable newborn
15 Particle in a 
beam
16 Lifetime parent
17 Asian tourist city
18 Initial game 
payment
19 Lengthy sentence
20 What included 
a top hat, for 
Lincoln?
23 Prohibition __
24 Support gp. 
founded under 
FDR
25 Like Yosemite’s 
El Capitan
26 Unvarnished 
inventions?
31 P&L report 
column
32 Symbol of ease
33 Part of a baby’s 
repertoire
34 Stops lying?
37 One often stands 
alone in a split
38 Devote, as time
40 Gp. inducted into 
the Rock and Roll 
Hall of Fame in 
2017
41 They’re often 
seen on trees
42 Disposed of
43 Citi Field 
catcalls?
48 “The Night 
They Invented 
Champagne” 
composer
49 Mentalist Geller
50 Sch. in 
Manhattan
53 Joe-induced 
speaking clarity?
57 Get around
58 Food stamp?
59 67, for 
Beethoven’s Fifth
60 Invisible turnout?
61 Unlikely
62 Olive Oyl’s 
mother63 Wound up
64 Goes after
65 Go around in 
circles?
DOWN
1 18 or 21, typically
2 Court rival of 
Rafael
3 Bill for shots
4 Picket fence 
piece
5 Assembled
6 Small chocolate-
covered candy
7 Classic 
accusation
8 Moccasin leather
9 Asked for ID
10 Victory wreath
11 Lestat de 
Lioncourt creator
12 Promises at the 
altar
13 YMCA part
21 Mongolian tents
22 Butter used 
to deep-fry 
samosas
27 Agreement word
28 Mimicry
29 Geological time 
span30 Scandinavian 
roofing material
34 Whistle-blower
35 Down with the flu
36 Deep South 
cuisine
37 Pesto ingredients
38 Poker-faced
39 Nave seat
41 New Zealand 
bird
42 Reception aids
44 1959 Fiestas hit45 Followed
46 Confused mess
47 Ubiquitous 
YouTube button 
... and a hint to 
four long Across 
answers
51 Squeak or creak
52 Take back
53 Prop for Chaplin
54 The Bard’s river
55 Biblical hunter
56 Atmosphere
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, September 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Barista’s 
concoction
6 Domino dots
10 Rotating rod
14 Construction rod
15 Square __
16 Skirt with a 
flounce
17 Tall display of 
dishwashing 
liquid?
19 MiG developer
20 Wee
21 Soy sauce taste
22 Sleuth of radio, 
movies and TV
23 Sitcom star from 
Melmac
25 Sticker
27 Global donation 
of dishwashing 
liquid?
32 Set in a golf bag
34 TV exec Arledge
35 Barcelona bear
36 Short dog, for 
short
37 Or so
38 1956 crisis site
39 Chest-beating 
beast
40 Darts
41 Slow, to Ravel
42 Rock band’s 
preferred 
dishwashing 
liquid?
45 “Supergirl” actor 
Jon
46 It can be thin but 
not fat
47 Glance through
48 Goaded, with “on”
52 Seed used in 
smoothies
56 “O brawling love! 
O loving __!”: 
Romeo
57 Using 
dishwashing 
liquid in the 
shower?
59 “__ that a lot”
60 One likely to snap
61 Spree
62 Like everything in 
a she shed
63 Ballpark figure
64 Aconcagua’s 
rangeDOWN
1 Pram pusher
2 Son of Leah
3 Black, to a bard
4 Zero, quaintly
5 Martini 
specification
6 Dance with a 
queen
7 Captain Kirk’s 
home state
8 Common 
greeting card 
content
9 Far from 
soothing
10 Masonry finish
11 Bully
12 “Everything’s 
ready to go!”
13 Chance at the 
spinner
18 Clump of dune 
grass
24 Fleur-de-__
26 Baa ma
27 One whose work 
is laughable
28 Heavenly path
29 Gear bit
30 Word with hot 
or dog
31 Zonk out32 Tablet with Air, 
Pro and Mini 
models
33 Update the look 
of, as a product
37 Like some 
bistros
38 1957 Coasters 
chart-topper 
with the refrain 
“Gonna find her”
40 Opponent
41 Fragrant chain43 MLB team with 
Mr. and Mrs. 
mascots
44 Duchamp genre
47 __ Tzu
49 Trusted advisor
50 Pesky bug
51 Goes back
53 Rear
54 “Picnic” 
playwright
55 Forever
58 Placeholder abbr.
09/18/20
SCRAMBLERS
solution
1. Secure; 2. Twist;
3. Source; 4. Scold
Today's Word: CLOSET• It was Democratic governor and 
presidential hopeful Adlai Stevenson 
who made the following sage observa-
tion: “A free society is a place where 
it’s safe to be unpopular.”
• In proportion to its size, the stron-
gest muscle in the human body is the 
tongue.
• Beloved children’s author Dr. Seuss 
had a hobby that few people were 
aware of: He collected hats. 
• If you’re planning a trip to Kentucky 
anytime soon, you’d better keep a close 
rein on your interactions with strangers. 
It seems that flirting there is illegal and 
could get you 30 days in jail.
• It’s well-known that Albert Einstein 
won the Nobel Prize, but most people 
are misinformed about what he won it 
for. He didn’t receive the award for his 
theory of relativity, but for his expla-
nation of the photoelectric effect.
• The name of one of the most pop-
ular early video games, Pac-Man, 
comes from the Japanese words for “to 
eat.” “Isuzu” means “50 bells” in Jap-
anese, and “Atari” means “prepare to 
be attacked.”
• The lyrics to that favorite Irish 
ballad “O Danny Boy” were actually 
written by an Englishman.
• Hong Kong is not a city — it’s an 
island. The name of the city common-
ly known as Hong Kong is actually 
Victoria.
• A study conducted by the Envi-
ronmental Conservancy shows that 
Viagra is having a beneficial effect on 
the environment, especially in Asian 
countries. It seems that even though 
the drug costs $10 a pill, it’s still 
cheaper than bear’s gall bladder and 
other supposed remedies.
• In ancient Rome, slaves with red hair 
commanded a higher price from buyers.
• Actress Meg Ryan’s given name 
was Margaret Mary Emily Anne Hyra.
***
Thought for the Day: “The trouble 
ain’t that people are ignorant; it’s that 
they know so much that ain’t so.” — 
Josh Billings
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
September 16, 2019• It was Democratic governor and 
presidential hopeful Adlai Stevenson 
who made the following sage observa-
tion: “A free society is a place where 
it’s safe to be unpopular.”
• In proportion to its size, the stron-
gest muscle in the human body is the 
tongue.
• Beloved children’s author Dr. Seuss 
had a hobby that few people were 
aware of: He collected hats. 
• If you’re planning a trip to Kentucky 
anytime soon, you’d better keep a close 
rein on your interactions with strangers. 
It seems that flirting there is illegal and 
could get you 30 days in jail.
• It’s well-known that Albert Einstein 
won the Nobel Prize, but most people 
are misinformed about what he won it 
for. He didn’t receive the award for his 
theory of relativity, but for his expla-
nation of the photoelectric effect.
• The name of one of the most pop-
ular early video games, Pac-Man, 
comes from the Japanese words for “to 
eat.” “Isuzu” means “50 bells” in Jap-
anese, and “Atari” means “prepare to 
be attacked.”
• The lyrics to that favorite Irish 
ballad “O Danny Boy” were actually 
written by an Englishman.
• Hong Kong is not a city — it’s an 
island. The name of the city common-
ly known as Hong Kong is actually 
Victoria.
• A study conducted by the Envi-
ronmental Conservancy shows that 
Viagra is having a beneficial effect on 
the environment, especially in Asian 
countries. It seems that even though 
the drug costs $10 a pill, it’s still 
cheaper than bear’s gall bladder and 
other supposed remedies.
• In ancient Rome, slaves with red hair 
commanded a higher price from buyers.
• Actress Meg Ryan’s given name 
was Margaret Mary Emily Anne Hyra.
***
Thought for the Day: “The trouble 
ain’t that people are ignorant; it’s that 
they know so much that ain’t so.” — 
Josh Billings
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.By Samantha WeaverKing Features Weekly Service
September 16, 2019
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS1. Name either of the two Canadi-
an-born major-league pitchers to toss 
a complete-game no-hitter.
2. Who was the first Houston Astros 
pitcher to win at least 20 games in a 
season?
3. How many times has a Penn State 
football player gone No. 1 in the NFL 
Draft?
4. Before San Antonio in 2008, name 
the last NBA playoff team with only 
one player (minimum 10 games played) 
who averaged 12 or more points a game 
during the regular season.
5. Hall of Famer Red Kelly won 
eight Stanley Cups during his 20-sea-
son NHL playing career. With which 
two teams did he win them?
6. In 2019, Kyle Busch tied a 
NASCAR Cup record by posting 11 
consecutive top-10 finishes to open a 
season. Who else did it?
7. Who was the last British female 
tennis player before Johanna Konta in 
2019 to reach the French Open semifi-
nals in singles?
Answers
1. Dick Fowler (1945) and James 
Paxton (2018).
2. Larry Dierker, who recorded 20 
victories in 1969.
3. Twice — Ki-Jana Carter in 1995 
and Courtney Brown in 2000.
4. The 1953-54 Minneapolis Lakers.
5. Detroit and Toronto (four each).
6. Morgan Shepherd, in 1990.
7. Jo Durie, in 1983.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 16, 2019King Features Weekly Service
ANSWERS BELOWSOLUTION BELOW1. Name either of the two Canadi-
an-born major-league pitchers to toss 
a complete-game no-hitter.
2. Who was the first Houston Astros 
pitcher to win at least 20 games in a 
season?
3. How many times has a Penn State 
football player gone No. 1 in the NFL 
Draft?
4. Before San Antonio in 2008, name 
the last NBA playoff team with only 
one player (minimum 10 games played) 
who averaged 12 or more points a game 
during the regular season.
5. Hall of Famer Red Kelly won 
eight Stanley Cups during his 20-sea-
son NHL playing career. With which 
two teams did he win them?
6. In 2019, Kyle Busch tied a 
NASCAR Cup record by posting 11 
consecutive top-10 finishes to open a 
season. Who else did it?
7. Who was the last British female 
tennis player before Johanna Konta in 
2019 to reach the French Open semifi-
nals in singles?
Answers
1. Dick Fowler (1945) and James 
Paxton (2018).
2. Larry Dierker, who recorded 20 
victories in 1969.
3. Twice — Ki-Jana Carter in 1995 
and Courtney Brown in 2000.
4. The 1953-54 Minneapolis Lakers.
5. Detroit and Toronto (four each).
6. Morgan Shepherd, in 1990.
7. Jo Durie, in 1983.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 16, 2019King Features Weekly Service
SPORTS QUIZ ANSWERSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Junior McCartney Kessler 
won ﬁ  ve-straight matches to 
advance to the quarterﬁ  nals at 
the W15 Lubbock tournament.Florida set to honor 1994 SEC Champs in UF-UT game
The 1994 Gators squad will reunite on Florida Field Saturday afternoon as 
its honored 25 years following its SEC Championship. The '94 team followed 
up the '93 season with another SEC Championship and continued the stint 
for another two years.FOOTBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida coach Dan Mullen 
said Saturday that he likes his 
play calling to be about 50-50 
in terms of rushing and passing. 
He went on to say that he likes 
to tip the scales toward the side 
of the run.
This was just minutes after 
the Gators’ 28-21 victory over 
Kentucky, in which UF threw 
the ball more than it ran it for 
the ﬁ  rst time in four games. 
Florida passed the ball 30 times 
and ran it 27 times, and the 
scale tipping on the side of the 
pass makes sense; the Gators 
trailed for much of the game.
Naturally, Florida aired the 
ball out more. At the same 
time, UF struggled to run the 
ball up until its last offensive 
snap when Josh Hammond took 
an end around 76 yards to the 
house.
Were it not for this last-sec-
ond score — Florida’s longest 
play from scrimmage this sea-
son — the Gators would have 
averaged about 2.3 yards per 
carry on the night. Hammond’s 
run more than doubled that av-
erage to a much more respect-
able 5.1 and dragged UF’s total 
rushing yards up over 100.
Florida is running the ball 
less often than it did in 2018 
through three games. The 
Gators ran the ball 54 percent of 
the time in its ﬁ  rst three games 
last season, compared to 50 per-
cent this season.This slight shift away from 
the ground game corresponds 
with a decrease in the team’s 
rushing efﬁ  ciency and a marked 
increase in its passing efﬁ  cien-
cy. In 2018, again through three 
games, UF’s yards per carry was 
5.4 and its yards per passing 
attempt was 7.4. This season, 
Florida’s YPC dropped to 4.5 
and its YPA spiked to 9.3.
Lamical Perine, the Gators 
clearcut bell cow back and a 
preseason second-team All-SEC 
pick, is averaging just 3.5 YPC. 
That’s down from 6.2 last sea-
son and 7.6 in the ﬁ  rst three 
games.
Perine’s 34 carries is more 
than three times that of the 
team’s second-most utilized 
running back, Dameon Pierce. 
The team’s second- and third-
leading rushers are Hammond, 
who has just one carry, and 
quarterback Feleipe Franks. 
Malik Davis (1.5 YPC) and 
Pierce (also 3.5 YPC), the No. 
2 and 3 running backs on the 
depth chart have not fared 
much better than Florida’s fea-
ture back. Although, the volume 
hasn’t been there for either of 
them, combining for 16 carries.
Against Miami, Florida to-
taled just 50 yards on the ground 
on 28 carries. That was the ﬁ  rst 
time in 13 games the Gators 
failed to accumulate triple digit 
rushing yards. UF had 96 on the 
ground against Florida State in 
2017 and eclipsed 100 rushing 
yards in every game last season.
Florida’s rushing yards bal-looned to 231 against FCS UT 
Martin and came back down 
to Earth against Kentucky with 
138.
Through three games in 
2018, UF averaged 175 yards 
on the ground per game. This 
season, that number is down to 
139.7
Conversely, the team’s pass-
ing yards have increased to 
288.7 per game this season 
from 175.5 at this point last 
year. The Gators aerial attack 
has been the superior option so far. Franks, before suffering a 
season-ending ankle injury, had 
three passes of 65 yards or more 
in three games.
Going forward with a quar-
terback change, most teams 
would likely lean on the run-
ning game with inexperienced 
playcallers adjusting to more 
prominent roles in the offense. 
But Florida’s deﬁ  ciencies on 
the ground may take away that 
crutch.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgMissing person: Florida's run game
Staff Report
Nobody had a particularly good trip 
to Lexington.
The alligatorSports football crew 
battled illness and — most important-
ly — two straight nights of Cook Out, 
while the Gators lost their starting quar-
terback.
I think it’s safe to say everyone is 
happy to move on from what happened 
in Kentucky.
Tennessee comes to Gainesville this 
week, which means Florida is guaran-
teed to win the game in heartbreaking 
fashion at the last second.
Sorry, I don’t make the rules.
But before we get into that game 
and the rest of the picks, we’re actually 
going to debate a good game — No. 11 
Michigan at No. 13 Wisconsin.
Well, not a good game. It’s probably 
going to suck to watch.
But both teams are in the top 15, so 
it counts!
Football writer Dylan Rudolph and 
Online Sports Editor Sam Campisano 
give their thoughts below:
Michigan will win because…
Desperation ﬂ  oods the halls of the 
University of Michigan, slowly ﬁ  lling 
the ofﬁ  ce of head coach Jim Harbaugh.
Despite what Harbaugh-apologists 
are saying, he is on the hot seat this 
year, and big wins are needed for him to 
remain at the helm after his ﬁ  fth season 
with the program. 
The good thing is he has the tools to 
do it. 
Talent is rampant on both sides of 
the ball. No. 11 Michigan comes into 
the matchup against Wisconsin averag-
ing 32 points a game and is ranked No. 
20 nationally in total yards allowed per 
contest (272).
Though the Wolverines ducked an 
early upset against an unranked but tal-
ented Army team in Week 2, the team 
did come out of the game with some 
useful lessons learned. 
Most notable was that stopping the 
run will be crucial this season. Michigan 
allowed Army to establish the ground 
game early, storming right down the PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN / 850 AM
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Running back Lamical Perine is averaging 3.5 yards per carry 
this season compared to last season's 6.2. 
HBO
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Have you ever 
wondered what it’s like 
for football players on 
game day? What they 
eat before the matchup? 
What their meetings 
are like prior to kickoff? 
What actually goes on 
inside one of Florida’s 
practices leading up the 
game?Gators fans will get the 
chance to have (most) of 
their questions answered 
with HBO’s newest TV 
show featuring collegiate 
football programs across 
the country, including 
the University of Florida.
The new HBO series, 
“24/7 College Football,” 
will air over a four-
week span, kicking off 
with the Florida Gators 
preparing for their home game against Towson 
on Sept. 28. The episode 
will air on Wednesday, 
Oct. 2 at 10 p.m. giving 
Florida fans an inside 
look at what happens in 
the week leading up to a 
gameday.
The other episodes 
will include Penn 
State's preparation 
against Purdue, Arizona 
State preparing for 
Washington State and Washington State against 
Colorado.
Liev Schreiber, the 
man who voices "Hard 
Knocks," will narrate the 
college football-based 
series.
Fans can catch all 
of the episodes live on 
HBO, HBO GO, HBO on 
Demand and HBO NOW.
“We are excited to 
have this opportunity 
to be the ﬁ  rst college football program to be 
showcased on HBO’s 
24/7 franchise,” coach 
Dan Mullen said in a 
release. “I am a big fan 
of 'Hard Knocks' and I 
look forward to working 
with some of the best in 
the business.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators to be featured in new series on HBO
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019    ALLIGATOR   12
When did it
352-376-4090 | bodytechtattoo.com
Bodytech_tattoo
Bodytech_piercingsStart for you?
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
VOLLEYBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The No. 11 Gators volleyball 
team is fresh off a dominating sweep 
of in-state rival No. 23 Florida State. 
Florida hosts this weekend’s Gator 
Invitational, where it will play Lib-
erty, Northern Arizona and Louisi-
ana-Lafayette. Here are some things 
to know about UF’s competition this 
weekend:
Liberty
Game time: Friday at noon
Despite a slate of games that 
might not seem all that impressive, 
it won’t be as easy as it seems on the 
surface. Florida played on Tuesday, 
and because of a mandated day off 
from practice gave it only one day to 
prepare for three teams. 
Coach Mary Wise stressed that 
the Flames aren’t to be overlooked. 
“Ton of respect for them,” Wise 
said. “Their experience, they’re a 
very good serving team, they have 
size in the middle to block balls…
very well-coached.”
Liberty (5-4) has already knocked 
off a pair of Power 5 opponents in 
Virginia Tech (3-1) and Virginia (3-
0) and poses an interesting threat to 
UF. 
The Flames are led offensively by 
outside hitter Amelia Johnson. The 6-foot redshirt junior averages seven 
kills per set and leads the team in 
kills with 119. Middle blocker Anna 
Gragg, while she’s only been given 
139 total attacks, converts at a high 
rate of .446. 
Standing at 6-foot-3, though, 
it’s going to be difﬁ  cult for Gragg 
to match up with Florida’s middle 
blockers, 6-foot-8 Rachael Kramer 
and 6-foot-6 Lauren Dooley. 
Northern Arizona
Game time: Friday at 7 p.m.
The Lumberjacks (6-3) stunned 
the college volleyball world last sea-
son when they upset the then-No. 
8 Gators for their ﬁ  rst win over a 
ranked opponent in school history. 
And there’s a chance they could 
do it again. 
Northern Arizona took then-No. 
10 Michigan to ﬁ  ve sets before losing 
and swept LSU last weekend. It has 
won four in a row and ﬁ  ve of its last 
six matches. The Lumberjacks were 
also unanimous preseason favor-
ites to repeat as Big Sky Conference 
champions.  
It all starts with senior Abby 
Akin. The senior middle blocker is 
second on the team in kills and has 
a hitting percentage of .418. She’s a 
major threat defensively, as she is 
10th in the country in blocks per set 
with 1.67. 
Northern Arizona also has a pair of players with over 100 digs in 
defensive specialist Jasmine West 
(137) and outside hitter Sydney 
Lema (107). 
The Lumberjacks come into 
this matchup with hot hands. They 
swept the Lumberjack Invite and 
haven’t dropped a set since Sept. 7. 
Louisiana-Lafayette
Game time: Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
The Ragin’ Cajuns have offered 
their fans more rage than success on 
the volleyball court this season. 
Louisiana’s record is a middling 
4-6, but its wins have come against 
schools like Eastern Michigan and 
Florida A&M. Twice this season the 
Ragin’ Cajuns have shown up to a 
tournament and not won a single set. 
Louisiana has ﬂ  uctuated between 
the highs of two 20-win seasons in 
2014 and 2017 and the lows of three 
single-digit win seasons since coach 
Heather Mazeitis-Fontenot took over 
in 2008. 
The Ragin’ Cajuns’ offense has 
been more offensive to the game of 
volleyball than to its opponents. 
No player has hit the 90-kill mark 
in 10 matches, though freshman 
right side hitter Celeste Darling has 
83 kills. The team as a whole is hit-
ting a woeful .167, which is 291st in 
the country. 
The Ragin’ Cajuns have been sig-
niﬁ  cantly better defensively, allow-ing a hitting percentage of .189, the 
69th-best mark in the country. Even 
so, it still hasn’t been enough to pre-
vent losses against better teams from 
piling up. 
Still, college volleyball offers 
enough parity that no opponent 
should be taken lightly, which is 
something that Wise pointed out. 
“Every single program has the tal-ent that could be on anybody else’s 
roster,” said Wise. “There just isn’t a 
huge talent gap, and that’s why the 
equity across our sport is — honest-
ly, I don’t know what other sport has 
the same.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgFlorida set to host 3 teams in tournament this weekend 
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise has led her team to a 5-2 season so far in 2019. 
Lawren Simmons / Alligator Staff
Forward Vanessa Kara scored Florida’s ﬁ  rst two 
goals versus LSU. 
SOCCER
By Jordan Perez
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team opened up its 
2019 conference grind much later than ex-
pected.  
After waiting more than two hours in 
a lightning delay, the Gators shutout 2018 
SEC champion LSU 3-0 in their Thurs-
day evening conference opener in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana.
The delay took the match originally 
scheduled for 8 p.m. to a 10:05 p.m. start. 
But the late start  didn’t deter the Gators’ 
focus or late-night energy. 
The stunner brought the Gators’ (5-4) 
win streak to three games, while the Tigers 
(2-5-1) plummeted to a four-game losing 
streak.
Senior forward Vanessa Kara continued to live up to her SEC Offensive Player of 
the Week honor, scoring the ﬁ  rst two goals 
of the game, the ﬁ  rst of which came in the 
22nd minute. 
Kara found plenty of opportunities 
throughout the match, taking advantage of 
the Tigers’ inability to hold onto a posses-
sion for a sizable amount of time. A solid 
setup from midﬁ  elder Tess Sapone allowed 
Kara to knock a header in past LSU goalie 
Emma Grace Goldman. 
Kara didn’t let Goldman off easy in the 
second half. An assist from redshirt junior 
defender Kit Loferski sent Kara sliding in 
for the Gators’ second goal in the 47th min-
ute. 
Loferski followed up with a goal of her 
own in the 61st minute on an individual 
effort, taking the Gators up 3-0 for the ﬁ  nal 
score.Despite allowing three goals, Goldman 
strung together an impressive 10 saves 
against a relentless Florida offense that to-
taled 13 shots on goal.
Goalkeeper Susi Espinoza earned her 
third-consecutive shutout on the Gators’ 
season, contributing three saves when LSU 
dug up the slightest amount of offensive 
traction in the second period. But that mo-
mentum was short-lived when the Tigers 
were only able to muster a total of three 
shots on goal. 
Florida extended its all-time series lead 
against LSU to 19-1. With its fresh winning 
streak under its belt, the stain of an ugly 
early-season four-game losing streak is 
quickly fading from memory.
@jrdnprz
jperez@alligator.orgGators trounce LSU Tigers 3-0 in conference openerKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR
FLORIDA defense vs. TENNESSEE offense
Brandon KennedyCJarrett GuarantanoQBTy ChandlerRBTim JordanRB
Kyree
CampbellNT
Marco
WilsonCB
CJ Henderson 
or Jaydon Hill 
or Chester 
KimbroughCB
Jabari
ZunigaDE
Adam
ShulerDT
Trey Dean III or
Amari BurneySTAR
David
Reese IIMIKE
Amari Burney 
or Ventrell 
MillerWILL
Jon Greenard or 
Jeremiah MoonBUCK
Donovan Stiner or 
Shawn DavisS
Jeawon T aylor or
Brad StewartSTrey SmithGWanya MorrisTMarquez 
CallawayWR
Darnell
 WrightGK’Rojhn 
CalbertTDominick 
Wood-AndersonTE Jauan 
JenningsWRFLORIDA offense vs. TENNESSEE defense
Nick BuchananC
Kyle Trask or 
Emory JonesQB
Lamical
PerineRBStone
ForsytheTBrett
HeggieLG
Van
JeffersonZChristopher
BleichRG
Jean
DelanceTKyle Pitts or 
Lucas KrullTE
Josh Hammond or
Freddie SwainY
Tyrie Cleveland or
Trevon GrimesXDaniel
BituliMIKE
Greg
EmersonNT
Aubrey 
SolomonDTLaTrell 
BumphusDEKenneth 
George Jr.CB
Kivon 
BennettJACK
Warren Burrell or 
Shawn ShamburgerCBHenry T o’o 
To’oOLB
Darrell
T aylorOLBNigel
WarriorS
Theo
JacksonSTyler (16-7) Mark (16-7) Kyle (16-7) Nick (15-8)
TENN @ UF (14.5) UF UF UF UT
MICH @ WISC (-3.5) WISC WISC WISC WISC
AUB @ TAMU (-4.5) AUB TAMU AUB TAMU
LOU @ FSU (-7.5) FSU LOU FSU LOU
UK @ MISS ST (-7.5) UK UK MISS ST UK
SCAR @ MIZZ (-9.5) SCAR MIZZ SCAR MIZZ
OK ST @ TEX (-5.5) TEX TEX TEX TEX
ND @ UGA (-13.5) UGA UGA UGA ND
Edgar (14-9) Graham (13-10) Sam (12-11) Dylan (11-12)
TENN @ UF (14.5) UT UF UT UF
MICH @ WISC (-3.5) WISC MICH WISC MICH
AUB @ TAMU (-4.5) TAMU TAMU AUB TAMU
LOU @ FSU (-7.5) FSU LOU LOU LOU
UK @ MISS ST (-7.5) UK UK UK UK
SCAR @ MIZZ (-9.5) MIZZ SCAR USC MIZZ
OK ST @ TEX (-5.5) TEX TEX UT TEX
ND @ UGA (-13.5) UGA ND ND UGA
Zach (10-13) Brian (9-14) Mari (7-16)
TENN @ UF (14.5) UF UT UF
MICH @ WISC (-3.5) WISC WISC WISC
AUB @ TAMU (-4.5) AUB TAMU AUB
LOU @ FSU (-7.5) LOU FSU FSU
UK @ MISS ST (-7.5) UK UK UK
SCAR @ MIZZ (-9.5) SCAR SCAR MIZZ
OK ST @ TEX (-5.5) TEX TEX TEX
ND @ UGA (-13.5) UGA ND UGAThe newly hired offensive coordinator under then-Flor-
ida coach Jim McElwain was looking to sign a quarterback 
after the Gators failed to land a commitment from one in 
the 2015 recruiting cycle. 
Nussmeier made frequent trips to Manvel when he held 
the same role at Alabama, and in the spring of 2015, he 
attended a Mavericks spring practice. It was there that he 
first saw Trask.
Upon watching him sling the ball across the field on 
deep comeback routes, Nussmeier was impressed. But, like 
other coaches before him, he saw Trask’s role on the team 
as a red flag.
Unlike those other coaches, however, Nussmeier wanted 
to see more.
Trask was invited to camp in Gainesville in June and 
again in July. Both times, he backed up what he showed in 
practice. At the second camp, he received an offer.
“He earned it,” Bennett said.
On July 26th, Trask announced his commitment to 
the University of Florida. After that, the schools that had 
spurned him before began showing interest again.
“They started calling like, ‘who is this Kyle Trask kid?’” 
Crumedy said. “It’s the guy we told you (about) three 
months ago that you didn’t want to have anything to do 
with.”
***
Many quarterbacks want to be the only player at that po-
sition in a recruiting class. They take recruitment of another 
player as a vote of no confidence in their abilities.
Trask didn’t have the luxury of taking that approach.
His commitment to Florida never wavered. Not even 
when the Gators began recruiting Franks, one of the top 
quarterbacks in the nation.
“He isn’t going to run away from a challenge,” Crumedy 
said. “He didn’t care who they signed.”
Trask had to wait his turn at Florida, as well. He red-
shirted in 2016 and missed all of 2017 with an injury.
But the Manvel coaches still expected Trask to get his 
chance.
“He’s a worker bee,” Bennett said. “He’s going to find a 
way to get on the field.”
A graduate of UF with a degree in sports management, 
he could have transferred to any FBS school in the coun-
try with immediate eligibility. Just like in high school, he 
didn’t consider it.
“I think the whole portal thing in the past year or two 
has been a big thing,” he told the media Monday. “But this 
is one of the best schools in the country, so I figured why 
leave when I have a top 10 education, friends I love dearly, 
a football team that’s very supportive of me, and really I 
was just preparing every day as if I was the starter, as I 
should be. I took advantage of the opportunity I’m given.”
Trask served as Franks’ backup to begin 2018, but got 
his first extended playing time late in UF’s blowout loss to 
Missouri after a bad game from Franks. He led a touchdown 
drive against the Tigers, but injured his foot, which side-
lined him for the rest of the season.
Like a DMV patron at lunchtime, Trask seemed doomed 
to wait. 
“He’s approaching (being the backup) just like he did in 
high school: Supporting the guy in front of him and always 
staying ready,” Bennett said. “Kyle’s one of those throw-
back kind of guys.”
Now, the Gators need him to be ready. It’s his team, and 
Florida’s New Year’s Six aspirations hang on Trask’s ability 
to run the offense successfully. 
But coach Dan Mullen and his staff believe in him. His 
teammates believe in him. Even fickle UF fans were con-
verted by his impressive first meaningful outing. 
The Manvel coaches — who believed in him most of 
all — aren’t surprised that he’s in this position. They knew 
he’d be starting at Florida one day.
It was just a question of when.
“They’re going to do a 30 for 30 on ESPN about how he 
was a backup quarterback in high school,” Crumedy said, 
“and how his coaches must have been idiots to not play 
him.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgTrask’s ready to lead‘Expert’ picks for the weekALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019   KICKOFF
BEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
18 & UP
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
1718 West University AvenueWells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJFUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
 FRIDAY & SATURDAY
1728 West University Avenue
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
FRIDAY &
GO
GATORS!
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseGOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
After a mildly disappointing start to the 
season a few weeks ago, the Gators men’s 
golf team will strive to build some much-
needed momentum this weekend at the 
OFCC/Fighting Illini Invitational in Chicago.
Earlier this month, Florida succumbed 
to a combination of sluggish play and in-
experience in the season-opening Carpet 
Capital Collegiate. The result was a meager 
10th-place ﬁ  nish among a ﬁ  eld that includ-
ed three ranked teams. 
Freshmen Ricky Castillo and Quentin 
Debove saw their ﬁ  rst competitive action 
among the starting ﬁ  ve, and veterans like 
junior Chris Nido and sophomore Eugene 
Hong struggled to ﬁ  nd their games all week.
This weekend’s Illinois-hosted tourna-
ment features 10 ranked programs accord-ing to the Bushnell Golfweek Preseason 
Coaches poll, including three of the top 
ﬁ  ve: No. 1 Texas, No. 3 Georgia Tech and 
No. 4 Oklahoma State.
The 54-hole event begins with early 
morning tee times on Friday, followed by 
second-and-third round action on Saturday 
and Sunday.
Olympia Fields Country Club, past-host 
of two U.S. Open Championships and two 
PGA Championships, will once again open 
its gates to host the annual invitational. The 
famed North Course stretches out to a 7,205 
par 70 layout, meaning this weekend’s ﬁ  eld 
will likely have pristine major champion-
ship-like conditions to compete on.
If inexperience cost the Gators in its sea-
son opener, coach J.C. Deacon is not help-
ing his cause in his ﬁ  rst trip to the Windy 
City at the helm of the program. Three 
freshman – Castillo, Debove and John Du-
Bois – earned spots on the starting lineup. Joining them is junior John Axelsen and 
Hong at the No. 1 and No. 5 spots, respec-
tively.
While all three fresh faces struggled 
in Georgia in their ﬁ  rst collegiate events, 
their scores should carry little weight. After 
all, Castillo has been a world-class player 
among the amateur ranks for years, and De-
bove and Dubois similarly earned spots on 
both the roster and this week’s lineup for 
good reason.
Without a doubt, this weekend will 
paint a strong image of where Deacon’s 
squad is at. The golf course is brute, the 
ﬁ  eld is elite and only time will tell how this 
young Florida squad will fare.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgGators set to face elite field in Chicago
Alligator File Photo
The Gators ﬁ  nished 10th in their ﬁ  rst event of the 
season and look to build on that in Chicago. 
ﬁ  eld on a 10-play, 60-yard drive with 
no pass attempts in its second pos-
session of the game. 
But Michigan adjusted in the sec-
ond half, straying away from its base 
3-4 defense that the Black Knights 
abused up the middle and opted to 
stuff the box with big tacklers. Seven 
Michigan players set career highs in 
total tackles against Army, including 
linebacker Jordan Glasgow (11), de-
fensive back Brad Hawkins (10) and 
defensive lineman Aidan Hutchin-
son (10).
Michigan will need to do much of 
the same if it hopes to stop the na-
tion’s top running back in Wiscon-
sin’s Jonathan Taylor, who is tied for 
fourth in the country with ﬁ  ve rush-
ing touchdowns and 237 yards on 
the ground as well as 65 yards and 
three more touchdowns receiving in 
just two games thus far. 
This is a perfect moment for Har-
baugh to sell out and put a big win on his resume against a Badgers 
team that does not possess the over-
all talent his does but comes in with 
much more conﬁ  dence. 
-Dylan Rudolph
Wisconsin (-3.5) will win be-
cause…
Jim Harbaugh can’t coach in big 
games.
The Michigan coach is 2-10 
against AP top-13 teams since tak-
ing over in 2015. That dire record 
includes four-straight losses to top 
rival Ohio State and two losses in 
New Year’s Six bowls, including last 
year’s 41-15 beatdown courtesy of 
UF.
The Badgers enter this weekend’s 
game as the No. 13 team in the coun-
try, and for good reason: They’ve 
outscored their opponents 110-0 in 
their two games this year.
Wisconsin has another key fac-
tor going in its favor — the raucous 
Madison crowd behind it. It’s no se-cret that Camp Randall Stadium pro-
duces one of the best atmospheres in 
college football, and the fans will no 
doubt be extra rowdy for a matchup 
of this magnitude. Wisconsin is 23-5 
at home since coach Paul Chryst 
took over in 2015, including a 24-10 
win the last time these two teams 
met in Madison in 2017. 
Michigan needed overtime to 
beat Army in its last game. The Bad-
gers haven’t allowed a point all sea-
son. This is an easy pick.  
-Sam Campisano
Now onto the picks...
Tyler “Don’t Sleep on the Jags” 
Nettuno is tied for ﬁ  rst place at 16-7, 
but after the past two of three Jags 
games, I don’t even know what “ﬁ  rst 
place” is for you anymore. I mean, 
yes, we all realize you struggled with 
that Thursday night slate against 
the Titans, and yes, we sympathize 
that you haven’t had a Sunday night 
prime-time game in almost a decade, 
and yes, we also feel bad that the whole Nick Foles thing didn’t pan 
out as you hoped it would, but you 
keep wearing your Jags hat to the of-
ﬁ  ce. You do you for DUUUUUVAL.
Also in ﬁ  rst is Mark “Nice 
Picks” Long, who happened to pick 
last week’s games identical to Ty-
ler. I guess great minds think alike, 
Mark. Although, we did only go 4-3. 
Oh well, we’re still batting over .500. 
Just try to keep your eyes on your 
own paper when making your picks 
from now on.
Along with Tyler and Mark, Kyle 
“Don’t Call Me BiteSquad” Wood, 
is also tied for ﬁ  rst place. Kyle had a 
rough night picking up Mari’s meal 
from Chipotle last week — despite 
the fact she had everything preor-
dered for him to just walk in and 
pick up. She covered all her bases, 
texting him as he left she wanted 
Coke in her drink cup and a side of 
salad dressing for her bowl. Unfor-
tunately for Mari, neither of those 
things came back to the ofﬁ  ce that night. Well, technically her 32 oz. 
cup did, but it was empty, so now 
it provides some nice ofﬁ  ce decor on 
her desk. 
In fourth at 15-8 is Nick “Hea-
then” De La Torre, who implied on 
Twitter that he would be interested 
in being a taste-tester for KFC’s new 
donut sandwich. Gross, Nick. 
In ﬁ  fth at 14-9 is Edgar “Where 
Those Picks At?” Thompson, who, 
despite asking Tyler to send the 
games out at the beginning of the 
week, decided he would wait until 
after 7 on Thursday night to send in 
the email. And, it was only after Ty-
ler sent an email and Kyle followed 
up with a text to remind him. It’s 
ﬁ  ne, Edgar. From now on, I’ll send 
them a month in advance to make 
sure you have time.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports/.PICKS,  from pg. 13INSIDE
Florida quarterback Kyle Trask hasn’t started a game since his freshman 
year of high school. Read about how he became UF’s starter inside.  
ONLINE
Read our full picks column featuring alligatorSports staff and other  
Florida beat writers online at www.alligator.org/sports/. 
No Trask Too DauntingNo Trask Too Daunting
He wasn’t a starter 
in high school. 
Now, he has to lead 
a top-10 program.KICK OFF
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
It will be a strange feeling for 
Kyle Trask on Saturday. One he 
hasn’t felt in nearly seven years.
The Gators’ redshirt junior will 
be a starting quarterback, once 
again.
But this opportunity wasn’t 
supposed to come. A former high 
school backup, Trask’s role on the 
team was supposed to be relegat-
ed to donning a headset, motion-
ing hand signals from the sideline 
and waiting. A lot of waiting.
Waiting for UF to take a com-
manding lead on an FCS team so 
he could get a taste of being on 
the ﬁ  eld, even if it was garbage 
time. It’s not ideal, but it’s the 
situation he found himself in.
After all, the Gators already 
had their guy. 
Fellow redshirt junior Feleipe 
Franks was entrenched as the 
team’s starting quarterback, and 
for good reason. He had a break-
out season in 2018, leading the 
team to a New Year’s Six Bowl 
for the ﬁ  rst time in the College Football Playoff era. The Gators 
knocked off Michigan in the 
Peach Bowl, 41-15. 
Throughout spring and fall 
camps, it was clear that Franks 
was the starter.
But that all changed Saturday 
night, when Franks’ season came 
to an end after injuring his ankle 
against Kentucky. 
Trask’s number was called. He 
ﬁ  nally had his chance.
And he shined.
Florida trailed 21-10 when he 
entered the game at the beginning 
of the fourth quarter. Trask led 
the Gators on a 19-0 run, and they 
won 29-21. His presence sparked 
the comeback and preserved UF’s 
undefeated record and seven-
game win streak.
Now, Trask prepares for his 
ﬁ  rst collegiate start against Ten-
nessee on Saturday. The eyes of 
the college football world are all 
on him now, but just a few short 
years ago, most FBS recruiters 
had no interest.
***You have to go back further 
than college to ﬁ  nd the last time 
Trask started a game. You could 
scroll through every game log 
from his time with the varsity 
team at Manvel High School and 
still not ﬁ  nd it. That’s because 
the last time the signal-caller led 
an offense’s opening drive was 
on junior varsity, when he was a 
member of Manvel’s Freshman A 
team.
He impressed the Mavericks’ 
coaching staff his freshman year, 
starting every game. He was 
called up to varsity as a sopho-
more to compete for the starting 
job.
Trask had the arm. He had the 
accuracy. The only thing holding 
him back was another sophomore 
in the quarterback room: current-
Houston quarterback D’Eriq King.
King has now become one of 
the best players in college foot-
ball. He’s in the running for the 
Heisman Trophy, and his raw 
ability wasn’t lost on the Manvel 
coaches.
“(King) can do things with his 
feet people only can dream of,” Manvel offensive coordinator 
Kendrick Crumedy said. “He can 
make every throw on the ﬁ  eld.”
King was a better ﬁ  t than Trask 
in the Mavericks’ spread offense, 
and without a consistent running 
game, the coaches felt that King 
would make the offense more 
successful.
He won the job and never let 
go.
It’s hard to argue the coaches 
made the wrong decision. King 
had one of the most proliﬁ  c ca-
reers in Texas high school his-
tory, breaking Kyler Murray’s 
6A career passing touchdowns 
record of 117. But with King’s 
rise, Trask was forced to wait — 
something that would become a 
common theme throughtout his 
football career.
A third quarterback who com-
peted with Trask and King de-
cided to transfer, an option that 
could have appealed to Trask.
“Kyle could have started at any 
high school in the state of Texas,” 
Crumedy said.
But it wasn’t an option Trask 
considered. He stayed at Manvel, serving as King’s backup for the 
next three seasons.
“Kyle isn’t the type of kid that 
would transfer,” Crumedy said. 
“He’s a competitor.”
***
Being a backup quarterback is 
a strange job. It’s one Trask is all 
too familiar with.
Unlike being a backup line-
backer or defensive lineman, 
where reserve players are rotated 
in throughout the game, quarter-
backs who aren’t starting only see 
the ﬁ  eld when there’s an injury 
to the starter or a game is out of 
hand.
Those terms rarely give back-
ups a chance to showcase their 
abilities to recruiters, but Trask 
wasn’t deterred.
Crumedy said he prepared 
for every game as if he were the 
starter.
“Kyle just kept chopping 
wood, carrying water,” he said. 
“He’s one of the hardest-working 
kids I’ve ever been around.”
Trask was the hardest worker 
in the weight room. He pushed 
his teammates, including King — 
his lifting partner — to improve.
“Kyle never complained,” re-
ceivers coach Greg Bennett said. 
“In fact, he made D’Eriq King bet-
ter.”
Despite the hard work, the re-
cruiting attention didn’t come.
It wasn’t due to a low proﬁ  le, 
either. College coaches frequently 
stopped in Manvel to see top-tier 
talent like safety Deontay An-
derson and tight end D’Vaughn 
Pennamon, both of whom signed 
with Ole Miss.
“Everybody in America came 
to Manvel,” Crumedy said.
The Mavericks coaching staff 
did everything they could to help 
Trask gain offers. They used him 
early on in games so he could get 
meaningful game ﬁ  lm. They di-
rected college scouts toward him 
in hopes that they would show 
interest. 
College coaches watched Trask 
throw in practice and were blown 
away.
“Coaches were like, ‘oh my 
God, that kid can really throw the 
football,’” Crumedy said.
Then, those coaches found out 
Trask didn’t play.
Each time, the Manvel coaches 
heard the same thing: Nobody 
wanted to sign a backup quarter-
back.
***
Enter Doug Nussmeier.Trask ready to lead team after years of waiting
Chris King/ Alligator Staff
Editor Tyler Nettuno   Photos for Cover Illustration Chris King
Alligator, Friday, September 20, 2019