We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Who’s performing at UF
Comedian Jaboukie Young-White and pop singer Noah Cyrus to 
come, pg. 4
Swimmer dies after training at UF
International swimmer Kenneth T o died  Monday,  pg. 8UF baseball loses series opener to 
Vanderbilt, 5-0
The Commodores pulled away in the seventh 
against Jordan Butler and the UF relievers, pg. 14FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 71
THREE MEMBERS OF UF 
YOUNG AMERICANS FOR 
FREEDOM ATTENDED THE 
ORDER SIGNING
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
President Donald Trump signed an exec-
utive order backing free speech on campus Thursday.
The order threatens to cut funding from 
universities if the institutions do not agree 
to protect free speech, according to a report 
from The Associated Press.  
Although public universities are already 
required to uphold the First Amendment, 
which promises freedom of speech, this 
order will leave it to federal agencies that 
award grants to enforce it, according to AP. 
Three members of the UF chapter of Young Americans for Freedom, including 
current president Sarah Long, attended 
Trump’s signing of the order in Washington 
D.C. 
“It’s good that the president is standing 
up and saying, ‘Hey, there is an issue of free 
speech on university campuses,’” Dylan Fi-
nucan,  the UF Young Americans for Free-
dom campus lecture director, said. “If these 
campuses want to be funded, they have to 
honor their commitment to free speech.’”Fincan said although free speech is al-
ready apparent on campus, the group often 
meets hostility and discrimination against 
its viewpoints. This order may help the 
university’s commitment to free speech, he 
said.
“You can’t executive order students to be 
respectful towards free speech,” he said.
This order comes after UF Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom ﬁ  led a lawsuit against Executive order to back free speech on college campuses
SEE YAF,  PAGE 4
LIVING IN GAINESVILLE: 
STUDENT HOUSING (PART 2 OF 4)
SIX NEW LUXURY APARTMENT COMPLEXES 
WILL BE BUILT BY 2020
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Sydney Rosholt wanted the exclusive pool and top-ﬂ  oor 
views when she signed up for the VIP package at The Stan-
dard. 
She and her three roommates planned movie and cooking 
nights. 
But instead of the taller ceilings and the larger space she 
signed for, Rosholt walked into a fourth-ﬂ  oor apartment on 
move-in day. 
She thought it was a mistake but found that The Standard 
overbooked its VIP ﬂ  oors. The apartment included the ﬂ  at-
screen television they were supposed to have, but they still 
didn’t have the remote.
Her parents pay the $950 a month VIP price for one of the 
four rooms despite not receiving what her lease promised. 
They pay the extra $100 a month so their daughter can still 
have access to the nicer pool. 
Only a few blocks of sidewalk divide Roshold’s luxury 
apartment on Southwest 13th Street and West University Av-
enue from more affordable apartments.
Of the nearly 56,000 students at UF, 80 percent live in 
off-campus housing, said Nora Kilroy, the director of UF Off-
Campus Life. Six new luxury apartment complexes, similar to 
The Standard, will be built by 2020, meaning the majority of 
UF students will have to decide between better a location or 
a lower cost. 
Lauren Taylor, a 22-year-old UF psychology alumna, lives 
three blocks away from Rosholt in College Park. Instead of 
shiny quartz counters and ﬂ  oor-to-ceiling windows like at 
The Standard, Taylor’s blue-painted cinder block apartment is 
quaint and more than 50 years old.Students choose 
between luxury, 
aﬀ  ordability
SEE STORY,  PAGE 3
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Control the pace. 
That’s been the Gators’ approach for besting their op-
ponents all season. 
They get the advantage by working time off the shot 
clock, slowing down the tempo and dictating the pace of 
the game.
The strategy worked in No.10-seeded Florida’s favor 
against No. 7-seeded Nevada in the First Round of the 
NCAA Tournament. They topped the Wolf Pack 70-61 in 
Des Moines, Iowa.
Florida advanced to the Second Round to take on Michi-
gan on Saturday.Center Kevarrius Hayes piloted a Florida offense that 
shot 45.3 percent for the game with a team-high 16 points 
on 5-of-6 shooting.
Guard Jalen Hudson added 15 points and three re-
bounds, and two other Gators — guard KeVaughn Allen 
and forward Keyontae Johnson — ﬁ  nished in double ﬁ  g-
ures with 10 points apiece. 
The Gators entered the matchup with a defense that al-
lows just 63.6 points per game, and they kept pressure on 
the Nevada offense.
Florida held a Wolf Pack team that averaged 80.7 points 
entering the game to just 28 ﬁ  rst-half points.
The Gators made it difﬁ  cult for Nevada to drive into the Florida hangs on to top Nevada in 
ﬁ  rst round of NCAA Tournament
The Associated Press
Florida guard Jalen Hudson (right) grabs a loose ball over Nevada guard Jazz Johnson during the Gators’ 70-61 
win in the First Round in the NCAA T ournament on Thursday in Des Moines, Iowa.
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 14T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
TODAY
Documentary Night
When: 6 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, at 1220 SE 
Veitch St.
What: The UF chapter of the 
Sustainable Ocean Alliance will 
host a free documentary night 
with a panel of experts includ-
ing Chris Castro, the director 
of sustainability for the city of 
Orlando. National Geographic’s 
“Paris to Pittsburgh” will be 
shown. The event is in partner-
ship with the Florida Climate 
Institute, the UF Office of 
Sustainability and the Surfrider 
Foundation.
Big Orange Festival 2019
When: 7-11:30 p.m.
Where: North Lawn, Reitz 
Union
What: The festival will fea-
ture a concert by Noah Cyrus. 
Ocean Park Standoff will open. 
There will also be free food like 
glow-in-the-dark cotton candy, 
activities, rides and music by 
DJ Magnum. The first 300 stu-
dents who arrive will get a free 
T-shirt. The event is free for UF 
students. Students must bring 
their Gator 1 IDs for free admis-
sion. No guests are allowed.
The Working Palestinian: 
Lecture from Andrew Ross
When: 7-9 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center, at 
433 S. Main St.
What: Andrew Ross, a profes-
sor at New York University and 
the author of “Stone Men: The 
Palestinians who Built Israel,” 
will discuss his research on 
Palestine’s need for representa-
tion on the basis of “sweat eq-
uity.” Ross’s ethnographic work 
discusses Palestinians build-
ing Israel, even as their homes 
are being destroyed to portray 
the perspective of the working 
Palestinian. There will be free 
food and a chance to meet Ross.
Turban Day
When: 10 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: Turlington Plaza
What: The UF Sikh Students 
Association will host Turban 
Day to make students aware of 
Sikhism and experience its cul-
ture. The members of the Sikh 
Students Association will help 
tie turbans around students’ 
heads. A turban represents a commitment to faith and iden-
tity for the Sikhs. The associa-
tion is hosting Turban Day to 
help change people’s perception 
of Sikh faith.
Rowdy Magazine Vol. 1 Launch 
Party
When: 7-10:30 p.m.
Where: TheSL8, at 10 E. 
University Ave. 
What: Rowdy Magazine will 
celebrate the launch of its first is-
sue, “An Odyssey through Space 
and Time.” Rowdy Magazine 
will partner with local artists 
and entrepreneurs for a celebra-
tion of Women’s History Month 
and the debut issue. There will 
be pop-up shops, art installa-
tions and other vendors. Gator 
VR President Samantha Garcia 
will showcase virtual reality 
games she created. The Crystal 
Mind will offer tarot readings, 
and LVR Ink will do a pop-up 
screen printing and will sell two 
custom shirt designs. Tickets 
will be $5 in advance through 
Rowdy Magazine’s Venmo ac-
count @rowdymagazine.  
SATURDAY
Mi Apa Domino Tournament 
and Elio Piedra Conga Drum 
Ensemble
When: 5-8 p.m.
Where: Mi Apa Latin Cafe, at 
114 SW 34th St. 
What: Elio Piedra and his congo 
drum ensemble will play dur-
ing a tournament of dominos, 
a Cuban game. There will be 
Cuban food and other Cuban 
games. Potential domino play-
ers can reserve a spot at www.
bullacubana.org. 
The Florida Vintage Market
When: 1-5:30 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, at 210 SW 
Second Ave.
What: A variety of vendors will 
have vintage clothes, jewelry 
and handmade goods for sale. 
Vendors include: Dayglodiva, 
Slay Finds, Reinvented, Florida 
Indigo Market, McIntoshWorld, 
Dave’s Freshly Used, Bookish 
Apothecary, Ritual Tree Soy 
Candles, The Vintage Hype 
Beast, The Crystal Mind, Britt 
Pearman Art, Gville Thrift, 
Trivial Trinkets, Apple and 
Tree Art, M & G Art Innovators, 
Connie’s Distribution, Star 
Crossed Shop, Always True Co., 
Solmana, Soleil Vintage and Bad 
Pancakes. To register a vendor, 
email gazzellisportsvintage@
gmail.com.SUNDAY
Camp Kesem “Why’s that in 
your closet?”
When: 8 a.m.- noon
Where: Depot Park, at 874 SE 
Fourth St. 
What: This 5K will help sup-
port the Camp Kesem organiza-
tion, which supports children 
when their parents have can-
cer. The theme, “Why’s that in 
your closet?” is to get people to 
dress in wacky, crazy clothes. 
Check-ins will begin at 8 a.m. 
and the race will begin at 8:30 
a.m. The top three runners 
will get a one-month member-
ship to Gainesville Health and 
Wellness. There will also be 
a raffle for a $100 gift card to 
Whole Foods, three one-month 
memberships to Hot Worx and 
a Dlites ice cream cake. Student 
tickets are $15, and regular tick-
ets are $20.  
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Corrections 
In a story titled "Mayor Lauren 
Poe dominates in race" in 
Wednesday's edition of The 
Alligator, Mayor Lauren Poe was 
elected for his second term on 
the city commission as mayor. The 
Alligator reported differently. 
In a story titled "UF robotics team 
will soon compete in basketball 
competition" in the March 1 
edition, Kim Olson is the Land 
O'Lakes chief communications 
officer. The Alligator reported 
differently.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  44°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 71FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Taylor’s apartment has no pool 
or campus views, but she has no 
complaints because she pays $400 
a month for her apartment, which is 
walking distance from campus.
Rosholt still re-signed for Fall 
2019 after her experience this year 
because she didn’t want to give up 
the convenient location. She didn’t 
want to live at The Standard again, 
but she and her roommates were 
promised first pick at their apart-
ment next year. 
“We got the unit we wanted, and 
it’s on the VIP floor,” she said. “But 
then again, we haven’t moved in 
yet.”
Gainesville has the most de-
velopment in 11 years
Typically, one or two apartment 
complexes are built each year. But 
six new complexes will be complet-
ed by 2020. 
Sydney Jamieson, the operations 
director at Swamp Rentals, said this 
is the most growth Gainesville has 
seen in student housing since 2008. 
“Gainesville became really at-
tractive to developers because 
of all the development we’ve 
seen,” Jamieson said. “They said, 
‘Gainesville is a college town. Let’s 
build student housing.’” 
Five of the six new properties are 
congregated around University Ave-
nue, near campus and sorority row. 
Liv+ Gainesville, which will be 
located at 1900 SW 13th St., is the 
only development south of campus. 
Midtown Apartments, which will be located at 104 NW 17th 
St., is scheduled to open in August 
but leasing dates have not been re-
leased. A sixth unnamed complex 
will be located next to The Ridge, 
Jamieson said. 
Hub on Campus will bring two 
locations to Gainesville, and they 
will be built only three blocks 
apart. 
“Hub University will be more 
boutique, with more limited unit 
options available,” said Melissa 
Flath, the Hub on Campus new 
business director. “Hub Third Ave. 
feels more like a lake house with a 
more diverse unit mix.”
Campus Circle will be built west 
of campus near Hull Road and 
Southwest 38th Terrace. 
Gainesville has a demand for 
class-A housing with quality finish-
es, amenities and technology, said 
Alex Eyssen, vice president of stu-
dent housing for Bainbridge Com-
panies, the complex’s developer.
“Our properties are delivered to 
a higher standard and quality than 
a typical student housing proper-
ty,” Eyssen said.
The least socio-economic di-
verse university in the state
Delaney Jayne spent two years 
living in a UF dorm and was itching 
to leave. 
Finding an affordable apartment 
where she could bring her 4-year-
old rescue dog, Flower, was a chal-
lenge. 
Jayne, a 21-year old UF English 
senior, lives about three miles from 
campus in the Nook on Archer Road and 37th Blvd. She works 
part-time for Bite Squad to afford 
her $449 monthly rent. Though she 
is living further from campus, she 
is close to Archer Road’s restau-
rants and shopping. 
“I’m OK being a little further 
because the rent is lighter,” Jayne 
said. “The grocery stores are two 
minutes away, so I’m OK living out 
here.”
City of Gainesville Commission-
er At-large Helen Warren said new 
Gainesville construction should fo-
cus more on affordable apartment 
complexes for students and resi-
dents in Gainesville. 
The average two-bedroom 
apartment costs $860 per bedroom 
and up to $1,508 per bedroom each 
month, according to listings on 
Swamp Rentals. 
“There are a lot of students 
who can’t afford these new apart-
ment complexes,” Warren said. 
“As more of these off-campus high-
quality, luxury apartments are 
built, it’s going to have an impact 
on apartment complexes that are 
10, 20, 30 years old.”
Trimark Properties own 900 
luxury units, primarily east of cam-
pus near sorority row, that range 
from $599 to $1,399 per person for 
houses, apartments and off-cam-
pus dorms, said Aubrey Morey, 
Trimark’s vice president of sales 
and marketing.
Morey said she sees many stu-
dents who can afford nicer housing 
because of family financial support 
and academic financial aid like Bright Futures.
Compared to nine other Florida 
public universities with more than 
5,000 students, UF is the least so-
cio-economic diverse university in 
Florida, according to the U.S. De-
partment of Education. It has the 
lowest percent of students who 
receive federal Pell Grants for low-
income students at 28 percent. 
Instead of a focus on affordabili-
ty, Morey has seen student demand 
increase for walking-distance liv-
ing.
Jamal Waked, 23, knows the 
struggle of living away from cam-
pus. He lived at Varsity House for 
a year but chose to move into Col-
lege Park, located two blocks from 
campus, because he felt separated. 
The UF physics alumnus now 
pays $200 more each month for the Midtown location. His former 
roommates didn’t respect his pri-
vacy, but his studio apartment is 
enough space for himself and his 
Chihuahua, Sonny. 
“I need my space,” Waked said. 
“I need to do my own thing.”
‘Hey, water is flying out of 
the toilet’
Patrick Murray tries to forget 
the day when he frantically ran 
through his apartment at West 20, 
grabbing his belongings off the 
floor as water spewed out of his 
toilet.
Murray moved to West 20 be-
cause it was in his budget, near 
Archer Road, and close to three 
campus bus routes. When it took 
management an hour to respond to 
the flooding, he couldn’t stay an-
other year.
“If I tell you ‘Hey, water’s fly-
ing out of the toilet, please come 
quick,’ and it takes you almost 
an hour to come, that’s unaccept-
able,” Murray said.
Murray, a 21-year-old UF busi-
ness administration junior, and one 
of his roommates chose to move 
down the road to Oxford Manor 
near Archer Road.
Students across town have 
similar experiences to Murray’s. 
In June, a College Park apartment 
roof collapsed after a ceiling air 
conditioning unit leaked for two 
weeks. 
Peter Backhaus, a Gainesville 
code enforcement supervisor, is 
familiar with these problems. He 
sees several code complaints from 
renters and landlords each week. 
Two or three complaints come 
from student housing, he said.
“We see students come to us 
for help with their renters’ com-
plaints,” Backhaus said. “We’re 
advocates for anyone with issues, 
certainly students.”
Murray said he learned from 
his rental experience this year and 
hopes to never relive his West 20 
experience. 
“We’re not crazy, so no we 
didn’t re-sign,” he said. “We’re on 
to better horizons.” 
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgChris Day / Alligator Staff
Jamal Waked, a 23-year-old UF alumnus, holds his dog Sonny Thursday while being interviewed in his apartment at College Park, 303 NW 
17th St. Waked made living alone a priority when he was looking for an apartment. “I need my own space. I need to do my own thing, ” he said.
HOUSING,  from pg. 1UF is the least socio-economic diverse university in Florida
Student housing by the numbers
6 new student housing developments to open by 2020
Liv+ Gainesville: 618 students
Campus Circle: 492 students
80 percent of students live off-campus
28,581 student apartment units in Gainesville
Average cost of room in two-bedroom unit: $860
Average cost of room in three-bedroom unit: $630
Average cost of room in four-bedroom unit: $647
Information on amount of units and average costs from Swamp Rent als4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents will soon 
be able to play giant video games 
and eat dinner in the same place.
Dave & Buster’s will open in 
Celebration Pointe, at 3528 SW 
45th St., in early-to-mid 2020, said 
Ralph Conti, a Celebration Pointe 
development partner.
The restaurant and arcade will be at the corner of 45th St. and 
Celebration Pointe Ave., Conti 
said. It will be between 18,000 and 
19,000 square feet.
Dave & Buster’s is a Dallas-
based video arcade entertainment 
center that has games for adults 
and children and a sports-themed 
restaurant, which serves food and 
alcohol. 
This particular Dave & Buster’s 
will be a mid-market store, which means it will be smaller than the 
other locations, which are about 
40,000 square feet in major cit-
ies like Chicago, Atlanta and New 
York.
Conti said the new arcade res-
taurant will be the first in North 
Central Florida.
There are currently eight other 
Dave & Buster’s locations in Flori-
da, according to the Dave & Bust-
er’s website. They are in Daytona 
Beach, Fort Myers, Hollywood, 
Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando, 
Panama Beach City and Tampa. The price and cost of the new 
addition are currently confiden-
tial, Conti said.
He said that the new location 
will bring job opportunities for 
residents and students in the area.
“There will be a lot more jobs 
at Celebration Pointe over the 
years,” Conti said.
Conti said he wants Dave & 
Buster’s and Celebration Pointe 
to be entertainment-driven. The 
Dave & Buster’s will be located 
right on Interstate-75, which will 
allow for high visibility with com-muter traffic.
Dakoda Melendez, a 19-year-
old UF biology sophomore, has 
never been to a Dave & Buster’s 
but has heard about the activities 
there. He is anticipating its arrival.
“The activities have been get-
ting pretty stale,” Melendez said. 
“It’s a nice combination of a res-
taurant and an amusement park or 
game room, so it’s the best of both 
worlds.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgGet your coins ready, Dave & Buster’s is coming to town
It will open in 2020HE WILL BE PAID $10,500 
FOR HIS PERFORMANCE
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Comedian Jaboukie Young-White 
will be joking around at UF on April 
Fools’ Day.
Young-White will perform a stand 
up routine at 7 p.m. April 1 at Re-
itz Union Grand Ballroom. The Re-
itz Programming Board will host the 
comedian, known from his appear-
ances on the Daily Show, which is 
a satirical news show, said Lindsay 
Gowens, president of the Reitz Programming Board. 
Young-White will be payed $10,500 for his perfor-
mance, Gowens said.
“His stand up pieces were the ones that [the board] 
thought were the funniest,” she said.The event is only for UF students, who can enter 
free with a Gator 1 Card, Gowens said. The space can 
fit 450 people. 
This Friday’s Big Orange Festival, an annual festival 
that usually brings a comedian and musician, will be 
set outside and host Noah Cyrus for $65,000. 
The added expenses of setting up outside meant a 
comedian wasn’t booked for the festival, Gowens said. 
Because of this, planners wanted to bring a comedian 
for this event.
“We wanted to make sure that we had a big com-
edy-focused event to sort of appeal to that group of 
students who may be missing that,” she said. 
Emani Green, a 21-year-old UF animal science senior 
said she and her friend will attend the performance.
“Me and her are actually pretty big fans,” Green 
said. “I’ve seen some of his stand ups on ‘The Tonight 
Show,’ and I think he’s hilarious.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.comComedian Jaboukie Young-White will 
perform at UF on April Fools’ Day
Young-White
UF in December for violating 
the group’s freedom of speech, 
said Tyson Langhofer, the direc-
tor of the Center for Academic 
Freedom. The lawsuit was filed 
following UF Student Govern-
ment’s denial of funds for two 
speakers the chapter had re-
quested: Andrew Klavan and 
Dana Loesch. 
The suit has progressed to a 
potential resolution after discus-
sion with the university council, 
Langhofer said. It may bring 
about changes to the SG budget 
process, with group leaders and 
lawyers speaking with UF to re-
vise the budget and allocations 
process.
“It appears that we are going 
to be able to work it out, and 
I’m pretty confident,” he said. “I’ve been very pleased with 
and thankful for the coopera-
tion of the university in this.” 
UF issued a statement re-
garding the executive order, 
stating that as a public institu-
tion it is committed to uphold-
ing the right to free speech from 
all points of view. 
The statement describes uni-
versities as a marketplace of 
ideas and holds that all view-
points must be a part of the 
broader conversation. 
“Diversity on the UF cam-
pus includes diversity of 
thought, and every member of 
the university community ben-
efits from the free exchange of 
ideas,” the statement read.
Hannah Beatty contributed to 
this report. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgYAF,  from pg. 1Order comes after YAF lawsuitTHE BAR WILL OPEN AT 8 
P .M. 
By Nicole Bowen and 
 Lina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer and 
Staff Writer
The owner of a 2-month-old 
bar in Gainesville will open an-
other bar three minutes away to-
day.
Lawrence Clay, 46, will host 
the grand opening of The Holy 
Pipe at 8 p.m. at 7 W. University 
Ave.
The holy pipe, according to  
Native American history, was a 
peace pipe used to celebrate life 
events such as a victory or birth-
day, Clay said.
“We want people to come to 
our place to celebrate their special 
moments,” Clay said.
The bar is open to customers 
21 and older, Clay said. It has 
a lounge area, dance floor and 
drinks such as $5 doubles and $7 
cocktails. Clay started investing in down-
town Gainesville four years ago 
when he opened Elixir Lounge 
and Juice Bar, which is now per-
manently closed due to the lease 
term ending, he said.
He said he chose the space for 
The Holy Pipe because of its avail-
ability and the cost of its rent. 
Bricks, his other bar, and The 
Holy Pipe are only a street away 
from each other, Clay said. He can 
walk from bar to bar and keep his 
eyes on them easily.
Gainesville Police have re-
sponded to six different incidents 
at Bricks since January, said GPD 
spokesperson Cpt. Jorge Campos. 
Code Enforcement has no open 
building violations on either prop-
erty, Kelly L. Lofland, the senior 
staff assistant for Gainesville Code 
Enforcement, wrote in an email. 
Clay invested about $10,000 
out of his own pocket updating 
and furnishing the space and fi-
nanced the $120,000 liquor li-
cense, he said. He expects to turn 
a profit in two to three months.Patrons will receive a free bot-
tle of champagne and free cover 
for themselves and five friends for 
their birthday, Clay said.
“The Holy Pipe is unlike any 
other place in Gainesville,” Clay 
said. “We are changing the game.”
One of the co-owners of the 
Gainesville House of Beer, a 
neighbor of The Holy Pipe, says 
he is excited for the bar’s opening.
“My big theory is high tide 
raises all the ships,” Alex Whelp-
ton, 28, said. “I don’t really look 
at it as competition. I look at it 
more as complimentary.” 
Samantha Tetlak, a 21-year-
old UF nutritional sciences junior, 
is ready to go to the new spot, 
where she says she can feel her 
age.
“It will be so refreshing know-
ing that I don’t have to go to Mid-
town and feel like a sardine in a 
swamp of freshmen,” Tetlak said. 
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgNew bar called The Holy Pipe to open in downtown Gainesville
Lina Ruiz / Alligator Staff
The Holy Pipe, a new Gainesville bar,  at 7 W. University Ave., will 
open its doors for business at 8 p.m. tonight.
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Campaign contributions were an indicator 
of election results in the 2019 Gainesville regu-
lar election.
On Tuesday, incumbent Mayor Lauren Poe 
beat three opponents in his run for re-election, 
earning 61.82 percent of the vote, according to 
the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections’ of-
ﬁ  ce. 
When it came to monetary contributions, 
Poe also led the pack with a total of $29,474, 
according to ofﬁ  ce records from the Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections.
Poe’s opponents, Jenn Powell, who earned 
18.46 percent of the vote, had $8,000 in contri-
butions; Jennifer Reid, who earned 15.59 per-
cent of the vote, had $3,440 in contributions; 
and Marlon Bruce, who earned 4.13 percent of 
the vote, had $50 in contributions. 
Incumbent Adrian Hayes-Santos won the 
seat for District 4 commissioner, earning 73.68 
percent of the votes. Hayes-Santos led contri-
butions with $17,867. His opponent, Robert 
Mounts, followed with $13,390.In the past two mayoral elections, the can-
didate for Gainesville mayor with the most 
money in contributions was elected, except for 
the 2013 election where the winning candidate 
came in second in contributions, according to 
elections’ ofﬁ  ce records. 
In Poe’s ﬁ  rst mayoral campaign, he raised 
$55,291 in contributions, including the money 
earned during the runoff that year, according 
to records.
Poe’s nearly $30,000 in contributions this 
election included those from other city ofﬁ  cials, 
like $5 from Commissioner David Arreola, $25 
from Commissioner Gail Johnson, $125 from 
Commissioner Harvey Ward and $100 from 
Hayes-Santos, according to records. 
He also received contributions from local 
residents who supported his campaign, like 
Shayna Rich.    
Rich, 41, has only met Poe once but donated 
$100 to his campaign. 
She said it’s important to get involved with 
local politics. She believes voters can have a 
voice without spending money, but money 
needs to be spent to get the word out about 
elections.“It’s much easier or much more realistic to 
actually make a change on a local level,” Rich 
said. “If I want to make my world a better 
place, I need to be involved.”
Unlike Poe, Bruce received only two con-
tributions: one from himself and one from his 
friend, Santa Fe Student Body President Alejan-
dro Puga, according to records.
Puga said he donated to Bruce because he 
believed in his friend’s campaign.
“You need two out of the three things: mon-
ey, a good team and a good candidate,” Puga 
said. “But I do think money does make a cam-
paign move forward.”
After the win on Tuesday, Poe’s campaign 
manager Bennett Ragan, 21, said he spent 
Thursday ﬁ  nishing up the campaign’s ﬁ  nances. 
The team will start sending out thank-you let-
ters to all their donors. 
“We’re keeping everybody in the loop and 
saying thank you,” Ragan said. “Right now, 
we’re just closing up shop.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.org‘Money does make a campaign move forward’:
A breakdown of Gainesville’s 2019 election donations
Mayor
Marlon Bruce 
$50
Lauren Poe (elected)
$29,474
Jenn Powell 
$8,000
Jennifer Reid 
$3,440
District 4 City Commissioner
Adrian Hayes-Santos (elected)
$17,867
Robert Mounts
$13,390The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialFRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
There’s a place in this world where nearly 1 in 4 
women report experiencing sexual violence, where 
nearly 50 percent of its population is without reli-
able food, where 1,200 people were killed in 2015 
and where 414,490 people were displaced from 
their homes. This place is Burundi. Never heard of it? Ex-
actly.
As one of the smallest countries in Africa, roughly the 
size of Maryland, Burundi is often overlooked. Forgotten. 
Neglected. As a result, there is not nearly enough physical 
or financial support for the mass exodus of refugees flee-
ing for their lives. As a UF masters student, my goal is to 
have our community here at UF help.
What is happening in Burundi? The United Nations 
Refugee Agency reports that the “Political unrest in Bu-
rundi took a deadly turn in 2015...Street protests led to 
violent clashes, and hundreds of thousands fled to nearby 
countries in search of safety.” To put things in perspec-
tive, Gainesville’s population is about 132,000 people. If 
we triple that number, we can see roughly how many Bu-
rundian refugees have fled their homeland and are strug-
gling to survive. While we were all celebrating New Year’s 
Eve, those refugee numbers were being calculated. To 
help these refugees in their host countries, namely Tanza-
nia, Rwanda, Uganda and Congo, UNHCR had requested 
$391 million in 2018. However, it was only granted one 
third of this amount; the organization is requesting $262 
million for 2019.
UNHCR regional refugee coordinator and CRRF cham-
pion for the Burundi situation Catherine Wiesner, reports 
that “in 2018 the Burundi situation remained one of the 
least funded refugee crises in the world.” As a direct result 
of the lack of funds, the consequences were “acutely felt 
with food cuts, lack of medicines, inadequate shelters, and 
overcrowded classrooms in countries of asylum.” 
How can we help? There are several things we can do 
to help, but I’m requesting the simplest method: dona-tion. Monetary donations are greatly needed and even 
more appreciated. Any amount helps. For those involved 
in student organizations around campus, consider hosting 
a fundraiser to help raise awareness and donations. 
People may have doubts about donating, asking ques-
tions like “Would my donation even really make a differ-
ence? How can donating just a few dollars help close such 
a massive gap? How can we ensure that our funds are be-
ing utilized appropriately?” These questions are valid. To 
provide some insight: If every student at UF alone raised or 
contributed $20 just once, together, we could donate more 
than $1 million, helping close the fiscal gap and provide 
the resources needed to tremendously improve the refugee 
conditions being experienced in their host countries.
These donations would not go unnoticed. As expressed 
by Catherine Wiesner, “We extend our utmost apprecia-
tion to the donors who have supported our collective as-
sistance efforts. We have recently made strides to better 
reflect your contributions, including both earmarked and 
un-earmarked funding in our funds tracking and commu-
nication materials.”
Take action. I challenge you to this: This month, have 
your coffee on campus instead of going to Dunkin’. Dine 
out once less. Put that new shirt on hold. Try using those 
allocated funds for something different. Something that 
would positively impact those who are much less fortu-
nate than we are. Something that would bring out the 
humanitarian in you. Something that would help save a 
person’s life. Donate to The UN’s Refugee Agency to help 
Burundians being forced out of their homes survive.
Want to be more involved? For those looking to take an 
even more active role in their support, volunteer opportu-
nities are available all year round. Visit the International 
Rescue Committee website for more information.
Taylor DeMaio is a UF mass communications 
masters student.How UF can make a big difference for a small countryWith shaky, highly caffeinated hands, you push through 
the rotating door of Library West. Students are walking around 
intent on finding a coveted seat. The days are quickly dwin-
dling down before the weeks of final projects and exams, 
which means all libraries on campus are at full capacity. Find-
ing a seat on any floor of a UF library is becoming a tricky 
game of musical chairs, with seats only opening up when class 
changes. However, you’re determined to find the perfect one, 
and most likely will stay there for the foreseeable future.
Slowly making your way up the escalator, you turn the cor-
ner to scour the tables for an empty seat. As you weave in and 
out of already occupied chairs, you see a lone seat shining like 
a beacon. You quickly plop yourself down and spread out all 
of your things, claiming your area. You look up in front of you, 
and you’re met with a glass divider covered in scribbles. Some 
of the words mean nothing, some are words of encouragement 
and some are words of utter desperation. However, one phrase 
stands out the most. The words are exactly what you needed 
to see. It’s how you know you’ll be able to make it through a 
new round of exams. The words read:
Darts & Laurels
We wanted to start off this week by giving out a lau-
rel to the people of New Zealand and especially its 
Muslim community. They faced an unspeakable 
tragedy on March 15, and we wish to offer our show 
of support in an incredibly trying time in the na-
tion’s history. New Zealand worked quickly to propose a bill 
that calls for a sweeping change in gun laws in the country. The 
plan, announced by New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ard-
ern, will ban all military-style semi-automatic weapons, high-
capacity ammunition magazines and any type of addition that 
would modify a gun to act like the weapons used in the attack.
Back in Florida, a dart goes out to Republicans who pro-
posed a bill that would limit the amount of formerly incarcer-
ated individuals able to vote. Florida implemented a new bill 
Jan. 1 that allows for formerly incarcerated people to gain back 
their right to vote, something that wasn’t previously possible. 
This new bill, proposed Tuesday, will require them to have to 
pay back their court fees and fines before they are allowed to 
register. Fees were not previously defined in Amendment 4 and 
are up to Florida counties to determine. This measure explicitly 
states that fines and fees have to be paid to register to vote. The 
measure feels like a way to sidestep the will of Florida’s people 
and to unfairly target lower-income people. It’s a new form of 
voter suppression that shouldn’t be allowed.
Speaking of voting, Gainesville recently held its mayoral 
election Tuesday, where Mayor Lauren Poe was awarded a sec-
ond term. Poe won with nearly 62 percent of the vote. A laurel  
goes out to all the citizens of Gainesville who voted in the local 
election. This year’s election saw a smaller voter turnout than 
the previous year’s local election, with a 12.95 percent voter 
turnout in this year’s election compared to the 13.53 percent 
turnout in 2018. However, it is still up from the 2017 Gainesville 
voter turnout which was 11.88 percent.
Florida politics have always been controversial and often 
filled with argument, and a survey done by polling and ana-
lytics firm PredictWise further proves this. It found that Flo-
ridians are the most likely to hold a prejudice against a per-
son’s rival political party in the U.S. Though many states are 
considerably prejudiced against a person’s opposing political 
party, they don’t quite beat out Florida. A dart goes out to 
those in Florida and across the country who hold unnecessary 
prejudices. One of the biggest problems in America’s political 
system is intense partisanship. We should be doing what we 
can to be tolerant, not divisive. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORFRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Opinions / College scandal
It’s no secret that money, a 
well-known family name 
and connections can bring 
advantages when it comes 
to college. Wealthy and fa-
mous families often donate huge 
amounts of money to the schools 
they want their children to attend. 
When families aren’t donating 
to higher education institutions, 
they can simply capitalize on their names 
and connections. Honestly, who could ever 
deny the kids of an A-list celebrity?
At Harvard, legacy students are ﬁ  ve 
times more likely to get in than the aver-
age student. So where do we draw the 
line? Does a line even exist? Apparently 
not. After a long-term investigation, it was 
revealed that 33 parents took matters into 
their own hands when they tried to get their 
children into college. Parents had stand-ins 
take the SAT or ACT for their child and oth-
ers even went to the extent of photoshop-
ping their student’s head onto the body of 
an athlete, paying off college coaches and 
falsifying exam results. These parents spent 
thousands to millions of dollars trying to get 
their children into prestigious universities.
This issue brings to light the topic of 
afﬁ  rmative action. For years, people have 
debated over afﬁ  rmative action. The policy 
was used to bring more diversity to higher 
education. By deﬁ  nition, it was created in 
hopes that it would remedy past discrimi-
nation and prevent any discrimination from 
now on.  Despite this, racial diversity is 
lacking in selective colleges. All we have 
to do is look to UF, a predominantly white 
school, with a racial breakdown that can 
not be considered equally diverse. One of 
the common phrases used against afﬁ  rma-
tive action is that it takes spots away from 
other students. Now, there’s the argument 
that rich, well-off students are taking just 
as many spots, if not more than afﬁ  rmative 
action does. The argument can certainly be 
made that the former is more deserving. However, I believe that college 
admissions have been rigged for 
years now, and they only beneﬁ  t 
people from certain backgrounds. 
Even with afﬁ  rmative action, stu-
dents from different racial and so-
cio-economic backgrounds barely 
got into their choice schools. 
Now add the fact that wealthy 
families were cheating their way 
in. It is extremely disappointing and dis-
couraging to students in this country. This 
scandal highlights the American education 
system’s inequities. It’s up to universities 
like the University of Southern California, 
which was involved in the scandal, to do 
better or face some sort of punishment. 
To make this situation worse, these 
wealthy parents didn’t have to do this. They 
could have used their resources to get their 
children a tutor or invested in their extra-
curricular activities. These are things many 
minorities have a serious lack of access to. 
Aside from the legality of it all, what 
makes this wrong is the people it affects. 
As a college student, I could not imagine 
ever being denied by UF, and then ﬁ  nding 
out it might have been because a coach was 
paid off. Students work extremely hard to 
get into college. Spots at certain universi-
ties were taken because of someone else’s 
privilege.  
All in all, this entire situation is sad. I 
hope that the families involved face serious 
consequences and jail time. If not, this will 
continue to happen and the education sys-
tem can’t afford it. The U.S. education sys-
tem still has a lot of work to do, and afﬁ  rma-
tive action is only the beginning. Hopefully, 
now parents know the difference between 
correcting grammar in their student’s col-
lege essay and paying someone to write it. 
Let’s learn from this situation and do better.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.On March 12, federal prosecutors charged 33 parents with paying amounts ranging 
from thousands to millions of dollars to ensure spots for their children in elite colleges 
like. The scandal involved actresses, like Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin, high-level 
business leaders and other inﬂ  uential people in the college admissions process. Two of 
The Alligator's columnists offer their take on the scandal. Applying for college was 
one of the most difﬁ  cult 
academic challenges of 
my life. It was the compi-
lation of years and years 
of all-nighters, skipped social 
events, supportive teachers (and 
not-so-supportive teachers), my 
parents’ sacriﬁ  ces and so much 
work. I poured all of myself into 
my college applications because 
going to college was my most important goal.
When I read that wealthy parents bought 
their students spots into many of the schools 
I applied to, it immediately frustrated me. It 
made me question whether my spots in those 
universities taken by students who didn’t de-
serve to go there. Most sickening, though, is 
the fact that white privilege already runs ram-
pant in college admissions when there aren’t 
any scandals. The blatant white privilege in 
this admissions scandal appalls and disap-
points a nation of people who were hoping 
these institutions were combatting the racism 
within the admissions process, instead of en-
couraging it.
Yale University, the University of Southern 
California, Georgetown University and Wake 
Forest University are some of the top-tier in-
stitutions implicated in the scandal. Some 
schools went so far as to accept students as 
athletes when the students did not play the 
sports listed in their applications. How can 
we trust schools, anywhere, to provide a fair 
admissions process when some of the best 
schools in the country, and in the world, 
broke that trust? The outrage lowers the status 
of these elite schools and calls into question 
the integrity of the entire admissions system.
Professors at the schools in question 
should be investigated as well. Think about 
it this way: If the student couldn’t earn their 
way into the college they’re attending, that is 
not the school they belong in. Furthermore, if 
the student doesn’t have the academic rigor or 
resume to get into that school, how could they 
succeed there? They probably won’t succeed. 
So if these privileged students begin to 
fail their classes, how do we know that their 
parents won’t approach their student’s profes-
sors and try to pay for a sparkling and shiny 
ﬁ  nal transcript for their students? I have the 
utmost respect for the wise instructors at these universities, and I don’t mean to 
offend or accuse any of these 
teachers. I simply recognize the 
unprecedented lengths these par-
ents would go to push their chil-
dren forward in life, and I ques-
tion where these bribes ended.
I understand parents want the 
best for their children; that is to-
tally normal. However, buying 
their child’s spot into college is 
far from normal. I don’t know how I’d react if 
my parents tried to buy my way into college, 
but I know it would be a serious ding to my 
conﬁ  dence. I don’t think those parents real-
ized the ripple effect their shady admissions 
deals caused, either. This scandal will damage 
the integrities of the schools involved, call the 
integrity of some professors into question and 
completely alter the lives of students whose 
spots were taken by rich, unworthy kids.
Students whose applications were honest 
and impressive who were rejected nonethe-
less are harmed the most. Many students paid 
hundreds of dollars in application fees, think-
ing this guaranteed a fair admissions process. 
Instead, the pocketbooks of their parents were 
compared to those of the extremely wealthy. 
These deserving students were turned away 
not for academics, extracurriculars or essay 
ﬂ  aws but because of their monetary worth. 
The scandal cost them spots in these institu-
tions, putting these students on an entirely dif-
ferent path in life. 
This scandal cost cheaters hundreds of 
thousands of dollars, their reputations, their 
careers and their comfortable lifestyles. Grad-
uates of the implicated schools express out-
rage with the scandal and many worry their 
degrees will lose value in response to this 
scandal. USC blocked the children of these im-
plicated parents from enrolling in classes until 
it ﬁ  nishes investigating student involvement. 
The college admissions system will need to 
reform in order to restore public faith in ad-
missions counselors and trust in these univer-
sities. For now, we have to keep the education 
system accountable for the actions it is taking 
to ensure a fair admissions system. 
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism fresh-
man. Her column appears on Fridays.What the scandal means for aﬃ   rmative actionHow the college scandal has changed views of college admissions overall
My trust in the admissions process has diminishedWith our whole “stand up and yodel” 
day of giving in our collective recent 
memories, I think it would be ﬁ  tting 
to talk about our class councils.
When I sat in Senate listening to 
an explanation of why UF’s Student Govern-
ment was creating class councils, we were told 
that “some of the best, high achieving student 
governments are those with class councils.” 
Now, some of the best, highest achieving stu-
dent governments out there also have online 
voting, but that hasn’t made us emulate them 
in that aspect (just saying). We have a long 
way to go before even remotely becoming a 
“just okay” student government.
Anyhow, the point of this is to get more 
people to donate money to UF, so our alumni 
participation rate (APR) goes up as well as 
our ranking. Class councils are supposed to 
increase each class’ sense of community in 
hopes that more people open their hearts (and 
their wallets) later on.
Now it’s getting pretty close to the end of 
the semester so I think we should probably take a good look back at what these 
councils have actually done
But enough of my negativity, 
let’s go over what these councils 
have accomplished.
The ﬁ  rst “event” that the class 
councils claim credit for is the 
“Blue Out” during the football 
game against Louisiana State Uni-
versity according to Student Body 
President Ian Green.  
The next event I’ve seen is the 
“President’s Dinner,” which was also branded 
as the “My Gift. Our Legacy” kickoff, when the 
email went out. To my understanding, presi-
dents of student organizations, who seemed 
like they would be graduating soon, were in-
vited.
The event was both cool and well executed. 
I mean President Fuchs was there, so that re-
ally makes it an automatic 10/10 for me.
But it was a darn good-looking event, too, 
hosted at the Champion’s Club (high up in 
the football stadium), with fancy catering and featuring a good overview of the 
different entities within UF that 
students can donate to. I guess you 
could say Senior Class President 
Trevor Pope did a great job.
I was standing in line for some 
of the fancy food when I heard 
someone ask “Pope a good boss?” 
and the person responded, “Yeah, 
he is.” Some may say all I do is 
roast SG, but I believe in giving 
credit where credit is due.
However, that one event is basically all I've 
seen. I can’t say I’ve seen any programming 
from the freshman, sophomore or junior class 
councils though which is perhaps concerning. 
In defense of the multiple councils, a lot of 
the proposed events were senior-centric and 
will likely occur at the end of the year, so I’m 
not sure how the “younger” councils grew into 
their roles. I know there was an event aimed at 
the junior class that was canceled due to “tech-
nical difﬁ  culties.” I also may have not received 
communication aimed at different classes (but I will contend that I probably would have still 
noticed other councils’ events).
I’m not sure if everyone deserves to ﬂ  aunt 
their positions, as they do now on LinkedIn. It 
just feels like there was and is a lot of untapped 
potential within these councils. Or, I hope, I 
just don’t know about the work all these coun-
cils have done. If that’s the case, we need more 
communication and transparency. There are 
27 people (from my last count) on the class 
councils. What are they doing?
If we are going to be out there building co-
hesion for every class, we need to be out there 
putting in the elbow grease to indoctrinate our 
younger classes as well. This may be the way 
in which we can get more alumni participa-
tion. It's possible we will plant the seeds of 
alumni participation. As they say: “the best 
time to plant a tree was 20 years ago; the sec-
ond best time is today.”
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area senator. His column 
appears on Fridays.Class councils: What they've done right and what they've done wrong in regards to SGColumn
Anede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
TEDxUF will be celebrating the theme 
“Legacy” in honor of its 10th anniversary 
this year.
TEDxUF, an independently organized 
Technology, Entertainment and Design 
event, will take place from noon to 5 p.m. 
April 6 at the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts, said Laura Uribe, the TEDxUF cu-
rator and a 21-year-old UF political science 
senior.
The venue will seat up to 1,700 people, 
Uribe said. The event sold out.
There will be a Facebook livestream and a 
first-come, first-served standby line for those 
who didn’t register, she said.
Registration for the free event opened 
March 20 and was locked March 21 after hit-ting capacity, Uribe said. The budget for the 
event was about $48,750.
One of the 10 speakers will be Lisa Mer-
lo-Greene, a UF psychiatry professor, Uribe 
said. She will discuss how students feel the 
need to overwork themselves.
“We’re really locked into this involve-
ment culture that if we’re not busy and burnt 
out, we’re not being productive,” Uribe said. 
“Her talk is something that’s really going to 
change perspective.”
There will also be four performances, 
which aren’t yet announced, and about 12 labs, which are interactive exhibits, Uribe 
said.
Nathan Tan, a 19-year-old UF microbiol-
ogy freshman, said the event is a way to ex-
pose students to ideas from the Gainesville 
community, he said. 
“It shows that innovation is not just hap-
pening on UF campus, but also elsewhere in 
our community,” Tan said. 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.org Tenth annual TEDxUF hits capacity within 24 hours
The event will take place April 6
KENNETH TO DIED MONDAY
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Kenneth To, a 26-year-old swim-
mer from Hong Kong, died Monday 
in Gainesville while training with the 
Gator Swim Club, according to the As-
sociated Press. 
He became ill during training and 
was taken to the hospital, where he 
died soon afterward. The cause of death 
is not yet known. 
To, who was born in Hong Kong, 
was training for the 2020 Tokyo Olym-
pics. 
He moved to Austra-
lia when he was young 
and had previously won 
six medals, including one 
gold medal, for Australia 
at the 2010 Youth Olym-
pics in Singapore. To had 
also won a silver medal 
for a 400-meter medley 
relay for Australia in the 
2013 world championship 
in Barcelona, according to 
AP.
To was not a student 
and was not in a UF-af-
filiated training program, 
said Margot Winick, a UF 
spokesperson. The Gator 
Swim Club rents swim-
ming facilities at UF.
The Gator Swim Club 
could not be reached in time for comment.
The Hong Kong Sports Institute 
wrote it was shocked and saddened to 
hear of To’s death in a statement re-
leased Tuesday.
“Kenneth was known as a truly ex-
ceptional person, warm, funny and 
kind. His sudden passing is a huge loss 
to local sports,” the institute said. 
Kelly Hayes contributed to this report.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgWorld champion swimmer dies 
in Gainesville after training
 
By Edysmar Diaz-Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Luke Bryan isn’t only ‘Huntin’, 
Fishin’ & Lovin;’’ he’s also dona-
tin’.
Country singer Luke Bryan do-
nated $8,000 on Tuesday for “The 
Luke Bryan Farm Tour Scholar-
ship,” which will go toward UF 
students with local farming back-
grounds and who are pursuing ca-
reers in agricultural sciences, said 
Katherine Davies, the director of 
development for the Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences. 
The check will be deposited into the UF 
Foundation and 
will supplement 
the College of 
Agricultural and 
Life Sciences 
scholarship  
fund, she said.
“A lot of our 
students go back 
to their family farms or start in the 
agricultural industry after gradu-
ating,” Davies said. “Not all stu-
dents have the financial means to 
get through college debt-free.”
In 2018, Luke Bryan brought 
his 10th annual Farm Tour to six 
cities where concerts were set up 
to celebrate local farmers, Bryan’s business manager Shannon Easley 
said.
On Oct. 4, a concert was hosted 
at Whitehurst Cattle Company in 
Archer, Florida, Easley said. 
Bryan decided to give back 
to farmers by awarding college 
scholarships to students who are 
attending a local college or univer-
sity near the tour stops, the closest 
being UF at the time.
“Luke was raised on a peanut 
farm,” Easley said. “He decided to 
bring concerts to small areas like 
where he grew up because people 
don’t get the chance to go see a 
concert.” 
The college is incredibly grate-
ful Bryan is supporting its stu-dents, said Dana Edwards, the 
strategic communications man-
ager of College of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences.
Undergraduate students are se-
lected for College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences scholarships 
based on their responses to the 
college’s general scholarship ap-
plication, which closed March 12 
for the 2019-2020 academic year, 
Edwards said.
The college is projecting it will 
make the $8,000 last over two aca-
demic years, Edwards said. 
The amount that will be divid-
ed for each student recipient and 
the amount of recipients has yet to 
be decided, she said.“Even though this one scholar-
ship is divided among many stu-
dents, we believe it will help with 
their academic endeavors,” Ed-
wards said. 
Sara Humphreys, a 21-year-old 
UF food and resource econom-
ics senior and Luke Bryan fan, 
believes it’s important for an in-
fluential celebrity to fund a dwin-
dling industry and promote higher 
education.
“I love agriculture. It’s my 
heart and soul,” Humphreys said. 
“The interest in the industry is dy-
ing with younger generations. The 
fact that he wants to make sure it 
lives on is amazing.”‘Yeehaw!’: Country singer Luke Bryan donates $8,000 to UFTo
MORE THAN 3,000 STUDENTS ARE 
REGISTERED WITH THE DISABILITY 
RESOURCE CENTER
By Sarina Nunes
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF was nationally ranked for its inclusion 
of disabled students for the first time. 
UF is ranked as No. 6 in a “Top 10 Cam-
puses for Students with Physical Disabilities,” 
list, which was published March 1 in College 
Magazine, an online magazine for students. 
“It’s great to have UF and the DRC recog-
nized for commitment to advancing access 
and inclusion for all students,” said Gerardo 
Altamirano, the assistant dean and director of 
the Disability Resource Center. “We are hope-
ful future Gators with disabilities will learn 
there is a place for them.”
This is the first time the center has been 
ranked, Altamirano said.
Universities across the country were 
ranked using criteria such as accessibility in 
classrooms and dorms as well as how they 
raise awareness for inclusion, according to 
College Magazine. 
Other schools that were ranked include the 
University of Missouri at No. 9, University 
of California Berkeley at No. 5 and Ball State 
University at No.1, according to the report.
Partnering with the UF Division of Student 
Affairs, Housing and Residence Education and 
Recreational Sports helped increase the rank-
ing, Altamirano said. 
Cypress Hall is one of the establishments that got College Magazine’s attention, Altami-
rano said. The dorm hall was specially made 
to provide a living space for disabilities.
The university spent about $380,000 to ad-
vance rooms and equipment in Cypress Hall, 
such as easily accessible ramps and automatic 
doors, Altamirano said. 
He says he believes the center was also rec-
ognized for provisions of services that are not 
available at other institutions, such as its ori-
entations and transition programming. 
The center ensures that classrooms, facili-
ties and transportation services are easily ac-
cessible for students who live with mobility 
impairments, Altamirano said.
“To be recognized for the work that we do 
every day is impactful,” said Jenna Gonzalez, 
the DRC associate director. “The commitment 
to excellence, access and inclusion is a fac-
tor.”
More than 3,000 students are registered 
with the center, Gonzalez said.
UF brought Delta Alpha Pi, a national hon-
or society to campus that recognizes disabled 
students and their academic achievements, in 
2018, Altamirano said. It has about 40 mem-
bers.
Carissa Madden, a 31-year-old UF educa-
tion master’s student and vice president of 
Delta Alpha Pi, was diagnosed with autism in 
1992. She said the DRC has been nothing but 
supportive toward her, and she is glad it has 
received national recognition. 
“It lifts my spirits how the DRC and UF be-
lieved in me,” Madden said. “With their sup-
port, anyone can accomplish anything.”UF’s Disability Resource 
Center recognized as No. 6  
Bryan
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Eddie Brace, the 21-year-old Rowdy Reptiles president, celebrates Florida Gators men’s 
basketball player KeVaughn Allen sinking a 3-point shot against the Nevada Wolf Pack 
Thursday at The Swamp Restaurant. 
Joe Sigman, a 22-year-old UF information systems and operations 
management master’s student, and Fisher Curry,  a 22-year-old UF philosophy 
doctoral student, celebrate. “It was awesome. We were nervous for a second 
there, but we pulled it off, ” Sigman said. 
Nicholas Berry, a 20-year-old UF sports management junior, watches the Gators clinch the 70-61 victory Thursday over the Nevada Wolf Pack and advanced to the next 
round of March Madness. Berry attended the Rowdy Reptiles watch party at The Swamp Restaurant, at 1642 W. University Ave. More than 30 other people were attended.
Gators chomp 
Nevada
Photos by Chris King
Alligator Staff 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HIS BOND IS $25,000
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
“Oh s---” 
is what a man 
said when the 
woman he  al-
legedly raped 
woke up.
During  
the night of 
March 15, 
Jax’acques 
Johnson, 27, of Gainesville, and 
the woman went out for drinks 
with friends, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report. 
At about 2 a.m. the next day, 
the woman returned to one of 
the friends’ home where she fell 
asleep upstairs, and the friend 
slept downstairs, the report said. 
Johnson didn’t return with them.
After she fell asleep, she woke 
up to Johnson raping her, police 
said. He said “Oh s---” and apolo-gized. 
She left the house, told the 
friend what happened and that 
she didn’t know Johnson, police 
said. 
Johnson texted multiple mes-
sages to the friend the woman 
stayed with, one of which said, 
“Bruh im soo sorry man. I hope 
she ok but I can only image,” the 
report said.
The friend told police they 
were asleep during the incident, 
and Johnson was a friend of an 
old roommate, the report said. 
When police arrested John-
son Wednesday, he told them he 
went to the friend’s house, police 
said. The friend asked Johnson to 
play music, so he went upstairs to 
get the woman’s phone. He said 
she told him to get in bed, so they 
kissed and had sex twice.
Johnson was charged with 
sexual battery, the report said. 
He’s being held at the Alachua 
County Jail on a $25,000 bond. 
@JoFuller24
JFuller@alligator.org‘Soo sorry’: Man allegedly texts 
woman’s friend after raping her
Johnson
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
When Gainesville Police searched a car Wednes-
day, they found a can of Pepsi, but it didn’t have soda.
More than 200 MDMA pills were hidden inside the 
fake can, which was among a 12-pack of cans, police 
said. 
At about 12:30 a.m., police stopped a driver on 
State Road 93 near Gainesville, at mile marker 381, 
for driving too close to another car, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report. Gerald Demetrice Bell, 
37, of Childersburg, Alabama, was in the front passen-
ger seat. 
A K-9 alerted the ofﬁ  cer of drugs in the car, the re-port said. While searching the car, ofﬁ  cers found a fake 
water bottle and the fake Pepsi can inside the trunk. 
The can had 232 MDMA pills inside, and the water 
bottle had a baggie with two grams of marijuana. 
Bell admitted owning the drugs to polic, the report 
said. 
He was charged with drug trafﬁ  cking, possession of 
less than 20 grams of marijuana and possession of drug 
paraphernalia, the report said. 
He has no criminal record in Alachua County, ac-
cording to court records.
Bell remained in the Alachua County Jail Thursday 
in lieu of a $7,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org
SHE REMAINS IN JAIL
By Katherine Wallace-
Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested another sus-
pect Wednesday in connection 
to the shooting of a 31-year-old 
man earlier this month.
A second suspect was accused 
of being involved in the murder 
of Montez Dewayne Davis earlier 
this month, Gainesville Police 
said.
Gainesville Police arrested Marika Mamielle Allen, 29, on 
a warrant for allegedly murder-
ing Davis, 31, behind Eighth Ave 
Food Store, at 1634 NE Eigth 
Ave., and attempted murder of 
another woman, GPD said.
On the morning of March 9, 
police responded to a shooting 
after multiple people were argu-
ing over drugs in an area known 
as The Slab, near W.A. Metcalfe 
Elementary School, at 1250 NE 
18th Ave., the release said. 
Police found Davis shot to 
death behind the food store as 
well as the other woman who was also shot and injured. She 
was taken to a hospital, where 
her condition was stabilized. 
On March 14, police also ar-
rested James Eugene Boykins, 
20, for the alleged murder, police 
said. He was charged with pos-
session of a ﬁ  rearm by a felon, 
murder and attempted murder. 
Allen was charged with pre-
meditated ﬁ  rst-degree homicide 
and attempted murder in the 
ﬁ  rst degree, according to court 
records.
She remained in the Alachua 
County Jail Thursday.Police accuse man of using a Pepsi can to hide drugs
Gainesville Police accuse second suspect of killing manBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300,      3-22-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
1 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT- 
THE OAKS SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM 
APARTMENT WITH BALCONY FOR RENT. 
WALK TO OAKS MALL, RESTAURANTS- 
CALL 404-323-9338     3-29-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds7 Computers12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Student
Must have some knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Any time between: 
Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.WEEKEND SERVER NEEDED
Country Foodly is now hiring. Please drop off 
a resume during our operating hours (7AM to 
1PM). Open six days a week and closed on 
Tuesdays. 5240 NW 34th Blvd    3-25-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu -
dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs 
a week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours 
and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy 
interacting with others in a professional man -
ner and have a positive attitude. Retail, cus -
tomer service or volunteer experience is a 
plus. Apply online for requisition #: 222980 at 
www.gatordining.com      3-27-19-6-14  
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
3-27-19-3-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St
PLEASE APPLY IN PERSON
4-1-19-5-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.        3-22-
1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1.  Sanctuary, temple
1.  Supplied5.  Will Smith in “I, ____”
2.  Theft6.  Mistake
3.  ____ gas7.  Certain fold of skin
4.  Was scared ofNISEHR
EDRSVEOTRBO
REORR
RBYRBEO
URNALATLIEEDY
ADEFREANSWERS: 1A-Shrine  5A-Robot  6A-Error  7A-Eyelid
1D-Served  2D-Robbery  3D-Natural  4D-Feared  B-Beethoven2-22-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person never married or had children. 
BONUS
By Peter Koetters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 Foretold
9 Biblical spy
14 California resort 
island
15 Let up
17 Embattled World 
War II city
18 Lady of Las 
Palmas
19 Absolutely 
bonkers
21 Source of a 
mole poblano 
ingredient
24 “Now, where __?”
25 Spans often 
presidentially 
named
26 ’60s Hagman 
co-star
28 Turn
33 Rapper __ 
Wayne
34 Marble piece
35 Czech currency
36 Capital ESE of 
Kabul
38 College student
39 Partner of Marcus
40 Zeno’s home
41 Just out
42 Log
43 Deal preceder
44 Place to nosh on 
a knish
45 Musician 
Rundgren
47 Braves slugger
48 Nation of Islam 
leader who was 
a mentor to 
Malcolm X
54 Edible oil
55 Online 
annoyances 
needed to 
complete five 
puzzle answers
59 More disturbing, 
as details
60 Licorice-flavored 
brew
61 Because
62 Demoted to the 
minors
DOWN
1 Many Chrome 
runners
2 Muppet Rizzo, 
e.g.
3 Greek vowel4 Burrito seller’s 
array
5 Ginsburg 
associate
6 Actress Gershon
7 Many an RPI 
grad
8 Limited-access 
internet area
9 Honduran homes
10 He played Fish 
on “Barney 
Miller”
11 Legal scholar 
Guinier
12 “The most 
private of private 
schools”: Hugh 
Laurie
13 Marine threat
16 It holds water
20 Bled
21 2010s Caesars 
Palace regular, 
familiarly
22 Out of the sack
23 “Heads or tails”
26 Vigorous spirit
27 Pat
29 Claim discovery, 
perhaps
30 Phone in crime 
shows
31 San __, Texas32 Tongue-in-cheek 
award eponym
34 Wisenheimer
35 Proposal support?
37 __ Zion Church
38 Last: Abbr.
40 Turn into
43 Naval brass: 
Abbr.
44 Stifled
46 Orchard Field, 
today
47 Not to be missed48 Cardio readout
49 Indochinese 
Peninsula nation
50 Cross letters
51 Become part of
52 Refine
53 Could hear __ 
drop
56 Volume One 
words, perhaps
57 Morning coat?
58 Title of respect, in 
Tokyo
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, March 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 Mosque leaders
6 Teddy-bearlike 
Star Wars figure
10 What many icons 
open
14 Prime production
15 Vase-making 
dynasty
16 Legal plea, briefly
17 *Hazards for 
herpetologists
19 Ring calls
20 Falco of “The 
Sopranos”
21 Designer 
Schiaparelli
22 Classic mother-
and-son statue
23 Didn’t emulate 
Washington?
25 Programming 
language with a 
coffee icon
26 *Square-shaped 
ice cream treat
30 North-of-the-
border gas
33 Not sharp
34 What the fourth 
little piggy had
35 Erode
38 Bettor 
expectations
40 Brought up
41 Shuttlecock’s 
path
43 Dols. and cts.
44 *Novel narrated 
by a horse
48 Spelled-out 
strikeouts
49 Best Buy buys
54 Sacked out
56 Great Plains tribe
57 Eurasia’s __ 
Mountains
58 Groups of two
59 Breadcrumb 
coating brand ... 
or, as two words, 
what is found in 
the answers to 
starred clues
61 Poet St. Vincent 
Millay
62 Funny Fey
63 Meant to be
64 Road sign animal
65 Fragrant 
arrangement
66 Property claimsDOWN
1 “That’s enough, 
thanks”
2 Columbus’  
world
3 Be of use to
4 Ready to be 
recorded
5 Use one’s eyes
6 Estevez of “The 
Breakfast Club”
7 Breaking point
8 Service status
9 Metric wts.
10 Treatment for 
17-Across
11 *Pry
12 Novelist’s starting 
point
13 Slugger Sammy
18 Tolling place
22 Karachi’s 
country: Abbr.
24 “Locked Up” 
rapper
25 Iwo __
27 Drop down
28 Lines in the sand, 
perhaps
29 Hi-__ image
30 First name in tea
31 *Doggie bag 
item32 Host of the 
1950s’ “Your 
Show of Shows”
35 Drop off
36 Keep-on 
connection
37 Cal. neighbor
39 Sisterhood name 
in a 2002 film
42 Mideast tunics
45 “The Spanish 
Tragedy” 
dramatist46 “I guess it’s fine”
47 Genealogy chart
50 Largest UAE city
51 Fuming
52 Like some casks
53 Downhill runners
54 Fingered
55 Art class subject
56 Birthplace of 
seven presidents
59 Oil additive 
brand
60 Org. with Vikings15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 14 Help WantedUF diver Brooke Madden  
finished seventh on the 1-meter 
dive at the NCAA Championships 
in Austin, T exas. Florida is 
currently in 21st place. Florida sweeps Vanderbilt for eighth-straight win
The Gators men’s tennis team defeated the Commodores 7-0 on Thursday 
at the Ring T ennis Complex to improve to 14-2 on the season and remain 
undefeated in conference play. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Ugly wins don’t exist in the 
NCAA Tournament.
There are just wins.
The Gators earned 
an upset in their First 
Round matchup with 
Nevada, but it sure 
wasn’t pretty. 
The reward? A Sat-
urday matchup with 
No. 2-seed Michigan 
(28-6). 
The odds are cer-
tainly against Florida in 
that game, but at this point, does it 
really matter?
Had the Gators lost to the Wolf 
Pack, especially by blowing a double-digit lead, fans would have 
quickly forgotten the team’s growth 
in the month of February. A great 
run in the SEC Tourna-
ment would have been 
meaningless.
If Florida bowed out 
of the tournament by 
losing to a mid-major 
team on the first day, 
even one with the talent 
and size of Nevada, it 
would be disappointing.
Every time you lose 
in the postseason, it hurts. But the 
fact is this: By beating Nevada, 
Florida has met its tournament exUF basketball is now the 
underdog, and it’s suitingNothing But Nettuno / Opinion
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida succumbed to the right arm of Vander-
bilt’s Drake Fellows on Thursday night.
Fellows pitched a complete game, striking out 
eight and giving up just five hits as the 14th-ranked 
UF baseball team was held scoreless, dropping the 
first game of the series to No. 8 Vanderbilt 5-0 at 
Hawkins Field.
The Gators (16-8) couldn’t get to the junior, spoil-
ing a solid effort from UF starter Tommy Mace.
Mace threw 6.2 innings, compiling a career-high 
nine strikeouts.
“I thought Tommy was outstanding tonight,” 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release. “He made 
some great pitches and did everything he possibly 
could to keep us in the ballgame.”
The seven hits and four earned runs he surren-
dered were enough to hand Vanderbilt (17-5) the 
first win of the series.Junior right fielder JJ Bleday broke the scoreless 
tie in the bottom half of the first inning for Vanderbilt 
with an RBI ground-rule double that scored sopho-
more outfielder Cooper Davis.
The game stayed at 1-0 until the bottom of the 
fourth when the Commodores added another run.
Senior shortstop Ethan Paul earned an RBI after 
a groundout that brought home sophomore catcher 
Philip Clarke.
Vandy put the game out of reach in the seventh 
thanks to costly mistakes by the Florida bullpen.
Sophomore reliever Jordan Butler was wild in the 
bottom half of the inning, allowing runners to score 
on both a hit by pitch and a wild pitch. 
The ‘Dores notched their fifth run after UF fresh-
man reliever Ben Specht beaned junior infielder Har-
rison Ray, scoring Bleday from third.
Florida’s bats put five Gators in scoring position 
in the game, stranding freshmen infielders Kendrick 
Calilao and Cory Acton on second and third in the 
fourth, leaving senior designated hitter Nelson MalFlorida shutout in SEC road openerlane, and it shot just 21 per-
cent (5 of 24) from beyond the 
arc.
Thursday’s matchup was just 
as much about the Florida offense 
as it was its defense, however.
The Gators shot nearly 50 per-
cent in the first half after opening 
the game making seven of 10 field 
goals. 
They missed eight straight af-
ter the 5:49 mark, allowing Ne-
vada to pull within one, but they 
closed the half on a 9-2 run to 
take a nine-point lead into the 
break. 
Hudson ended the drought 
with his third three-pointer of the 
game, and Hayes, who was 5 for 
5 in the first half, followed with 
a dunk on the following posses-
sion.
UF contained Nevada leading 
scorer Caleb Martin in the first 
period, holding him to five points 
during that span.
While the Wolf Pack outshot 
Florida from the perimeter during 
the first half, UF held the advan-
tage in rebounds (15-12), points 
in the paint (16-12), second-
chance points (8-5) and points off 
turnovers (10-8). 
That dominance continued 
well into the second half. 
UF opened the frame on a 17-9 
run, including 10 straight points. The Gators took an an 18-point 
lead, which was their largest of 
the game.
The Wolf Pack continued to 
work at UF’s lead, dominating the 
offensive boards 14-2 during the 
second frame and scoring seven 
second-chance points. 
Nevada shot just 27.3 percent 
during the second period, though.
Martin and his twin brother, 
Cody, combined for 28 second-
half points. The rest of the team 
had five.
With his team facing a 10-point 
deficit with 7:18 left, Caleb made 
a layup that sparked a 9-0 run 
that allowed the Wolf Pack to pull 
within three with just over five 
minutes to play.
Hayes fouled out with 2:02 
left, and suddenly Nevada only 
faced a two-point deficit after a 
pair of free throws from Caleb.
Freshman Andrew Nembhard 
drove to the basket for a layup 
on the next possession to make it 
65-61.
Then, Johnson drove into the 
lane and dished it to sophomore 
forward Dontay Bassett for a 
dunk with 47 seconds left. John-
son added two free throws with 
under 10 seconds left to seal Ne-
vada’s fate.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 1The Gators shot nearly 50 percent in the first half vs Nevada
The Associated Press
Nevada’s Jordan Caroline (middle) shoots between Florida’s Andrew Nembhard (left) and Kevarrius 
Hayes (right) in the First Round of the NCAA T ournament in Des Moines, Iowa, on Thursday.
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The Gators gymnastics team had a week to 
reflect on its regular-season conference title.
That week has come and gone, and UF 
will seek the second piece of SEC hardware 
to complete the set when it heads to New Or-
leans on Saturday for the SEC Championships.
While they will mostly attempt to fend off 
the vengeance of those they topped in compe-
tition earlier this year, the Gators also look to 
get some vengeance of their own against the 
one SEC team they couldn’t beat: Georgia.
 
It Just Means More
Five of the eight teams competing in the 
SEC Championships are in the nation’s top 10, 
including UF.
Florida has already bested six of its seven 
opponents Saturday night, and it will enter 
the competition as the No. 2 seed behind the 
LSU Tigers. While it seems strange that the 
conference’s regular-season champion isn’t 
the No. 1 seed, coach Jenny Rowland didn’t 
seem concerned about it.
“Numbers, seedings don’t really matter at 
this time,” Roland said. “It’s not in our con-
trol, but this team is able to control a lot, and 
that’s energy, that’s the gymnastics.”
The Gators will need that energy to get past 
the stacked field in the championships, which 
includes the one conference team that de-
feated them this year in the Georgia Bulldogs. 
UGA ended its season 4-3 in the conference 
and is coming off a loss at the hands of LSU to end its regular-season schedule.
The other top 10 teams in the field include 
No. 9 Kentucky and No. 10 Alabama.
“It’s going to be some of the top schools in 
the nation,” sophomore Megan Skaggs said. 
“But we’re ready to go and battle it out.”
 
Well-Rested
There’s something all the top 10 teams in 
the championships have done that the Gators 
haven’t: They all competed last week.
Florida did not, and that one week of rest 
could be the key to its success come Saturday.
“Not having as many meets, we’re just 
gonna come out with more power, more en-
ergy,” junior Amelia Hundley said.
UF also has the benefit of starting on per-
haps its strongest event, the bars, and finish-
ing on its weakest event, the vault. The Gators 
hope to carry the momentum from the bars all 
the way through the routine and finish strong 
on the event that’s vexed them throughout the 
year.
“At the end of a competition, I think it sets 
this team up really well,” Rowland said about 
vault being last in the event order. “(The team 
is) actually really excited about it.”
With proper rest and an event order in its 
favor, Florida has multiple reasons to be ex-
cited about the prospect of sweeping SEC ac-
colades with a victory on Saturday.
“SECs is gonna be lit,” Rowland said. 
“Looking forward to a great weekend.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators prepare for potential SEC sweep on Saturday
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
The UF softball team carried its offensive strug-
gles from SEC play into its midweek game against 
No. 20 Minnesota on Wednesday. 
Catcher Kendyl Lindaman batted in all eight of 
Florida’s runs in its past four games: two against 
the Golden Gophers and six over the weekend at 
LSU. The rest of the team has a combined batting 
average of .099 over that stretch. 
But the Gators will have a chance to string some 
hits together in a weekend homestand against Mer-
cer. 
No. 6 Florida will host the Bears (13-18) on Sat-
urday at 4 p.m. and Sunday at 1 p.m. at Katie Sea-
shole Pressly Stadium. Coach Tim Walton said he’s 
looking to put a more offensive lineup on the field 
to face a Mercer pitching staff with a 5.28 earned-
run average.
“Having the struggles in the middle of the line-
up, you can’t have five defensive players,” he said. 
“You’ve got to have some offense. That’s all we’re 
trying to do, trying to squeeze as much offense out 
as we can.”
Walton said outfielder Jaimie Hoover has been 
taking repetitions at third base for a little over a 
week, and she will make her season debut in the 
infield this weekend. 
Freshman Hannah Sipos started 26 games at 
third base. However, the Gators (25-6) already have 
second baseman Hannah Adams, shortstop Sophia 
Reynoso and center fielder Alex Voss in the starting 
lineup for primarily defensive purposes. They need somewhere to plug in a power hitter, and third base 
is their best option. 
Hoover, along with the rest of the middle of 
UF’s lineup, has struggled since the start of SEC 
play. She’s 1 for 8 at the plate in six conference ap-
pearances. The rest of the mid-lineup mainstays — 
catcher Jordan Roberts, utility player Jordan Mat-
thews and right fielder Danielle Romanello — went 
a combined 4 for 38 against SEC opponents. The 
four together also lead the team in strikeouts.
“We’ve hit some balls firm, but just nothing to 
really show for it,” Walton said. “Practice-wise, 
just trying to get it to carry over. I think that’s the 
goal. Figuring out how to get it going from pregame 
to in-game.”
An emerging fixture for Florida’s offense is out-
fielder Jade Caraway at the bottom of the lineup. 
The transfer from North Carolina State has five hits 
— all singles — in her last five games and came 
around to score two times. 
However, her most critical function is her ability 
to turn over the lineup and pass the bat to Amanda 
Lorenz at the top of the order, who’s hitting .420 
on the year. 
Caraway’s speed makes her a tough out if she 
makes contact. She beat out a ground ball for an 
infield hit against Minnesota and had two infield 
hits against LSU on Monday.
“She’s just kind of taking what they’re giving 
her,” Walton said. “I’m not going to ask her to do 
anything more.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgMercer presents opportunity 
for struggling Florida offenseAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Junior gymnast Amelia Hundley scored a 9.925 on beam, UF’s highest total in 
the event, against Georgia on Feb. 22 at the O’Connell Center.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
McCartney Kessler struggled to 
find her game early this season.
She dropped four of her first six 
singles matches while stumbling in 
doubles play by losing four straight 
earlier this season. 
Kessler entered conference play 
with momentum, winning her past 
three matches, including one over 
Georgia’s No. 16 Marta Gonzalez. 
She hopes to keep the intensity alive 
when the Florida women’s tennis 
team plays its first of four matches 
on the road against No. 23 Kentucky 
on Friday. 
The No. 31 Gators (7-6, 4-2 SEC) 
travel to Lexington, Kentucky, to 
take on the Wildcats after falling to  
No. 2 Georgia and bouncing back to 
defeat then-No. 16 Tennessee this 
past weekend at the Ring Tennis 
Complex.
Florida enters the match with 
three players ranked in the ITA Top 
125 with No. 16 Ida Jarlskog, No. 38 
Kessler and No. 67 Victoria Emma. 
The Wildcats, on the other hand, 
have just one ranked player in No. 
35 Justina Mikulskyte. 
Kentucky (14-3, 4-2 SEC) remains undefeated in nine home matches, 
including victories over Arkansas 
and Missouri — two teams the Gators 
defeated on the road. 
The Wildcats pose a threat to 
Florida in capturing the doubles 
point. The Gators failed to win the 
point in their past two matches and 
will have to face No. 14-ranked pair 
Akvile Parazinskaite and Mikulskyte. 
Kentucky’s duo is 5-1 in conference 
play and ride a five-match unbeaten 
streak into Friday. 
Florida’s main pairing of sopho-
mores Emma and Kessler will have 
its hands full despite its 4-1 confer-
ence record in doubles play, while 
transfer duo Tsveta Dimitrova and 
Jarlskog enter with four conference 
victories.
The Wildcats and Florida are cur-
rently in a three-way tie for fourth 
place in the SEC with Texas A&M 
and trail Georgia, South Carolina and 
Vanderbilt, a team the Gators will see 
on Sunday in Nashville, Tennessee. 
The Gators enter on an eight-
match win streak over Kentucky and 
have a 42-2 overall record since the 
series first started in 1983. 
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgKessler finds rhythm as 
UF prepares for Kentucky16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
pectations. Any wins beyond this one 
would be a pleasant surprise for a team that 
struggled mightily throughout the season.
The Gators are now playing with house 
money.
In all likelihood, they’ll be signiﬁ  cant 
underdogs against any potential team they 
could face from here. I doubt many will even 
give Florida a chance to take down the Wol-
verines, let alone make a deep tournament 
run.
But the team knows that. If anything, it 
probably prefers it that way.
Coach Mike White’s squad took care of 
business in the ﬁ  rst round. The Gators won 
their ﬁ  rst-ever First-Round game as a double-
digit seed. 
Now, they’ll embrace the role of Cinder-
ella. They can only hope the clock doesn’t 
strike midnight on their tournament run 
against Michigan.
Tyler Nettuno is a sports writer for the Al-
ligator. Follow him on Twitter @TylerNettuno 
or contact him at tnettuno@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
donado at second in the sixth and desert-
ing freshman inﬁ  elder/RHP Kris Armstrong 
in the ninth.
Those squandered opportunities were 
the closest the Gators would get to putting 
some much-needed runs on the board.
 “We’ve got to go back to the drawing 
board and get going tomorrow,” O’Sullivan 
said. “Obviously we’ve got to do a little bet-
ter job offensively.”
Sophomore shortstop Brady McConnell 
was the only UF batter who collected mul-
tiple hits, going 2 for 4 with two singles.
“The drag was there for us tonight,” 
O’Sullivan said. “If we could have just 
strung together a couple good at-bats when 
the game was within a couple runs who 
knows what could have happened.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14UF had 5 hits
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Jordan Butler relieved T ommy Mace in the sixth inning, walking 
two batters and hitting another with a pitch before he was pulled. 
FRIDAY
Women’s Swimming and Diving at NCAA Champi-
onships, Austin, T exas, All Day, ESPNU
Track and Field at FSU Relays, T allahassee, Florida, 
10:30 a.m.
Women’s T ennis at Kentucky, 5 p.m.
Baseball at Vanderbilt 7:30 p.m., SEC Network+
SATURDAY
Women’s Swimming and Diving at NCAA Champi-
onships, Austin, T exas, All Day, ESPNU
Women’s Golf at Evans Derby Experience, Auburn, 
Alabama, All Day
Men’s Basketball vs Michigan at NCAA T ourna-ment, Des Moines, Iowa, 5:15 p.m.
Lacrosse at No. 19 Stony Brook, 11: 30 a.m.
Baseball at Vanderbilt, 2 p.m., SEC Network+
Men’s T ennis at Kentucky, 2 p.m.
Softball vs. Mercer, 4 p.m., SEC Network+
Gymnastics at SEC Championships, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, 8 p.m., ESPN2
SUNDAY
Women’s Golf at Evans Derby Experience, Auburn, 
Alabama, All Day
Softball vs. Mercer, 1 p.m., SEC Network+
Women’s T ennis at No. 5 Vanderbilt, 2 p.m.SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK by River Wells THIS WEEKEND IN UF SPORTS