We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
First international food truck rally 
First Magnitude Brewing Company hosts ﬁ  rst rally of Fall, pg 3
Gator Growl opening act LANCO announced
UF Homecoming and Gator Growl announce country group 
LANCO as opening act for the Oct.4 festival, pg 4Volleyball coasts past UCF 
UF’s volleyball team defeated the Knights in 
its exhibition matchup Saturday afternoon in a 
ﬁ  ve-set contest at the O’Connell Center, pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 4
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Florida’s football team may have 
had a slightly shorter offseason than 
the majority of Division I football 
teams, but it still had 238 days since 
its last snap of meaningful football to 
prepare for Miami.
But months of offseason preparation 
was nearly all for naught.
“I mean, we go back and we talk 
about our plan to win and how we 
want to win games,” coach Dan Mul-
len said after Saturday’s 24-20 win in 
Orlando. “And we certainly didn’t do 
that tonight with turning the ball over, 
with not scoring touchdowns when we 
get down on the red zone, some critical 
penalties at critical times.”
The Gators’ offensive play-calling 
neutralized their own playmaking 
threats more than the Hurricanes’ 
could have hoped to do themselves. 
The defense had momentary lapses — 
including a few glaring missed tackles 
— but it executed the game plan well 
for three and a half quarters.Then all discipline disappeared, and 
UF (1-0) tried its best to hand the game 
to the ‘Canes (0-1). Luckily for Florida, 
UM’s mistakes cost it a chance at a win.
So the Gators escaped Orlando with 
a win over the Hurricanes and a long 
list of items to work on over the next 
two weeks.
To start, UF’s receivers must play a 
more prominent role in the offense the 
rest of the season.
Van Jefferson and Trevon Grimes, 
ﬁ  rst and second on the team in recep-
tions in 2018, respectively, combined 
for two catches on ﬁ  ve targets and just 
24 yards. Josh Hammond and Kadarius 
Toney compensated for the lack of vol-
ume. Quarterback Feleipe Franks’ top 
two targets each saw breakout plays 
of more than 60 yards, but relying on 
such plays in the future is risky.
Florida’s four scoring drives went 
79, 33, 11 and 80 yards. The two longer 
drives banked on Toney’s elusiveness 
and Franks’ deep ball to Hammond. 
The 11-yard drive resulted in a touch-
down but came after a muffed punt. UF leaves Orlando with a 
win and a lot to work on
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior quarterback Feleipe Franks scored the game-winning touchdown on a 3-yard 
draw in the fourth quarter. Florida beat Miami 24-20 Saturday in Orlando.
HE WAS NOT SERIOUSL Y INJURED 
AND IS HOME RECOVERING
By Melissa Hernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s band director is at home recov-
ering following an attack by Miami fans 
at the Florida vs. Miami football game on 
Saturday in Orlando.
John “Jay” Watkins, the UF band di-
rector and an assistant professor for the 
School of Music, was guiding the march-
ing band from the Camping World Stadi-
um back to the bus when a female Hurri-
canes fan tried walking through the band 
line after the game. Watkins stuck his 
arm out in an attempt to stop her. He was 
then grabbed from behind in a chokehold 
by another male fan and thrown on the 
ground, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said. 
An Orlando Police Department ofﬁ  cer 
on the scene ﬁ  led an incident report but 
no arrests have been made, Orlando said. No students have been reported injured. 
Orlando described the event as “terri-
bly unfortunate.” 
“These types of things should not hap-
pen, and it is unfortunate that it did,” he 
said. 
Skylar Valentin, a 20-year-old UF Eng-
lish junior who plays alto saxophone in 
the marching band, said she thinks the at-
tack had to do with the outcome of the 
game. Miami lost by four points. 
“I think that since it’s been a while that 
we played (Miami) and they lost that the 
fans were angry,” Valentin said. “But I 
think that’s how all games go.” 
Watkins sustained minor injuries and 
returned home on the bus with students 
after Emergency Medical Services exam-
ined him at the scene, Orlando said. 
“We’re very thankful no students were 
injured,” Orlando said. “That’s the most 
important thing.”
@melissamh_
mhernandez@alligator.orgMiami fans attack UF band director 
after Florida versus Miami game
HOWARD LOUIS ANDERSON JR. 
HAS A $525,000 BOND
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The discovery of a bathroom spy camera led 
to the arrest of a Gainesville talent manager for 
sexual coercion, massages and ﬁ  lming of mi-
nors, police said.
On Aug. 5, a person was in a bathroom 
with his girlfriend when he noticed a clock that 
looked like a hidden camera, according to a 
Gainesville Police report. When he opened the 
back of the clock, he found an SD card.
Shortly after discovering the spy camera, the 
person who uncovered the camera got an un-
prompted call from Howard Louis Anderson Jr., 
38, trying to explain why he placed the camera 
there, police said. 
The address was redacted from the report. 
The man told police that Anderson said he 
placed the clock in the bathroom to set alarms 
and avoid being late.
When police looked at the contents of the 
camera, which they believe was Wi-Fi enabled and live video capable, they found sexually ex-
plicit videos.
Police found six videos on the motion-acti-
vated camera, four of which show only a man’s 
torso and below. In the last video, a man, iden-
tiﬁ  ed later as Anderson, was ﬁ  xing the view of 
the spy camera, according to records.
After the man gave police the videos, he also 
told them Anderson had sexually battered him. 
Another victim had reported the same thing, po-
lice said.
One victim recounted how Anderson gave 
him alcohol when he was younger, presumably 
as a minor, and started giving him a massage, 
police said. Anderson started massaging the vic-
tim’s legs and genital area without consent then 
forcefully kissed him. 
The victim said he was “completely in 
shock” and too afraid to move due Anderson’s 
size and strength, according to the arrest report. 
Anderson only stopped when his children start-
ed knocking on the locked bedroom door.
Another victim told police Anderson pro-
motes himself as a photographer and talent Talent manager arrested after alleged 
sexual assault, voyeurism of minorsSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 10
SEE BATTERY,  PAGE 3FOOTBALLT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  91° LOW  74°
Correction: The Alligator 
previously reported that classes 
in the UF law school begin at 
8 a.m.There aren't any law 
school classes on Wednesdays 
at 8 a.m. This story has been 
updated online to reflect this 
change. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING
THIS WEEK
TranQuility Free Clothing Swap
When: Today at 6:30 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center 
What: TranQuility and Gainesville 
Free Store will be hosting a 
clothing swap party at the Civic 
Media Center. This event is free 
and open to the public. If you 
are able, bring up to 10 items to 
donate or swap. The organizers 
have asked for clothing, toiletries, 
makeup, binders, breast forms, 
packers and stand-to-pee (STP) 
devices.
Student Services Relocates to 
Smathers Library
When: M-F, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: 100 Smathers Library
What: Student services for admis-
sions, registrar, student financial 
affairs and the bursar will be relo-
cated from Criser/Peabody Halls 
to 100 Smathers Library. This one 
location for these services has 
been designed for students’ con-
venience during fall peak time.
Students receive free admission 
to Florida Museum
When: M-Sat, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; 
Sun., 1-5 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
What: Students with a valid Gator 
1 Card receive free admission to 
the “Butterfly Rainforest” and 
other fee-based exhibits year-
round at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, sponsored by UF 
Student Government.Art Walk with Baer and the 
Lady and In Bed By Ten
When: Friday, 6 to 9 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company
What: Gainesville Art Walk at 
First Magnitude is back. Check 
out great local artists while enjoy-
ing a refreshing beverage and 
the live music. Art Walk is rain 
or shine, we'll either be in the 
beer garden or the warehouse. If 
you are interested in joining our 
artist line-up please reach out to 
Jenna@fmbrewing.com!
NEXT WEEK
Blue Star Museums
When: Sept. 2, 10 a.m to 5 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History is offering free ad-
mission to all fee-based exhibits 
for active duty military personnel 
and their families through Labor 
Day as part of the Blue Star Mu-
seums program. Free admission is 
available to any active duty U.S. 
military – Army, Navy, Air Force, 
Marines or Coast Guard, as well 
as members of the National Guard 
and Reserve, U.S. Public Health 
Service and National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration Com-
missioned Corps, and up to five 
family members. 
Tile Exchange Exhibition: 
Wuhan Textile University and 
University of Florida 
When: Sept. 9 - Oct. 18, M-F, 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: Libby Gallery located in 
the Fine Arts Building C on UF 
campus
What: The “Tile Exchange Exhibi-
tion: Wuhan Textile University 
and University of Florida” will 
be on view in the University of 
Florida’s Gary R. Libby Gallery. 
The tiles have surface designs in 
a variety of techniques including 
slip, underglaze, decals and glaze. 
An exhibition reception will be 
held on Friday, September 13, from 7 to 9 p.m. The exhibition 
and reception are free and open 
to the public. For more informa-
tion, please contact the University 
Gallery at (352) 273-3000 or visit 
our website at www.arts.ufl.edu/
galleries.
A Table of Contents by 
Emmanuel Manu Opoku
When: Sept. 2 - Nov. 8
Where: The Constance and Linton 
Grinter Gallery of International 
Art at the University of Florida
What: A Table of Contents 
includes four installations that ex-
plore UF Sculpture MFA student 
Emmanuel Manu Opoku’s interest 
in found objects and the way 
they are representative of culture. 
“The installations invite viewers 
to read their own meanings into 
familiar objects that have been 
transformed,” Opoku said. For 
more information, please contact 
the University Gallery at (352) 
273-3000 or visit our website at 
www.arts.ufl.edu/galleries.
Fall Student Government 
Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25 
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Fall SG Elections will be 
held Sept. 24 and 25 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at locations 
across campus. 
Absentee ballots requests, due 
by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should be 
submitted online at www.sg.ufl.
edu/elections. These elections 
will determine the 50 senators 
who represent the students living 
on and off campus. 
Party registration will run Aug. 22 
at 9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as fol-
lows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3.
Boss up: Beauties in Business 
Brunch
When: Sept. 28, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where: SL8 gallery
What: Hello Beautiful is hosted its 
annual women’s empowerment 
brunch. The brunch will include 
a panelists of five women sharing 
their journeys through life and 
development of their brands and 
businesses. Tickets to register 
are available now at hellobeauti-
fulempo.wixsite.com; prices range 
from $15 for early bird registrants 
to $20 for after. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 4
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgLokelah Blanc, avenue@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany hosted a trip around the 
world on Sunday. 
The international food truck 
rally, hosted in partnership with 
MA Latin Entertainment, made its 
debut at 3 p.m. with 24 trucks fea-
turing cuisines such as Mexican, 
British and Italian. About 3,000 
people attended the free event, 
which also included Latin and 
jazz music. 
Attendees were also able to 
donate to Gainesville Girls Rock 
Camp, which teaches young girls 
how to play instruments and per-
form in a band. Donation jars for 
the non-proﬁ  t organization sat at 
the front of food trucks. 
Marta Antron, an event orga-
nizer with MA Latin Entertain-
ment, wasn’t sure how much the 
entire event cost, but the orga-
nization spent about $1,000 for advertising and about $100 for 
music. She decided to plan an 
international event because of 
her success with hosting Latinx 
events in the past.
“It’s something multicultural 
because you can try food from 
different parts of the world in just 
one spot,” she said. 
Andrew O’Connor, a 24-year-
old UF material science doctoral 
student, said he goes to the brew-
ery often and attended the food 
truck rally with two classmates. 
He ate sweet fried plantains and 
croquettes, but the chicken empa-
nadas from the Arepas Milko food 
truck were his favorite. 
O’Connor said he’s gone to 
food truck rallies in other cit-
ies, but this was his ﬁ  rst one in 
Gainesville.
“I was pretty impressed with 
the speed of service of First Mag,” 
he said. “Overall, it was a well-
attended event.”  
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org First international food truck 
rally comes to Gainesville   
About 3,000 people attended the free event
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Johnny Ho, the co-owner of Lulu’s Gelato, takes a break in his food truck Sunday afternoon during the 
First International Food Truck Rally at First Magnitude Brewing Company. Ho and his wife, Tina, have 
been in the food industry for close to ﬁ  ve decades, but now they focus on their gelato truck, which they 
named after their granddaughter Lulu. They make small batch gelato and sorbetto. Their food truck is 
normally located at the Jonesville Persimmon and Fruit Tree Nursery. 
manager, according to the arrest re-
port. The victim saw Anderson as a 
mentor and went to him about six 
months ago during a “difﬁ  cult time” 
when he was presumably underaged.
All within an hour and a half, 
Anderson gave him alcohol, canna-
bis from a pipe and edible cannabis 
gummies, the victim told police. An-
derson then told him he needed to 
“work out for his modeling career.”
The victim recalls blacking out 
and waking up naked with Anderson 
touching his penis, police said.
These victims of Anderson’s al-
leged sexual assaults told police 
about a third person who may have 
been touched by him, police said. 
This new victim told police that 
Anderson invited him to a “cast 
party” in July, when he may have 
been underage, police said. While in-
toxicated, Anderson took him to his 
house.
There, Anderson gave him a pill 
for his “hangover” and offered a 
massage so the victim would not feel 
sore the next day. The victim said the 
massage escalated until Anderson 
pulled down the victim’s pants and 
massaged his groin area, police said.
The victim described “scream-
ing inside his head for it to stop” but 
could not speak, police said.
Police interviewed the girlfriend 
who was in the bathroom when her 
boyfriend found the hidden camera. 
She said that her boyfriend partook 
in a “drinking war,” downing cups of 
alcohol, with Anderson the day be-
fore they found the camera. 
She and her boyfriend, who was 
with them at the time, went to bed after drinking. While the boyfriend 
fell asleep, she stayed awake.
While she was awake, Anderson 
came in the room and began rubbing 
her thigh and vagina, according to 
the report. She told police she didn’t 
want to wake her boyfriend out of 
fear he would ﬁ  ght Anderson.
When she told Anderson “don’t 
do that,” he stopped and immedi-
ately “fell on the end of the bed and 
pretended to start snoring,” accord-
ing to the arrest report. 
During a phone call with police, 
Anderson admitted to the sexual as-
saults and placing the hidden camera 
clock in the bathroom because he 
“wanted to record the drug deals he 
was doing,” according to the report.
Police executing a search war-
rant also found three hidden cameras 
inside of an alarm clock, radio and 
smoke alarm in the trunk of his ve-
hicle, according to the report. Police 
were unsure at the time if any images 
of the victims existed on the cameras.
In an interview with authorities, 
Anderson admitted to hiding camer-
as and described the sexual assaults 
as accidental, saying he used his fore-
arm to only move one victim’s geni-
tals to the side in order to massage 
his leg. He said he did not remember 
two of the accounts, accorsing to the 
report.
Anderson is facing charges of con-
tributing to the delinquency of mi-
nors, two counts of video voyeurism 
to a person older than 19, sexual bat-
tery of a minor and three counts of 
sexual battery to a person 18 or older.
Anderson is currently held at the 
Alachua County Jail on a $525,000 
bond.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgBATTERY,  from pg. 1‘Don’t do that,’ he stopped
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Brittany Webber, founder of LittleThingsxBrit, paints a magnetic mini canvas Saturday at the 
Florida Vintage Market at the High Dive. Webber said while this was her ﬁ  rst time at the High Dive 
event, her work has been exhibited at a variety of events around Gainesville such as the Artwalk at 
First Magnitude Brewery and events at Curia On The Drag.
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Brittany Webber,  the artist,  
designer and founder of 
LittleThingsxBrit, dries 
a brush after completing 
an original magnetic mini 
canvas to sell at her booth 
Saturday at High Dive’s 
Florida Vintage Market. 
A recent UF alumna with 
a degree in architecture, 
Webber said art has 
interested her throughout 
her entire life. She will 
exhibit her mini canvases 
at Reitz Union next week. 
Magnetic Attraction4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019
,
WITH DNA SEQUENCING, 
CONSUMERS MAY GET 
TASTY TOMATOES
 YEAR-ROUND
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Ketchup, salads and salsa all re-
quire a good-tasting tomato. 
For UF horticultural sciences re-
searchers, breeding these ﬂ  avorful 
tomatoes will be even easier with 
DNA sequencing. 
Denise Tieman, a research as-
sistant professor in the UF horti-
cultural sciences department, is 
making the process of breeding 
tomato ﬂ  avors easier using the UF-
developed Tasti-Lee hybrid tomato, 
which grows well in Florida. She 
will present the ﬁ  ndings on Sept. 4 
at the UF/IFAS Florida Tomato In-
stitute in Naples, Florida.
Researchers started by using 
taste tests to identify what makes 
a tomato taste good, Tieman said. 
Based on these results, they looked 
at the biochemistry of the tomatoes 
to ﬁ  gure out which compounds were the most important for ﬂ  avor. 
“It really just is a combination of 
different sugars, acids and then the 
aroma compounds: the things that 
you smell,” Tieman said. 
When Tieman had the “recipe” 
for a good-tasting tomato, she se-
quenced the genomes of about 400 
varieties of tomatoes and tried to 
ﬁ  nd the genes involved in making 
these particular compounds. 
If one variety of tomatoes had 
high levels of favorable com-
pounds, she knew she had to add 
in the favorable compounds’ DNA. 
Breeding tomatoes for ﬂ  avor 
used to be almost impossible be-
cause breeders had to prioritize 
breeding for traits necessary for 
mass production, such as shelf life 
and disease resistance. 
Now, the technology exists to 
breed for ﬂ  avor without tasting 
each variety, Tieman said. 
“We can actually look at the 
DNA sequence and say, ‘Is this 
something that I don’t even want to 
bother to taste?’” Tieman said. 
The end goal for this research 
is for consumers to have a better 
tomato available at grocery stores, and, in turn, eat more healthy 
foods, Tieman said. The team does 
not know how much retailers will 
sell them for. 
“You’ll buy tomatoes in the 
middle of the winter and they don’t 
taste good, but hopefully, you’ll get 
a better-tasting tomato year-round 
and you’ll be happy to eat tomatoes 
all the time,” Tieman said. 
Gurleen Kaur, a 26-year-old UF 
doctoral student in the horticultural 
science department and former vice 
president of the Plant Science Coun-
cil, has read a lot of papers demon-
strating that consumers are looking 
for better-ﬂ  avored tomatoes. 
Flavor is a complex trait because 
it’s not easy to breed for. Kaur said 
that tasting panels are expensive, 
especially with trained taste-testers, 
and not every lab can afford them. 
That’s where the role of this impor-
tant DNA tool can come into play, 
Kaur said.
“Tomato ﬂ  avor is a hot topic,” 
Kaur said. “Everyone wants good-
tasting tomatoes.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.org Tomatoes ﬁ  t to taste in UF researchTHE COUNTRY GROUP 
COST $52,000 TO BOOK.
OPENER CHASE RICE 
COST $65,000
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Get ready to wear your cowboy 
hats for not one, but two coun-
try acts at this year’s Gator Growl 
homecoming concert on Oct. 4.
On Aug. 23, UF Homecoming 
and Gator Growl announced coun-
try group LANCO as the opening 
act for this year’s concert on Flavet 
Field.
Country singer Chase Rice was 
announced earlier this week as 
the headliner, with UF alumnus 
and YouTuber Cameron ‘Scooter’ 
Magruder serving as host. 
LANCO, a ﬁ  ve-person country 
band from Nashville, Tennessee, 
rose to fame with their hit single 
“Greatest Love Story” in March 
2017. They were the ﬁ  rst country 
group in over a decade to appear 
at the top of the Billboard Country 
Albums Chart with a debut album, 
said Corben Champoux, Gator 
Growl producer. 
Champoux said she couldn’t be 
more excited. 
“We are ready to get our show on the road,” she said.
UF Homecoming is paying 
$52,000 to book LANCO. Chase 
Rice will be paid $65,000, and 
host Magruder will receive $5,000, 
Champoux said.
“I think they’re just a very 
unique band and they’re greater 
performers live,” Champoux said. 
“I think they really encapture what 
students and alumni want to see for 
this year.”
Not all students are as thrilled 
about the announcement, though. 
Alexandria Salis, an 18-year-old 
UF ﬁ  nance freshman, shared the 
news on her Instagram story with 
a caption calling this news “the big-
gest disappointment.” 
She said she is a music fanatic 
and was shocked that UF Home-
coming picked performers she 
hadn’t heard of.
As a freshman, Salis was look-
ing forward to partaking in the 
long-running UF tradition. After 
seeing the announcement, she 
might skip it. 
“I was super excited to jump 
into these huge events UF is fa-
mous for,” she said, “But now I 
have no interest in going.” 
@aescalante22
a.escalante@uﬂ  .eduGator Growl announces 
LANCO as opening actIN-STATE FRESHMAN 
ENROLLMENT DECREASED 
BY 4 PERCENT
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is seeing a rise in its percent-
age of out-of-state freshmen com-
pared to other public universities in 
Florida, according to recent data.
From 2012 to 2017, Florida public 
universities have largely maintained their percentage of in-state freshmen, 
according to a study released Thurs-
day in the Fort Myers News-Press. 
The percentage of out-of-state fresh-
men at public universities across the 
country and UF increased.
The article cites a study, conduct-
ed by USA Today, which analyzed 
statistics from the Integrated Postsec-
ondary Education Data System. 
Ten percent is the limit on non-
Florida resident enrollment in the 
State University System of Florida, 
which is home to more than 300,000 students, according to its website.
The Florida public university 
system as a whole, not individual 
universities, has to abide by this 10 
percent limit. As of Fall 2018, 21 per-
cent of the UF student body are out-
of-state students.
In 2012, UF in-state enrollment 
accounted for 96.43 percent of the 
freshman class, said Charles Murphy, 
the  UF director of freshman and in-
ternational admissions. By 2017, that 
number decreased to 92.08 percent.
“The university over the last ﬁ  ve 
to 10 years has gained sort of 
more of a national reputation, and 
I think the applicant pool over 
time has represented more of a 
national applicant pool,” Murphy 
said.
Murphy noted a minor differ-
ence between UF’s internal statis-
tics displayed on its Institutional 
Planning and Research webpage 
and the numbers cited in the ar-ticle.
“The article combined on-campus 
and online, so that might be where 
their statistics came from and the 
small discrepancy in these numbers 
from the article,” he said.
Murphy spoke of increased efforts 
to keep some of the brightest Florida 
high school students in the state.
“The university has started to of-
fer honors admission at the time of 
admission, some receiving $2,000, 
for students who have other fantastic 
universities on their list and private 
universities,” Murphy said. “We’re 
trying to show the importance of keeping them in Florida.”
One such student is Sabrina Guil-
len, a 17-year-old UF biochemistry 
freshman.
“State schools are much cheaper 
than private schools, so that was a 
big reason why I stayed in-state, and 
I thought UF was a lot better than 
other in-state schools,” she said.
The UF student ﬁ  nancial aid web-
page adds $22,278 to out-of-state 
tuition costs for undergraduate stu-
dents.
Prestige and cost kept Guillen in-
state and part of the overwhelming 
percentage of in-state students that 
make up UF’s freshman classes.
“I don’t think anyone would go 
out of state for a college that is in 
equal standing but they would spend 
three times the amount,” Guillen 
said.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgOut-of-stater Gator freshman enrollment rises, study shows
Stats from Charles Murphy, the 
UF director of freshman and in-
ternational admissions:
- 2012 in-state enrollment at UF: 
96.43%
- 2017 in-state enrollment at UF: 
92.08%MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
An Ocala man was arrested Friday after he was al-
legedly involved in a crash that killed a 53-year-old 
woman in the passenger seat while driving drunk in 
2018, according to the Florida Highway Patrol.
Clifton Ray Raines, 33, was charged with vehicular 
manslaughter while driving under the inﬂ  uence and 
causing serious injury while driving with a suspended 
license following the June 16 single-vehicle crash off of 
County Road 337 and Southwest 30th Avenue, accord-
ing to an FHP report. 
Frances Regina Grantham died at the scene of the 
crash, while Raines and the other passenger were tak-
en to UF Health Shands Hospital.
Authorities believe Raines was driving northbound 
on County Road 337 and moved off the road when 
it began to curve. According to the report, Raines at-
tempted to turn but hit a concrete drain culvert and 
ﬂ  ipped over. Grantham was ejected from the passen-
ger window, ending up slightly under the roof of the 
vehicle.
Raines’ blood samples contained alcohol content 
values of .109 and .110 about four hours after the 
crash, according to the report. The legal level of blood 
alcohol content in Florida is .08. His blood also con-
tained benzoylecgonine, an active compound found in 
cocaine and is present in the body for up to four days.
Raines is being held at the Alachua County Jail on a 
bond of $400,000, according to county records.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgOcala man charged in 
2018 DUI manslaughter
CLIFTON RAY RAINES IS 
IN JAIL ON A $400,000 BONDBy Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
The architectural center-
piece of Gainesville’s Historic 
downtown is featuring a new 
ﬁ  lm series on architecture.
The Hippodrome State 
Theatre partnered with the 
American Institute of Archi-
tects Gainesville to produce 
a ﬁ  lm series that showcases 
the effect architecture has on 
everyday lives.
The board of AIA 
Gainesville will fund three to 
four architecture ﬁ  lms each year, which will be shown at 
the Hippodrome at 25 SE 2nd 
Place, said Matthew Cugini, 
Hippodrome cinema program 
manager.
Tickets are $8 for students 
and $10 for non-students. 
The theater hopes to show 
viewers how architecture 
can inﬂ  uence communities 
across the world, Cugini said. 
“It affects how we travel 
around town, what places we 
enjoy, what feels comfortable 
in the built environment and 
what doesn’t,” Cugini said.
The theater showed its ﬁ  rst documentary, “Brasília: 
Life After Design,” on Aug. 
22. The ﬁ  lm features two 
proliﬁ  c Brazilian architects, 
Oscar Niemeyer and Lúcio 
Costa, and explains how ar-
chitecture and urban plan-
ning in Brazil reﬂ  ects its con-
temporary political climate.
Cugini said the theater 
looks forward to showing 
ﬁ  lms not just speciﬁ  cally 
about architecture, but sto-
ries that use unique building 
design as a backdrop as well. 
“We like to have a very 
diverse array of ﬁ  lms that we show,” said Julia Campitelli, 
Hippodrome marketing coor-
dinator.
The main ﬁ  lms are pro-
duced by professional ﬁ  lm-
makers, but Campitelli said 
she would like to show short-
er, student-made ﬁ  lms and 
AIA Film Challenge submis-
sions. 
The AIA Film Challenge is 
an annual ﬁ  lm competition 
that requires participants to 
submit a three to ﬁ  ve-min-
ute documentary that dem-
onstrates how community 
leaders and architects can collaborate to create stronger 
communities.  
The Hippodrome will be 
showing “Bauhaus Spirit: 100 
Years of Bauhaus,” on Nov. 
7 at 8 p.m., a ﬁ  lm about the 
Bauhaus artistic movement, 
which inﬂ  uenced the devel-
opment of the modern ar-
chitecture movement, Cugini 
said.Cugini said he hopes 
viewers will be more aware 
of how architecture affects 
their lives.
“It’s an unconscious di-
rectionality, but it’s there,” 
Cugini said.
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduHippodrome, American Institute of Architects feature ﬁ  lm series
The cinema will show three to four ilms about architecture per year 
THIS FOLLOWS A FUNDING 
CONTROVERSY AFTER  THE YOUNG 
AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM LAWSUIT
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Inspire Party Senators Zachary Am-
rose and Zachariah Chou have collected 
more than 1,000 signatures for a petition 
to pass a bill that would transfer $800,000 
from Student Government reserves to 
fund student organizations.  
The goal of creating the reserves trans-
fer is to ensure that student organizations 
receive funding they were denied follow-
ing the Young Americans for Freedom’s 
lawsuit settlement of $66,000 against UF 
this Summer, Amrose said. 
“Without this reserves transfer, we 
honestly don’t know of any possible solu-
tion to ensure that organization events are 
funded for the next year,” Amrose said. 
The student organizations’ fund-
ing was exhausted only a few weeks af-
ter they applied for it. The Big 9 student 
organizations, which cater to minority 
groups, faced ﬁ  nancial challenges after 
the change.
Due to the funding changes in SG’s 800 
codes, which govern student organization 
funding, most of the organizations that 
were eligible weren’t aware they could be 
funded, Amrose said.  
“When [the student organizations] are 
made aware, they don’t even have proper 
access to funds because Student Govern-
ment’s funds were exhausted premature-
ly,” he said. The petition opened ﬁ  ve days ago and 
was emailed to student organizations to 
garner student support, and 112 organi-
zations have sponsored the bill, Amrose 
said. Organizations were encouraged to 
share the petition on social media. 
If the bill is passed by the SG Execu-
tive Committee, which is comprised of 
Student Body President Michael Murphy; 
Vice President Sarah Abraham; and Trea-
surer Santiago Gutierrez, it will then move 
on to the Budget Committee and be con-
sidered in the Senate. 
Amrose and Chao don’t know the 
amount of signatures it would take to con-
vince the Executive Committee to move 
the bill forward. They’re depending on the 
committee to consider this reserves trans-
fer bill during its meeting, Amrose said. 
“One challenge we have encountered 
is ensuring that students are aware of 
what’s happening,” Amrose said. “By the 
nature of Student Government’s lack of 
transparency on these issues, many orga-
nizations weren’t aware that they could 
apply for funding.” 
Amrose expressed concern over SG 
continuing to “show apathy.”
“Student Government will not act un-
less students make their voices clear,” 
Amrose said. “This petition is an oppor-
tunity for students to make their voices 
clear in a way that Student Government 
will actually listen.”  
For Impact Party, the main concern 
isn’t the lack of funding, rather how to al-
locate the funds while sticking to the out-
come of the YAF litigation, Gutierrez said. Gutierrez expressed concern over the 
dependability of the reserves transfer be-
cause it creates an inﬂ  ated budget from 
$1.3 to $2.1 million, which wouldn’t be 
available to SG in the future. 
“[The reserves transfer] creates a false 
sense of security while not addressing the 
crux of the issue,” Gutierrez said. “It’s not 
an effective nor a long-term solution, and 
the process by which the reserve trans-
fer is being requested goes against Code 
820.1.” 
The SG ﬁ  nance team has been looking 
into creating simpler solutions to these 
issues presenting a hurdle for organiza-
tions’ budget requests, he said. 
“We are looking into the longevity of 
the budget allocated for student organiza-
tions and seeing how it can naturally sus-
tain and grow itself in the future,” Gutier-
rez said.
Murphy said it was unfortunate that 
Chou and the Inspire Party are “politiciz-
ing this.” In an email, Murphy wrote that 
the YAF settlement would ensure equal 
treatment amongst all student organiza-
tions. 
“It can be expected that all allocated 
funding will be utilized every semester,” 
Murphy said. “It can also be expected that 
student organizations that might have 
previously received preferential treatment 
will face growing pains while they get 
used to a model where all student organi-
zations are treated equally.”
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgInspire Party members petition to fund organizations EditorialMONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Time doesn’t heal all 
wounds, and that’s OK
Grief does funny things to you. Not the “ha ha” type 
of funny, but a “food doesn’t taste the same and col-
ors look different” type of funny. There are as many 
responses to grief as there are loved ones who have 
died. Some people throw themselves into their work, 
some throw themselves into their bed and some become ob-
sessed with collecting Disney memorabilia. When Richard 
Kraft’s big brother David died, he responded in the third way. 
Over two and a half decades, Kraft amassed a collection of 
more than 750 pieces of Disney history. He used to go to 
Disneyland with his brother and parents, and collecting the 
pieces reminded him of those happy moments. We all hold 
onto things that remind us of loved ones we’ve lost, though 
such an extreme collection is rare. A less rare but still unusual 
expression of remembrance is to have the ashes of a loved one 
turned into a synthetic diamond. Couples have even used such 
stones as their engagement rings or wedding bands. 
It is incredibly difﬁ  cult to lose someone, and this can be 
compounded if the loss occurs during a particularly stressful 
time, such as college. You are already trying to juggle life, 
class, a job and relationships. Now you have to do it with-
out the care and support of someone crucial. If you ﬁ  nd your 
universe turned upside down, don’t try to right it by yourself. 
You may be tempted to isolate yourself in your room with a 
gallon of ice cream, but grab a second spoon and ask someone 
to share it with you. The presence of another human can save 
us from drowning in our tears, especially if they think to bring 
an extra box of Kleenex.
In addition to human company, there are resources on 
campus to help, too. The Counseling and Wellness Center is 
just one of them. Your class attendance and performance will 
probably suffer during this time, but if you reach out to your 
major’s dean, your professors and Student Affairs, you will 
ﬁ  nd people who are not only willing to help but have experi-
enced their own losses as well. They are ready to respond with 
compassion. If it seems like you just cannot recover from your 
grief on your own, The Journey’s End in Gainesville may be a 
good option for you. It provides grief counseling services and 
helps prepare individuals and families for an imminent death. 
If you can’t manage any of this, it is alright to just roll yourself 
into a human burrito and try again tomorrow. 
When it isn’t you that has lost someone, but your classmate 
or friend has, there are practical things you can do to help 
them. When they miss class, email them copies of your notes. 
If you know they will be there, bring their favorite Starbucks 
order. And add in a bagel. An extremely thoughtful care pack-
age would be Kleenex, paper plates (because washing dishes 
is not happening right now), easy microwaveable food and 
bottles of Gatorade to replenish tears. If they have a pet, ask 
if you can come walk them, scoop the litter box and check to 
make sure their food and water bowls are ﬁ  lled. Give your 
friend gift card codes for Lyft and Doordash. The bus is espe-
cially harsh right now, and leaving their home for food is too 
overwhelming. 
The phrase “time heals all wounds” is false and stupid. 
We still have every one of our wounds, but our bodies have 
acclimated to keep going. You will never “get over” your loss, 
but you will keep going and it will get easier. You just have to 
make it through today.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORBy now you’ve likely seen it all over the 
news and your social media feeds, but 
I’ll give you a quick reminder anyway: 
the Amazon rainforest is on ﬁ  re. 
According to Brazil’s National Institute 
for Space Research, there have been 72,843 re-
ported ﬁ  res in the Amazon since the beginning of 
2019, which amounts to an increase of 80 percent 
compared to 2018. This is a big deal. The Ama-
zon is home to thousands of species of animals, 
around 300 tribes of indigenous people, and it is known as 
the Earth’s lungs for producing 20 percent of the planet’s 
oxygen supply. Before we go further, it should be empha-
sized that these ﬁ  res aren’t natural. Natural ﬁ  res are rare in 
the Amazon, and much of the burning areas are lands that 
have already been cleared for agricultural use.
So if it’s not nature, what is responsible for these ﬁ  res? It’s 
not actually a question of ‘what’ is responsible, but ‘who.’ 
These are man-made ﬁ  res. Brazilian President Jair Bolsona-
ro, nicknamed “captain chainsaw,” has given companies the 
green light to encroach on the Amazon. As Vox explained, 
Bolsonaro, who was elected in 2018, is far from a friend to 
the Amazon, slashing funding for the agencies that protect 
the Amazon and ﬁ  ring a top science ofﬁ  cial who defended 
statistics showing an 88 percent increase in Amazon defores-
tation. With a supportive president, companies and farmers 
in Brazil are clearing more land for cattle ranching and log-
ging. Because these groups often burn land in order to clear 
it for economic use, it is likely that this is how the 2019 ﬁ  res 
have started.
So, what has been Bolsonaro’s response to a crisis that he 
plays a large part in creating? At ﬁ  rst, he denied responsibility 
for the ﬁ  res, suggesting environmental groups had set them 
to make him look bad. He has backtracked on that claim, 
but then he tried to discourage the world from looking into the ﬁ  res, saying they were an “internal matter.” 
Bolsonaro arguing for national sovereignty and 
self-determination is rather hypocritical consider-
ing the president’s poor record on the indigenous 
people who actually live in the Amazon and his 
lack of respect for their self-determination. Even 
putting aside that fact; however, Bolsonaro is 
wrong: everyone should be concerned about the 
Amazon ﬁ  res.
By considering the Amazon ﬁ  res to be an in-
ternal Brazilian matter, Bolsonaro is treating the Amazon 
as if it’s Brazilian property. However, the Amazon’s role in 
humanity’s oxygen supply and biodiversity, makes it too im-
portant to be the sole property of just one country. Other 
countries also have a stake in the Amazon’s survival. That’s 
something leaders like Bolsonaro have difﬁ  culty understand-
ing. Bolsonaro sees the world as zero-sum game where Bra-
zil must come ﬁ  rst, but the world is more complicated than 
that. With things like the Amazon, all nations and peoples 
are affected. 
Because all nations beneﬁ  t from the Amazon, they should 
all come together to protect it. Not only should the interna-
tional community put pressure on Bolsonaro’s government 
to step up its environmental protection to prevent future 
blazes, but there should also be a shift in thinking. We need 
to consider crucial ecosystems like the Amazon the respon-
sibility of the world as a whole instead of one individual na-
tion. People should keep spreading the news of the Amazon 
ﬁ  res, and if it’s feasible, reduce their patronage of companies 
that proﬁ  t off the destruction of the Amazon (mainly in the 
logging and meat industries). Things may seem bleak, but if 
we come together now, we can preserve the Amazon rainfor-
est for future generations.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Bolsonaro’s selﬁ  shness is destroying the Amazon, 
and only international cooperation save it.Column
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Florida isn’t exactly known for 
its diversity, but one would 
expect a bit more from the na-
tion’s eighth best public uni-
versity. With recognition across 
the country and students from all 
over the world, it would make sense 
that a school of this quality would 
represent the whole country. Unfor-
tunately, the Gator Nation is not as 
culturally diverse as one would hope.
Collegefactual.com does reveal that UF has an 
above-average student body composition in terms 
of racial diversity compared to other schools across 
the nation.  Despite this, the lack of cultural expo-
sure during my freshman year left me unsatisﬁ  ed 
and craving more. It’s not hard to ﬁ  nd organiza-
tions for minority groups, but it’s hard to ﬁ  nd the 
right one for you. I’m not going to talk about big 
organizations in this article because they already 
get enough publicity. I want to focus on the lesser 
-known places within the Gainesville community 
where you can easily grow and develop. 
Gainesville actually has a variety of organiza-
tions that focus on minority issues and awareness. 
Take Dream Defenders, for example. It is an activ-
ist group with branches throughout Florida, and 
it is dedicated to providing individuals with free-
doms they believe are unjustly taken from them. 
The members are primarily African American but 
include people of a variety of ethnicities who at-
tempt to solve problems across the globe, a major 
one being the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict. However, 
keep in mind that Dream Defenders is an activist 
organization, and you should be cautious about 
the events you participate in. I, personally, had an 
amazing experience with the Dream Defenders, 
and even got to attend a music festival in Miami 
for free.
Community centers are also a great way to get involved with different things in and 
around Gainesville. The Civic Media 
Center hosts a variety of events ranging 
from silent discos to motivational docu-
mentaries like "Five Broken Cameras," 
which was hosted by Social Justice for 
Palestine entity. Although it isn’t neces-
sarily a community center, the Samuel 
Proctor Oral History Program is also 
a good way to understand the history 
of a community and its people. It gets 
you involved with communities across the nation 
and provides insight that you can’t learn in his-
tory books. Plus, you might be able to get out of 
Gainesville once in a while.
The A. Quinn Jones Museum and Cultural Cen-
ter delves into African American history within 
Alachua County. It has events that celebrate histor-
ically black areas within Gainesville and even pro-
vides tours of the area. The museum also hosts and 
participates in community seminars where people 
can learn about problems within the community 
and how to solve them. It recently hosted an event 
with F.E.M ﬁ  lms that discusses this concept. F.E.M 
is an organization that teaches and encourages re-
pressed people to express themselves creatively. I 
highly recommend joining this organization if you 
are interested in ﬁ  lmmaking, even if you have no 
previous experience. 
Even though this article focuses on minority 
groups, people absolutely should not be afraid of 
joining one even if they aren’t part of a minority. 
The point of these organizations is to bring more 
awareness to minority groups, not to exclude indi-
viduals of a majority. Don’t let the current political 
climate get to you. We need to be more uniﬁ  ed than 
ever before. I encourage everyone to go out and do 
something that you might be uncomfortable with, 
and I guarantee you’ll be surprised by the results. 
Zora Viel is a UF journalism sophomore.How to get more culture in a primarily white universityColumn
In the expansive gallery of 
Marvel’s superheroes, there 
are few characters that come 
close to the level of name rec-
ognition and reputability as 
Spider-Man. In the year 2018, he 
got an Academy Award-winning 
animated ﬁ  lm, a game that set 
the record for sales of a third par-
ty game from Sony at 3.3 million 
copies and a role in the ﬁ  fth high-
est-grossing ﬁ  lm the history. It would be an 
understatement to say that the year 2018 
was kind to his brand. "Far From Home," 
which was released early last month, sur-
passed "Skyfall" to become Sony’s highest-
grossing ﬁ  lm of all time. It seemed like the 
property of Spider-Man had a bright future 
under the guidance of Sony and Disney’s 
Marvel Cinematic Universe – so it was a 
surprise to many when reports surfaced in 
late August detailing Sony and Disney’s dis-
putes, which would land Spider-Man in very 
uncertain waters.
Discussions became heated when Disney 
proposed they begin splitting the revenue of 
future Spider-Man ﬁ  lms 50/50 between the 
studios. When Sony declined, Disney re-
moved Marvel Studios and Kevin Feige as 
producers of future projects in an attempt 
to force Sony’s hand. This ploy failed, and 
now Spider-Man is effectively out of the 
MCU. Fans have taken to Twitter with the 
hashtag  #BoycottSony in protest and have 
begun disputing which company is more at 
fault. Objectively, it seems as though the 
situation was ﬁ  ne until Disney approached 
Sony with a new deal that would net Disney more proﬁ  ts from the franchise. 
It seems the blame is on the side 
of the mouse.
Sony made a statement on 
Twitter about how “much of 
the news about Spider-Man was 
mischaracterizing recent discus-
sions” and contained the ﬁ  rst 
public mention that it was Dis-
ney’s decision, not Sony’s, to 
discontinue Marvel Studio’s and 
Kevin Feige’s involvement in the 
franchise. Sony even hinted the 
reason this new deal was pro-
posed in the ﬁ  rst place had something to 
do with all of the newly acquired Marvel 
properties that are now the responsibility of 
Disney’s studios, speciﬁ  cally the Fantastic 4 
and X-Men franchises, both of which have 
seen massive ﬂ  ops with their most recent 
ﬁ  lms. The critical public failure of 2015’s 
"Fantastic Four" and 2019's "Dark Phoenix" 
may be why Disney is pouring more funding 
into their reboots and why they are asking 
that the costs of future Spider-Man ﬁ  lms be 
split.
A Spider-Man future controlled by Sony 
doesn’t seem all that bleak, though. Two 
projects Sony recently headed, Marvel’s Spi-
der-Man for the PlayStation 4 and "Into the 
Spider-Verse", were both met with critical 
acclaim. The most recent Spider-Man ﬁ  lm 
also concludes in a place where the char-
acter is largely set free of his tethers to the 
MCU. I, for one, am excited to see where 
Sony will take Tom Holland’s Spider-Man, 
although I am apprehensive of the next 
movie, which will suffer from a jarring loss 
of MCU content.
Myles Gibbs is a UF journalism junior.The Mouse and the SpiderColumn
Few tales are more perplexing 
than the Alex Jones saga. 
The eccentric, conspiratorial 
host of InfoWars seems to be 
at the center of virtually ev-
ery controversy, from insinuating 
the mass shooting at Sandy Hook 
was staged (and subsequently be-
ing sued for it) to sending child 
pornography, supposedly unknow-
ingly, to the plaintiffs in a defamation lawsuit. 
To those familiar with Jones, he’s one of the 
most unlikable ﬁ  gures in American politics. I’m 
not coming to his defense, but he’s one of the 
ﬁ  rst people to be largely expelled from the main-
stream internet. The precedent his banishment 
sets demands serious consideration. In July 
2018, Facebook suspended Jones for 30 days in 
accordance with its hate speech policy. About 
a week later, Spotify removed some of Jones’ 
content from its streaming service, and Apple 
quickly followed suit. In August 2018, YouTube 
removed the Alex Jones Channel. A month later, 
Twitter permanently banned Jones, and Face-
book did the same earlier this year. Even PayPal 
banned Jones.
Each of the companies involved have their 
own reasons as to why they decided to either 
remove Jones’ content or ban him outright, al-
though most cited either hate speech or a viola-
tion of their terms of service. The reasons given 
have been questioned by conservative com-
mentators including Ben Shapiro and Steven 
Crowder. Regardless as to why, Big Tech has 
successfully eliminated Jones from the main-
stream internet and has undoubtedly hampered 
his ability to disseminate conspiracy theories 
and peddle quack medicine such as his “DNA Force Plus” and “Super Male Vital-
ity” supplements. However, the fact 
that tech companies have this ability 
doesn’t mean that they should nec-
essarily exercise it. Such an ability 
is ripe for abuse, especially among 
growing concerns over the role of 
social media in elections and social 
media bias. 
Moreover, how do we decide 
which opinions are so horrid they’re 
not even worthy of existing? By 
choosing to ban or suppress con-
troversial ﬁ  gures like Jones, social 
media companies transform themselves from 
mere platforms for facilitating communication 
into arbiters of morality. In aristocratic fashion, 
a handful of companies can decide what infor-
mation is simply too dangerous or offensive for 
the unwashed masses to handle. 
One of the beneﬁ  ts of the transition from old 
to new forms of media was the complete free-
dom of information that was brought about. 
Traditional gatekeepers like publishers and 
news networks were removed from the equa-
tion, and anyone could disseminate their opin-
ion en masse, no matter how unpopular it was. 
Now, by becoming gatekeepers themselves, so-
cial media companies jeopardize the internet’s 
greatest quality. 
Sure, fringe ﬁ  gures can continue to host their 
own websites and use alternative platforms, but 
web hosting is often prohibitively expensive. 
Smaller competitors of major social networks 
don’t have anywhere near the same reach. If the 
price we have to pay for a free and open internet 
is Jones ranting about how chemicals in the wa-
ter are turning frogs gay, or explaining in detail 
why he believes Sandy Hook was faked, then I 
believe it’s a price worth paying. 
Cameron White is a UF computer science 
senior. The social media oligarchy banished ColumnWith renewed scru-
tiny over Student 
Government’s  
ability to handle 
our money, I feel 
as though it would be a great 
idea to go over how the bud-
get works, especially with 
the new Class of 2023 likely 
scratching their collective 
heads.
First, let’s talk about stu-
dent fees. People generally don’t know 
the difference between the kinds of fees 
and what they are used for. The most 
helpful document comes from SG in the 
form of a PDF called “Student Fee Break-
down” dated “2016-07-27.” I am actually 
unaware of where this document resides 
on our SG website as I’ve only found it 
through Google, but my guess is that be-
cause it’s a very useful document, some-
one thought it ought to be made very 
hard to ﬁ  nd.
Student Government gets the bulk of 
its money from the Activity and Service 
Fee, which is a $19.06 fee per credit hour 
that you pay (or Bright Futures/etc.). 
The total amount of credit hours taken 
by everyone multiplied by the fee nets 
us our total budget, $21,444,157 for this 
ﬁ  scal year.
About a third of this money goes to-
ward the Reitz Union and Student Ac-
tivities and Involvement (at $7,964,092, 
it’s about 37 percent of the budget). Big 
buildings and big programming cost big 
money, so I don’t think many of us can 
fault this.
Second place is Recreational Sports 
at $7,093,161, or about 33 percent of the 
budget. This funds not only the gyms, 
but also Lake Wauburg and our sports 
clubs (again, no complaints, aside from my legs after leg day).
SG gets the rest at 
$6,386,904, or about 30 per-
cent of the budget. Student 
organization funding lives 
here at a sum of $1,376,53, 
or about 6 percent of the to-
tal budget. SG split this sum 
41-59 between the Fall and 
Spring semesters because ap-
parently more programming 
happens in the Spring. 
This semester, SG allocated 
$346,948.37 to organizations’ opera-
tional budgets to support general body 
meetings. SG also allocated $210,779.34 
for events this semester. Add those two 
numbers and you get $557,727.71, and 
that’s pretty close to what happens if you 
estimate how much would be allocated 
for the Fall semester under that 41-59 
percent split: $564,377.71 (so it’s $6,650 
off).
I’m not quite sure where in our codes 
it says we have to split it 41-59, but ap-
parently that’s the way it is. Because of 
this, we are already “out of money” for 
the Fall. Good luck if you want to travel 
or host an event that wasn’t already ap-
proved.
Student Government hasn’t publicly 
come out with a solution yet, so unfortu-
nately, y’all are stuck with mine for now. 
SG has a reserves account that has a 
couple million dollars sitting around just 
in case, meant to be spent on one-time 
causes. I truly hope that the disastrous 
implementation of this new funding 
system is a one-time event, so what I’m 
trying to do is transfer $800,000 to sup-
port struggling organizations for the time 
being. Whether the powers that be will 
allow it to happen remains to be seen.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political Student Government budget crisis breakdownColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Myles Gibbs
opinions@alligator.org
Zora Viel
opinions@alligator.org
Alex Jones. Who’s next? 
Cameron White
opinions@alligator.orgSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
iMac for Sale.
I have several iMacs for sale. Loaded with 
Software. Great deal for music production 
or graphic design. Prices range from $179 
- $379. Call or text Joe at 1-833-327-4279.
8-30-3-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10
FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     9-4-19-
5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-4-43-12
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Learn how to make extra money each week 
doing surveys as a student. Thousands Of 
Paid Surveys Listed Each Month! Find out 
more: collegeclubs.club     8-30-19-4-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-4-40-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    9-11-19-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       12-4-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-4-19-43-5
1/1 Condo @ Campus Edge $84,900
Walk to UF, UF Health, VA and Vet School; 
1st Floor, Granite Counters, Crown Molding; 
Washer & Dryer included; Community Pool 
& Fitness Center; STOP paying rent!!
Call Kelly Robert, Pepine Realty 352-222-1744
9-4-19-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1. Who originally released “I’m 
Leaving It Up to You” in 1957, and 
then who made it popular in the ‘60s?
2. Why was the Cavern Club import-
ant?
3. Name the Steppenwolf song used 
in the film “Easy Rider.” (Shock hint: 
It was kept out of the No. 1 spot on the 
chart by “People Got to Be Free” by 
the Rascals.)
4. How did radio deejay Dr. Demen-
to get his name?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: “I really think you’re groovy, 
Let’s go out to a movie.”
Answers
1. Don and Dewey, the songwrit-
ers, recorded it first. Dale and Grace 
released their own version in 1960 that 
shot to No. 1 on the charts. (Methinks 
Don and Dewey’s is better.)
2. The Cavern Club, in a wine cel-
lar basement, was where the Beatles 
were first spotted by manager Brian 
Epstein. 
3. “Born to Be Wild, released in 
1968. 
4. He played strange records, weird 
comedy and novelty songs. Dr. 
Demento started in 1970 and can still 
be found today — online streaming 
his weekly show.
5. “Elenore,” by the Turtles in 1968. 
The song was a parody of the happy 
pop songs they’d done previous-
ly. Intended as a joke, the band was 
shocked when it was so well-received.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
August 26, 2019
By Kevin Christian
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, August 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Meat shaped for 
a burger
6 Consider
10 Place to unwind
13 Sound before 
“Bless you”
14 Food brand for 
Fido
15 Visa competitor, 
briefly
16 Like a wet day
17 “Deal me a hand”
18 __ slaw
19 Nickname for 
Elvis Presley
22 One rotation of 
Earth on its axis
23 Up until now
24 “I’ll pay any 
price!”
28 Nod off
31 Not hers
34 “We’re having 
__!”: retail  
come-on
35 Jupiter’s wife
36 Marriott rival
37 Nickname for 
Ella Fitzgerald
40 Scarlett’s 
plantation
41 Acme
42 “Nevermore!” 
bird
43 Boy in “Star 
Wars” prequel 
films
44 Currier and __: 
printmakers
45 Seth of “SNL”
46 Ring or stud site
48 He wrote “The 
42-Across”
49 Nickname for 
James Brown
58 Funny Bombeck
59 A4 automaker
60 Scarlett’s last 
name
61 Close by
62 Marvel Comics 
mutants
63 Post-op therapy
64 2,000 pounds
65 Ain’t right?
66 Brutalizes
DOWN
1 Place to spread a 
picnic blanket
2 Smoothie berry
3 Slender
4 Half a 
barbecuer’s pair5 Up-and-down 
weight loss effort
6 Grocery section 
with milk
7 Red Muppet
8 “Lawrence of 
Arabia,” e.g.
9 2000s OCD-
afflicted TV 
sleuth
10 Often sarcastic 
“Nice one!”
11 __-mell: 
disorderly
12 Ice skater’s jump
15 Property 
measure
20 White part of 
beef
21 “Science Guy” 
Bill
24 1990s 
commerce pact 
acronym
25 Thai or Laotian
26 He’s not single
27 Film lioness
28 Fellas
29 Banded 
gemstone
30 Place to observe 
animals
32 __ circle: group 
of close advisers
33 Omens35 Joke
36 “__, can you  
see ... ”
38 Loo
39 Having an 
irregular design
44 “Roth” 
investment
45 Bovine sound
47 Not at all close 
by
48 Make a hard 
copy of
49 Fellow50 Black-and-white 
treat
51 Uber alternative
52 Runs smoothly
53 Blissful Genesis 
place
54 New York 
stadium 
dismantled in 
2009
55 Honolulu’s island
56 Eurasia’s __ 
Mountains
57 Chocolate dogs
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/24/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
PIPE NA FT A HA LT
CRUX AP OO R TA HO E
PA RT APPREC IATI ON
LE GA TE AC R ASE
AM OR AL NY MP HE T
PA INTM ISBE HA VI N
RINS E SI R OC T
SDS SP ROUT HA W
LA O EA R GH ANA
PA IRCOND ITI ON ER
TITU LA R ON ED GE
EL O INK ST RUCK
PA NT SI NONE SPAN TS
ITEMS ERAT O KIWI
DE SI YI PES ET ON
08/24/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, August 24, 2019
ACROSS
1 Karate match 
exchanges
5 Nickname for 
Chicago’s Ernie 
Banks
10 Gradually 
decrease
14 Chamber 
phenomenon
15 Campaign 
suspensions
17 Biting
18 Gadgets with 
small rotary 
blades
19 Pub nibbles
20 Corrida shout
21 Christmas hymn 
start
22 Vent opening?
23 One in a gun 
show?
25 Ax wielder, at 
times
26 Lover of Euridice, 
in a Gluck opera
28 Anaheim stadium 
nickname
30 1843 story 
narrated by a 
murderer, with 
“The”
35 Finger in the dike, 
so to speak
37 Out until 
tomorrow
39 Essential nutrient
40 Split for a union
41 Gush
44 Meteorological 
line
48 Units for many 
staples: Abbr.
49 Blowup sound
51 Bumped into
52 Didn’t make 
it through 
committee, as 
a bill
53 Beyond reason
55 Land in a lake
56 Heavy burdens
57 Wonder Woman 
gal pal __ Candy
58 Pompano kin
59 Black-necked 
shorebird
60 World power 
initials until 1991DOWN
1 Slow cooker 
associated with 
Boston
2 Went down, in 
a way
3 Yield sign?
4 Puts down  
roots
5 “I’m a doctor, 
not a bricklayer” 
doctor
6 King’s domain
7 Worker with 
rattan
8 “For the Boys” 
org.
9 Advice for the 
itchy
10 Port vessel
11 “You __ lucky!”
12 “Fiddlesticks!”
13 Pair of shoes?
16 Ness, for one
23 Was a whiz on 
a quiz
24 Can’t stand
27 “Sesame Street” 
segment
29 Round up
31 Certain eligibility 
rules32 Ali hooks, at 
times
33 “The Name  
of the Rose” 
author
34 Work plans
36 Safety features 
that have 
evolved since 
their inception
38 Spousal consent
41 Works on pools42 __ attack
43 Target of a new 
vaccine
45 Spender of rials
46 Stimulating nut
47 ’50s headline 
event
50 Takes in too 
much, for short
52 Spirit of  
Notre-Dame
54 “__ my problem”
08/23/19MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Sudoku AnswersFlashback Trivia AnswersStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-4-19-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    12-4-19-43-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
Facility in Alachua looking for student to 
maintain grounds, tractor work, light con-
struction, handyman repairs. 4-6 hr wk. $17/
hr. Flexible schedule.
Send summary of experience and contact 
info to biopressadmin@gmail.com.     8-30-
19-7-14
Got what it takes? Seeking FT & PT Sales 
Staff. Friendly, honest and motivated athletic 
minded people welcome. Must have regular 
availability at least 20 hr/wk and 1 weekend 
day. Apply in person 1504 NW 13 St Lloyd 
Clarke Sports. 1 mile N of UF on 13 st.    
8-26-19-4-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Remember to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-7-19-
21-14
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for a PART TIME 
Patient Greeter for our Gainesville office lo-
cation. The hours for this position would be 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-2:30pm. Must be 
able to lift and/or push 50+ pounds and be 
on their feet for long periods of time.   9-11-
19-7-14
Did you know? Ravens in captivity can learn to 
talk better than parrots.
15 Services
Do you have a busi-
ness that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  
Services Section of the 
Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call 
us at 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 22 Tickets
• On Sept. 10, 1608, English adven-
turer John Smith is elected council 
president of Jamestown, Virginia — 
the first permanent English settlement 
in North America. Smith was popular 
because of his organizational skills 
and effectiveness in dealing with local 
Native Americans.
• On Sept. 11, 1814, during the Bat-
tle of Plattsburg on Lake Champlain, 
a newly built U.S. fleet under Master 
Commandant Thomas Macdonough 
destroys a besieging British squadron, 
forcing the British retreat to Canada 
on foot. The American victory saved 
New York from possible invasion.
• On Sept. 15, 1916, during the Bat-
tle of the Somme, the British launch a 
major offensive against the Germans, 
employing tanks for the first time. 
Some of the 40 or so primitive tanks 
advanced over a mile into enemy lines, 
but were too slow to hold their positions 
and prone to mechanical breakdown.
• On Sept. 12, 1940, a collection of 
prehistoric cave paintings is discov-
ered near Montignac, France. They 
depict 600 painted and drawn animals 
and symbols and nearly 1,500 engrav-
ings from the Upper Paleolithic period 
some 16,000 years ago.
• On Sept. 9, 1956, Elvis Presley 
makes his first appearance on “The Ed 
Sullivan Show.” Sullivan had original-
ly banned Presley but finally signed 
him to an unprecedented $50,000 deal 
for three appearances.
• On Sept. 13, 1971, the four-day 
revolt ends at the maximum-security 
Attica Correctional Facility in New 
York when hundreds of state police 
storm the complex in a hail of gunfire. 
Thirty-nine people were killed in the 
disastrous assault.
• On Sept. 14, 1982, Princess Grace 
of Monaco — the former American 
movie star Grace Kelly — dies at age 
52 after her car plunged off a mountain 
road near Monte Carlo. An Oscar win-
ner and star of three Alfred Hitchcock 
films, Kelly gave up her acting career 
after marrying Prince Rainier III of 
Monaco in 1956.
© 2019 Hearst Communications, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
King Features Weekly Service
August 26, 2019
1. Who originally released “I’m 
Leaving It Up to You” in 1957, and 
then who made it popular in the ‘60s?
2. Why was the Cavern Club import-
ant?
3. Name the Steppenwolf song used 
in the film “Easy Rider.” (Shock hint: 
It was kept out of the No. 1 spot on the 
chart by “People Got to Be Free” by 
the Rascals.)
4. How did radio deejay Dr. Demen-
to get his name?
5. Name the song that contains this 
lyric: “I really think you’re groovy, 
Let’s go out to a movie.”
Answers
1. Don and Dewey, the songwrit-
ers, recorded it first. Dale and Grace 
released their own version in 1960 that 
shot to No. 1 on the charts. (Methinks 
Don and Dewey’s is better.)
2. The Cavern Club, in a wine cel-
lar basement, was where the Beatles 
were first spotted by manager Brian 
Epstein. 
3. “Born to Be Wild, released in 
1968. 
4. He played strange records, weird 
comedy and novelty songs. Dr. 
Demento started in 1970 and can still 
be found today — online streaming 
his weekly show.
5. “Elenore,” by the Turtles in 1968. 
The song was a parody of the happy 
pop songs they’d done previous -
ly. Intended as a joke, the band was 
shocked when it was so well-received.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.King Features Weekly Service
August 26, 2019PUZZLE
ANSWERS
Former Gators ﬁ  rst baseman 
Pete Alonso made history 
again Saturday night with his 
41st home run,  tying the Mets 
single-season franchise record 
set in 1996 and 2006. UCF trolls UF with plane banner at Miami game
The Knights informally requested a home-and-home series with the Gators  
via a airplane banner ﬂ  own overhead at Camping World Stadium. The Hur-
ricanes took on UCF in Orlando back in October 2009. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Saturday afternoon may have 
just been an exhibition match, but 
it gave Gator Nation a real glimpse 
at what could be in store for its vol-
leyball team this year.
The Gators took the ﬁ  ve-set con-test with ease, winning four sets 
to UCF’s one in dominant fashion 
(25-16, 25-17, 20-25, 25-21, 15-7). 
The ﬁ  nal frame was played just 
for experience despite UF claiming 
the victory after four in its dress re-
hearsal at the O’Connell Center. 
The season ofﬁ  cially begins this 
weekend at the Cardinal Classic in Louisville, Kentucky, where the 
Gators will play No. 25 Louisville 
on Friday and Dayton on Saturday.
But while many might have 
paid attention to the big swings 
and scrappy plays on the court in 
front of them, some fans may have 
missed some of the other intricacies Gators volleyball: 3 takeaways from UF’s exhibition game
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Sophomore outside pin hitter Thayer Hall is one of Florida’s best of-
fensive weapons with a year under her belt. She tallied 288 kills last 
season, the second-highest count on the roster. 
Coach Dan Mullen went into 
Saturday’s matchup against 
the Miami Hurricanes hoping 
to win with a conservative 
mindset. He expected short 
passes and outside run plays to com-
pensate for an inexperienced offensive 
line that was sure to have trouble with 
a Miami defensive line that started four 
upperclassmen.
Mullen hoped this game plan would 
grind down the defense in a war of attrition while 
limiting turnovers and keeping his defense off the 
ﬁ  eld. The end result, however, was four turnovers, 
1.9 yards per carry and an offense that was stag-
nant for most of the contest.
While the offensive line was a predictable issue, 
Mullen also showed that he did not trust his start-
ing quarterback Feleipe Franks to make plays when 
it mattered, and it nearly cost them the game.
Cautious playcalling hindered the offense early 
and often — especially on third downs. Florida con-
verted just two of 10 on third downs against the 
Hurricanes, most notably one third-down play in 
the third quarter in UM’s redzone. Third and goal on the 8-yard line, Mullen elected to 
run a quarterback draw with Franks in-
stead of letting him drop back and take 
a shot into the end zone.
The questionable play-calling will 
need to be addressed by the time Flori-
da enters the meat of its schedule. Mul-
len must place more trust in his offense 
to get it done when it matters.
Aggressive playcalling did work 
the few times it was tried. The Gators 
converted all four of their attempts on 
fourth down. Franks also hit wide receiver Josh 
Hammond on a deep throw in the fourth quarter 
for 65 yards, undoubtedly Franks’ best pass of the 
night.
Even Franks’ ﬁ  rst interception, which came on 
another throw deep down the ﬁ  eld, had two receiv-
ers open in the area and hit receiver Freddie Swain 
in the hands. The risk certainly seemed to be worth 
the reward.
More aggressive playcalling would also mean 
getting the receiver unit, thought to be Florida’s 
deepest position group entering the season, more Mullen must learn to trust 
Franks more to be successfulHeroes and Dylans
The 33-yard drive started in Mi-
ami territory, yet only yielded a 
ﬁ  eld goal. 
It is a positive that the Gators 
had explosive plays and good 
ﬁ  eld position, but that won’t 
always be the case. The way 
the offense stalled against UM 
despite an average starting ﬁ  eld 
position of the Florida 37-yard 
line shows that UF’s ball move-
ment left a lot to be desired.
Miami quarterback Jarren 
Williams didn’t exactly put on a 
clinic on how to hold onto the 
ball, but the ‘Canes recovered 
all of their fumbles aside from the muffed punt. The Gators 
cannot say the same.
Florida lost a fumble on a 
miscue between Franks and 
Lamical Perine and another on 
a pitch to Malik Davis. Hands 
drills may be in order after the 
Gators’ looseness with the ball 
and inability to come up with 
more than one of the ‘Canes’ 
fumbles.
There were a lot of bad deci-
sions in the ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve minutes of 
the game, so much so that Mul-
len said “I think I aged like ten 
years” of the ﬁ  nal stretch.
That period began with a 
Florida pass play while nursing 
a four-point lead. Franks was 
facing pressure and threw into coverage, instead of taking a 
sack and letting the clock run.
That mistake gave Miami 
an opportunity to win, but the 
Hurricanes exhausted their ex-
plosiveness and made mistakes 
of their own. But twice — once 
inexplicably on 4th and 34 — 
Florida bailed Miami out on 
pass interference fouls.
Decision-making, offen-
sive play-calling and execution 
should be the team’s primary 
focus during Florida’s bye week 
and its tune-up against Tennes-
see-Martin before a test at Ken-
tucky.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1UF’s victory left much to be desired
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Junior receiver Kadarius T oney scored a 66-yard touchdown off a screen pass 
in the ﬁ  rst quarter of UF’s 24-20 win over the Miami Hurricanes. 
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12
Dylan Rudolph
Twitter: @dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
A five-minute span of offense 
was all it took for Florida to win 
the game.
Goals in the 52nd and 57th 
minutes sealed the second 
victory of the season for UF at 
Corbett Stadium in Tampa. 
In the 15th minute, Florida  
redshirt junior Parker Roberts 
sprinted stride-for-stride with 
USF striker Evelyne Viens. 
Roberts and goalkeeper Susi 
Espinoza were the only Gators 
in Viens’ way.
Viens worked a favorable 
angle against Roberts and shot 
an excellent right-footed strike 
toward the far left side of the net. 
It appeared to be a sure goal, but 
Espinoza got low enough just in 
time. A fingertip reach pushed 
the shot wide left, causing it to 
roll harmlessly out of bounds.
That strike, a threatening 
corner kick and a free kick from 
Florida (2-0) were the only 
legitimate scoring opportunities 
in the first half of the match 
against USF (1-1). 
The lack of goals from the 
Gators seems to permeate from 
2018. Their attack struggled last 
season, including one stretch 
of six straight matches without 
a goal. The first half against a 
first-time starting goalkeeper, 
freshman Katrina Haarman, 
showed more of the same.
To start the second half, 
Espinoza continued to have 
an excellent game with two 
impressive saves to keep it 
even. After the second save, UF 
stopped the Bulls’ ensuing corner kick and pushed it back quickly, 
giving Canadian national team 
player Deanne Rose and redshirt 
junior defender Kit Loferski 
a two-on-two counterattack 
chance.
Rose drew the defender and 
the goalkeeper to the left side of 
the 6-yard box and then played it 
across to Loferski. A beautifully 
timed pass allowed Loferski — 
who missed all of 2018 due to a 
left ACL tear — to place the ball 
into a wide-open net to score the 
first goal.
Then, in the 57th minute, 
Rose got on the scoreboard 
herself with a 10-yard strike to 
make it 2-0. It was an admirable 
weekend overall for Rose, as she 
had three goals in two matches. 
Finding the net multiple 
times in the second half against 
No. 18 USF is a necessary boost 
for a team heading into a tough 
stretch. Florida’s next three 
games come against teams 
ranked in the top-5. The Gators 
will hit the road to take on No. 5 
Southern California, No. 4 UCLA 
and No. 1 Florida State. 
Gmarsh@alligator.org
@GrahamMarshUFMONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
SOCCER
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEKGators soccer bests South Florida on the road 2-0 
River Wells
Alligator File Photo
UF soccer will continue its road stint with three upcoming matchups against top-5 opponents.
involved than they did against Mi-
ami. Receivers Van Jefferson and Ty-
rie Cleveland, who combined for 715 
yards and nine touchdowns in 2018, 
were targeted just four times on Sat-
urday.
Though looking downﬁ  eld more 
will force Mullen to run more max 
protection to counterbalance a weaker 
offensive line, it may result in a higher 
number of explosive plays and more 
points. Franks handled the pressure 
well against the aggressive Hurricane 
defense, often avoiding would-be tack-
lers in the pocket to make throws and 
was sacked just once despite constant 
harassment by Miami’s front.
Mullen must make a decision soon 
in order to live up to the lofty pre-
season expectations he and the Gators 
set for themselves. Luckily, he has two 
weeks to reﬂ  ect and decide whether to 
change things up, because the offense 
everyone saw in Orlando was not good 
enough.12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 2019
that happened on the court over the 
weekend.
Here are three takeaways from 
the Gators’ exhibition match against 
the Knights:
Thayer Hall is back
An undisclosed injury sidelined 
then-freshman superstar Thayer Hall 
for seven matches toward the end 
of last season, but Hall showed no 
handicaps in Saturday’s exhibition 
match as she led the leaderboards.
The sophomore outside hitter 
played for a majority of the match, 
only missing parts of two sets.
Hall led the offense for her team logging 16 kills on 35 swings that 
afternoon, coming in second over-
all on the leaderboard behind UCF’s 
McKenna Melville (17). Hall’s three 
attacking errors were the only blem-
ish on her statline. 
Last season, Hall ﬁ  nished second 
on the roster for kills (288) behind 
then-redshirt sophomore transfer 
Holly Carlton.
And now she says that she feels 
more comfortable after spending a 
year with the program.
“I came in early last year, but 
there’s nothing that can really pre-
pare you to hit that brick wall of the 
ﬁ  rst season with academics, sports, 
travel, all of that coming together,” 
the pin hitter said Thursday after-noon. “Now, I know what to expect, 
and I know what’s coming.”
Mixing it up in the back row
Senior libero Allie Gregory was 
a mainstay in last season’s defense, 
always donning the different colored 
jersey from one match to the next.
But that simply wasn’t the case 
Saturday afternoon as the libero 
jersey was passed around the back 
row.
Gregory was libero for three of 
the ﬁ  ve sets, but the other two sets 
saw sophomores Paula Cerame and 
Riley Fischer wearing the black jer-
sey among a sea of off-white jerseys 
on the court. 
The trio combined for 35 digs 
that afternoon with Gregory leading the charge at 16 digs in four sets. It’s 
likely Gregory will lead the defense 
like she did last season, but it was 
nice to see Florida’s depth paying 
off.  
Sticking with the 5-1 offense
It’s typical for setters to ﬂ  y under 
the radar in terms of prominence on 
their respective team. They don’t get 
the big swings or diving plays that 
their teammates do, but they have 
one of the most important roles on 
the court: running the entire offense.
They’re the equivalent to quarter-
backs, constantly making decisions 
and tracking every play to get the 
point. It’s hit or miss, but the good 
ones usually get things right.
Such was the case for Marlie 
Monserez Saturday afternoon.
After spending last season paired 
up in a 6-2 offense with her older 
sister, Allie Monserez, the younger Monserez has come into her own, 
controlling the Gators offense with 
ease.  
Monserez’s 6-foot frame and de-
fensive skills are two huge assets to 
this 5-1 system. She puts up a big 
block on the pin against the outside 
hitters and stays in position for the 
incoming attack from the opposing 
right-side pin, before she releases to 
the net for the second touch.
With Monserez operating out of 
the front row every three rotations 
this season, it also opens up more 
options for the middle hitters, who 
can now hit off the right-side pin in 
behind-the-back plays more easily 
than before. 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg.  10UF defeated in-state rival UCF 4-1
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Sophomore setter Marlie Monserez is a big threat on the defensive front when it comes to plays at the net. Monserez tied for 
ﬁ  rst on the roster in blocks during the exhibition match against UCF tallying ﬁ  ve on the afternoon.  
COLUMN,  from pg.  10
