We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaEVALUATING FLORIDA’S SECONDARY
Florida has some of the best defensive backs in 
the SEC, pg. 11
Two arrested in bail protest
Two protesters were arrested at Alachua County Jail on misde-
meanor charges on Monday, pg 5
Q&A with On the Cinder
The Buffalo-based punk trio spoke with The Alligator ahead of 
its show at the Hardback Cafe on Friday, pg 7FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 97
JAILED DAD FREED FOR FATHER’S DAY
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Gerald Bell hugs Karrie Ford, a member of Fight T oxic Prisons, on Tuesday after being bailed out of Alachua County 
Jail as part of FTP’s 352 Father’s Day Bailout event. FTP crowdfunded money to pay for Bell’s $7,000 bail. “I’m gonna 
take care of my kids better than I was before, ” Bell said, “and I’m gonna follow God more closely than I did before. ” 
THE SENATE VOTED ON 
APPOINTMENTS AND 
LGBTQ+ ACCOMMODATIONS 
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Tuesday’s UF Student Government 
Senate meeting began in debate and 
ended with two senators losing seats.Senate Minority Leader Ashley 
Grabowski (Inspire, Graduate) and 
Senator Ben Lima (Inspire, District D) 
were notified via email Wednesday 
night they lost their seats from past 
absences. 
Despite being present at the meet-
ing, they were deemed constructively 
absent after warnings from Senate 
President Libby Shaw, (Independent, 
Journalism and Communications). This put them over the limit of unex-
cused absences, so they will be forced 
to resign.
“Senators Lima and Grabowski 
violated several procedural rules and 
failed to maintain decorum,” Shaw 
said. “They were given two warnings 
each to correct their behavior before 
being ruled constructively absent.”Two SG senators forced to resign their 
seats following Tuesday’s meetingLindsay Ritenbaugh
Contributing Writer 
Nate Ferrell’s sister Abby thinks he should be a narwhal 
for Halloween. Nate laughs and dances in the seat of his 
mom’s Honda Pilot to a song about the horned sea animal. 
The 11-year-old picks his nose. 
Nate’s mom, Amber Ferrell, 37, hands him a Chick-fil-a 
meal from the drive-thru. Nothing seems out of the ordi-
nary. 
Moments later, an “Oh, crap” is heard from the back-
seat. 
Nate has poked a hole in his styrofoam cup, and his 
drink is flowing all over the moving car. He frantically 
sticks a straw into a puddle of lemonade and drinks from 
the cup holder.
His mother is mortified — and the cameras have cap-
tured it all.
Nate is more than just a kid who spills lemonade. Short-
ly after his first birthday on Feb. 24, 2008, Nate was di-
agnosed with mitochondrial disease and started receiving 
treatment at UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital.
Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals hired a camera 
crew to follow the Ferrell’s and nine other families in Octo-
ber for an 11-episode unscripted series called “Real Moms.” 
According to Amber, the group of moms in the show 
share one common bond: raising a child with an incurable 
disease and hope to serve as a resource to other moms who 
can identify with their stories.
New episodes will air Fridays at 9:00 a.m. on both real-
moms.org and the nonprofit’s YouTube channel through 
July 19.
Nate said his favorite part of being in a reality show was 
the craziness of cameras following him in his home, car 
and at the hospital. 
“It’s chaos, but it’s kind of fun,” Nate said.
Chaos entered the Ferrell family’s life well before the 
camera crew arrived. Since his diagnosis, Nate has under-Gainesville mom, 
chronically ill child 
star in docu-series
“Real Moms” hopes to serve as a 
resource to other parents
SEE MOMS,  PAGE 3 SEE SG, PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De Freitas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasHIGH  92° LOW  77° Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgJuneteenth BBQ Bash
Juneteenth, also known as 
Freedom Day or Emancipation 
Day, commemorates the June 
19, 1865, announcement of the 
abolition of slavery through-
out the Confederate States 
of America. The event was 
moved to from Wednesday 
to today due to weather. Join 
the Gator Chapter of NAACP, 
BSU, Club Creole, CaribSA, 
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity 
Inc, L.A.D.I.E.S, PBM and 
Iota Phi Theta Fraternity, Inc. 
for a day of games, food and 
fellowship to celebrate to-
day from noon to 5 p.m. on  
Northwest Eighth Avenue.
The Supervisor of Elections in-
forms of third-party mailing 
and encourages voters to up-
date records
Two Washington D.C.-based 
nonprofits, the Center for Voter Information and the Voter 
Participation Center, will soon 
send letters and voter registra-
tion applications to Alachua 
County residents. The mail-
ings are intended for resi-
dents who are not registered 
to vote. The Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections does 
not provide the address infor-
mation used to conduct the 
mailing. To contact the organi-
zations to update your informa-
tion or unsubscribe from their 
lists, call the Center for Voter 
Information at 202-766-6575 
and the Voter Participation 
Center at 202-659-9570.  
Libraries to close
The Alachua County Library 
District will be closed 
for Independence Day on 
Thursday, July 4.  Book drops 
and online services at www.
aclib.us will be available. All 12 branch locations and two book-
mobiles will resume its regular 
schedules on Friday, July 5. 
GUFF at The Range GNV
GUFF, rapper and 24-year-
old UF alumnus, is return-
ing to Gainesville to play at 
The Range GNV, 10 SE 2nd 
Ave.,  Friday after releasing 
his first studio album “Carpe 
Noctem” in April. Tickets are 
$10 and available on eventbrite.
com. Doors open at 10 p.m. 
Roller Derby 101
On Saturday at 10 a.m., join the 
Gainesville Roller Rebels for a 
low-pressure opportunity to 
find out if derby is something 
you'd enjoy, either as a future 
skater or a referee. You will be 
introduced you the game and 
Roller Rebels, as well as cover 
some basic skating skills. No 
prior experience is necessary.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 97
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, located 
at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from 
now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in 
a meeting open to the public on Friday, July 26th. Applicants must be degree-
seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who 
have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 gone approximately 25 surgeries 
and clinical trials. 
“I have seriously lost count,” his 
mom said. 
Mitochondrial disease does not 
have a cure. 
Nate’s body doesn’t have 
enough energy to operate his or-
gans as the mitochondrion in his 
cells are defective. Amber said her 
son’s form of mitochondrial disease 
is progressive. Nate has eight spe-
cialists at their local hospital who 
help him combat the degenerative 
disease. He’s required to wear an 
oxygen mask and sleeps with a Bi-
PAP (bilevel positive airway pres-
sure) ventilator, which helps him 
breathe. “Sometimes his brain forgets to 
signal his body to breathe when he 
sleeps,” his mother said. 
Amber said Nate has a gastric 
stimulator, feeding tube and re-
ceives regular infusions of immu-
noglobulins due to his immune 
deficiency. 
Despite the medications and 
hospital visits, the Ferrell family 
wants Nate to live a normal life as 
he prepares to enter middle school. 
Nate lives in Gainesville with his 
parents, two sisters and their bea-
gle, Daisy. The preteen enjoys play-
ing the violin and video games. 
As for the show, Amber said she 
was grateful to have their lives for-
ever captured on camera, but stay-
ing sane is a priority to her these 
days. 
“It’s hard sometimes,” she said. “It’s therapeutic to work out and 
release some of the pent-up energy 
by running and listening to pod-
casts.”
Sally Gilotti, vice president for 
content development at Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals, said 
she first noticed the genuine con-
nection of the featured moms while 
their children served as national 
champions for the nonprofit in 
2018. 
National champions travel 
around the country to represent 
Children’s Miracle Network Hospi-
tals at different events and speak-
ing engagements, Gilotti said. From 
there she formed the basis for “Real 
Moms.”
“There was something about 
this recent group of moms which 
motivated us to tell their stories,” Gilotti said. 
Nate said he got close with his 
fellow champions quickly before 
and during filming. On days filled 
with long hours of filming, confer-
ence breakout sessions, onstage 
appearances and interviews, he 
said the national champions relied 
on one another.
Although the show puts their 
lives on display, Amber said she 
wished something like this would 
have existed 11 years ago. 
“We really value life in a differ-
ent way now that we have children 
with medical conditions,” she said. 
“You need cohorts. You need peo-
ple who will be there for you when 
you truly need them.”
Amber said she cherishes her 
adult friendships with these moms 
now more than ever. A fellow “Real Mom” in Ohio 
recently lost her partner to com-
plications from influenza. Amber 
and others traveled there to at-
tend his funeral on June 15. She 
said there was something special 
about having a group of women 
who can anticipate the needs you 
may be hesitant to share with oth-
ers.
“When one of us grieves, we 
all grieve,” she said.
It is critical to find joy in every 
situation, Amber said. Her goal is 
to raise children who can learn to 
look at the good, even during the 
tougher aspects of their shared 
lives.
“It’s our life in a nutshell,” her 
son said. “The fun part of it, the 
busy part of it — I do pick my 
nose, honestly. It’s fine.” MOMS,  from pg. 1Nate, 11, has mitochondrial dis easeBy Lily Huerkamp
Contributing Writer
UF researchers have found evidence 
that a routine procedure done on pre-
mature babies may do more harm than 
good. The evidence, published in April in 
a neonatal study, will lead to decreased 
administrations of the procedure.
Dr. Leslie Parker, the study’s prin-
cipal investiga-
tor, works as a 
neonatal nurse 
practitioner in 
the Neonatal In-
tensive Care Unit 
at UF Health 
Shands. The pro-
cedure, called a 
gastric residual 
evaluation, has 
been in use for 
decades to mea-
sure how much 
food premature 
infants are di-
gesting, Parker 
said, but after 
the results of the 
study, UF Health 
isn’t using the 
procedure anymore.
Because premature babies are unable 
to feed orally, a feeding tube goes into ei-
ther their nose or mouth and down into 
their stomach. A gastric residual evalu-
ation involves removing fluids from the 
baby’s stomach before every feeding, 
Parker said. This process helps doctors 
measure how much of the previous feed-
ing was left undigested in the stomach. 
Too much fluid could mean the baby’s 
stomach wasn’t tolerating the food.
The amount of fluid remaining deter-
mines if the amount fed to the baby is 
increased, decreased or stopped, Parker 
said. Gastric residuals were routinely 
performed when feeding critically ill ba-
bies.
“There is very little evidence to sup-
port that this is something we should be 
doing to our infants,” Parker said. “In 
fact, it may cause some issues.”
The results of gastric residuals may lead to babies receiving less nutrition 
than they actually need and being on IV 
fluids for a longer time, Parker said.
According to the research, which was 
published in JAMA Pediatrics, a ran-
domized clinical trial of 143 premature 
babies showed those who did not un-
dergo the tests consumed more nutrients 
in the weeks after being born and went 
home eight days earlier. 
Babies in the 
NICU are fed ap-
proximately ev-
ery three hours. 
Some of them 
need a feeding 
tube for weeks 
or months. Per-
forming gastric 
residuals every 
time they feed 
can cause dam-
age to their gas-
trointestinal sys-
tem, Parker said.
During the 
study, Parker 
found it would 
be better to limit 
(but not com-
pletely stop) the 
use of the procedure. In situations where 
a baby may be showing symptoms of not 
digesting properly or other issues, gas-
tric residuals may help to see if the baby 
has a lot of fluids left in their stomach.
Josef Neu, a professor of pediatrics at 
UF, said the study, which featured clini-
cal trials completed in 2017 with a Na-
tional Institutes of Health grant, halted 
the frequent use of gastric residuals at 
UF Health Shands. If there is a concern 
with the baby, the nurses will perform 
the procedure, but it is no longer done 
routinely.
“Let’s say the tummy gets a little larg-
er or a little firmer — the nurses might 
still do it, might check how much is left-
over from the previous feeding, but it’s 
not being done before every single feed-
ing,” Neu said. “These babies get eight 
feedings a day, in general, and we were 
doing this eight times a day.”UF research refutes procedure 
used on premature babies
Courtesy to The Alligator
Dr. Leslie Parker examines a 
premature baby in the NICU at UF 
Health Shands Hospital. 
The procedure has been done for decades
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gainesville native Nate and his mom, Amber, are featured in Children’s Miracle Network 
Hospitals’ new docu-series, “Real Moms. ” The series follows 10 different families. 
Grabowski and Lima can appeal this deci-
sion before the Rules and Ethics Committee 
next Senate meeting. 
On Tuesday, the Senate voted on nomi-
nees for four permanent Senate seats and 14 
summer replacement seats. The nominees 
were chosen by the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee on Sunday. 
The Senate approved proposed revisions to 
the 600 and 700 codes to help accommodate 
LGBTQ+ students and a resolution memori-
alizing the three-year anniversary of the Pulse 
nightclub shooting. The 600 codes are general 
statutes and the 700 codes are election rules.
The 600 code revision amended the word-
ing on eligibility rules for the William Rion 
Memorial Award, which is granted to two 
senators, by eliminating the requirement it be 
given to one male and one female. 
The 700 code revision ensured anyone 
running for an SG position could run under 
the name they identify under. 
The Senate ran into problems when voting 
to approve the R&A committee’s nomination 
because Kyra Ducoat (District D) had not of-
ficially resigned her temporary summer re-
placement seat and voted on her nomination 
to a permanent District D seat.Lima attempted to raise a point of inquiry 
to Shaw about Ducoat. After Shaw responded, 
Lima attempted to raise a parliamentary in-
quiry, and Shaw issued him a warning.
When he tried to clarify, Shaw declared 
him constructively absent. Senators who have 
received two warnings can be declared con-
structively absent by the Senate President.
Grabowski said Shaw’s actions violated 
procedure. Shaw then issued Grabowski two 
warnings and marked her constructively ab-
sent. Shaw said proper protocol was followed.
Although neither were allowed to partici-
pate, Grabowski and Lima continued to stand 
for votes. 
Grabowski attempted to show Shaw the 
rule she believed would prove the warnings 
that she and Lima received were invalid.
Grabowski said Shaw responded by saying 
Grabowski only cared because her “boyfriend 
[Lima] just got kicked out.” 
On Wednesday, Senate approved proposed 
revisions to the 800 codes, which govern SG 
finance. Grabowski and Lima were present 
but could not participate.
“We intend to pursue all possible avenues 
within and outside of SG to get this decision 
overturned,” Grabowski said.
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG,  from pg. 1800 codes revised W ednesday 4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
STUDENTS LEARNED LAW 
ENFORCEMENT PROTOCOLS
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
During Deputy Esau Bright’s 
demonstration with his 2-year-old 
K-9, Deacon, students asked a ques-
tion he said he always receives: 
“Can we pet him?” 
Unfortunately, students were 
not able to pet the K-9. Instead, stu-
dents had the opportunity to spend 
their day interacting with law en-
forcement officials firsthand and 
learn about what they do and why.
On Wednesday, the Building 
Lasting Relationships Between Pol-icy and Community (BLAST) pro-
gram took place at Eastside High 
School located at 1201 SE 43rd St. 
The event, hosted by the North-
ern District of Florida U.S Attorney’s 
Office, allowed students to interact 
with law enforcement and to gain a 
new perspective about the different 
scenarios in which they may find 
themselves. 
Programs like BLAST are impor-
tant because they show the kids 
that law enforcement officials are 
people, too, said Bright, K-9 handler 
of the Alachua County Sheriff’s De-
partment. 
“It actually shows the kids that 
we’re just not robots,” Bright said. 
“We’re not out here to make their life miserable.”
At the BLAST event, students 
heard from speakers and participat-
ed in group breakout activities that 
lasted for 30 minutes each. Chris 
Canova from the U.S. Attorney’s Of-
fice and Larry Keefe from the U.S. 
Attorney for the Northern District of 
Florida both spoke to students dur-
ing these activities. 
The five breakout sessions in-
cluded: the use of force/firearm 
simulator, the federal crime scenar-
io, traffic/street stop simulation, the 
home/domestic LEO response and 
the K-9 demonstration.
Laughter filled the room as stu-
dents made siren noises with their 
mouths while they role-played a traf-fic stop with Florida Highway Patrol 
Master Cpl. Patricia Jefferson-Shaw, 
who was role-playing a mother get-
ting pulled over. Jefferson-Shaw 
discussed what went right and what 
went wrong in their role-playing 
scenarios and discussed the differ-
ent ways to respond when getting 
pulled over. She said at the end of 
the day, everyone wants to go back 
home to their families, including 
law enforcement officials. 
“I think that it’s important that 
the kids get to see us in this atmo-
sphere because it’s a calm atmo-
sphere,” ACSO Deputy Sheriff Tea-
meika Trueluck said. “They can see 
what it is that we do, they can get a 
better idea of why we do the things that we do, and they can also get an 
idea of what they need to do if they 
are in certain situations.” 
Trueluck said her favorite part 
of the day was watching the kids 
pretend to be the police and act out 
different scenarios. 
James Darby, the last speaker at 
the event, talked about his experi-
ences in prison for about nine years 
and his life now outside of prison. 
“You guys are the future,” Darby 
said. “Be a leader.”
Students applauded as Darby 
said, “I am a free man.” 
Darby left the students with two 
final messages: Make good deci-
sions and watch who you hang 
around. 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgStudents receive advice from law enforcement at BLAST 
A sheriff suspended by Republican Florida Gov. 
Ron DeSantis over the response to the Parkland 
school shooting testified Wednesday that he prop-
erly trained a deputy now criminally charged in the 
case, but he wasn’t able to give him courage.
Suspended Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel is 
fighting to keep his job after being removed three 
days after DeSantis took office last January. DeSan-
tis accused Israel of incompetence and neglect of 
duty and failing to properly train his department for 
an active shooter situation. Seventeen people were 
killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on 
Feb. 14, 2018.
The case against Israel is built largely on the fail-
ure of Deputy Scot Peterson, who remained outside 
the school instead of entering the building as a gun-
man fired about 140 bullets. 
DeSantis’ lawyer, Nicholas Primrose, focused 
much of his questioning on Peterson’s training and 
Israel’s decision to change the wording of a deputy’s responsibilities during an active shooter situation 
from “shall” enter a building to “may” enter a build-
ing.
“You give them the training,” Israel said. “You 
provide them with the polices and the procedures, 
but no matter what the governor’s attorney says at 
any time, if they think that I can provide any woman 
or man on this Earth with courage and the desire to 
go inside when their conscious is telling them, ‘I’m 
not going in there.’”
Israel was testifying before a “special master” 
appointed by Republican Senate President Bill Gal-
vano to gather facts and make a recommendation 
on whether Israel should be removed from office 
or reinstated. The full Senate will eventually vote 
on Israel’s fate. Israel was first elected in 2012 and 
reelected in 2016. He plans to run for the position 
again next year. 
Read the full story online.Sheriff on Parkland: I can train but 
can’t give out courage
By Brendan Farrington
Associated Press 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office deputy Esau Bright of the K-9 Unit 
speaks to students Wednesday at Eastside High School with his 
Belgian Shepherd partner, Deacon, as part of BLAST: Building Lasting 
Relationships Between Police and Community. The event was hosted 
by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Florida. 
Bright has worked in the K-9 Unit for 6.5 years and with Deacon for 
1.5. Bright said he enjoys working with the students to “get them to 
know that we’re not just the bad guys. ” 
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
POLICE SAID SHE RAN A WOMAN 
OVER WITH HER CAR
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
What started out as an attempt to “talk 
things out” ended with one woman at UF 
Health Shands Hospital after being run 
over by another Gainesville woman Satur-
day evening, according to a police report.
Ce’ara Palas Athena Anderson , 21, drove to the woman’s 
house to confront her, a 
witness said. A physical 
fight ensued and lasted 
several minutes before 
Anderson returned to her 
car, according to the re-
port.
Anderson accelerated 
the car into the woman, 
who dodged the head-on impact but was 
grazed in the process. According to the re-port, Anderson reversed the car about 25 
feet and accelerated toward the woman a 
second time. The woman flipped over the 
hood, shattered the windshield and landed 
on the concrete on her back. 
Anderson backed up the car once again 
and ran the woman over, according to the 
report.
The victim was treated on the scene and 
transported to Shands. 
Under questioning, Anderson stated she 
went to the house to have a discussion and had no intention of fighting. She also said 
while attempting to leave, the woman fol-
lowed her and began banging on her car 
windows. Anderson had to do several ma-
neuvers to get her car out of the area and 
her car accelerated in the process, accord-
ing to the report. 
Anderson was arrested for attempted 
murder early Sunday morning. She remains 
in jail in lieu of a $250,000 bond.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgGainesville woman arrested for attempted murder with her vehicle
Anderson
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer 
While dozens gathered at the Alachua 
County Jail Monday in protest, two men 
were arrested by Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office deputies.
The protest, hosted by Fight Toxic Pris -
ons, the Legal Empowerment and Advo -
cacy Hub, Gainesville Industrial Workers 
of the World and MAMA’s Club, sought 
to raise money through a crowdfunding 
website to post bail for fathers in honor of 
Father’s Day.
ACSO deputies set up a designated area 
for protestors, who were instructed to stay 
within a construction cone perimeter, ac -
cording to a police report. 
One protestor, 28-year-old Jordan Ma -
zurek, of Lexington, Kentucky, reportedly 
took one of the cones, placed it in his car 
and sat down in the driver’s seat. When 
approached by a deputy, Mazurek asked, 
“Is this about the cone?” Thomas Tackett, 23, of Jackson, Michi -
gan, witnessed the interaction and left the 
designated protest area. According to the 
report, he approached the deputies and 
corrections officers in a hostile manner, 
chanting, “Let her go!” after another pro -
testor was detained. Tackett did not follow 
warnings from deputies to return to the 
protest area and continued approaching. 
He was taken to the ground and placed in 
handcuffs, according to the report. 
Mazurek was arrested for larceny, a 
second-degree misdemeanor. Tackett was 
arrested for trespassing and resisting an 
officer, both first-degree misdemeanors. 
Tackett was released on his own recog -
nizance as of Tuesday, according to the 
clerk of court records. 
Mazurek was released on his own re -
cognizance Monday, prior to his first ap -
pearance.  
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgTwo arrested at protest to bring dads home
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Jordan Mazurek, 28, is detained by an ACSO deputy on Monday after taking a 
construction cone. He was arrested for larceny, a second-degree misdemeanor.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnThe time has come to leave this ghost town and return a week 
later when it’s renewed with young, innocent, naive and hope-
ful life. It’s time to prepare yourself for Summer B. During this 
interlude you will use the time off to recenter your chakras, align 
your aura and detox all the negative energy you have toward the 
younger students who have not had their spirits crushed yet. You 
refuse to be the crotchety upperclassman who looks upon the 
younglings with jealousy and a mild tinge of second hand embar-
rassment as they send you into a spiral of your own freshman 
flashbacks. You have taken up meditation in a bid to prepare for 
the second half of summer madness. You’re breathing in and out. 
Letting all your thoughts go. Then it pops into your mind…
Darts & Laurels
An independent report on the United Nations found 
from 2010 to 2018 the organization showed “obvious-
ly dysfunctional performance” in Myanmar leading 
up to the abuse of hundreds of thousands Rohingya, 
a minority Muslim group in the country. In August 
2017, Myanmar’s military started an ethnic cleansing against 
the Rohingya including the killing of thousands of people, the 
looting of villages and the rape of women and children, as the 
Guardian reports. We are giving a dart for the UN’s systemic 
failure as it did not provide enough support against these at-
tacks on humanity. Gert Rosenthal, a former Guatemalan for-
eign minister who wrote the report, said Myanmar’s govern-
ment was mostly to blame for the abuses against the Rohingya, 
so a dart goes to them as well. 
Last week, Florida Rep. Ted Yoho voted against an amend-
ment to a bill that would provide additional resources to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention to better understand the 
causes of sudden unexpected deaths of children and infants in the 
United States. He also voted against an amendment to “increase 
CDC Injury Prevention and Control suicide program funding to 
enhance youth suicide awareness, research and prevention efforts 
by $2 million.” A dart goes to Yoho for not seeing unexpected 
infant death and suicide prevention as worth while concerns. 
The U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment that 
prevents a drilling plan in the Everglades for western Broward 
County. The amendment would set a one-year temporary prohibi-
tion of supplying wetland permits in the Broward portion of the 
Everglades, as the Sun Sentinel reports. We are giving a laurel to 
the passing of this amendment as it attempts to protect an ecosys-
tem close to many Floridians’ hearts. 
On Monday, the Ireland government published a report ex-
plaining its plan for net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. More 
than 180 measures to minimize the country’s greenhouse gas 
emissions are outlined in the report, with “a rise in carbon taxes, 
a multi-billion-euro scheme to retrofit houses and a number of 
other measures to change behavior by institutions, companies 
and individuals,” as the Guardian reports. We are giving a laurel  
to Ireland, as it takes strides to overcome climate change as the 
country’s carbon emission is the third highest in the European 
Union. The country is being charged more than 250 million euros 
for missing the 2020 target of reducing emissions and increasing 
renewable energy, which makes any parking ticket you got on 
campus still annoying in comparison. 
Tighten your bowstrings and sharpen your arrows because 
we’re going back to Panem. A laurel goes to Suzanne Collins for 
dusting off her typewriter, parchment and quill or whatever de-
vice she uses to write and planning to release the prequel novel to 
“The Hunger Games” in 2020. You probably thought we wouldn’t 
care about her new book that’ll take place 64 years before Katniss 
Everdeen. We may or may not have stopped reading her books 
after graduating middle school, so save the judgment. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOROnce upon a time, I used to be able to 
show up to Student Government Senate 
on Tuesday nights and leave around 20 
minutes later. It was a time in which 
we would all sit there, pass legislation 
by unanimous consent, listen to a couple short 
reports and then move on with our night.
Things are not as rosy anymore for good rea-
son. With a minority party asserting its place in 
the Senate, a lot of the practices the majority 
party got away with in the past are now being 
exposed. 
During public debate on Tuesday night, speakers started 
off by calling out the recent actions by the Replacement and 
Agenda Committee. 
During Sunday’s committee meeting, Majority Party 
Leader Branden Pearson — a boy who makes Richard 
Cheney seem as benevolent as Santa — moved to appoint 
three students to Senate without discussion or deliberation. 
Earlier in the meeting, when challenged to share his notes 
on applicants to prove he was paying attention during the 
interviews, he refused and retorted they had to be public 
records requested.
Emily Dunson, chair of the committee and quite frankly 
running for Student Body President next year (so she’s try-
ing to keep things together), had to pivot from saying they 
had to leave the room due to time constraints to pretending 
just because Pearson made the motion they now had to 
vote on it.
Senate President Libby Shaw was sadly absent minded 
for who knows how long. When the minority party leader 
asked her how she voted, she responded saying, “Are we 
voting right now?” Those Senate leadership salaries are 
truly well earned.
Tyler Kendrick, a member of the committee whose 
meekness has been the subject of a previous column, was about as insightful as a magic 8 ball during the 
proceedings. He voted yes. What a pushover.
Apparently it’s cool now to make people sen-
ators without discussing their applications.
Later in Tuesday’s Senate meeting, the sena-
tors went through and approved the first read-
ings for major changes to how student organiza-
tions will be funded. SG was sued over the way 
it handled funding organizations. Now, we are 
changing the way we handle our money. 
Many student organizations voiced their con-
cerns with respect to first-come, first-serve fund-
ing, the transition between models and event caps, but it 
really just seems like we’re going into this with our fingers 
crossed. The minority party voted against the changes.
When it came to consideration of the Replacement and 
Agenda Committee’s Senator nominations, Shaw ruled 
Senator Ben Lima as “constructively absent,” which would 
mean Lima’s resignation via absences if legitimate. Shaw 
then threatened any minority senators with the potential of 
getting their own absences when they protested the move. 
Minority Party Leader Ashley Grabowski was also ruled ab-
sent, resulting in a resignation as well. When arguing with 
Shaw after, Shaw taunted Grabowski saying she was upset 
because her boyfriend, Lima, had been kicked out of Sen-
ate. 
I don’t know how I feel about reducing women to just 
their relationship status, but I guess there’s no lower limit 
for the behavior of the majority party. (I was also upset at 
the way Lima was treated, and we’re just friends.)
It is not cool of Senate President Shaw to run amok in 
the chambers, threatening people with absences and break-
ing the rules.
I don’t get why we keep doing shady stuff. It ain’t cool.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.Something is rotten in the SG Senate
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Giving back to the poor is highly 
encouraged and believed to make 
one closer to enlightenment across 
multiple religions. Whether reli-
gious or not, giving for the sake of 
others just feels good and can affect others 
positively.
Homeless people are everywhere. They of-
ten populate public places like park benches, 
alleyways and, in Gainesville, the sidewalks of 
University Avenue. 
You might see them on your walk downtown asking for 
any cash you might have. For a couple seconds, there’s a 
debate in your head whether you should give the person the 
money you planned to use on drinks at White Buffalo or not. 
After handing them some cash, you feel like a good citizen. 
The truth is, you may be stopping your alcohol use that 
night, but you might be fueling theirs.
In an article written by The Atlantic, a report from the 
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development found 
six out of 10 homeless people admitted to having problems 
with alcohol and drugs. 
Giving cash to homeless people makes it easier for them 
to spend money quickly. Combined with substance abuse 
issues, the money is spent on something different than what 
you had pictured. 
The “right” avenue of donating is not a straight path. Donating to charity organizations seems like 
a good idea but comes with a lot of red tape 
and fees taken out of your original donation. 
Charity accreditor BBB Wise Giving Alliance 
requires charities to spend at least 65 percent 
of their funds towards actual charity rather 
than the organization itself.
The rankings of homeless charities on char-
itynavigator.org show the Homeless Empow-
erment Program and the Avenues for Home-
less Youth to be among the top charities. If 
you’re going to donate through an organization, research the 
rankings of the places online and in your area.
For those venturing near University Avenue across from 
UF’s campus, a small gift card from a fast food restaurant 
may be the easiest way to ensure the money you donate is 
spent on something to help a homeless person. It may not 
be a very nutritious option, but it is healthier for their bodies 
than harmful substances.
Choosing how to give can be a difficult decision especially 
when you’re a broke college student who just spent hun-
dreds of dollars on an electronic textbook. 
The options for donating to the homeless are almost 
endless, but some bring your dollar farther than others. Re-
searching your options could help you help others better.
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication major. 
Her columns usually appear on Tuesdays.Why you shouldn’t give cash to homeless peopleColumn
Amanda Martinez
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
The Pelicans won the Anthony Davis trade
Pg 12Position-by-position: Evaluating UF’s secondary
Analyzing UF’s defensive line. Pg 11On the Cinder is creeping down 
to Gainesville this weekend.
The Buffalo-based punk trio On 
the Cinder will play Friday in a 
mixed-billed show at the Hardback 
Cafe with Sparrows from Toronto, 
The Drowned God from Philadel-
phia and local Gainesville bands 
Supertwin and Orbiter. Doors open 
at 8 p.m. and the show starts at 9 
p.m. Tickets cost $6. 
On the Cinder combines the vo-
cals of bassist Mike Jacobs and gui-
tarist Jason Wright with the quick 
tempo set by drummer Tyler Rze-
mek to create a relentless and ag-
gressive sound.
I spoke with the band about its 
formation, sound and upcoming al-
bum “Lamplighter,” which is set to 
be released Sept. 17.
Nick Hudson: How did you orig-
inally meet and decide to start the 
band?
Mike Jacobs: Tyler and I had 
been in another band throughout 
college and Jason was one of our 
roommates at a punk house. The 
three of us started playing music in 
late 2012, and we played our first 
show in 2013. Since then, we have 
been trying to hit the road as much 
as we can, probably doing about 
three months of touring a year. 
Meanwhile, we’ve also been doing 
DIY in Buffalo and Rochester, New 
York, to pay back the favor when-
ever bands are coming through.
NH: How would you describe 
your musical style and sound?
Jason Wright: I say that we’re 
fast, heavy punk. Some people call 
it skate punk or melodic hardcore. I 
just call it punk rock, though.
NH: Why did you decide to do an 
East Coast tour?
MJ: We hadn’t been to Florida 
in a year. We did a tour in Janu-
ary and February this year going 
to Texas, California and Colorado, 
so now we’re just trying to hit the 
coast and do some shows in places 
we haven’t been in a minute.NH: Any city you are especially 
looking forward to visiting?
MJ: Gainesville for sure, be-
cause the last time we tried to play 
Gainesville it was a weird night of 
the week and we couldn’t get any-
thing together. We really like Bos-
ton; that’s one of our homes away 
from home. We’re playing a house 
show with a bunch of friends, so 
that will be a hangover the next day 
for sure.
Tyler Rzemek: We’re playing 
some Florida shows with our good 
friends Dial Drive. They got me all 
hyped up, so I figure those will be 
pretty good.
NH: I saw that you are releasing 
your second album, “Lamplighter,” 
in September. Are you going to be 
doing any previews of the songs on 
the record?
MJ: About half the setlist is go-
ing to be off that record. We’re run-
ning and gunning with the presales. 
We’re really excited with the new 
record. We’re proud of it. I hope 
everyone else likes it. This is our 
second full-length record. We’re 
definitely due, it’s been three years 
since we’ve put an album out. 
We’ve just been spending so much 
time touring and trying to push our 
last album that Between the Days 
Records [label company] put out 
for us. This time we’re doing the 
record through our own label called 
Flower House Records, so now it’s 
all on us.
NH: How is the sound different 
from your first album?
TR: It’s a pretty similar sound, 
but I would say it’s a more mature 
sound. It’s kind of a culmination of 
what we have been putting out. It’s 
got more techy aspects to it, little 
quick turnarounds and stuff. It’s a 
little bit heavier. There’s definitely 
a theme to everything.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgQ&A with On the Cinder
The punk trio from Buffalo is 
stopping at the Hardback Cafe to help 
promote their soon-to-be released 
album “Lamplighter”
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
MUSIC
IT WILL BE 
CELEBRATING THE 
RELEASE OF ITS NEWEST 
ALBUM “STRANGE 
CHEMISTRY”
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
Have Gun, Will Travel will be 
returning to the stage to support 
the release of its sixth studio al-
bum, “Strange Chemistry.”
The Bradenton-based band is 
kicking off its tour in Gainesville 
Thursday, July 11 at Loosey’s 
Downtown. The studio album 
will be released from Mile Wide 
Records July 12. Admission to 
the event is $8 at the door.
Have Gun, Will Travel con-
sists of singer-guitarist, Matt 
Burke; bassist, Daniel Burke; gui-
tarist, Scott Anderson; drummer, 
JP Beaubien and keyboardist, Ed-
ward Stork. The roots-rock group 
combines punk, folk and coun-
try influences to create a unique 
sound paired with songwriting 
that discusses the complexities 
of life. 
The band formed in 2006 after 
Burke, the lead singer, started to 
experiment with his own sound while a part of Chase Theory, a 
punk-indie band. Burke eventu-
ally left the band to start Have 
Gun, Will Travel. 
“The songwriting I was do-
ing was kind of taking a little bit 
of a different turn,” he said. “It 
wasn’t the kind of stuff we were 
doing with the band, and that’s 
what became the first version of 
Have Gun, Will Travel.”
The band went on to release 
five records, its most recent being 
“Science from an Easy Chair,” 
an ambitiously crafted concept 
album based on British explorer 
Sir Ernest Shackleton’s journey 
through the Antarctic. 
After touring around the U.S. 
to promote the album, Burke and 
the rest of the group were cre-
atively exhausted. They decided 
to take a year off to deal with per-
sonal matters.
“There was a lot of homework 
involved in making a record like 
that,” Burke said. “So, I was kind 
of exhausted and tired of song-
writing in general. I just needed 
a little break.”
The band’s hiatus ended two 
years ago when Burke began to 
write songs that would be the 
starting point for “Strange Chem-
istry.” This time, Burke took a completely different approach.
“Instead of doing this story-
telling thing, I was feeling the 
need to be a little more personal,” 
he said. “So, that’s the kind of di-
rection that this record started to 
take.”  
The songs were later engi-
neered by guitarist Anderson 
and recorded in a friend’s studio 
called Burnt Orange. When the 
band finished, it took the album 
to people outside of the band to 
gain feedback.  
“It’s so hard to make certain 
kind of production decisions 
when you’re still in the middle of 
it,” Burke said. 
Burke hopes supporters of 
the band will find comfort in the 
intimate approach of “Strange 
Chemistry.”
“I feel like the last one might 
have been intimidating to some-
body who maybe wasn’t familiar 
with us,” he said. “So with this 
one I’m hoping just to have a per-
sonal touch to be able to connect 
with people in a way that maybe 
that one didn’t.”
@priya_dames
pdames@ufl.eduHave Gun, Will Travel  to 
perform at Loosey’s
Returning to the Stage
This week in music, the charts were struck with new hits from 
so many artists. The Avenue team put together the top hits that we 
can’t stop playing. Make sure to follow The Avenue on Spotify to 
stay up-to-date on all our favorites. 
Avenue Weekly Playlist 
Bounce Back
Birthday
Mother’s Daughter
Ain’t no tellin 
Lights Out
Sit Next to Me
EARFQUAKE 
A Brand New
On A RollLittle Mix
Somi
Miley Cyrus
Lil Jon and Mac Dre 
Hippie Sabotage
Foster the People
Tyler the Creator 
Day BTS and Zara Larsson
Ashley O SONG TITLE ARTIST8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
College is costly, which 
leads to many students mak-
ing financial sacrifices. How-
ever, with Gainesville’s selec-
tion of affordable boutiques, 
fashion does not have to be 
compromised due to student 
expenses. Here are some of 
the trendiest yet most af-
fordable boutiques located in 
Gainesville.
1. Future Perfekt Vintage
Future Perfekt Vintage is a 
hidden gem, located at 1001 
NW 5th Ave. The charming 
little boutique sells previously 
worn vintage clothes tailored 
to modern style at very afford-
able prices. Most items at the 
clothing store cost under $25 
with items such as dresses, 
skirts, shorts, crop tops, flan-
nels, jeans and accessories for 
men and women. 
2. Sandy’s Consignment 
Boutique
Sandy’s is located north of 
campus on 13th Street and has 
been reselling trendy clothing 
in Gainesville since the ‘80s. 
The consignment shop closely 
resembles most retail stores 
and sells high-quality used 
clothes and furniture at af-
fordable prices. Students can 
recycle their closets by sell-
ing old clothes to Sandy’s and 
using the profit to buy new 
ones. 
3. Urban Thread
Urban Thread has two lo-
cations in Gainesville: one shop is on University Ave-
nue, east of campus, and the 
other is north on 13th Street. 
The vintage clothing shop is 
known for its friendly service, 
cleanliness and outstanding 
quality at low prices. The or-
ganized boutique sells cloth-
ing and furniture similar to 
Free People and Anthropolo-
gie at a fraction of the price. 
4. Flashbacks Recycled 
Fashions
Flashbacks is a used-cloth-
ing store and recently moved 
to 220 NW 8th Ave. The con-
signment shop contains a 
wide variety of clothing and 
home decor. The friendly staff 
will assist customers in find-
ing anything from business at-
tire to tailgate-ready outfits at 
a student-friendly price. 
5. Slay Finds
If you’re in Gainesville 
without transportation, Slay  
Finds is a great option for on  
line shopping in Gainesville. 
The Instagram account @
Slayfinds showcases the 
owner’s collection of sport/
vintage wear sold on the 
app Depop. The account is 
rated the top Depop seller in 
Gainesville and sells timeless 
unisex clothing pieces.
Buying new clothes at re-
tail stores can be expensive, 
but allocating that money to-
ward Gainesville’s local cloth-
ing stores is both sustainable 
and gets students more brands 
for their buck.
@lilygirton
lgirton@alligator.orgAffordable Student Shopping
LIFESTYLE
Dress chic for cheap
‘IT’S ABOUT SOLIDARITY, 
NOT CHARITY’
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
Nothing in life is free. Unless you 
go to the Civic Media Center every 
third Saturday of the month, that is. 
From 2 to 5 p.m. on any given Sat-
urday, people are welcome to pe-
ruse clothing, household goods and 
personal care items available free of 
charge. 
This gathering, appropriately 
known as Free Store, was conceived 
by activists at the former Wild Iris 
Bookstore in 2014 after seeing the 
material needs of the working-class 
queer and transgender communities.
Free Store organizer, J. Smith, 48,  
said significant portions of these pop-
ulations end up living marginally and 
face homelessness due to discrimina-
tion in employment and housing. 
According to its Facebook page, 
the Gainesville Free Store is linked to 
far-left and anti-fascist group Redneck Revolt. The Alligator is withholding 
Smith’s first name due to concern for 
his personal safety as a result of po-
tentially violent opposition.  
“Because the trans movement has 
been so successful in many ways and 
more people feel at least somewhat 
comfortable being out, there’s a huge 
reaction,” Smith said. “It is actually 
fully legal to discriminate against 
trans people.”
According to Smith, some compa-
nies will choose not to employ a qual-
ified queer or transgender individual, 
claiming such a lifestyle goes against 
the company’s religious beliefs. 
“People wanted to do something 
that was a grassroots effort to address 
this need that came from the commu-
nity itself,” Smith said. 
Smith emphasized the Free Store is 
an act of solidarity, not charity. 
“[It’s] not handing something 
down from above, but sharing what 
we have amongst ourselves,” he said.
A volunteer at the store attested 
to that sentiment, saying she also at-
tends Free Store regularly and needs the resources it provides. 
Although Free Store originated as 
a resource for those within the LG-
BTQ+ community, its doors are open 
to anyone.  
“I’ve seen people bring things to 
donate and walk through and bring 
items to take home with them,” Smith 
said. “Come and get free stuff; that’s 
fine, too.”
Free Store runs off donations from 
those in the community. The organiz-
ers said they’re “thrilled” with the 
amount of clothes they’ve received, 
and they currently are in need of 
household goods and clean, unused 
personal care items. You can drop 
the donations off at the Civic Media 
Center, 433 S. Main St., on the third 
Saturday of every  month from noon 
to 2 p.m.
All information on how to donate, 
volunteer or attend Free Store can be 
located on its Facebook page. 
@harleyj_smith
hsmith@alligator.orgFree Store supporting LGBTQ material needs
LIFESTYLEBrittany Wallace / Alligator Staff 
Gainesville residents took a tour of African cuisine while aiming to educate about rising gun violence.
Harley Smith / Alligator Staff
Free Store attendees can either donate or come and 
claim clothes for free.
THE RISE FOOD FESTIVAL 
HONORS VICTIMS OF 
TRAUMATIC EVENTS IN THE 
GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Laughter filled the RISE Food Fes-
tival Saturday as residents gathered in 
the Howard W. Bishop Middle School 
cafeteria.
The event was an African food fes-
tival held to honor the victims of trau-
matic events in the Gainesville com-
munity. The festival started at 1 p.m. 
and ended at 4 p.m.
The event was put on by Carl 
Watts, the head chef at Blue Gill Qual-
ity Foods, who said he wanted to ad-
dress the gun violence in Gainesville. 
He is a part of the Chef Empower-
ment group, which works to reverse 
statistics in the increase in crime and 
decrease in employment by offering 
vocational job training and immediate 
job placement in Central Florida.
“We have to bring awareness to the 
growing violence and also the grow-
ing number of victims,” Watts said. 
“So let’s come together today and talk 
about the victims and say, ‘Hey, if you 
are a victim of these crimes we are 
here for you’ and I  just used food to 
get everyone together.”Blue Gill provided and served food 
prepared by cooks who have all grad-
uated from the Reichert House Youth 
Academy, an after-school program 
created for young people who are in 
need of help with making the transi-
tion from adolescence to adulthood.
At the festival they served a corn-
and-sweet-potato mix, smoked pork, 
barbecue chicken, black-eyed peas 
with collard greens, fried catfish and 
mac and cheese. People stacked their 
plates high with the food provided 
and sat around tables in the cafeteria 
to eat.
Lynn Perryman, 57, is a data man-
ager at Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings Ele-
mentary School and said she came out 
to support her nephew Reggie Max-
well, 20, who is a cook at Blue Gill. 
“I came to support and I love, love 
the message of the event,” Perryman 
said.
According to Watts, 66 people at-
tended the event. Many people came 
with their children. Parents danced 
with their children on the floor while 
DJ E-Lo played Top 40 music to old 
rhythm and blues music.
Guests also checked out commu-
nity-service organizations that had 
tables set up throughout the cafeteria, 
spreading their message and talking 
about what they do for the Gainesville community. Some of these organiza-
tions included Green Dot GNV, BOLD 
and Girl’s Place. 
The cost to enter the festival was 
$10 for children 12 and under, $20 for 
adults and free for children under 3. 
All the money collected will be do-
nated to Girl’s Place and First Love 
Yourself. 
Christi Arrington, 41, is the ex-
ecutive director of Girl’s Place. While 
bending down to hug a young girl, she 
explained that Girl’s Place is a child 
care facility that empowers young 
girls.
Kia Williams, 25, who works as a 
nurse at Plaza Health and Rehab, was 
also at the festival. She volunteers at 
FLY, an empowerment group that 
helps build the self-esteem of teenage 
girls and women and pushes them to 
reach their full potential.
Williams said she has seen vio-
lence affect many people in her com-
munity and is “tired of it,” so she said 
she was happy to go to the event.  
“There are too many shootings, and 
we are losing too many of our loved 
ones to gun violence, nonsense,” Wil-
liams said. “Put the guns down! Ev-
eryone should just get along.” 
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.org
Bringing awareness to violence 
one plate at a time
FOODBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk driversThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-20-19-
12-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
A+ CLEANING & PAINTING SERVICES
Seeking homes and offices to clean or paint. 
We customize for each client.
In Central Florida since 1986.
Call 386-717-2929    7-11-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Please recycle this newspaper.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
By Peter A. Collins
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
DOUBLE BUSS BU M
IM PA IR ON EO NO NE
AI SLES SP RA IN ED
STETS COUPLE
ST IL LS TM IDN A
COUPES EQ UU S
MT A WR EN CREPES
OH NO EDSE L DO VE
CRYPTS OR ES NE T
HO OT S CRAFTS
AW L HA I ST RAPS
DRIFTS EF IL E
PO WE RT IE ST AL ER
DE AD TR EE SC RAPE
FR Y SASS SHIFTS
06/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, June 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 Hogwarts 
professor played 
by Rickman
6 Monk style
11 “It’s __-win 
situation”
14 Groovier part of 
a 45?
15 Achille __: 
hijacked liner
16 Baseball 
commentator 
Darling
17 Brief CV
20 Ristorante rice 
dish
21 Votin’ no on
22 The geographic 
center of the 48 
states is in it
24 Make music with 
one’s mouth 
closed
27 Decide that one 
will
29 Cargo unit
30 Spanish article
31 __ deck: cruise 
ship feature
32 System starter?
34 “Paper Moon” 
pair
36 Dessert potables
39 Quarterly 
Nielsen ratings 
periods
42 Wind up
43 Free of charge
47 Ranch  
nickname
48 French pronoun
50 They may hold 
rosés
52 Some facial 
decor
55 Katmandu  
native
56 Hard to watch
57 Indentations
59 What happens 
tomorrow ... and 
a hint to this 
grid’s circled 
letters
64 “Lord, is __?”
65 Under-the-sink 
fitting
66 Get ready to 
refinish
67 Writer Rand
68 Some globe 
users
69 With great 
passionDOWN
1 Old conscription 
agcy.
2 Bethesda-based 
medical org.
3 Gussied up
4 Sub need
5 Preoccupies 
a lot
6 Moral flaw
7 Terra firma
8 Disappoint, in 
slang
9 1967 NHL 
Rookie of the 
Year
10 “The Tell-Tale 
Heart” writer
11 Salad green
12 Insignificant
13 Zen harmony
18 Boy who may be 
adopted
19 Took a load off
22 Kenan’s 
Nickelodeon pal
23 “Green Book” 
Oscar winner 
Mahershala __
25 Van Morrison 
hit with the line 
“A fantabulous 
night to make 
romance”
26 Writer Rice28 Thanksgiving 
mo. in Canada
33 Fall behind
35 Reaches after 
getting away, as 
a safe haven
37 __-FREE: 
contact lens 
solution
38 Forbes rival
39 Lesser Antilles 
isl. country
40 Ponderous
41 Clarify44 Qualifying phrase
45 “Hacksaw Ridge” 
director Gibson
46 Tire letters
49 Brush aside
51 Go over again
53 Rembrandt van __
54 As of yet
58 Cookbook amts.
60 Modern rte. finder
61 Tour de France 
time
62 Zilch
63 Make like a mole
By Lewis Rothlein
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, June 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Strong drink, and 
part 1 of a word 
ladder
7 Kiss
11 Injured, as a knee
14 Damage
15 Private tutoring 
session
17 Theater walkways
18 Injured, as an 
ankle
19 Cancels a dele
20 Tabloid item 
(part 2)
21 The “S” of CSNY
24 “No more 
sharing,” briefly
25 Genetic material
28 Two-door cars 
(part 3)
30 1975 Tony-
winning play 
about a stableboy
32 Former Boston 
commuter org.
35 Small, chirpy bird
36 Brunch order 
(part 4)
37 “It can’t be!”
39 Unsuccessful 
Ford
41 Personal care 
brand with a bird 
in its logo
42 Underground 
tombs (part 5)
44 Mining hauls
46 Circus safety 
feature
47 Owl sounds
48 Arts’ partner 
(part 6)
50 Piercing tool
51 Japanese assent
53 Sandal parts
56 Wanders (part 7)
59 Taxpayer’s option
61 Neckwear 
that makes a 
statement
63 Older, as bread
64 Like the print 
version of an 
e-book, say
65 Abrasion
66 Cook in oil
67 Insolence
68 Work 
assignments ... 
and, preceded by 
1-Across, the key 
to creating the 
word ladder (and 
part 8 of it)DOWN
1 Days in Quito
2 Drops
3 Hot and 
bothered
4 Like Estonia and 
Latvia
5 Stays out of 
sight
6 Trauma ctrs.
7 Pear variety
8 Removes for 
transplanting
9 Antitoxin
10 Having more 
lather
11 Took a  
refresher  
course in
12 Half of deux
13 __ school
16 Zero, in soccer
22 Angling needs
23 Went like the 
wind
26 Béisbol team 
complement
27 Desirable trait
29 Belgian painter 
James
31 Logician’s “as 
was proven”
32 Coffee flavor
33 Host, as a  
party34 With no 
discernable 
pattern
36 Chin indentation
38 Back (out)
40 Labeled times
43 Warm-weather 
wear
45 Warm up before 
a run
48 Boston and 
Chicago
49 “Green Hills of 
Africa” journey52 Union that 
merged with SAG 
in 2012
54 Rice dish
55 Snoozed
57 See 58-Down
58 With 57-Down, 
loses one’s cool
60 Part of a 
Spanish “to be” 
conjugation
61 Adobe doc suffix
62 Atop, poetically
63 Griddle sound
06/18/1916 Health Services 24 Pets
 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida announced the addition of 
Chuck Jeroloman to its baseball 
coaching staff on Wednesday. 
Jeroloman spent the past two years 
as an asssistant at USF. Solaun scores for Jamaica at World Cup
Havana Solaun, who played at UF from 2011-2014, scored Jamaica's first-
ever World Cup goal on Tuesday in a 4-1 loss to Australia. FOOTBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida is known as “DBU” for a rea-
son.
Year after year, the team’s secondary 
boasts some of the best defensive backs 
in not only the SEC, but in all of college 
football.
In 2019, the unit figures to again be 
one of the strongest on UF’s depth chart.
The tandem of CJ Henderson and 
Marco Wilson should be reunited on 
the field when the Gators matchup with 
Miami in the season opener on Aug. 24.
Henderson, a junior from Miami, 
was a mainstay in the lineup during the 
2018 season, starting all 13 games. He 
accumulated 38 total tackles as a sopho-
more, hauling in two interceptions and 
defending nine passes on the year. He 
collected his first three sacks as a Gator 
during his sophomore campaign, forc-
ing two fumbles as well. 
Expect the 6-foot-1, 191-pound 
corner to contend for the Jim Thorpe 
Award this season, the honor given to 
college football’s best defensive back.
Wilson appeared in just two games 
in 2018 after he sustained a season-end-
ing knee injury against Kentucky.
The redshirt sophomore wore a knee 
brace through all of spring practice but 
still managed to show some of the ath-letic ability that allowed him to make 
the All-SEC Freshman Team in 2017. 
His 10 pass breakups were the most 
by a true freshman since Vernon Harg-
reaves knocked down 11 in 2013.
After those two, sophomore Trey 
Dean III stands out the most.
Now that Chauncey Gardner-John-
son is a New Orleans Saint, Dean figures 
to assume the STAR position (hybrid 
linebacker/cornerback) that Gardner-
Johnson has left vacant.
Due to Wilson’s injury and Florida’s 
lack of corner depth in 2018, Dean was 
thrown into the starting lineup opposite 
of Henderson in the third game of the 
season. He started nine of the final 10 
games, picking up the second-most pass 
breakups on the team with six. Against 
Florida State, he picked off FSU quar-
terback Deondre Francois for his first-
career interception.
His aggressive style of play and over-
all physicality on the field should mesh 
well with his new role for Florida’s sec-
ondary in 2019.
The backside of the secondary isn’t 
quite as talented, but the returning ex-
perience should help bridge that gap.
Safeties Donovan Stiner, Brad 
Stewart Jr. and Jeawon Taylor all 
went through up and down seasons in 
2018, but the trio showed enough flash 
that, with more consistency, should give Gators fans hope for 2019.
Taylor is the most experienced, en-
tering this season as a senior. Though 
he has battled injuries throughout his 
career at UF, he stayed on the field in 
his junior season and played in all 13 
games.
Taylor had 64 total tackles, includ-
ing an eight-tackle performance against 
Michigan in the Peach Bowl.
Stiner and Stewart fought inconsis-
tencies throughout 2018, but both share 
key moments in 2018 that sealed huge 
victories for the Gators.
Against Mississippi State, Stiner 
fired in from the secondary on a safety 
blitz to sack Bulldogs quarterback Nick 
Fitzgerald and seal a 13-6 victory for UF. 
He started in 12 games at safety, totaling 
49 tackles and two interceptions.
Stewart was behind what was proba-
bly the most exciting play during Florida 
football’s 2018 season.
Against LSU, with UF up 20-19 late 
in the fourth, the 6-foot-1, 200-pound ju-
nior from New Orleans stepped in front 
of a Joe Burrow pass, picking it off and 
returning it into the endzone to help se-
cure arguably UF’s biggest win of 2018. 
He had 41 tackles during his sophomore 
season, tallying two interceptions and 
two pass breakups in seven starts. 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgPosition-by-position: Evaluating UF’s secondary
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Feleipe Franks led Florida to a Peach Bowl victory last season 
after throwing for 24 touchdowns and just six interceptions.
Let’s talk about Feleipe Franks.
He was seventh in the SEC last year 
in passer rating (143.3), tied for 5th in 
passing touchdowns (24), 10th in yards 
(2,457) and only threw six interceptions.
Feleipe Franks is average.
Gator fans who consider him one of the 
best quarterbacks in the conference would be 
mistaken, and Gator fans who group his tal-
ents with the likes of Treon Harris and Jeff 
Driskel aren’t giving him quite enough credit. 
Franks will rarely wow anyone with his skills in the pocket 
or throw perfectly-targeted lasers, but the signal caller was 
still able to lead UF to its best record since 2012 and a New 
Year’s Six bowl victory.
But can Florida go beyond that with Franks at the helm? 
How much QB does it take to win a national championship?
Franks is more than enough.
Let’s look at every QB who has emerged victorious in the 
College Football Playoff since its inception in 2014. There 
have been five: Cardale Jones, Jake Coker, Deshaun Wat-
son, Tua Tagovailoa and Trevor Lawrence.  
They all have something in common. Well, I should re-
phrase – there’s something none of them have in common. 
A Heisman Trophy. A few of them were nominees, sure, but 
none of them actually won it.
Even amongst this list, however, there’s an odd man out 
in Coker. In the year he won a natty with Alabama, he threw more interceptions than Franks did last year 
(8) and less touchdowns (21), though he had 
a better passer rating (147.0) and quite a few 
more yards (3,110).
In my eyes, Coker and Franks are very sim-
ilar quarterbacks. They’re far from dazzling, 
but Alabama’s success in 2015 and Florida’s 
success last year didn’t come from the QB posi-
tion: it came from the team around it.
Quite frankly, that Alabama team was 
stacked. Derrick Henry, OJ Howard, A’Shawn 
Robinson, Reuben Foster, Minkah Fitzpatrick and Cam Rob-
inson made up what basically amounted to the college foot-
ball Avengers. Although UF’s roster wasn’t as talented, it 
still boasted the likes of Van Jefferson, Jachai Polite, CeCe 
Jefferson, Chauncy Gardner-Johnson, Vosean Joseph and CJ 
Henderson, among plenty of others.
In the National Football League, teams need great QB 
play. The worst quarterback in the NFL playoffs last year 
was probably Lamar Jackson, and he still fared well as a 
dual-threat in the seven games he started.
Does it help to have a dynamic quarterback in college 
football? Of course it does. Is it needed to win champion-
ships? I don’t think so.
Franks is average, but so long as UF can field a defense 
like it did last year and have a solid running back corps to 
alleviate the load, the Gators’ record with him under center 
will be anything but.Can the Gators win a national championship with Feleipe Franks?The Extra PointChris King / Alligator Staff
Cornerback CJ Henderson was named to the All-SEC Second 
T eam last year after recording 38 tackles and two picks.
River Wells
twitter: @riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!The Associated Press
The New Orleans Pelicans will receive Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart and 
three first-round picks in return for All-Star power forward/center Anthony Davis.
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEKThe New Orleans Pelicans 
just pulled off a robbery.
After requesting a trade 
from the New Orleans this 
past season, power for-
ward/center Anthony Davis was 
dealt (in principle) to the Los 
Angeles Lakers for a haul that 
included Lonzo Ball, Brandon In-
gram, Josh Hart and a trio of first-
round draft picks. 
At first glance, you may think the Lakers 
couldn’t pay enough to make this deal hap-
pen. Davis, who was sick of losing with New 
Orleans, now gets to team up with Lebron 
James in pursuit of the Lakers first champion-
ship since 2010. Davis is entering his prime 
and can take attention off of the aging James.
With the move, the Lakers are now fa-
vorites in Las Vegas to win the 2020 Larry 
O’Brien Championship Trophy.
I’m not too convinced. 
New Orleans won this trade in many fac-
ets, and it’s easy to see once you look past the 
loss of a superstar player like Davis.
It’s been public knowledge for months that 
Davis wanted out of New Orleans. He was 
mentally drained from years of rebuilding and 
team turnover. He was also entering the final 
year of his contract and was expected to walk 
at the end of next season.
Because Davis would have been gone in 
free agency anyway, any return would have 
benefited New Orleans long-term.
And boy, did they get one.
To get Davis, the Lakers gave up three 
young talents, first and foremost. However, 
that’s not the worst part.
Although the players the Pelicans received 
have all-star potential, the real prize lies in 
the draft pick haul. Those picks include to-
night’s No. 4 selection, a pick in 2021 (if it 
is a top-eight selection) or a 2022 pick (if it 
isn’t), a chance to swap 2023 picks if New 
Orleans chooses to and a choice of the Lakers’ 
2024 or 2025 first-round picks. The Lakers surrendered their 
future for a player that might 
move on to another team after the 
2020 campaign. Davis has already 
said he will play out his deal 
and test free agency next year. 
Waiting to lure him east will be 
the New York Knicks, Brooklyn 
Nets and Boston Celtics. All three 
teams checked in on trading for 
Davis before Los Angeles made 
the best offer, but they will all have compet-
ing salaries to offer when Davis hits the mar-
ket next year.
For Davis to stay, Los Angeles would need 
a deep playoff run and a max deal to entice 
him.
New Orleans, on the other hand, is set up 
to build a contender in a few years time. It 
will almost certainly draft Zion Williamson 
No. 1 overall in tonight’s draft and will have 
the Lakers’ No. 4 pick as well.
Once the season starts, the Pelicans will 
have two 2019 top-five draft picks on the 
floor with Ball, Ingram and Hart to comple-
ment the new youthful core. New Orleans 
will also have two more first-round picks 
within the next five years that it will be able 
to work with.
Even if the Lakers win a championship 
this year, I’m still not sure if the trade will 
be worth it. James is starting to slow down, 
playing in only 55 games last year due to in-
jury. Outside of James, the only supporting 
cast Davis will have on the roster is Kyle Kuz-
ma.  Assuming Davis signs a long-term deal 
with Los Angeles, he will be a star player on 
a team devoid of talent in just a few years. 
The Lakers will be cap-strapped and unable 
to build a future contender due to the loss of 
valuable draft picks.
Even if the Lakers win now, they lose in 
the end.
The Pelicans won this trade. The Lakers 
will regret it.The Pelicans won the Anthony Davis tradeO’Shea Can You See
Dylan O’Shea
twitter: @dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.org
By River Wells