We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
EVALUATING UF’S O-LINE
The Gators’ offensive line is one of the their 
most inexperienced units, pg 10
Gainesville reacts to ‘Strange Fruit’ controversy
The T op apologized after taking the Billie Holiday song-inspired 
drink of its menu because of the song’s anti-lynching lyrics, pg 3
Student Senate approves 3-percent budget bump
The over $22-million budget was approved upon its second 
reading by the Senate, pg 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 106
By Kasamba Kokayi
Contributing Writer
The federal minimum wage is 
$7.25 an hour. The Florida mini-
mum wage is $8.46. 
Herman Younger was getting 
paid $5.25.
Younger, a former restau-
rant server and UF political sci-
ence graduate, is petitioning on 
Change.org to create a union to 
improve the working conditions 
of restaurant employees. Young-
er’s idea, the American Restau-
rant Workers Union, would be the 
ﬁ  rst union in Florida for tipped 
workers in the service and hospi-tality industries.
“There is continuous mistreat-
ment and underpayment in this 
industry,” Younger said.
The now 23-year-old worked 
as a server at Bahama Breeze for 
ﬁ  ve months and at T.G.I. Fridays 
for four months before he left the 
restaurant industry frustrated.
He said his goals for the union 
include: providing legal represen-
tation in harassment cases, end-
ing “at will” laws that allow em-
ployers to ﬁ  re employees at their 
own will and ﬁ  ghting for both 
automatic gratuity (where tips are 
automatically added to the bill) UF graduate petitions for restaurant workers union
IT’S A $51 MILLION 
BUDGET INCREASE 
FROM LAST YEAR
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
The Alachua County School 
Board unanimously voted Tues-
day to increase the annual budget 
and property taxes.
The $423 million budget is 
a $51 million increase from the 
previous year’s budget.
The budget includes a proper-
ty tax rate of 3.896. The previous 
year included a rate of 4.016. The 
estimated tax revenue from the 
tax rate increased slightly over $2 
million from the previous year, 
accounting for rising property 
values and resulting in a property 
tax increase.
Alachua County Public 
Schools spokesperson Jackie 
Johnson said unlike counties, 
who set their own property tax rates, the state of Florida sets the 
tax rate for each school district in 
the state.
“Even though the school 
board is required to vote on [the 
property tax rate], the school 
board doesn’t have any choice,” 
Johnson said. “If you don’t levy 
the property tax rate the state 
tells you to, you don’t get your 
state funding. And for us, that’s 
half of our funding.”
Johnson said the school sys-
tem receives two primary sources 
of funding: local property taxes 
and state funding through the 
Florida Education Finance Pro-
gram.
Gunnar Paulson, Alachua 
County Public School Board 
member, said a priority for the 
school board is increasing safety 
and security in schools. 
“We need to harden schools, 
make the schools more secure,” 
Paulson said.
The budget also prioritizes improving the grades of D and F 
schools in the district. Johnson 
said the district had six D and F 
schools for the 2017-18 school 
year only three D and F schools 
for the 2018-19 school year.
“The goal is to ultimately 
eliminate all D and F schools 
from the district,” Johnson said. 
“There would be more focusing 
of resources into those schools 
that are struggling the most.”
The budget also outlines prior-
ities such as keeping teacher sala-
ries within the upper two-thirds 
of state rankings, increasing min-
imum wage for noninstructional 
full-time staff to $15 an hour 
(with health insurance included) 
and eliminating the achievement 
gap with continued implementa-
tion of the district’s equity plan.
Johnson said the board will 
vote for the ﬁ  nal budget in Sep-
tember.
@rgizaguirre
rgizaguirre@alligator.orgSchool board budget: $423 million
DECISION DAY WILL ALSO 
CHANGE TO THE LAST 
FRIDAY OF FEBRUARY  
By Kelly Hayes
Staff Writer
A common solution for a mod-
ern problem: UF applicants can 
now use the Common Application. 
The Common Application, a 
college admission application plat-
form that allows students to apply 
to multiple colleges at one time, 
will now be accepted at UF, said 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
More than 750 colleges accept the 
Common App, and now UF will 
join them.
“It’s another avenue to increase 
access to UF,” Orlando said. 
The decision day for the class 
of 2024 will also be changing. In-
stead of opening application results 
on the second Friday of February, 
which had been done in previous 
years, decisions will be released on the last Friday of February, Or-
lando said. 
“That just puts us in line with 
our peer institutions,” he said. 
UF applications will be available 
Aug. 12 this year, Orlando said. 
Schamael Joseph, a 22-year-old 
UF statistics senior, said the unique 
UF application made the process 
more personal, but he did ﬁ  nd the 
Common Application easy to use 
when submitting to multiple col-
leges. 
“The Common App is easy, but 
it’s not personal,” Joseph said. “I 
think that when you’re applying 
to somewhere as great as UF, you 
need to give them a personal appli-
cation explaining why you want to 
attend that speciﬁ  c school, not just 
college in general.”
Tori Whidden and Meleah 
Lyden contributed to this report. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgUF applicants can now use 
the Common ApplicationSEE UNION,  PAGE 3
Courtesy of Herman Younger-Vallares
Herman Younger, 23, began a 
petition for a restaurant workers 
union after being frustrated as a 
server at Bahama Breeze and T.G.I. 
Fridays. He graduated from UF 
with a political science degree in 
Spring 2019.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasHIGH  91° LOW  72°
Social Media Strategist
UF School of Theatre and Dance 
presents: 'Second Chances'
"Second Chances" is a roman-
tic musical about two up-and-
coming musicians with budding 
issues in their personal lives. 
Performances will be at the Black 
Box Theatre of the McGuire 
Pavilion Friday and Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Tickets are $14 for UF students, 
$16 for UF faculty and staff, $16 
for seniors and $20 for the gener-
al public. Tickets can be bought 
at Gate 1 of the University Box 
Office at the O'Connell Center or 
online at Ticketmaster.
Florida Tax-Free Days
The sales tax holiday begins 
Friday and runs through Aug. 
6. During this period, qualifying 
items will be exempt from tax, 
including certain school supplies 
selling for $15 or less per item; clothing, footwear and acces-
sories selling for $60 or less per 
item; and computers and certain 
accessories selling for $1,000 or 
less per item when purchased for 
noncommercial or personal use.
Books not borders
The Civic Media Center, 433 S. 
Main St., is holding a book sale 
to support Casa Carmelita, a new 
community space run by local 
organizers in El Paso, Texas, on 
Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
There will be live music, poetry, 
short film projections and a pho-
tographic exhibit of Zapatista 
musicians by Avispa Midia, an 
independent journalist collec-
tive from Mexico. Prints will be 
up for sale, and proceeds will 
support the media collective and 
help volunteers and donations 
make it to El Paso.Free Spay-Neuter Clinic 
for Community Cats
On Sunday the UF College of 
Veterinary Medicine, at 2015 
SW 16th Ave., will hold its free 
spay and neuter clinic. Between 
7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., the 
clinic will spay about 200 cats. 
All cats will also receive a full 
set of vaccinations, including ra-
bies and FVRCP and Revolution, 
a parasite treatment. Prior res-
ervations and preapproved hu-
mane live traps are required. 
To make a reservation you can 
leave a voicemail at 352-380-
0940 or email the clinic. at res-
ervations@ocgainesville.org.
The Mount retreat
The Mount is a nonprofit re-
treat from Aug. 9 to 11 for new 
Christian UF and Santa Fe stu-
dents to connect to  theircom-
munity before Fall classes begin. 
During the retreat, attendees 
will be placed in a small group 
of cabins with two older student 
counselors who will mentor 
them throughout the weekend 
and help them get involved with 
other community groups, local 
churches and campus minis-
tries. Registration is open unitl 
Aug. 8 and scholarships are 
available for students on a need 
basis. Students can register at 
themountretreat.com/register.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 106
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position for the fall semester:
Current opening:
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING 
EDITORThe application for this position is available at the Alligator 
ofﬁ  ce, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, 
August 6th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time 
to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
August 6th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held via video 
conference on Friday, August 9th at 11 a.m. Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference 
will be given to those who have experience with The 
Independent Florida Alligator.Paid position and 
unpaid member of the 
Board of Directors
Campus Communications, Inc. is 
an Equal Opportunity EmployerTHURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
and a living wage. 
According to the Fair Labor Standards 
Act, employers can pay tipped workers as 
low as $2.13 an hour as long as tips add up 
to the minimum wage.
After months of working as a server, 
Younger said he left the industry because 
he wasn’t making enough money to sup-
port himself during slow seasons. With an 
hourly salary of $5.25, he and other servers 
depended on tips. Some people didn’t tip 
well, he said. Some people didn’t tip at all.
In the Fall and Spring, Younger said he 
could go home with $300 to $400 a week, 
but during the summer, he was lucky to get 
$70 a week. If the restaurant wasn’t busy, 
he or other servers could be sent home ear-
ly. The restaurant saved money, but his pay 
was effectively cut, Younger said.“Systemically, it’s an issue that the in-
dustry exploits the working class,” he said. 
“Whether you are a server making $5.25 an 
hour or a retail employee making $8.25 an 
hour, these aren’t livable wages.”
Younger said servers deserve a wage 
based on the cost of living in a speciﬁ  c area, 
which neither the federal nor state mini-
mum wage meet. He may have had money 
to spend in the busy season, but during 
slow months, he had trouble paying rent 
and buying groceries. Luckily, his parents 
were able to help support him in his rough 
patch. 
After leaving the restaurant industry, he 
began working for a cannabis dispensary, 
where he said he’s being paid a “fair, liv-
able wage.” Younger declined to disclose 
the amount of his current wage.
At the time of writing, the petition has 
109 signatures. Once it gets 1,000 signa-
tures, Younger said he will speak with established unions, such as the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition, and head to Wash-
ington D.C. to lobby for laws to protect res-
taurant workers.
Ashley Nguyen, a coordinator with 
the Alachua County Labor Coalition, said 
unions are beneﬁ  cial to workers. The coali-
tion organizes workers across the county 
and advocates for similar goals, including a 
living wage and the end of “at will” laws.
Unions foster a community where the 
workers are empowered and help change 
laws by sending lobbyists to Congress, 
Nguyen said. She added unionized workers 
usually make 30 to 40 percent more than 
those who are not unionized.
“[Workers] are more powerful together 
as a force against unfair labor practices,” 
Nguyen said.
Younger said his union also hopes to be 
a force against the mistreatment and harass-
ment of workers. As many as 90 percent of women and 70 percent of men in the res-
taurant industry report experiencing sexual 
harassment.
Laksmi Arroyo, a 19-year-old Gainesville 
native, said she’s been sexually harassed — 
by both customers and supervisors — sever-
al times in the year-and-a-half she’s worked 
as a server. At her ﬁ  rst job as a hostess at 
Napolatanos, Arroyo said a head server 
kissed her.
Arroyo now works at Paramount Grill, 
where she splits tips with other servers and 
bussers. While fair during busy months, she 
said sharing makes tips look like scraps dur-
ing the slow season.
Arroyo said a living wage or automatic 
gratuity would make the work she puts in 
worth it. 
“I think a union would deﬁ  nitely make 
things safer,” she said. “It could also make 
it so I’m not battling my co-workers for 
shifts and tips.”UNION,  from pg. 1Younger’s petition has 109 signatures with an overall goal of 1,000THE DRINK HAS SINCE 
BEEN REMOVED FROM 
THE MENU
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
The Gainesville community is 
responding to recent controversy 
about a cocktail from the Top that 
referenced lynching. 
On Monday, the Top, located at 
30 N. Main St., posted an apology 
on its Facebook page after naming a 
drink for Billie Holiday’s emotional 
anti-lynching ballad “Strange Fruit.”
The $11 drink, which was made 
with bourbon, raspberry and lime 
cordials, club soda and garnished 
with lemon and lime, was described 
on the menu as: “This is for all you 
Billie Holliday fans out there. You 
will be met with a balance of tangi-ness, fruitiness, and (unbearable) 
lightness (of being).” 
The menu misspelled Holiday’s 
last name by using two L’s.
Heather Halak, owner of Third 
House Books, located at 113 N. 
Main St., said taking the drink off 
the menu and posting an apology on 
Facebook is a start, but this is one 
facet of a larger issue. 
“My issue lies with white busi-
ness owners who notoriously, al-
most exclusively, hire white staff 
members with maybe ﬁ  ve excep-
tions,” Halak said. 
The Top declined to comment.
“It could have said that this is a 
drink to raise awareness about the 
gruesome events that black people 
and people of color have undergone 
in this country and the effects of co-
lonialism in general,” Halak said.
She said she would feel better 
about the situation if the Top had a larger staff of people of color and 
was a more accessible place for mar-
ginalized people in general, but she 
notes the vast majority of its patrons 
are white college students and their 
visiting parents. 
“I keep thinking about possible 
future interactions where like, you’re 
sitting at a bar and you hear white 
sorority girls ordering ‘Strange Fruit’ 
and laughing about it,” Halak said. 
“I would hate that.” 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time a busi-
ness has gotten into trouble for us-
ing this name for a product. A diner 
near Boston was slammed for hav-
ing a drink with the name, and a 
restaurant PR ﬁ  rm that was named 
“Strange Fruit PR” both caught heat 
and changed their names.
Wallace Mazon, 24, commented 
on the Top’s apology Facebook post 
to express his displeasure with the 
drink. He said he did not think the bar’s apology addressed the real is-
sue: a lack of diversity within down-
town establishments themselves.  
“The Gainesville [downtown] 
scene isn’t really as woke as it might appear,” Mazon said. “You have to 
search really hard to ﬁ  nd a black em-
ployee.” 
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgLocals react to the Top’s ‘Strange Fruit’ cocktail controversy
Sam Thomas  / Alligator Staff
Customers of the T op, located in downtown Gainesville at 30 N. Main 
St., stand outside of the bar and wait to be seated Wednesday night. 
4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Pentecostal
Prevailing Word
Bible Church, Inc.
Sunday Worship: 9 am
Friday: 7 pm
4908 NW 34th BLVD Suite #9
Pst. Olabode Ogedengbe, Resident Pastor (352)231-9031
Helping ordinary people to 
become passionate followers 
of God! The Church you can 
belong to before you believe!
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service
@6:35 pm
in Trinity Chapel
Sunday services:
9:30 & 11:00 am
352-376-6615
TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDE
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
Contact Alligator Advertising:
Contact Alligator Advertising:
352.376.4482
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE WAS ARRESTED JUL Y 16
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Gainesville man, who was 
charged for a double home invasion 
and rape earlier this month, has been 
additionally charged with beating his 
cellmate in Alachua County Jail on 
Tuesday.
Kashawn Jefferson, 22, hit his cell-
mate in the head multiple times with a 
plastic bin as he was laying on his mat-
tress, according to the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce police report. Jefferson 
then reporedly punched the man with 
a closed ﬁ  st and stomped on his head 
and face multiple times. 
The cellmate reportedly did not at-tempt to defend himself during the in-
cident. Jail staff had to stop the beating 
shortly after 1 a.m., according to the 
report. 
Jefferson’s cellmate was arrested 
in Palatka, Florida, and charged with 
sexual battery on a victim under the 
age of 12, a felony, in January. He has 
remained in jail in lieu of his $1 million 
bond. The extent of his injuries are list-
ed as “major” according to the report.
Jefferson was charged with aggra-
vated battery by person detained in a 
jail facility, another ﬁ  rst-degree felony. 
He remains in jail in lieu of his original 
bond and a $50,000 bond for his newly 
acquired charge.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan charged with rape now 
charged for beating cellmate
GAS PUMP KEYS WERE ALSO 
FOUND IN HIS VEHICLE
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Tampa man was stopped by a Gainesville 
police ofﬁ  cer and K-9 unit Monday and charged 
with much more than a routine trafﬁ  c ticket.
Humberto Pinares, 46, was following too 
closely behind another vehicle while traveling 
on State Road 93 Monday afternoon. Pinares de-
nied consent to the ticketing ofﬁ  cer to search his 
vehicle, according to the arrest report.
While conducting the trafﬁ  c stop, the K-9 
handler was alerted by the K-9 of a narcotic odor 
in the vehicle. Inside, ofﬁ  cers found three, pos-
sibly four, fraudulent credit cards in the vehicle 
between the glove box and the dashboard. A card reader — used to determine the information 
stored in the magnetic strips — did not match 
the numbers on the cards, according to the re-
port.
Ofﬁ  cers also found what appeared to be six 
gas pump keys, tools typically used to open gas 
pumps which allow access to credit card infor-
mation of people who paid for fuel at the pump, 
according to the report. Several laptops and 25 
Xanax pills were found in the vehicle as well. 
Pinares was charged with possession of coun-
terfeit credit cards and possession of a controlled 
substance without a prescription, both felonies. 
Pinares was released Tuesday on $35,000 bail. 
The Alligator reached out to Pinares for com-
mentm, but he could not be reached.  
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgTampa man charged with possession 
of fraudulent credit cards, drugsEIGHT BILLS WERE PASSED 
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Despite a raise in the budget, stu-
dents will not have to pay more in ac-
tivity and service fees this year. 
The $22,087,482 student activity 
service fee budget for the 2020-21 ﬁ  s-
cal year passed its second reading at 
the end of Tuesday night’s Student 
Senate meeting.
The budget, which passed its ﬁ  rst 
reading last week, will be a three-
percent increase from the 2019-20 
budget. However, it will not cost 
students any extra dollars because it 
came from an increase of credit hours 
taken by students. The budget was met with more re-
sistance from Inspire senators. 
The senators pointed out the bud-
get reserved $12,800 for music royal-
ties and included large increases in 
the Rec Sports and SG projects bud-
get, but the budget didn’t include any 
allocations for new emergency blue 
lights on campus or additional fund-
ing for the Counseling and Wellness 
Center.
Cooper Brown, chair of the SG 
Budget and Appropriations Commit-
tee, said there are other areas of the 
budget that can fund blue lights and 
other projects. Brown also said the 
CWC is ﬁ  nanced by the health fee 
and state legislature.
“Blue lights and live-streaming 
equipment can be addressed through the SG projects line and the Senate 
line, which both received increases in 
this budget,” Brown said.
Deputy Minority Party Leader 
Nikolas Bindi, who had been cau-
tiously supportive of the proposed 
budget at the last meeting, said he re-
considered his stance after talking to 
his constituents and other members 
of his caucus.  
Bindi said hearing Senator Wyn-
ton White (Impact, Health and Hu-
man Performance) suggest increasing 
funding for Rec Sports would also 
help improve mental health on cam-
pus was what made him take an even 
stronger oppositional stance. 
The Alligator reached out to 
White, but he could not be reached 
for comment on this story. “It’s not very considerate to stu-
dents who suffer from mental health 
issues, just brushing them aside and 
saying, ‘You’d be better if you just ex-
ercise more,’” Bindi said.
The budget passed with a vote of 
48-7. Brown said he is happy to meet 
with anyone with questions on the 
budget.
Eight of the nine bills approved by 
the Judiciary Committee on Monday 
received a ﬁ  rst reading at the meet-
ing.
Majority Party Leader Branden 
Pearson, who authored ﬁ  ve of the 
bills that were passed, said he’s hap-
py to see all of the bills pass their ﬁ  rst 
reading. 
“I am excited to help provide ad-
ditional support services for students transitioning to the University of 
Florida by establishing the First Gen-
eration Cabinet and Graduate Student 
Affairs Cabinet,” Pearson said.
The Commitment to our Constitu-
ency Act, which would prevent sena-
tors who lost their Senate seats due to 
absences or expulsion from running 
for re-election for two election cycles, 
was removed from the agenda and 
referred back to the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Bindi said this was due to a for-
matting error.
All eight of the other bills passed 
their ﬁ  rst reading and will receive a 
second reading at the next Senate 
meeting. 
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSenate approves 2020-21 budget on second reading, no increase in student fees THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THE PROGRAM RECEIVED A 
$750,000 GRANT
By Lily Huerkamp
Contributing Writer 
Drones stretched out across the coast collect-
ing water samples. Sensors attached to bridges, 
piers and buoys monitor sea activity. Comput-
ers collect data and make environmental predic-
tions.
This is iCoast. 
Todd Osborne, a UF biogeochemistry assis-
tant professor, said iCoast is all about transfer-
ring information. Sensors attached to various 
platforms along the coast collect data to detect 
if environmental problems are on the horizon.
“Knowing certain conditions are arising that 
would promote, say, a red tide, maybe there is 
something we can do about it at that point prior 
to that becoming a real big problem,” Osborne 
said.
Red tide and other harmful algae blooms 
produce toxins that may lead to illnesses in 
humans and ﬁ  sh, but Osborne said the iCoast 
program may catch signs early enough to be 
proactive and control any issues. Warnings can 
then be passed along to ﬁ  shers, beach tourists 
and other people possibly affected.For six months, a team of 20 UF faculty 
members and students have worked to develop 
methods of predicting environmental changes, 
Osborne said. The program received $750,000 
from the Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost as part of a 2018 
initiative that granted $17 million to research 
aimed at solving society’s most pressing issues.
“We start with this thought process that we 
have such amazing tools out there — we can 
put people on the moon — but, for some rea-
son, we are unable to predict the environmental 
disasters that keep plaguing the state of Flori-
da,” Osborne said.
The technology is a mixture of different in-
struments and multiple sensors, such as com-
puter models, drones or tags attached to an 
organism. Sensors could measure routine wa-
ter qualities like temperature, pH and salinity, 
Osborne said. Some sensors measure nutrients 
and certain bacteria like E. coli, while others 
scan-tagged ﬁ  sh swimming past — all with the 
purpose of tracking bacteria or emerging con-
taminants.
While the team is monitoring the environ-
ment closely for problems, it is also noting 
standard conditions in order to make computer 
models that simulate conditions such as water 
ﬂ  ow and bacteria growth in certain tempera-
tures of water. Future information can be put into the models to make predictions, Osborne 
said.
UF’s Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bio-
science in St. Augustine is conducting a pilot 
study with the prototypes. The goal is to expand 
iCoast along all the coasts of Florida, Osborne 
said. Once sensors are in place, the team hopes 
to be able to detect issues days in advance.
“We are hoping by the end of [2019] that 
we’ve got a steady data stream coming in, and 
the computer model will be cranking away, 
utilizing that data stream to make predictions 
about the environmental changes we are going 
to see,” Osborne said.
The team has also been working with the 
Coast Guard and the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers to utilize some of their existing waterway 
structures, he said.
David Kaplan, a UF environmental engineer-
ing associate professor, said he was attracted to 
iCoast and the idea of using technology to pre-
vent environmental disasters and maintain the 
health of Florida’s ecosystems. 
“The idea includes both using technology 
we already have but doing it in a much more 
widespread way and also developing new tech-
nologies that don’t exist today in order to do a 
better job of monitoring the health of the coast-
line,” Kaplan said.
One of the prototypes in development is an 
aerial drone with a scooping mechanism to get 
water samples. Kaplan is planning to have the 
drone ready to go out and take samples by fall. 
“It’s really compelling to think of this sci-
ence-ﬁ  ction future where this swarm of UF 
iCoast drones goes out,” Kaplan said.UF launches new initiative to
tackle Florida coastline threats
Coutesy of David Kaplan
The iCoast team uses video-based 
monitoring of the Intracoastal 
Waterway to detect marine mammals, 
boat trafﬁ  c and wake.
THIS IS THE FIFTH YEAR IN A 
ROW SHANDS RANKED MORE 
SPECIALITIES THAN ALL 
OTHER FLORIDA HOSPITALS
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF Health Shands Hospital had 
seven medical specialties ranked 
in the U.S. News & World Report’s 
2019-20 “Best Hospitals.”For the ﬁ  fth year in a row, UF 
Health Shands is ranked in more 
adult and pediatric specialties 
combined than any other hospital 
in the state, said Ed Jimenez, UF 
Health Shands CEO, in an email. 
Both nephrology and urology 
are ranked 24th in the nation. UF 
Health Shands’ other ranked spe-
cialties include geriatrics in 37th 
place, diabetes and endocrinology 
in 40th place, gastroenterology and 
gastrointestinal surgery in 40th, cancer in 42nd and pulmonology 
and lung surgery in 44th, he said. 
UF Health Shands had six 
ranked adult specialties in the 
2018-19 rankings, Jimenez said. 
UF Health Shands’ urology 
practice achieved a national rank-
ing, improving its position as a 
“high performing” program last 
year. It has achieved a U.S. News 
national ranking 11 times since 
2005, Jimenez said. 
“There are many other UF Health adult specialties with long 
histories of being among U.S. 
News & World Report’s ranked 
programs,” Jimenez said. “It high-
lights our dedication to our pa-
tients.”
 Li-Ming Su, a professor of uro-
logic oncology and chair of the UF 
College of Medicine’s urology de-
partment, said the improved rank-
ing is due to the expanded urology 
services. 
This includes the development of online and printed materials 
helping patients navigate their care 
at Shands and multidisciplinary 
care teams for urologic cancers 
and kidney stone patients, Su said. 
“Our goal is to always provide 
the best service and outcomes to 
our patients and their families,” 
Jimenez said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSeven of UF Health Shands medical specialties rank among the nation’s best THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.It’s graduation time, baby. But you’re not just any regular 
baby. You’re about to be a grown-up baby with a degree. 
Everyone usually decorates the top of their grad cap, and 
you decide to take part as well. What is one more sign of 
conformity this far down the road? But time is money, and 
you don’t have either. So you coerced some student artist to 
do it for dirt cheap. You beat the system: scammed someone 
out of getting the money they deserved for their art and saved 
yourself time and frustration. Your newly designed cap comes 
in the mail. You’re shocked by what the artist has done. It’s 
horrible. It’s nothing you asked for. It’s…
Darts and Laurels
Another day, another data breach. This time it is Capital One. 
A hacker accessed more than 100 million Capital One customers’ 
accounts and credit card applications on March 22 and 23 ac-
cording to CNN. “What’s in your wallet?” Apparently not much, 
because someone has access to all of it. The hacker accessed a 
server holding 140,000 Social Security numbers, 80,000 bank 
account numbers and an unknown amount of user names, ad-
dresses, credit scores and other information from as far back as 
2005. A dart goes out to Paige Thompson, the accused hacker, 
mostly because she posted the information on GitHub using her 
full name. And she bragged about it on social media. If you are 
going to hack a major credit card company, at least act like it was 
hard or be less conspicuous. But there is some sick beauty about 
not hiding your own identity when boasting about having access 
to millions of ﬁ  nancial identities. 
At least 65 people died from an attack during a funeral proces-
sion in northeast Nigeria on Saturday. The culprits are suspected 
to be Boko Haram militants. The insurgents attacked mourners 
at the graveyard in the Nganzai district. Boko Haram has not for-
mally claimed responsibility, but the attack matches the jihadist’s 
activity in the area, according to NPR. A dart goes to this attack, 
as it is one of the deadliest civilian attacks in the region this year. 
On Sunday, Egan Bernal became the ﬁ  rst Colombian to win 
the Tour de France and the youngest champion in 110 years. 
He’s 22. A laurel goes to him and his history-making win as the 
ﬁ  rst Latin American champion. Climbing up the highest stretch 
of road in the Alps, the Col de l’Iseran, Bernal went after Julian 
Alaphilippe of France, who was ahead by a minute and a half. On 
Bernal’s descent of the Iseran, race ofﬁ  cials decided to omit the 
ﬁ  nal 23 miles of the 19th stage after a landslide blocked a part of 
the road. At 45 seconds ahead of Alaphilippe, Bernal had the win. 
Jerry Moran (R-Kansas) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Connect-
icut) introduced a bill Tuesday that would overhaul the oversight 
of the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee and give Con-
gress the power to ﬁ  re the people in charge of it. The bill comes 
after the USOPC and other national Olympic governing bodies 
“turned a blind eye” to sexual assault problems within the orga-
nization, acccording to USA Today. We are giving a laurel to this 
bipartisan bill as it attempts to protect athletes and rewrite the 
culture in the governing board that neglected so many athletes 
and their safety. 
Former Dolphins and Patriots Hall of Fame linebacker Nick 
Buoniconti died on Wednesday, according to The New York 
Times. He was 78. In November 2017, Buoniconti pledged to do-
nate his brain to research of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, 
also known as CTE. A laurel goes to him and his memory.
On Tuesday, Sen. Josh Hawley introduced a bill to ban Snap-
streaks. A dart goes to this bill. Keep your government hands off 
our Snapchat streaks. The bill is part of Hawley’s Social Media Ad-
diction Reduction Technology (SMART) Act. The proposed act’s 
purpose is to stop social media companies’ “addictive and decep-
tive techniques,” according to Reuters. Whatever happened to the 
separation of state and Snapchat? Keep your government claws off 
our favorite (yet ﬂ  eeting) way to keep in touch with friends.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORUnpaid internships. Many of us have 
done one. If you haven’t, you’re one 
of the lucky ones. Unpaid internships 
have been considered a rite of pas-
sage for college students looking to 
gain experience in their ﬁ  eld. However, the 
morality of unpaid internships has recently 
come into question.
There are valid reasons for some intern-
ships to be unpaid. For example, small com-
panies providing internship opportunities may 
not have the resources to pay interns. Interns 
also often lack the knowledge or expertise compared to 
paid workers. They have yet to ﬁ  nish school and are only 
qualiﬁ  ed to do so much for a company. It is reasonable 
that companies may not want to pay interns who are 
only capable of doing a limited number of tasks com-
pared to actual employees.
Many unpaid internships do not constitute a full 40-
hour work week. These interns often work only a few 
days a week, allowing them to hold a part-time job if 
needed.
So, the question is: are unpaid internships fair? Well, 
usually. 
The pros of an unpaid internship often outweigh the 
cons for most college students. Ideally, all interns would 
be paid, but this just isn’t practical. 
If the law changed to require all internships to be 
paid, there would be a signiﬁ  cant decrease in the number 
of internship opportunities available. Smaller companies 
would have to stop providing valuable learning experi-ences for students because of the inability to 
pay their interns. This ultimately creates a less 
experienced pool of students graduating from 
college and entering the workforce. 
Currently, the legality of an unpaid intern-
ship is determined by the federally mandated 
Primary Beneﬁ  ciary Test. This means unpaid 
internships are legal as long as the intern, not 
the employer, is the primary beneﬁ  ciary of the 
work arrangement. This standard is subjec-
tive, as interns and employers can have com-
pletely different beliefs on who beneﬁ  ts the 
most from the arrangement. 
Because the standard is so subjective, it’s hard to en-
force. Therefore, many college students are being taken 
advantage of for their willingness to perform free labor.
But wait, didn’t I just say unpaid internships were fair? 
While I believe unpaid internships are fair in principle, 
most aren’t actually lawful. Most unpaid internships are 
unlawful per federal law, as they are only lawful when 
the for-proﬁ  t company does not derive an “immediate 
advantage” from an intern’s work. And in the private 
sector, work that doesn’t beneﬁ  t the company is rare. 
The law needs to take into consideration more than 
just who beneﬁ  ts most in the employer-intern relation-
ship. A holistic look at internships that considers mul-
tiple factors, such as hours worked and company proﬁ  ts, 
will lend itself to a fairer law that is actually enforceable.
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Thursdays.Beware, some unpaid internships may be illegalColumn
Cassidy
Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgIhave been a senator now for quite a while, 
and once you’re around long enough like 
me, you start to notice things. For example, I 
noticed that, for at least the third summer in 
a row, a Senate meeting was canceled while 
there was an event related to Israel taking place.
In this case, the June 4 Senate meeting was 
canceled while Majority Party Leader Branden 
Pearson and Student Body Vice President Sarah 
Abraham were in Israel. Last year, a May 29  
meeting was canceled while former Allocations 
Chair Katie Hernandez happened to be in Israel. 
The year before that, a May 23 meeting was canceled 
while a whole hodgepodge of SG characters just so hap-
pened to be in Israel: former Student Body President Smith 
Meyers (the guy who got arrested), current Student Body 
President Michael Murphy and future student body presi-
dent candidate (and current Senate Pro Tempore) Emily 
Dunson.
I mean sure, the whole canceled Senate meetings may 
all be coincidences. But there’s plenty of other stuff too, 
like SG ofﬁ  cials interning for AIPAC (American Israel Public 
Affairs Committee), or going to their recent “Saban Leader-
ship Seminar.” As reported by The Alligator, Murphy also 
went to an AIPAC conference earlier this year for Student 
Body Presidents. 
But sure, people are free to associate. However, they 
may, right? I just ﬁ  nd it bizarrely scintillating that almost 
everyone I’ve named happened to be both Republican and 
Christian. (Naturally, I can’t make any judgements about 
religion since I’m not God, but I feel like I can somewhat 
accurately guess based off Facebook posts laden with Bible 
verses and many “God bless and Go Gators” uttered.)
I was raised as a Presbyterian and like to think I knew 
my way around the Bible. I was even such a nerd in grade 
school I took the apologetics classes my church offered for a 
while. Of course we talked about Israel a bunch of times in sermons, but I never really grew up with some 
sort of ﬁ  xation on Israel or any sort of drive to 
go see the ”holy land” or anything. It was kinda 
just a cool place in the Bible.
To me, Christianity was all, “Love thy neigh-
bor,” (even if they are gay, and I’m looking at 
you, United Methodist Church) and, “When 
a foreigner resides among you in your land, 
do not mistreat them. The foreigner residing 
among you must be treated as your native-
born” (I’m looking at you, Republicans).
So who cares a lot about Israel? Republicans. 
In explaining the GOP’s pivot toward Israel, Rebecca 
Shimoni Stoil, on Nate Silver’s website, FiveThirtyEight, 
wrote, “Since the 1990s, evangelical Christians have come 
to represent one of the strongest and most hawkish pro-Is-
rael demographics within the Republican party,” and went 
on to say, “Many pro-Israel evangelicals believe that Israel 
is essential to the second coming of Jesus.” 
Sounds kinda “means to an end”-ish, but alright.
This is called Christian Zionism: the belief Christians 
ought to support a Jewish homecoming of some sorts to 
fulﬁ  ll biblical prophecy. I can’t say I know too much since 
I just read the Wikipedia page, but it does look like there’s 
been some drama with the Presbyterian Church and anti-
Zionism. 
I found one journal article that said, “The Protestant 
church with the longest running and most well-funded anti-
Zionist constituency is the Presbyterian church in the US.” 
Big oof.
It’s clear this is an extremely complicated issue, but I 
guess this does bring some clarity to how our state govern-
ment ended up having a cabinet meeting in Israel and why 
our own SG is so gung ho for all things Israel.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.So what’s up with Student Government and Israel?Column
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
2020: Tim Walton’s greatest challenge
Pg 12NFL players deserve every cent
River Wells explains Saints wide receiver Michael Thomas $100 
million extension. Pg 11WHY THE EXPERIENCE IS 
WORTH THE EXPENSE
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
The summer before his ﬁ  rst year of 
college, Sean Backs spent countless hours 
working for a moving company to earn 
some cash. He envisioned himself spend-
ing his money on food and going out with 
friends throughout his ﬁ  rst year at UF. 
However, his bank account took a turn for 
the worse when Backs’ friends from high 
school convinced him to spend his sav-
ings on attending his ﬁ  rst music festival: 
Electric Daisy Carnival in Orlando. 
His ﬁ  rst festival experience sparked 
an obsession. Two years later, Backs, a 
20-year-old UF sports management junior, 
has attended Bonnaroo Music & Arts Fes-
tival and EDC Orlando two years in a row. 
Backs took on a paid internship and a job 
at Southwest Recreation & Fitness Center 
this summer so he could save up to at-
tend Suwannee Hulaween festival, EDC, 
Bonnaroo and Okeechobee Music & Arts 
Festival this school year. 
Backs’ festival craze is not uncommon. 
He, among others, spends thousands of 
dollars each year to take part in what they 
say is the great atmosphere and happiness 
created by live music. 
“You get this feeling when you listen to 
music at a festival that you can’t get any-
where else,” said Philip Mylet, a 19-year-
old UF computer science sophomore. 
“Seeing an artist perform live makes you 
connect with them more.” 
Ironically, costly festivals attract col-
lege students, one of the most ﬁ  nancial-
ly irresponsible demographics. Unlike 
Woodstock’s $18 three-day festival tickets 
in 1969, paying to attend a music festi-
val today can be quite a ﬁ  nancial burden, 
sometimes costing upward of $1,000 a 
ticket.
While most student festival goers 
save up for long periods of time or make 
gradual payments to afford the tickets for 
such festivals, 19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore Jazz Edwards, obtains her 
ticket for Tortuga in an unconventional 
way. 
“I’ve been working for Tortuga for two 
years now,” Edwards said. “The ﬁ  rst time 
I attended the festival, one of the photog-
raphers took a photo of me and wanted 
to use it for their website. They sent me a 
photo release form and offered me a pro-
moter job. I did it, and then this past year 
they let me work as a production/stage 
assistant, and I attended for free.”
A lot of festivals also offer payment plans for attendees. For example, EDC 
Orlando is held in November but offers a 
payment plan in which attendees can de-
posit $25 in the summer and make three 
monthly payments of $70 up until the fes-
tival. 
Nicole Farr, a 19-year old UF interior 
design sophomore, has been saving up 
since last fall for her ticket to Lollapaloo-
za, a festival in Chicago with over hun-
dreds of thousands of attendees. 
“Lollapalooza is going to be the ﬁ  rst 
big festival I attend,” Farr said. “The 
ﬂ  ight is pretty expensive, but I’m staying 
at one of my friend’s houses in Chicago, 
which is going to save me a lot of money 
I would’ve spent on a hotel.” 
Farr worked at a dog daycare through-
out her freshman fall semester to save 
up for her ticket. Due to her busy work 
schedule, Farr said she missed almost ev-
ery football game and she hopes the festi-
val will be worth the cost. 
“It was really difﬁ  cult missing out on 
most of the football season my freshman 
year,” Farr said, “but I’m super excited 
to attend Lollapalooza, which is some-
thing most people don’t get a chance to 
do. I can’t wait to see some of my favorite 
performers like Ariana Grande and Tame 
Impala.”
This summer, Daryl Sutherland, a 
19-year-old UF business sophomore, 
drove over seven hours to attend Bonn-
aroo. Sutherland said he camped on the 
festival grounds rather than staying in a 
hotel. He recommended camping to other 
potential festival attendees because he 
said there’s always something going on at 
the festival someone may otherwise miss 
out on. It’s also cheaper than a hotel and 
alleviates transportation costs. However, 
it isn’t the most glamorous option, he 
added. 
“I camped at Bonnaroo this year and 
didn’t shower for three days, but the 
camping was still one of the best parts 
because I got to listen to good music and 
hang out with my friends in a different 
environment,” Sutherland said.
Sutherland explained students looking 
to save up for their ﬁ  rst festival should 
attend smaller festivals ﬁ  rst to get an idea 
of the atmosphere then select a bigger fes-
tival they feel they’ll enjoy the most based 
on the artists performing, location, cost 
and crowd. 
“I felt super unprepared at my ﬁ  rst fes-
tival,”  Backs said. “Each festival I go to 
gets better and better because I know how 
to prepare myself.”
@lilygirton
lgirton@alligator.orgStudent festival junkies talk preparation and savings
Photo by Sean Backs to The Alligator
Sean Backs enjoys his ﬁ  rst EDC music festival in 2017.
DOES QUENTIN 
TARANTINO’S NINTH 
MOVIE STAND 
AGAINST THE REST?
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Quentin Tarantino’s re-
ported penultimate movie 
received its theatrical re-
lease last weekend to glow-
ing reviews, two months 
after it was ﬁ  rst screened at 
the Cannes Film Festival.
“Once Upon a Time … in 
Hollywood” stars Leonardo 
DiCaprio as Rick Dalton, a 
western TV actor who has 
become increasingly irrel-
evant over the years, and 
Brad Pitt as Cliff Booth, 
Dalton’s stunt double and 
driver, set to the backdrop 
of the Manson Family mur-
ders in 1969.
The acting, writing and 
cinematography are excel-
lent and immerse you into 
the world of Hollywood in 
the late ’60s.
However, the movie has 
pacing problems. For a ﬁ  lm 
with a nearly three-hour 
runtime, there is not much 
of a plot.While watching the 
ﬁ  lm there is a continuous 
desire for more action. Ev-
erything about the produc-
tion is fantastic, yet it still 
feels like scenes are taking 
too long, with too much 
build-up and not enough 
progression.
The movie features 
countless tangents that halt 
the action of the scene to 
show viewers short ﬂ  ash-
backs and clips of Rick’s 
extensive videography. 
Eventually, all of these 
asides grow tiresome be-
cause you want the central 
plot to move forward. The 
problem is there isn’t much 
of a central plot, either.
Instead, you follow dif-
ferent characters with their 
own unique, interconnect-
ed storylines. It is fun to 
watch this, but there isn’t 
any big payoff through the 
plot.
This ﬂ  aw could be miti-
gated if there was strong 
character development, 
but the story lacks this as 
well. Almost every charac-
ter the movie follows stays 
the same. Rick Dalton be-
gins and ends as a washed-up actor.
However, the chemistry 
between DiCaprio and Pitt 
is amazing. Even simple 
scenes like Rick and Cliff 
watching Rick’s perfor-
mance in a new episode 
of “The FBI” are a joy to 
watch.
They were able to cap-
ture the dynamics of being 
friends as well as having 
an employee/employer re-
lationship without it feel-
ing cheesy or fake.
Margot Robbie per-
formed fantastically as 
Sharon Tate, an aspiring 
actress before becoming a 
victim of the Manson Fam-
ily murders. Robbie was 
able to capture Tate’s mag-
netic personality through 
scenes showcasing Sha-
ron’s everyday life in the 
Hollywood Hills.
While this ﬁ  lm may be 
Tarantino’s great love let-
ter to a special era in Hol-
lywood’s history, a love 
letter doesn’t always make 
the most impressive movie.
Final Rating: 7/10
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgRate and Review: ‘Once Upon 
a Time … in Hollywood’
MOVIES
MUSICIN A FAST-PACED DIGITAL 
CULTURE, ORCHARD KINDL Y 
TEACHES TECH TO SENIORS
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
“It’s like I’ve got a grandchild that I can 
rent to ﬁ  x my computer,” B.J. Summerlin 
said, laughing.
Summerlin, 76, is a retired nurse 
from Alachua General Hospital living in 
Gainesville. She attended Santa Fe Col-
lege’s ﬁ  rst two-year nursing degree pro-
gram and later worked for Alachua General 
Hospital where she conducted research in 
gastroenterology. 
Summerlin found Orchard in the sum-
mer of 2018 when her computer began to 
malfunction. She said she tried other tech-
nology repair companies in Gainesville but 
found the service mediocre. Orchard was 
refreshing, she said, because Techies were 
not condescending or aloof.
“So many older people feel intimidated 
by tech employees,” Summerlin said. “It’s 
never been that way with Ming.”
UF graduate Ming Yang, 24, is the CEO 
and founder of Orchard, a technology re-
pair company with an emphasis on hospi-
tality and teaching. 
Orchard strives to repair devices while 
teaching its target clients — seniors — 
about technology.
According to Yang, Orchard employees, 
or “Techies,” build symbiotic relationships 
with their customers. Techies gain as much 
knowledge from their wiser clients about 
life, relationships and career choices as 
their clients gain from them about the lat-
est devices.
“Sometimes even saying [the word] cus-
tomers is weird,” Yang said. “It feels more 
personal than that.”
During her time at UF, Yang set herself 
apart from her cohorts continuously. Us-
ing a connection she made at an internship 
with Microsoft in the summer of her sopho-
more year, Yang founded the WECE Mak-
er Garage, a workspace housing $13,000 
worth of computer hardware and electron-
ics Microsoft donated to enhance computer 
and electrical engineering learning at UF. 
Although Yang’s success at UF came 
from hard work, she said her idea for Or-
chard came from more humbling experi-
ences.
Yang supports her mother and grand-mother, who speak limited English, 
by handling bills, government docu-
ments and taxes. Yang’s mother was 
diagnosed with thyroid cancer and 
previously relied on Medicaid for her 
healthcare in Yang’s youth. 
During Yang’s undergraduate ca-
reer, her family lost Medicaid. To ac-
quire support for her mother, Yang 
drove from Gainesville to her home-
town of Fort Lauderdale nearly every 
weekend to help her mother apply 
for Social Security Disability Insur-
ance.
Due to her constant commute 
and demanding course load, Yang’s 
grades suffered, and she said she 
thought the situation could have 
been avoided if her mother had more 
technological literacy.
“I later reﬂ  ected and thought that 
maybe if she had known how to 
use email or video chat, I could’ve 
helped her do the in-person inter-
view with video chat or help her sign 
papers and send it to her via email,” 
Yang said.
To prepare for the next time her 
mother would need technology as-
sistance, she looked for services 
located near her mother and found 
companies like Geek Squad, an electronic 
repair service. However, Geek Squad, like 
many technology repair services, empha-
size problem-solving rather than empathy.
“They’re for repairing computers, not 
helping people. They wouldn’t have the 
patience to explain to her what is going 
on. They’re not built for an older genera-
tion,” Yang said. “So when I realized that I 
thought, ‘I’ll just do it myself.’”
Yang said she spent her sophomore year 
building Orchard with a group of three 
friends. After that year was ﬁ  nished, how-
ever, Yang decided to disband the group 
due to differences in the creative vision.
“Telling three other people that every-
thing we’ve worked for as a team will be 
scrapped is hard,” Yang said. “It was prob-
ably the toughest conversation I have ever 
had to have with a group of people.”
So, Yang shelved the idea away.
With her graduation quickly approach-
ing, Yang grappled with which career path 
she would pursue. She decided to set her 
sights on graduate school, conducting re-
search in Human-Computer Interaction at 
UF and working as a Siri Design Intern at 
Apple in the summer of her junior year.But she couldn’t get the idea of Orchard 
out of her head. It was during her stint at 
Apple that Yang ﬁ  nally received the advice 
she needed from a mentor.
“He told me, ‘Whenever we make big 
decisions in life, things that are ambigu-
ous where both choices can be the right 
choice, we either make it out of insecurity 
or courage and love. Whichever decision 
we make, that emotion will just continue 
to grow,’” Yang said. “When I heard that I 
realized that the reason why I wanted to go 
to graduate school was deep down inside, 
I felt maybe I wasn’t good enough. Maybe 
I needed a PhD to prove that I was smart 
enough.”
Yang decided to start the  company de-
spite what others said about her age. She 
met with Director of the Engineering In-
novation Institute Erik Sander, who would 
provide the funding needed to kickstart Or-
chard and run a pilot of the company in the 
summer of 2018. 
Yang launched Orchard ofﬁ  cially in Au-
gust 2018 and has been operating as CEO 
ever since.
In April 2019, Orchard received its in-
vestment from Yang’s former mentor and Vice President of Notes and Tasks at Mi-
crosoft, Laura Butler.
Yang hopes Orchard will draw attention 
to the needs of seniors through a diverse 
team of employees. 
The company has a core team of four 
students studying a range of engineering 
disciplines at UF. These students work to 
develop operation processes, web applica-
tions and recruiting new employees. 
Summerlin has had ﬁ  ve sessions with 
various Techies and continues to build 
conﬁ  dence in her technology knowledge.
The Techies are contract workers who 
have backgrounds in management informa-
tion systems, computer science and even 
psychology. Yang encourages students of 
all backgrounds to apply.
She offers a piece of advice to students 
looking to ﬁ  nd their niche in the world.
“What I found to be most useful is sepa-
rating what we do from the effects of what 
we do,” Ming said. 
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .edu8  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Ming Yang, the 24-year-old CEO and founder of Orchard, shows B.J. Summerlin, a 76-year-old retired nurse, how 
Yang ﬁ  xed her computer.
BRYSON HOPES TO MAKE 
THE FLORIDA THEATER 
THE CULTURAL HUB IT 
ONCE WAS
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
Where some saw a dirty, di-
lapidated building, Bill Bryson, 
former owner of The Covered 
Dish, saw an opportunity to in-
fuse Gainesville with the creative 
energy that has produced artists 
like Tom Petty. 
Bryson said he bought the 
Florida Theater at 233 W Univer-
sity Ave because of the loss of cre-ative spirit he saw in downtown 
Gainesville. He said that new 
construction in historical neigh-
borhoods has caused the culture 
that made downtown Gainesville 
unique disappear.
“I wanted to buy [the the-
ater] mainly because I saw this 
new development happening in 
town and there was a likelihood 
of a building like that getting de-
molished in order for someone 
to build a high-rise residential,” 
Bryson said.
Bryson is collaborating with 
architect James Blythe to reno-
vate the Florida Theater and add 
modern design elements while preserving historical elements. 
The $1 million renovation began 
in May 2018 when Bryson posted 
a message on Facebook invit-
ing Gainesville residents to help 
clean up the venue. 
Blythe said he hopes to pre-
serve historical elements of the 
theater such as the marquee that 
was present when the building 
was founded in 1928.
According to Bryson, the Flor-
ida Theater was built in 1928. It 
was the ﬁ  rst theater in Gainesville 
to have air conditioning and show 
color ﬁ  lms. However, when the 
Oaks Mall was built in 1978 along 
with multi-screen movie theaters, business slowed and the Florida 
Theater gradually became a ware-
house.
That all changed in 1984 when 
Ken McGurn, a real estate agent 
who renovated much of down-
town Gainesville, bought the the-
ater. McGurn renovated the the-
ater in 1985 and turned it into a 
jazz club called The High Note. 
The building was reinvigorated 
and The High Note was the place 
to be with marble countertops, 
blonde wood and a newly reno-
vated theater. The Gainesville 
Orchestra performing “Hair” was 
the ﬁ  rst performance.  
Later, in the ’90s, the Florida Theater was turned into a concert 
venue. When the concert scene in 
Gainesville died down after the 
recession in the early 2000s, the 
building was left neglected once 
again. 
That is, until Bryson bought 
it in 2017. With the renovations, 
Bryson hopes the theater will be-
come the center of music and cul-
ture it once was. 
“I’m excited to help boost the 
local scene with a venue like 
this,” Bryson said.
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduFlorida Theater to receive $1 million renovationHow UF grad Ming Yang created tech repair Orchard
THEATER
LIFESTYLETHURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Location, Location, 1bed 1 bath condo, 
ground floor, 2 miles to UF on bus route, 
walk to shopping, restaurants, etc. Must see. 
$75,000. Call or text for more info. 352-301-
2403. By appointment only.     8-12-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
"Our liberty depends on the freedom of the 
press, and that cannot be limited without be-
ing lost." –Thomas Jefferson●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-141For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza on Tower Road is 
now hiring delivery drivers, pizza makers and 
phone personnel. Day shift and nightshift 
available, full time and part time positions. 
Please apply in person at 600 NW 75th St     
8-8-19-5-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is excited 
to announce counselor openings for em-
ployment in our extended care programs. 
Interested applicants need to have availabil -
ity most weekdays from 2:30-6:00. Oak Hall 
believes in generational hiring seeking those 
with a love of children who can enrich our 
program with creativity and enthusiasm. Visit 
www.oakhall.org to complete an application. 
8-8-19-3-14
BARTENDERS, WAIT STAFF, SECURITY
Monday-Thursday from 1pm-4pm
The Silver Q 225 W. University Ave.
or email jobs@SilverQbilliards.com
8-6-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com    8-1-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.By Jack Murtagh
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/01/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/01/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, August 1, 2019
ACROSS
1 Digital unit
4 Play the part of
9 Paintball attire, 
for short
13 Cry from a card 
holder
14 Religious leader
16 Made man?
17 Home for the 
holidays, say
18 World’s largest 
lizard
19 Rooftop spinner
20 Court address
22 FDR job-creating 
program
23 -
25 -
27 Catchers with 
pots
28 Like the Avengers
31 Twice DVI
32 Z preceder
33 Pancake at a 
seder
36 Longtime 
Sweethearts 
maker
40 Instructions for 
fire safety ... or 
for completing 
four puzzle 
answers
43 Marx forte
44 Kim and 
Kourtney’s sister
45 Bundle of cash
46 Toy with a tail
48 “Spill it”
50 Bassett of 
“American Horror 
Story”
53 Percussion piece
55 Shotgun type
56 Zing
57 -
61 Where Georgia is
62 -
65 Mineral resource
66 Move
67 Cocktail 
garnishes
68 A long time 
follower?
69 Scoundrel
70 “Aida” setting
71 Dawn 
phenomenon
DOWN
1 Elevate
2 Scoop3 Curds in cubes
4 “Oy!”
5 High-capacity 
vehicle?
6 Record time?
7 Like noisy fans
8 Vicious on  
stage
9 High-and-mighty
10 Wise words
11 Regal home
12 Warning signs
15 Book form that 
replaced the 
scroll
21 Pi follower
24 Team in a 
seasonal verse
26 Boring 
contraption
28 Diner dish
29 Words to a 
backstabber
30 Part of a Clue 
accusation
31 “Iron Chef 
America” 
creation
34 Casino gratuity
35 Canadian road 
sign letters
37 Monk’s hood
38 Quahog or 
geoduck39 Renaissance 
faire word
41 Sphere used 
to capture a 
Pikachu, say
42 “Zip it!”
47 Fitness 
portmanteau
49 Was in charge
50 Small recipe 
amount
51 Long time 
follower?52 Chicanery
53 Rosemary unit
54 Brazen
58 “Ice __ 
Truckers”: TV 
reality series
59 Impulse
60 Cry that may 
mean “I’m out of 
tuna!”
63 Microbrewery 
output
64 WWII craft
By Zachary David Levy
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/31/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/31/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 31, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gulf of California 
peninsula
5 SLR setting
10 Exchange words?
14 Voting unit
15 Make amends
16 Headey of “Game 
of Thrones”
17 Manga series 
also known as 
“Mach GoGoGo”
19 History
20 Operates 
properly
21 U.K. equivalent of 
an Oscar
22 Crisis point?
26 Day to put all 
your eggs in one 
basket
27 Perfectly, with “to”
28 Toucan Sam’s 
cereal
31 Sunday entrée
33 Novelist Grey
34 Today’s painting, 
sculpture, etc.
41 __ Beat: old fan 
mag
42 Alternative 
energy choice
43 “Golly!”
49 You can skip it
50 Grieves
51 Chemist’s tube
53 Some govt. 
bonds
54 Hilarious folks
56 Curse
57 DJs’ devices ... 
and a hint to this 
puzzle’s circles
62 Algerian setting 
of Camus’ “The 
Plague”
63 Maxim
64 Hawkeye State
65 Saucy
66 Bay Area NFLer
67 Do as directed
DOWN
1 Air rifle ammo
2 Swiss peak
3 Charlie Brown 
hero __ 
Shlabotnik
4 Maven
5 In the distance
6 Rude observer
7 Sound heard 
around the clock8 Tips for a street 
performer
9 Each
10 Texas border city
11 Unwilling to hear, 
as criticism
12 Arched foot part
13 Volga region 
natives
18 MADD focus
21 Hay bundlers
22 Artist Chagall
23 “__ lived–
Brooklyn, of 
ample hills, was 
mine”: Whitman
24 Campus official
25 For fear that
26 Sicilian hot spot
29 Depleted 
atmospheric 
layer
30 One may be 
displayed on a 
boathouse wall
32 View from 
Yellowstone
35 Scrip orders
36 Signature piece?
37 Bygone period
38 Tons
39 Eagerly attentive
40 Image in the 
Timberland logo43 1997 Hanson #1 
song
44 1983 Lionel 
Richie title  
words before “the 
sun” and “the 
rain”
45 One of the 
Nelson brothers 
of ’90s rock
46 “Murder on the 
__ Express”
47 Dishwashing aid48 Parents’ date-
night expense
52 “The More You 
Know” TV spot
54 Fashion’s 
Gernreich
55 OPEC member
57 Light brown
58 LinkedIn profile, 
e.g.
59 Soft toss
60 Lamb’s mom
61 “By the way ... ”
07/30/19
19 Connections 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF volleyball player 
Shainah Joseph will play for 
T eam Canada at the 2019 
Intercontinental Olympic 
Volleyball Qualiﬁ  cation 
tournament.Florida basketball to face Utah State
UF will play the reigning Mountain West champions on Dec. 21 at the BB&T 
Center in Sunrise, Florida, as part of the Orange Bowl Basketball Classic 
event. FOOTBALL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
One of the oldest maxims 
in football has to do with 
perhaps the most underap-
preciated players on the 
ﬁ  eld: the offensive linemen.
By keeping the quarter-
back on his feet and creat-
ing holes for the running 
back, the offensive line can 
dictate the game – a senti-
ment echoed in the cliché 
“games are won and lost in 
the trenches.”
Unfortunately for Flori-
da, only one out of the ﬁ  ve 
starters from last season’s 
offensive line will be return-
ing for the 2019 campaign. 
Tackles Martez Ivey and 
Jawaan Taylor, along with 
guards Tyler Jordan and 
Fred Johnson, have moved 
on to the NFL, putting red-
shirt senior center Nick 
Buchanan at the forefront 
of a young, inexperienced 
offensive line. Last year’s 
unit allowed just 18 sacks 
in 13 games, which ranked 
20th in the nation and third 
among teams in the SEC.Eight of the 15 offensive 
linemen on UF's roster are 
freshmen. The young play-
ers have looked to Buchan-
an as a leader.
“He’s the smartest one 
when it comes to the play-
book,” redshirt freshman 
Christopher Bleich said 
Thursday in an interview 
with WRUF. “If we have a 
question, he just helps us 
out right there.”
Bleich was Dan Mullen’s 
ﬁ  rst commit as head coach 
of the Gators and is project-
ed to be a starter this sea-
son. He was a redshirt last 
year after appearing in just 
four games off the bench.
Redshirt juniors Brett 
Heggie, Stone Forsythe and 
Jean Delance are also pro-
jected to start on Florida’s 
offensive line in 2019.
Heggie is capable of 
playing both right and left 
guard, but has struggled to 
stay healthy throughout his 
time at UF. He has never 
played a full season for the 
Gators.
Forsythe has been more 
reliable than Heggie, play-ing in all 13 games in 2018 
at both guard and tackle.
Delance transferred to UF 
from Texas in 2017, but sat 
out that year due to transfer 
rules. He made his Gators 
debut in last year’s season 
opener against Charleston 
Southern and appeared in 
three more games after-
ward.
Mullen says that he likes 
to rotate his offensive line-
men to get them an equal 
amount of reps, which 
keeps every player ready in 
case one goes down with 
an injury. The mixing and 
matching also allows for the 
offensive front to become 
more familiar and cohesive.
An offense is nothing 
without a good offensive 
line, so it’s up to Buchanan 
and his teammates to pro-
vide quarterback Feleipe 
Franks with a clean pocket 
and give running backs 
Lamical Perine and Malik 
Davis a chance to reach 
their full potential.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgPosition-by-Position: Evaluating UF’s oﬀ  ensive line
You may have heard the 
news by now.
New Orleans Saints 
wide receiver Michael 
Thomas reached an 
agreement on a ﬁ  ve-year exten-
sion worth $100 million ($61 
million guaranteed). It makes 
him the highest paid wideout 
in NFL history, and with mega-
blockbuster deals such as this 
one (typically for quarterbacks or edge-
rushers), the public always brings up the 
same debates.
Do football players really deserve all that 
money? Why should NFL players hold out 
to add on to the millions of dollars they al-
ready make?
Of course they deserve the money. And 
in a sport where violent contact is the norm, 
NFL players should be ﬁ  ghting for every 
penny.
Let’s look at Thomas again. Thomas 
plays for the Saints, a team that made a 
deep run to the NFC Championship game 
last year before being eliminated by the Los 
Angeles Rams. According to Forbes maga-
zine, the Saints are worth $2.08 billion. 
That’s a lot of money, and should the Saints 
continue to be perennial playoff contenders, 
that number is likely to increase.
Michael Thomas can make that happen. 
The former Ohio State wideout netted his 
ﬁ  rst All-Pro selection last season and ﬁ  n-
ished the year with 125 receptions, 1,405 
receiving yards and nine touchdowns. All 
that – combined with the fact that he’s only 26 years old – makes him 
worth locking up for the next 
six years, and that goes for any 
weapon that’s gotten a substan-
tial contract in recent times.
Aaron Donald. Khalil Mack. 
Russell Wilson. 
The National Football 
League generated about $15 
billion last year. The 2019 NFL 
Draft had around nine mil-
lion more viewers than a ﬁ  rst-round NBA 
playoff game. I don’t see the NFL losing its 
crown as America’s most popular sport any-
time soon, and so long as its status as a rev-
enue giant continues, all 32 teams will do 
their best to make sure they’re holding the 
Lombardi Trophy at the end of the season. 
People also seem to forget how ﬂ  eeting 
an NFL career is. The average career lasts 
3.33 years (six, if you manage to make the 
53-man roster Week 1) according to the 
NFLPA, and a rookie contract for one year 
is $480,000. Assuming a player makes it to 
around three years and then retires, they’ll 
earn a career total of  around $705,000: cer-
tainly not pocket change, but nowhere close 
to the money that Thomas is promised in 
his contract.
So when a player like Thomas – who 
puts his health on the line to be a driving 
force of revenue for one of America’s most 
bountiful industries – asks for a few more 
million dollars, don’t call them whiners or 
ungrateful.
They’re only doing their job, and they 
deserve every cent they can get.NFL players deserve every centExtra PointChris King / Alligator Staff
Center Nick Buchanan (66) is the sole returning starter on UF's offensive line, 
which gave up just 18 sacks in 13 games last year. 
The Associated  Press
Michael Thomas' 2018 campaign, which included 125 receptions, 1,405 yards and 
nine touchdowns, earned him a $100 million contract extension with the Saints.
River Wells
twitter: riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
NightsFlorida softball coach Tim 
Walton has had it made 
since the moment he ar-
rived in Gainesville. 
After leading a rela-
tively unknown Wichita State 
program to a school-record 46-
win season and an NCAA Tour-
nament appearance in 2005, 
the skipper took his talents to 
Florida.
In 2008 – just his third season as head 
coach – Walton led the Gators to a record 
season of their own, tallying 70 wins and 
advancing to the semiﬁ  nals in the pro-
gram’s ﬁ  rst-ever Women’s College World 
Series appearance.
Since then, only two teams during  
Walton’s tenure have failed to reach the 
WCWS. Back-to-back national champion-
ships in 2014-15 cemented his legacy as 
the most successful softball coach in school 
history and turned Florida into a recruiting 
leviathan.
It was during the latter championship 
season when Walton scored the two most 
touted recruits of his career.
Amanda Lorenz signed ﬁ  rst, followed by 
Kelly Barnhill’s decision a few weeks later. 
Both were treasured prospects; Lorenz, of 
Moorpark, California, verbally commit-
ted to the program as an eighth grader be-
fore maturing into the nation’s top overall 
prospect in the 2015 class, while Barnhill, 
a native of Georgia and the top pitching 
prospect in her class, debated Stanford and 
Florida before making the decision to don 
orange and blue.
Three months after winning a second-
consecutive national championship, Florida 
was once again in the conversation as one 
of college softball’s best teams, and Lorenz 
and Barnhill were instantly cast as the fu-
ture of the program.
Lorenz became the undisputed leader on offense from the start, bat-
ting .400 for the Gators in her 
freshman year while starting ev-
ery game. In the circle, Barnhill 
went 15-1 with a 1.37 ERA.
For Walton, it was a dream 
come true, his recruiting in-
tuition becoming reality. His 
teams racked up three SEC 
championships and advanced to 
three WCWS with his star pair, 
including a memorable runner-up ﬁ  nish in 
2017 to Oklahoma.
In the 2019 National Pro Fastpitch Draft 
this past April, it was Barnhill who was 
drafted ﬁ  rst, followed by Lorenz second. 
The pair were the highest drafted players in 
program history.
In their Florida careers, the duo accu-
mulated dozens of national accolades and 
recognitions, and ascended to true super-
stardom in their sport. In their absence, 
Florida now has numerous questions left 
unanswered.
Lorenz was an offensive juggernaut, but 
her teammates did little to help, and the 
Gators had an SEC-worst batting average 
last season.
Barnhill was nothing short of brilliant 
for most of last year’s postseason – where 
she started nearly every game –  yet the 
younger pitchers on the roster – Elizabeth 
Hightower, Natalie Lugo and Katie Chro-
nister – never truly faced adversity rivaling 
playoff intensity.
Walton is a veteran, equally enthusiastic 
and stern, the type of coach to lure recruits 
with his natural charisma, let alone his re-
cord to show. It’s why his teams have been 
so historically stacked.
But without the two most proliﬁ  c play-
ers to ever come through The Swamp – the 
pride and joy of his recruiting career – he 
faces his biggest challenge yet come spring.2020: Tim Walton’s greatest challengeJack in the Box
By River Wells
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEKChris King / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz, who was All-SEC four times in college, was drafted second overall in 
the 2019 National Pro Fastpitch Draft – one spot behind UF teammate Kelly Barnhill.
Jack Braverman
twitter: jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org