We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Free meal program at Micanopy Academy
More than 70 students will now get free breakfast and lunch,
pg 5
Who broke a Weaver Hall door?
UPD look into the broken door incident in the dorm, pg 4
,
Quotes from UF’s media session
Read what the Gators had to say fresh off a 24-
20 victory over rival Miami, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 5
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
FUNDING CONTROVERSY 
WAS ALSO DISCUSSED
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After student organization lead-
ers pleaded with Impact and Inspire 
senators for funding, they learned 
they were speaking to a third party 
as well.At the ﬁ  rst SG Senate meeting of 
the Fall semester Tuesday night, for-
mer Impact Party member Wynton 
White announced the establishment 
of a new party called the Gator Party. 
This announcement came after an 
hour of public comment in which 
students expressed concerns about 
funding issues following the Young 
Americans for Freedom lawsuit set-tlement.  
White, the party spokesperson, 
said the Gator Party aims to unite 
members from both Impact and In-
spire “for achieving a better Gator 
Nation.”  
“Our mission is to bring together 
students’ resources and leaders,” 
White said. 
Gator Party President Emily Dun-son, the former Senate Pro Tempore 
for Impact, sent a Letter to the Editor 
to The Alligator announcing the new 
party at 7:24 p.m., six minutes be-
fore the Senate meeting started. 
In the letter, she announced her-
self as the party president, Richard 
Doan as the party treasurer and 
White as the spokesperson. 
“Our goal is that our actions to-
day will affect generations to come,” 
she wrote. “This movement will 
empower every student to reach 
their full potential, with students as 
catalysts for positive change that will 
shape the future.” 
The Alligator reached out to 
White via Facebook message and 
email, as well as Dunson via phone 
and email, but they did not respond 
to comment by the time of publica-
tion.
Inspire Party President Zachary 
Amrose said Gator Party is Impact 
Party in disguise. Impact has been under ﬁ  re by 
several student leaders since Sum-
mer. Three party members disafﬁ  li-
ated on Aug. 8. 
“The parties, I’m sure we will 
ﬁ  nd, will share the same people, 
priorities and values,” Amrose said. 
“They follow a pattern of system 
party rebranding from time to time 
as they harm students by denying 
funding to student organizations.” 
During the meeting, student or-
ganizations criticized the “lack of 
transparency” in light of reallocation 
of funds after the lawsuit. A new 
funding system was created, which 
affected the organizations’ ability 
to host events and welcome assem-
blies.
Sebastian Georgiev, the president 
of the University Film Society, spoke 
on the issue during public comment.
“We were kind of fooled by the 
outdated website about the money,” New Gator Party established at ﬁ  rst Senate meeting of semester
Caroline Keefe/Alligator Staff
Nik Bindi, CLAS Senator and Deputy Minority Party Leader, speaks Tuesday night at the ﬁ  rst UF 
Student Government meeting of Fall semester about upcoming legislation on SG reapportionment 
to better reﬂ  ect the populations of voting districts. About 100 people attended the meeting.
THE SHOW WILL FOLLOW 
HIM AS HE PREPARES TO 
PLAY FOR UF
By Melissa Hernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A local football star is coming 
soon to a screen near you.
Eastside High School star quar-
terback Anthony Richardson will 
be featured on the next season of 
the Netﬂ  ix show “QB1: Beyond the 
Lights,” which is ﬁ  lmed by Down-
range Production, Inc. 
The show is a documentary that 
follows high school football players 
in their ﬁ  nal season as they prepare 
for Division I college football.
Richardson’s episodes are ex-
pected to be released in 2020, said 
Alachua County Public Schools 
spokesperson Jackie Johnson.
The school district previously 
denied the production company’s 
request to ﬁ  lm due to issues with li-
abilities and student privacy, but it 
was approved after further negotia-
tion with the school district.
Despite the former challenges, 
the district is eager for the oppor-
tunities this will bring Richardson, Johnson said. 
“Anthony is a wonderful kid and 
we certainly didn’t want to prevent 
him from participating in this,” she 
said. 
Richardson, 17, is committed to 
UF and began ﬁ  lming with the pro-
duction company over the summer, 
she said. 
Although he plays football for 
Eastside High School, he will grad-
uate early from the Professional 
Academies Magnet at Loften High 
School in December and will ﬁ  lm at 
both schools. The Alligator attempt-
ed to contact Richardson but could 
not reach him by publication.
Eastside High School head foot-
ball coach, Cedderick Daniels, has 
been working with Richardson for 
four years. He said he enjoys seeing 
him accomplish his dreams. 
“It’s been an honor to have 
him,” Daniels said. “It goes beyond 
football. He’s a great athlete, but the 
thing that stands out most about 
him is that he’s a good kid.”
@melissamh_
mhernandez@alligator.orgEastside High quarterback 
chosen for Netﬂ  ix series
ZOOKEEPERS REALIZED 
THE ANIMAL WAS 
MISSING SUNDAY 
MORNING
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities are investigating the 
possible theft of a skink from the 
Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo as 
of Tuesday afternoon, according to 
the college’s police.
Zookeepers ﬁ  rst noticed the 
25-year-old female Solomon Is-
lands skink, a lizard species, was 
missing Sunday morning, said Jade 
Salamone, the conservation educa-
tion curator. It is valued at $1,000, measures approximately 18 to 20 
inches long and is a light green and 
brown color.
The missing skink was reported 
soon after zoo staff realized the ani-
mal might have been stolen.
The zookeepers check the se-
curity of the enclosures multiple 
times a day, Salamone said. The 
unnamed skink has lived at the zoo 
for 20 years.
It’s a possibility, but unlikely, 
the skink escaped on her own, 
Salamone said. The exotic animal 
could possibly have been stolen to 
be sold.
Last year, three people were ar-
rested for their alleged involvement 
in the theft of 11 Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo animals. Gopher tor-
toises, a monkey and a different 
skink were among those stolen. 
“We’re hoping this is a com-
pletely isolated incident, but [theft 
is] deﬁ  nitely a concern,” Salamone 
said.
The police are investigating any 
possible reason for the animal’s 
disappearance, Salamone said. She 
encourages people to keep an eye 
out for the skink.
“When our animals went miss-
ing last year,” Salamone said, “it 
was citizens that brought them 
back to us.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgStolen skink? Police investigating missing 
lizard from Santa Fe College Teaching ZooSEE SENATE,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
HIGH  91° LOW  73°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Correction: Zachariah Chou's 
last name was previously 
printed as "Chao."
Also, the Student Government 
executive committee consists 
of president, VP, treasurer 
as well as Senate President 
Libby Shaw; pro tempore 
Emily Dunson; and Budget and 
Appropriations Chair Cooper 
Brown. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Heartwood Presents: Back to 
School Fest
When: Saturday, 6 to 11 p.m.
Where: Heartwood Soundstage
What: Heartwood Soundstage is 
hosting the show of the semester. 
Come ring in the news semester 
with some of the top bands in 
Florida including, King Complex, 
The Forum, Glass House Point, 
Driveaway, the Hails and flipturn. 
Local restaurants Radha's Kitch-
en, Dank Cakes, Charcoal Grill 
and Brio Cold Brew will provide 
refreshments for the evening. 
Students receive free admission 
to Florida Museum
When: M-Sat, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; 
Sun., 1-5 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
What: Students with a valid Gator 
1 Card receive free admission to 
the “Butterfly Rainforest” and 
other fee-based exhibits year-
round at the Florida Museum of Natural History, sponsored by UF 
Student Government.
Art Walk with Baer and the 
Lady and In Bed By Ten
When: Friday, 6 to 9 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company
What: Gainesville Art Walk at 
First Magnitude is back. Check 
out great local artists while enjoy-
ing a refreshing beverage and 
the live music. Art Walk is rain 
or shine, we'll either be in the 
beer garden or the warehouse. If 
you are interested in joining our 
artist line-up please reach out to 
Jenna@fmbrewing.com!
Disco for Good: Wells Collective
When: Friday, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Where: Civic Media Center
What: The upcoming DISCO for 
GOOD will raise money to sup-
port the students of the WELLS 
Healing and Research Collective. 
Individual tickets will be $10  at 
the door or online: https://dion-
dia.com/events
Blue Star Museums
When: Sept. 2, 10 a.m to 5 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History is offering free ad-
mission to all fee-based exhibits 
for active duty military personnel  
– Army, Navy, Air Force, Ma-
rines or Coast Guard, as well as 
members of the National Guard 
and Reserve, U.S. Public Health 
Service and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Com-
missioned Corps, and up to five 
family members.
Fall Student Government 
Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25 
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Fall SG Elections will be 
held Sept. 24 and 25 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at locations 
across campus. 
Absentee ballots requests, due 
by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should be 
submitted online at www.sg.ufl.
edu/elections. These elections 
will determine the 50 senators 
who represent the students living 
on and off campus. 
Party registration will run Aug. 22 
at 9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as fol-
lows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3.
Boss up: Beauties in Business 
Brunch
When: Sept. 28, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Ballroom
What: Hello Beautiful is hosted its 
annual women’s empowerment 
brunch. The brunch will include 
a panelists of five women sharing 
their journeys through life and 
development of their brands and 
businesses. Tickets to register 
are available now at hellobeauti-
fulempo.wixsite.com. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 5
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
100’s of
New Choices
 FINAL WEEK
Where:
Reitz Union-Tabling Area
When:
Monday September 16 thru 
Friday September 20
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor: Reitz Union
LAST CHANCE
Georgiev said. “By the time we got to ﬁ  guring out how Student 
Government worked with the funds, it was too late. There was 
basically nothing they could do.” Georgiev said he wondered if his ﬁ  lm society made a mis-
take by joining as an SG organization. 
While members of both Inspire and Impact expressed their 
concern for lack of funding in these groups, the solution re-
mains unclear. 
Student Body Treasurer Santiago Gutierrez offered his con-
dolences to the organizations that lost funding for events. 
“These changes were brought to us by external forces,” Guti-
errez said. “They’re hard. They’re terribly hard. I’ve heard or-ganizations come to my ofﬁ  ce throughout this past week crying 
that they don’t have any funding.” 
Gutierrez said he is stunned at how this situation seems to 
have only perpetuated partisanship between the two parties.   
“I’m still hurt that these changes are making us be divisive 
with each other,” Gutierrez said. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgSENATE,  from pg. 1Solution still unknown
Dancing Queens:
Margaret Dotson/Alligator Staff
Ivy Les Vixens, a local burlesque dancer, touches up her lipstick backstage after 
her first performance Monday night at the LGBTQ+ Welcome Assembly hosted by 
PSU. Ivy Les Vixens headlined the show along with performers Faith T aylor and 
Brianna Summers. Allison Veliz/Alligator Staff
Faith T aylor walks into a crowd of more than 250 people Monday night during 
the Illuminate show in the Rion Ballroom at the Reitz Union. Pride Student Union’s Fall 
Welcome Assembly
The UF Pride Student Union (PSU)  
hosted a welcome assembly and 
drag show Monday night in the Rion 
Ballroom. They invited students from 
across campus to come enjoy free 
food, burlesque and drag performances 
and insight from student leaders. The 
show had the theme “Illuminate” and 
the PSU passed out glowsticks to 
every attendee as a representation of 
shedding light on queer perspectives. 
“We just try to make a community and a 
family for those who may have trouble 
ﬁ  nding one somewhere else, ” said Nikki 
Owens, a UF theatre junior and PSU 
member. 
“I’m excited, ” said Brianna Summers, 
local drag queen. “The only other time 
girls have performed here was RuPaul’s, 
so I’m excited to be one. ”
Margaret Dotson/ Alligator Staff
Faith T aylor, a local performer, strikes a pose during 
her third and ﬁ  nal performance Monday night 
at the LGBTQ+ Welcome Assembly hosted by 
the PSU. The assembly hosted a variety of pride 
associations before the show and raised awareness 
for student organizations.4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
HERE’S HOW TROPICAL STORM 
DORIAN COULD AFFECT YOUR 
WEEKEND PLANS
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Labor Day weekend plans might be rained 
out.
As of Tuesday night, tropical storm Dorian 
is expected to be categorized as a hurricane 
as it approaches Puerto Rico and Hispaniola 
this evening. 
Dorian is expected to be a Category 1 hur-
ricane as South Florida rescue teams prepare 
for its arrival, according to a CNN report.
In the worst-case scenario, Dorian will 
gain strength as it moves toward a current 
projected landfall area near Daytona, Fla. on 
Saturday and Sunday, said Nicolette Zangara, a weather forecaster for WUFT, WRUF and 
the Florida Public Radio Emergency Network. 
These updates shouldn’t panic Gainesville 
residents yet, Zangara said. Dorian has to 
overcome physical boundaries, like the Cor-
dillera Central mountain range in Puerto 
Rico, which may affect whether the storm 
holds together.
“Those mountains range from 10,000 to 
15,000 feet,” she said. “If it passes over those 
mountains, we could see it weakened signiﬁ  -
cantly, but if it doesn’t hit those mountains, 
then we could potentially be seeing a rapidly 
intensifying storm.”
U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and 
Rick Scott (R-FL) urged President Donald 
Trump to approve Puerto Rico’s declaration 
of a state of emergency ahead of Dorian’s 
expected landfall. Schools in Puerto Rico are 
schedued to be closed today.
Ofﬁ  cial hurricane season for the North At-lantic lasts from June 1 to Nov. 30, although 
activity is seen outside those dates, said 
Corene Matyas, a UF associate professor of 
geography.
Storm classiﬁ  cation is measured on a scale 
from 1 to 5 determined by maximum wind 
speed, Matyas said. Florida’s summer mois-
ture, heat and water vapor create the perfect 
conditions for storms to thrive. 
“The temperature inside the storm is 
different from the temperature outside the 
storm, and it causes a drop in pressure,” she 
said. “That’s why they call it a heat engine.”
Students should monitor the storm for up-
dates, especially Thursday and Friday, Zan-
gara said. Weather agencies will release an 
updated detailed projection on Dorian every 
ﬁ  ve to seven hours.
“It’s scary to think about, but we’re still a 
good amount of time out for plenty of things 
to change,” Zangara said. Gainesville will not feel any of the storm’s 
impacts until the weekend, she said.
“Regardless of what happens with Dorian 
over the next couple of days, we’re still 
gonna get a surge of moisture this weekend 
which can create some pretty heavy rain and 
thunderstorms,” she said. 
On Facebook group “Swampy UF memes” 
for top ten public teens, students have made 
jokes about Dorian’s Gainesville landfall. 
Juliet Rapport, an 18-year-old UF health 
science sophomore, made a meme referenc-
ing how she wishes the storm wouldn’t affect 
Gainesville over the upcoming long weekend, 
as classes will not be held on Monday due to 
Labor Day. 
“I just made the meme for a quick laugh,” 
she said. “I don’t think class will be canceled 
though.”
@aescalante22
a.escalante@uﬂ  .edu
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
F a c e b o o k .   4 3 6  S E  2 n d  S t .   w - s a t  1 1 - 7 ,  s u n  b r u n c h  1 0 - 3   
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 
pm. Serving Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and 
more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 151 1 NW 
2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat. welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 
5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts 
and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. In -
door and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-
9649 . Introducing the Side Car 
Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. 
Open LateTHE DOOR IS NOW
 COVERED BY 
A WOODEN PANEL
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Students at Weaver Hall woke up 
to a mystery Tuesday morning. 
An unknown individual broke the 
main glass panel door of UF’s Weaver 
Hall between late Monday night and 
early Tuesday morning. The incident 
has been characterized as criminal 
mischief, said Maj. Brad Barber, a 
University Police spokesperson. 
“As with anytime anybody is 
engaged in an activity this major, if 
people become aware of something, 
they know to notify law enforcement 
immediately,” Barber said.
UPD was notiﬁ  ed Tuesday at 7:24 
a.m. and is investigating the matter, he said.
UF Housing and Residence 
Education was informed at about 6 
a.m. and sent a maintenance team to 
Weaver Hall to cover the door with 
a wooden panel, said Sara Tanner, 
the department’s director of Student 
Affairs Marketing & Communications.
“It’s actually very odd that the door 
got broken because all of our doors 
are very, very strong and are able to 
withstand winds and hurricanes,” 
Tanner said. 
UF residence halls have multiple 
swipe-access security measures for 
people that need to get into their 
rooms that will continue to be in place 
while maintenance works to ﬁ  x the 
door. Tanner said there is no exact 
date of when the door will be ﬁ  xed.
Brianna Denson, an 18-year-old 
UF biomedical engineering freshman, 
lives at Weaver Hall and said she woke up when she heard a noise.
“During the middle of the night, I’m 
not sure what time it was, I did hear 
a crash, but I thought it was probably 
someone on the ﬂ  oor messing around 
or having fun,” Denson said.
As she was leaving the building 
around 7:45 a.m., Denson saw 
shattered glass on the ﬂ  oor and two 
police ofﬁ  cers outside the building, 
she said. 
Denson said she will be more 
comfortable when she learns more 
about the incident or when UPD 
catches the perpetrator. 
“Knowing that no one really 
saw what happened or knew when 
it happened is kind of concerning 
because you don’t know if someone 
got in or what their intentions were,” 
Denson said. 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgUPD unsure who broke a Weaver Hall door overnight
April Rubin / Alligator Staff
The door of Weaver Hall that was broken late Monday 
night or Tuesday morning, covered with a wooden board.
Hurricane season is in full swing. Will Dorian hit UF? WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
TACKLING BACTERIA IN COWS 
CAN STOP CONSUMERS FROM 
INGESTING HARMFUL BACTERIA
By Samantha Chery
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers treat harmful cow bacteria, 
and humans could be the next to benefit.
Researchers at UF’s Emerging Pathogens 
Institute studied how bacteria resistance pres-
ents itself in cows and how to prevent this 
bacteria from transferring to humans and other 
animal species. Antibiotic resistance is a major 
threat to public health, according to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention, so UF 
researchers worked with methods other than 
antibiotics to target bacteria.
Funded by a grant worth about $470,000 
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the 
research was divided into two main projects, 
with many of the findings published this 
month. Recently, the researchers began work-
ing on enhancing the new treatment method.
With the success of this research, beef and 
dairy consumers are less likely to eat harmful 
bacteria, and various organisms avoid disease 
contracted through cow excretion spreading to 
water and wildlife, said Peixin Fan, a 27-year-
old UF animal science doctoral student who 
was part of the research team. “If we can reduce them at the pre-harvest 
period, the concentration or the prevalence of 
the antimicrobial resistance that goes to hu-
mans could be reduced,” Fan said.
A human equivalent to the treatment used 
on cows is not available, but the same experi-
mental approaches could be taken to reach a 
solution for humans in the future, she said.
In the first project, the research team trav-
eled to farms to study how differences in cow 
age and sex affected the amount of pathogens 
and antibiotic-resistant bacteria inside of them, 
said Zhengxin Ma, a UF postdoctoral associate 
for the Emerging Pathogens Institute.
“By monitoring all of these, we can find a 
possible control point that can be used as a 
mitigation strategy to try to control this antibi-
otic resistance before they enter the markets,” 
Ma said.
In the second project, the team focused on 
creating an alternative antimicrobial that could 
destroy bacteria without resistance, Ma said. 
Many antibiotics target the period of cell de-
velopment but allow time for the bacteria to 
mutate, which results in antibiotic resistance.
People who eat meat from an infected cow  
resistant to antibiotics could be infected by a 
type of E. coli that can cause kidney failure and 
death, Ma said.
Instead of antibiotics, which are usually 
used for bacteria treatment, the UF research-ers used substances that kill germs by disrupt-
ing and breaking down the cell membranes of 
harmful bacteria in cows, Ma said. Bacterial 
treatment with these substances is more abun-
dant and has proven to be cheaper than most other antimicrobials.
“The antibiotic resistance crisis is going to 
be going on forever. It is going to be a never 
ending story,” Ma said. UF researchers have beef with cow bacteria. Here’s the solution
Courtesy to The Alligator
KC Jeong, a UF/IFAS associate professor of animal sciences, and Klibs Galvao, an 
associate professor, observe cows at the UF College of Veterinary Medicine. 
THE PROGRAM SERVES 
47 LOCATIONS IN 
ALACHUA COUNTY
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer 
All 79 students at Micanopy 
Academy can enjoy their break-
fast and lunch without worrying 
about their wallets. Since the first day of school 
on Aug. 12, students at this grade 
6-12 school, at 708 NW 5th St., 
have been eligible for free meals 
through Your Choice Fresh, said 
Caron Rowe, the food and nutri-
tion department marketing spe-
cialist for Alachua County Public 
Schools. 
The nationwide program, 
which is funded by the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture, now serves 47 locations in Alachua 
County such as Newberry El-
ementary and Gainesville High 
School, Rowe said. No applica-
tion or proof of family income is 
required for students to receive 
meals.
Cereal and chicken poppers 
are examples of available break-
fast and lunch items, and each 
meal includes milk, Rowe said. 
The program came to Alachua County in 2014 and originally 
served 24 schools.
“We have seen — and there’s 
also been national studies done 
— that students who are coming 
to the classroom with full stom-
achs that they focus better, and 
they pay attention better to be 
ready to learn in the classroom,” 
Rowe said. 
Dakota Johnson, the school 
guardian for Micanopy Academy, said the program allows parents 
to avoid the stress of sending 
lunch money with their kids or 
receiving bills from the school. 
“It allows the children who 
are from a lower-income house-
hold [to] not have to worry about 
where their food is going to come 
from,” he said. 
@lina_ruiz48 
lruiz@alligator.org Free meal program to feed Micanopy Academy studentsEditorialWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Rise above the memes 
this election season
There is a presidential feud taking place in the news and 
on social media. Surprisingly, President Donald Trump 
doesn’t appear to be in the middle of it. 
The feud began when Brazilian President Jair Bolso-
naro took offense at French President Emmanuel Ma-
cron’s suggestion to the G7 summit leaders that their countries 
band together to help Brazil extinguish the Amazon ﬁ  res. The 
situation escalated when one of Bolsonaro’s supporters post-
ed a meme on Bolsonaro’s Facebook page with an unﬂ  atter-
ing comparison of Brigitte Macron to Michelle Bolsonaro, the 
two Presidents’ wives. President Bolsonaro’s reply to the meme 
seemed to agree with the insult. Macron responded by express-
ing sympathy for the Brazilian people who are stuck with such 
a shameful president, and said he hopes Bolsonaro will soon be 
replaced with a more digniﬁ  ed leader. Bolsonaro is now refus-
ing to accept the G7 countries’ offer of $22.2 million to aid in 
ﬁ  ghting Amazon ﬁ  res until Macron apologizes. 
If you think this is reminiscent of two schoolboys ﬁ  ghting on 
a playground, we agree. Condescension, ego and toxic mascu-
linity encompass the behavior of many world leaders. We see it 
in every level of politics. When individuals or parties disagree 
politically, what should be a mature, intelligent expression of 
differing opinions inevitably devolves into insults and attacks 
on family members. The difference in age between ﬁ  rst ladies 
Macron and Bolsonaro has no bearing on either President’s abil-
ity to lead. The attack on Brigitte Macron was immature and 
accomplished nothing for the good of humanity, let alone the 
Amazon rainforest. 
France’s president and ﬁ  rst lady have a very French love 
story. He was 15 and she was his married high school teacher 
when they met. He pursued her for years, and when he was 
in his 20s she divorced her husband and married Macron. To-
gether they navigated French politics, eventually ascending to 
the Elysee Palace. While we think this would make a compel-
ling plot for a made-for-TV movie, we do not see the relevance 
to the current crisis in the Amazon rainforest.
Mudslinging accomplishes nothing except alienating the op-
position and hindering constructive solutions. If Macron does 
not apologize and Bolsonaro does not back down, the Amazon 
will continue to burn and the world will suffer the consequenc-
es of their chest-thumping feud. 
As the United States gears up for the 2020 presidential cam-
paigns and UF prepares for Student Government Senate elec-
tions, we urge you to rise above the rhetoric. Don’t share the 
memes, don’t spread the insults. That behavior will not sway 
minds or win votes. If you cannot express your opinion or dis-
agree with someone else’s stance respectfully — without stoop-
ing to the level of Bolsonaro and Macron — then you need to 
examine whether you have an opinion worth expressing. 
We do not care how closely a candidate resembles a cartoon 
character. We care about whether they support the equal rights 
of all individuals. We do not want to hear about how your wife 
is hotter than someone else’s. We want to hear about how you 
plan on saving the world’s lungs. Social media is a powerful 
outlet. Posts have the ability to spread around the world. You 
decide whether your contributions to the political stage will be 
something of substance or not. If you decide not, then do us a 
favor and unfriend us. We only have so much digital capacity, 
and we do not want to waste it on the back-and-forth of drama 
llamas. Videos of cute llamas, however, are always welcome.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORIn today’s political climate, celebrities are 
more vocal about their political beliefs 
than ever before. It’s not uncommon to 
ﬂ  ick through a celebrity’s Instagram sto-
ry and see them proclaiming their sup-
port of, or opposition to, an issue. You might 
even scroll past posts of one posing next to 
political candidates. Some believe that ce-
lebrities are getting “too political” or should 
“stay in their lanes.” However, is it really 
that much of an issue for celebrities to bring awareness 
to political issues? 
Singer-songwriter Taylor Swift told the Guardian on 
Friday she is pro-choice and will be more involved in 
the 2020 election. Coming from an artist who has stayed 
politically quiet for the vast majority of her career, this 
was major. But it’s also no surprise. Swift broke her 
political silence during last year’s midterm elections 
when she voiced her support for two Democratic can-
didates and urged people to vote in an Instagram cap-
tion. “Educate yourself on the candidates running in 
your state and vote based on who most closely repre-
sents your values,” Swift wrote. “We may never ﬁ  nd 
a candidate or party with whom we agree 100 percent 
on every issue, but we have to vote anyway.” Vote.org 
told Buzzfeed News that a whopping 65,000 registra-
tions were made in just 24 hours. Swift’s increased po-
litical involvement is a step in the right direction. With 
a massive Instagram following of 121 million, she can 
substantially increase voter participation.
Celebrities have an immense inﬂ  uence on the popu-lation. Most importantly, they have an inﬂ  u-
ence on younger generations. It is a common 
complaint that young people don’t partici-
pate enough in politics. Well, celebrities 
getting involved in politics is one way to 
change that. Working in the entertainment 
industry does not restrict celebrities’ rights 
to free speech. Celebrities shouldn’t have to 
stay neutral just because of their jobs. Last 
time I checked, most people weren’t experts 
in politics but screamed their views anyways. Nobody’s 
saying that people have to agree with celebrities’ po-
litical opinions, but they have the same rights as any 
American citizen to voice them.
Swift has the right to say she’s pro-choice and design 
entire music performances around advocating for the 
Equality Act, the same way that Kanye West has the 
right to wear a MAGA hat and say slavery was a choice. 
Regardless of where you fall on the political spectrum, 
you should at least be able to agree that not enough is 
being done, not enough voices are being heard and not 
enough change is being made. It’s not a bad thing for 
a red, white and blue “I voted” sticker to become a ce-
lebrity’s favorite accessory on social media. If celebrity 
political endorsements encourage people to research 
what’s going on, that’s a win. Let celebrities form a 
trend. Do not fault them for using their inﬂ  uence to try 
to better this country. If it propels people to take action, 
then I welcome celebrity involvement in politics.  
Lauren Rousseau is a UF journalism sophomore. Don’t kick celebrities out of politics
Lauren Rousseau
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators head to Los Angeles
The Gators soccer team is preparing for a tough 
stretch of road games. Pg 12HE TRAVELED TO OVER 15 
COUNTRIES AS PART OF 
THE YUUJOU PROJECT
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
Joey Briggs had three weeks 
to quit his job, obtain travel visas 
and say his goodbyes before he 
embarked on a 100-day journey 
across the world. 
Briggs, who graduated from 
UF in 2017 with a degree in chem-
ical engineering, was one of six 
individuals selected out of over 
30,000 applicants for Yuujou, an 
international media art project 
emphasizing the importance of 
friendship. 
“Yuujou is essentially a social 
experiment to prove we are all 
connected,” Briggs, 23, said.
The six travelers, who were 
strangers before the journey, 
were divided into two teams of 
three people: Team East, which 
Briggs was a part of, and Team 
West. 
Both teams started at the same 
place in Berlin, Germany, on 
April 11. From then on, the two 
teams would be sent in opposite 
directions, traveling from city to 
city for 100 days until reuniting in 
Tokyo, Japan, while documenting 
every step of their all-expenses-
paid journey. The only rule? At each new 
location, they had to stay with a 
friend of their previous host, cre-
ating a chain of friendship across 
the globe. 
Briggs ﬁ  rst heard about Yuu-
jou—which means “friendship” in 
Japanese—in November through 
his cousin, who also applied. 
Corinne Eisenring, co-founder 
of Yuujou, said Briggs caught the 
selection team’s attention imme-
diately. 
“We were looking for people 
who want to celebrate the diver-
sity of the world and focus on the 
good,” she said. “We were look-
ing for creative spirits who seek 
the challenge and who are happy 
to document and share their ex-
periences with the world.”
She said when Briggs talked 
about his experience working 
for the Peace Corps in Liberia, it 
convinced the team he was “very 
adaptable and strong.”
After a competitive selec-
tion process involving a casting 
video and Skype and in-person 
interviews, Briggs was ﬂ  own out 
to Germany for a week of train-
ing, where he met the two other 
people he would be traveling with 
for the next three months: Paula 
Savelkoul, 30, from the Nether-
lands, and Renata Millington, 30, 
from Brazil. 
“I started to backpack in 2016,” 
Savelkoul said. “Sold all my be-longings, with only my backpack 
[and went] to Asia, Australia and 
New Zealand. 
“But this time it was so much 
different,” she said. “It’s a whole 
new way of going from place to 
place.”
Although Briggs had also trav-
eled before, such as his time 
spent building an artiﬁ  cial coral 
reef in Cambodia as part of a UF 
research position, he agreed Yuu-
jou was different because of the 
unpredictable nature of it.
“We never knew where we 
were going to be the next day or 
who we were going to meet,” he 
said. “I never expected to go to 
countries like Macedonia, Geor-
gia or [the] Philippines on the 
journey from Germany to Japan.”
Briggs described some of his 
favorite experiences as those 
which allowed him to be im-
mersed in the culture of his host. 
“[The host] took out some 
of their preserves for us to try,” 
Briggs said. “We tried his favorite, 
which was the preserved apples 
that were a few years old. They 
tasted still very fresh but were 
mushy, so while it looked like an 
apple, it was more like one of the 
best applesauce I’ve ever tasted.” 
The Yuujou project also in-
volved documenting every aspect 
of the travelers’ journey, ﬁ  lming 
everything from interviews with 
the hosts to the team going from place to place.
“We received a crash course of 
four years of ﬁ  lm school in four 
days in Berlin from the Yuujou 
team,” Briggs said.
“[The trip] was in some ways 
much more than I expected. I 
have traveled a lot, but never on 
camera 24/7, for months on end 
all over the world. That added 
much more excitement, as well as 
being much more exhausting.”
Briggs’ travels, however, 
didn’t culminate on the 100th 
day, July 20, in Tokyo. He spent 
the following three weeks with 
his cousin in Vietnam, where he 
got some much-needed rest and 
relaxation. 
“I think we [the travelers] 
survived on adrenaline alone,” 
Briggs said. “I have never had 
bags under my eyes like I did the 
entire journey, and once it was 
ﬁ  nished I slept for three weeks. 
No joke, I would sleep like 10 
hours every night and take a 2 to 
5 hour nap during the day, every 
day. I didn’t know it was possible 
to sleep so much, but our bodies 
had reached a new level of ex-
haustion. 
“Diving in and out of people’s 
lives every day, on top of being 
in a few countries each week, on 
top of ﬁ  lming everything we do 
added up. But I never once felt it 
during the journey.”
Briggs’ travels exempliﬁ  ed the 
purpose of the Yuujou journey, 
which “aims to show that if you 
explore cultures authentically, you will meet new friends, and 
not strangers,” Eisenring said. 
“All around the world, I believe 
people are inherently kind and 
compassionate,” Briggs said. “Es-
pecially to travelers and people in 
need of a helping hand. Everyone 
we met was amazingly open and 
friendly, even though they had 
no idea who we were or even re-
ally why we were there. They just 
had received a phone call from a 
friend saying these travelers were 
coming to visit them.”
Briggs described the journey 
as being the most formative expe-
rience of his life.
“This trip has made me more 
comfortable and conﬁ  dent in who 
I am more than anything else I’ve 
ever done in my life, and I think, 
to me, that’s the best thing I took 
away from it.” 
Briggs plans to pursue a doc-
torate degree in chemical engi-
neering at the Colorado School of 
Mines next fall. 
In the meantime, the rest of his 
travels will be documented on his 
YouTube channel, Joey Adven-
ture. He is currently in Uzbeki-
stan attending the 10-day World 
Inﬂ  uencers Congress. 
The entirety of the Yuujou 
journey can be seen at yuujou.
world or on its YouTube channel.
@MorganGoldwich
mgoldwich@alligator.org
5 of the best quotes from Tuesday’s practice
Florida football players share their thoughts about their
win against Miami on Saturday. Pg 11Courtesy to The Alligator
Joey Briggs (center) reunites with the other Yuujou travelers 
in T okyo, Japan.
Courtesy to The Alligator
A map of the travelers’ journey. T eam East, Briggs’ team, is the green. 
UF alumnus Joey Briggs’ 100-day journey around the world
MUSIC8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
THE FREE FRIDAYS CONCERT 
SERIES IS HOSTING A 
CELEBRATION OF ‘70S 
PROGRESSIVE ROCK BANDS, 
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
After a successful show last year, 
the Progressive Rock Experience is re-
turning to Bo Diddley Plaza.
The Free Fridays Concert Series is 
dedicating a night to progressive rock 
of the ‘70s on Friday, Aug. 30 at Bo 
Diddley Plaza. The concert is being 
held from 8 to 10 p.m. and is free to 
attend. 
The Free Fridays Concert Series is 
an outdoor concert series hosted by 
the City of Gainesville at Bo Diddley 
Plaza every Friday from May through 
October. Each week features different 
local and regional musicians perform-
ing both covers and original songs of 
a variety of genres, including classic 
rock, reggae, soul, funk and blues.
Progressive rock is a style of rock 
music that was developed in the late 
‘60s and early ‘70s and features a 
heavy focus on the technical compo-
nents of playing while also combining 
classical, jazz and folk inﬂ  uences.  
Keyboardist Brad Bangstad, 63, and 
his band will be performing covers of 
popular progressive rock songs includ-
ing “Highway Star” by Deep Purple, 
“Turn It On Again” by Genesis, “Point 
of Know Return” by Kansas and “Lucky 
Man” by Emerson, Lake & Palmer.
The Progressive Rock Experience is 
the natural extension of Bangstad’s in-
volvement with the local music scene. 
He has been a member of numerous 
tribute bands, including The Imposters, 
a Beatles tribute band. In 2018, Bangs-
tad decided he wanted to perform pro-gressive rock, one of his all-time favor-
ite music genres. After recruiting some 
band members, he and his bandmates 
played at Bo Diddley Plaza last August. 
The show was so well received that the 
Free Fridays Concert Series decided to 
invite them back.
Suzanna Mars, the social media 
manager and assistant to the Free Fri-
days Concert Series, said a big reason 
for the show’s success is because peo-
ple are drawn to progressive rock.
“People love to hear this music. It’s 
part of the fabric of their lives,” Mars 
said. “They have an emotional re-
sponse to it. You can hear the music all 
the way down to the Hippodrome and 
people who are outdoors will come 
and listen and stay.”
The band has been rehearsing for 
the past ﬁ  ve months in order to pre-
pare for the show. Bangstad said this is 
because of how challenging the music 
can be to play.
“The music we are doing is some-
times technically difﬁ  cult,” Bangstad 
said. “It takes a lot of work playing to-
gether to get it presentable.”
For Bangstad, the best part of per-
forming is not the music, but rather 
the people he plays with.
“As I get older, I realize that there 
is a family of musicians in Gainesville. 
Everyone plays with everyone else in 
some sort of ensemble,” Bangstad said. 
“You start appreciating the comrad-
ery of working with people who love 
something that you are doing.”
 Information about upcoming per-
formances can be found on the Free 
Fridays Concert Series’s website at 
http://gnvculturalseries.org.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgProgressive rock to take 
over downtown Gainesville
MUSIC
By Alexa Spicer
Alligator Contributing Writer
There are countless obstacles 
freshmen face when arriving at 
college, and wondering where 
they can get their next meal is 
high on the list — especially for 
vegans.
To save you the trouble of 
ﬁ  nding the most popular vegan-
friendly places in Gainesville, 
we conducted polls with current 
UF students to see where they 
prefer to eat on and off campus.
Top places to eat within 
walking distance of campus
1. Krishna Lunch (39 out of 
61 votes)
On the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas, you’ll not only be greeted 
with the smells of a warm, 
vegan-friendly buffet, but also 
with soft chants and familiar 
faces. For only a $5 donation 
per lunch, you get unlimited 
food like penne pasta with tofu 
tomato sauce or chili — and 
dinner if you’re clever enough 
to bring a container from home. 
2. Bento (16 out of 61 votes)
Located underneath The Stan-
dard at Gainesville, Bento is 
known for its customizable en-
trees such as build-your-own 
poke bowls. Choose from en-
trees like the red curry or Srira-
cha garlic. This option is great 
for students who have an hour to spare in between classes and 
need to refuel.
3. El Indio (3 out of 61 votes)
While El Indio may not be 
considered on-campus, it is only 
a 10-minute walk from Library 
West and is well worth the 
trek if you’re trying to get your 
money’s worth. The options are 
affordable and plentiful, just 
ask them to hold the cheese and 
sour cream. Tacos are served 
quickly and start at only $1.75. 
They even offer tempeh ﬁ  llings 
for your burrito and taco needs.
Top three places to eat if 
you’ve got a ride
1. Blaze Pizza (17 out of 44 
votes)
It’s debatable whether or not 
pizza is one of the most missed 
foods among the vegan com-
munity, but Blaze Pizza has 
your cravings covered. Decide 
between the classic, high-rise 
or gluten-free dough because 
yes, they are all vegan. When 
asking for the vegan cheese, 
pizza crafters will ask if you’d 
like them to change their gloves 
to prevent cross-contamination. 
Choose unlimited toppings like 
pineapple or even spicy vegan 
chorizo.
2. Bolay (16 out of 44 votes)
There is no such thing as 
a cheat meal at Bolay. Health-conscious vegans with an ap-
preciation for a satisfying meal 
don’t need to look any further 
than Bolay. Create your favorite 
combination with ingredients 
like forbidden black rice, ginger 
broccoli or miso-glazed tofu. A 
common struggle for eating out 
as a vegan is getting accurate 
information from employees 
about what is vegan or what is 
not, but you don’t need to wor-
ry about that here. They have 
every vegan option labeled for 
a swift ordering process.
3. Boca Fiesta (5 out of 44 
votes)
Boca Fiesta is nothing short 
of a good time with a lively at-
mosphere and great company. 
This dine-in Mexican restaurant 
is the place to go for when you 
want an intimate night out with 
a small group of friends. If you 
order the chips and guacamole 
to share, they will bring you av-
ocados and ingredients to make 
it yourselves. Among tacos and 
burritos, they even have fried 
vegan mac and cheese and a 
spiced Mexican chocolate chip 
cookie sandwich made locally 
by Karma Cream. 
For more options, students 
have suggested keeping an eye 
on @GainesvilleVegans on In-
stagram for some lesser-known 
vegan foods in town and sur-
rounding areas.Eating Vegan in Gainesville: It’s 
Easier Than You Think
FOOD SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    9-11-19-10-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       12-4-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-4-19-43-5
1/1 Condo @ Campus Edge $84,900
Walk to UF, UF Health, VA and Vet School; 
1st Floor, Granite Counters, Crown Molding; 
Washer & Dryer included; Community Pool 
& Fitness Center; STOP paying rent!!
Call Kelly Robert, Pepine Realty 352-222-1744
9-4-19-5-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
iMac for Sale.
I have several iMacs for sale. Loaded with 
Software. Great deal for music production 
or graphic design. Prices range from $179 
- $379. Call or text Joe at 1-833-327-4279.
8-30-3-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10
FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     9-4-19-
5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-4-43-12
Time to sell your Glow Worm? Your Garbage 
Pail Kids? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. 
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Designated drivers are lifesavers.
Learn how to make extra money each week 
doing surveys as a student. Thousands Of 
Paid Surveys Listed Each Month! Find out 
more: collegeclubs.club     8-30-19-4-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-4-40-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
“A free press can, of course, be good or 
bad, but, most certainly without freedom, the 
press will never be anything but bad.” 
– Albert Camus1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 12 AutosBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  Without difficulty 
1.  Prohibit, command5.  Floor ____
2.  Asphalt ____6.  Complain
3.  Mesh, trellis7.  Break
4.  ____, GreeceSLEAYI
NOENJISTJIO
PRGEI
GHEISLN
CLAETTICSEESR
EAHSNTANSWERS: 1A-Easily  5A-Joist  6A-Gripe  7A-Recess
1D-Enjoin  2D-Shingle  3D-Lattice  4D-Athens  B-Johnny Carson8-28-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “People will pay more 
to be entertained than educated.” BONUS
SOLUTION ON PAGE 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Did you know? The NASA Vehicle Assembly Building in 
Florida is so huge it has its own weather.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-4-19-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    12-4-19-43-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
Facility in Alachua looking for student to 
maintain grounds, tractor work, light con-
struction, handyman repairs. 4-6 hr wk. $17/
hr. Flexible schedule.
Send summary of experience and contact 
info to biopressadmin@gmail.com.     8-30-
19-7-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
Is your business, club or organization 
having an event? Do you have a special 
Announcement? Place your ad here and get 
it noticed!★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-7-19-
21-14
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for a PART TIME 
Patient Greeter for our Gainesville office lo-
cation. The hours for this position would be 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-2:30pm. Must be 
able to lift and/or push 50+ pounds and be 
on their feet for long periods of time.   9-11-
19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a 
service? Place your ad in the  Services 
Section of the Alligator Classifieds for 
as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 
373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-1514 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1. ANATOMY: What is a more com-
mon name for “deciduous teeth”? 
2. GEOGRAPHY: In which country 
would you find the Lynden Pindling 
International Airport?
3. MATH: How many different com-
binations of tic-tac-toe games are pos-
sible?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which nation’s flag features a 
six-pointed blue star?
5. LITERATURE: Which 19th-cen-
tury novel features a character named 
Phileas Fogg?
6. GAMES: Which game promises 
to “tie you up in knots”?
7. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which 
19th-century writer/philosopher once 
said, “One must maintain a little bit of 
summer, even in the middle of winter”?
8. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is rep-
resented in the condition called gam-
ophobia?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of alligators called?
10. THEATER: What does Dolly do 
for a living in the play “Hello, Dolly!”
Answers
1. Baby (or milk) teeth
2. Nassau, Bahamas
3. More than 250,000, excluding 
symmetry
4. Israel
5. “Around the World in Eighty Days”
6. Twister
7. Henry David Thoreau
8. Fear of marriage or commitment
9. A congregation
10. She’s a matchmaker.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 26, 2019King Features Weekly Service
HERE IS A PLEASANT LITTLE GAME that will give you a message every day. It's a 
numerical puzzle designed to spell out your fortune. Count the letters in your first name. If 
the number of letters is 6 or more, subtract 4. If the number is less than 6, add 3. The result 
is your key number. Start at the upper left-hand corner and check one of your key numbers, 
left to right. Then read the message the letters under the checked figures give you.
By Steve Mossberg
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, August 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Renovator’s 
protective cover
5 Not so exciting
10 Soak up the sun
14 “Dies __”: Latin 
hymn
15 Yoga pose
16 Hatchet man __ 
Brasi of “The 
Godfather”
17 *Speak carefully 
to avoid offense
19 Spoken
20 2019 award for 
author Walter 
Mosley
21 *Yahtzee, for one
23 Cry of success 
that can also 
be a sarcastic 
admission of 
failure
26 Ad-__: improvise
29 “__ won’t do”
30 Pinch pennies
35 Post-op sites
37 Not fooled by
39 Ho Chi Minh 
Mausoleum city
40 *Homemade 
song assortment
42 *Vocally imitate a 
drum machine
44 Spoken
45 Poetry event
47 Hatcher or Polo
48 Status __
50 Forget to mention
52 Report card 
bummer
53 Norse mythology 
upheaval used as 
the subtitle of a 
2017 “Thor” film
56 *Lunch from 
home
60 Repairs
64 Marshmallow 
blackener
65 Kitchen guide 
... and where to 
find the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues
68 Discomfit
69 Save a ton on 
the wedding 
reception?
70 Not pro
71 Sty feed
72 Often __: half the 
time
73 Check signerDOWN
1 Life partner
2 Dry as a desert
3 Tolled, as a bell
4 Pie nut
5 Word after hee 
or yee
6 Spanish bear
7 Most challenging
8 Reversed
9 Dinosaur Jr. 
frontman J __
10 Online journal
11 General vibe
12 Take in
13 Leafy vegetable
18 Middle of Q.E.D.
22 __ Sketch
24 Blue-roofed 
eatery
25 Fishing gear
26 Succotash 
beans
27 Without warmth
28 Full-bosomed
31 “Out of the 
Cellar” metal 
band
32 Under the covers
33 Boxing legend 
Archie
34 Impish fairy
36 Incomplete 
Wikipedia entry38 “Becoming” 
memoirist 
Michelle
41 Add beauty to
43 Mideast noble
46 Scam that  
takes a while to 
pay off
49 __ Tar Pits
51 Thick book
54 Irish speakers
55 Meaty fare from 
a falafel stand56 Closest pals, 
initially
57 Tehran money
58 Rice-shaped 
pasta
59 Shed tears
61 Pitching gem,  
in baseball  
slang
62 “i” pieces
63 Hits the slopes
66 Wall St. debut
67 Darling
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/27/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/27/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, August 27, 2019
ACROSS
1 Makes a hasty 
getaway
5 Insect stage after 
larva
9 Bathroom wall 
piece
13 Not many
14 Umpires’ 
decisions
16 Cabinet dept. 
with a windmill on 
its seal
17 Toy on a track
19 Volcanic output
20 WWI French 
soldier
21 Almanacs, 
calendars, etc.
23 Drag one’s feet
24 Native growth in 
an Asian orchard
25 Philosopher 
__-tzu
27 Mme., in Madrid
28 Money for the 
poor
32 Ancient 
colonnade
35 Bumper sticker 
word
39 Grilling accessory
42 Award for “Green 
Book”
43 Spanish appetizer
44 Ward of “Once 
and Again”
45 Korean soldier
47 Springsteen’s 
“Born in the __”
49 Result of too-tight 
jeans, perhaps
54 TV monitoring 
device
59 Directed
60 Maine college 
town
61 “Star Trek” 
helmsman
62 Blather, and a 
phonetic hint to 
the four other 
longest answers
65 “The Time 
Machine” race
66 Gave an address
67 Foul mood
68 Director Gus 
Van __
69 Laundry blemish
70 Red and Coral, 
but not pink
DOWN
1 Reading lights
2 Underway, to 
Sherlock3 TV, radio, 
newspapers,  
etc.
4 “Great!”
5 Interest rate fig.
6 Short-lived 
Egypt-Syr. 
alliance
7 __ del Rey: 
L.A. beach 
community
8 Roswell 
crash victim, 
supposedly
9 Stretch the truth
10 “... bombs 
bursting __”
11 Protective river 
embankment
12 Clear from the 
blackboard
15 Hitches
18 Temporary  
calm
22 Composer Ned
24 Sacred choral 
piece
26 Volcanic output
28 Latin “I love”
29 French article
30 Rock’s 
Fleetwood __
31 Tropical food that 
has a five-point 
shape when 
sliced33 U.K. singer  
Rita __
34 Intensify
36 Hot time on the 
Riviera
37 Cartoon frame
38 La-la lead-in
40 Square root of 
neuf
41 Western treaty 
gp.
46 “Trick” joints
48 Declare openly
49 Exodus leader50 Throat dangler
51 Serious criminal
52 Subs at the 
office
53 “Hop __”: Dr. 
Seuss book
55 In a foul mood
56 “Stormy Weather” 
singer Lena
57 Mumbai’s land
58 Twitter updates
63 Ring ref’s 
decision
64 To this point
08/26/19Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Junior UF soccer forward 
Deanne Rose earned the 
ﬁ  rst SEC Offensive Player of 
the Week award of the 2019 
season.Men's basketball transfers will sit out 2019-20 season
Forward Anthony Duruji and point guard Tyree Appleby will sit out the 
2019-20 men's basketball season due to NCAA transfer rules. Duruji, a Loui-
siana T ech product, and Appleby, a Cleveland State product, will still play 
roles on the scout team.FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
The dust has settled 
after Florida’s uninspir-
ing 24-20 season-open-
ing win over Miami. 
With the team back in 
Gainesville, the media 
had the chance to speak 
with players and coaches 
after Tuesday’s practice. 
Here are ﬁ  ve of the most 
interesting quotes:
Quarterback Feleipe 
Franks on the reaction 
to him yelling into a 
camera and his touch-
down celebration:
“I don’t play to please 
anybody. I play to win. 
I play to help this team 
win, the program win. 
That’s what I’ve been 
doing ever since I’ve 
been here. I don’t play 
to please anybody. Any-
body outside this build-
ing … I come in here ev-
ery single day, we work 
our tails off to go out there on Saturdays and 
win. That’s what I play 
for, that’s what I do. And 
we got the win and got 
the job accomplished as 
a team.”
Franks on his second 
interception:
“Ultimately, I was 
trying to throw the ball 
away. Somebody was 
right (on) me, and I was 
trying to get the ball over 
him to throw the ball out 
of bounds. I couldn’t get 
enough on it.”
Wide receiver Trevon 
Grimes on Franks:
“People don’t under-
stand, he goes through 
so much stuff. He goes 
through so much criti-
cism. And he still has 
to go out there and play 
in front of 80,000 fans. 
So it’s a lot of pressure, 
and when he shows that 
he can do what every-
one thinks he can’t, it’s 
a pride-ﬁ  lling presence. It’s just like, ‘That’s my 
quarterback,’ and I get to 
brag about that.”
Grimes on the team’s 
mistakes:
“I kind of feel like in 
the ﬁ  rst half we were 
making mental mis-
takes and kind of beat 
ourselves. … So I really 
feel like the score should 
have been a lot different, 
but at the end of the day 
we came out victorious, 
and that’s all that mat-
ters.”
Defensive Coordina-
tor Todd Grantham on 
penalties:
“So we’ve got to coach 
that better and they’ve 
got to execute better, so 
we’ll all do better at that. 
You’ve got to understand 
your leverage and that 
goes back to the choices 
with your eyes, under-
stand that you maintain Florida football: 5 of the best quotes from Tuesday’s practice
You don’t have to look far to 
ﬁ  nd critics of  Florida foot-
ball’s Week 0 performance.
Twitter mentions and 
message boards are ﬁ  lled 
with vitriol toward the Gators. My 
colleagues and I at alligatorSports 
have focused on some of the nega-
tives rather than the positives, so I’m 
here to change up my tone a little bit.
UF beat in-state rival Miami on a 
neutral site, and it should be treated 
as exactly what it was: a win.
The Hurricanes were the Gators’ ﬁ  rst test, 
and UF passed. The same can’t be said for last 
season when Florida dropped its contest against 
Kentucky at home, marking the ﬁ  rst time in 31 
years the Gators lost to the Wildcats. Florida, 
however, still managed to ﬁ  nish the season as a 
top 10 team. So in the words of Aaron Rodgers, 
“R-E-L-A-X."
UF didn’t look polished or particularly domi-
nant against UM, that’s for sure. But I’m quite 
positive Gators fans would prefer to pick apart 
quarterback Feleipe Franks’ performance and 
coach Dan Mullen’s play-calling with their team 
1-0, rather than 0-1.
Criticism comes every Sunday morning, but 
wins don’t necessarily come every Saturday.
Miami came out and smacked the Gators in 
the mouth on the opening drive. UM quarterback 
Jarren Williams looked better than I’m sure even 
many Miami fans hoped. However, UF’s defense 
stood resolute and held the Hurricanes to a ﬁ  eld 
goal and largely limited UM’s ability to march 
down the ﬁ  eld again the way it did in that ﬁ  rst 
drive.In fact, most of Miami’s points 
followed mistakes by Florida’s of-
fense. It wasn’t lapses by UF's de-
fense that necessarily yielded points, 
rather UM capitalized on mistakes — 
like Malik Davis’ fumble.
The Gators defense excelled, get-
ting to Williams 10 times. Jabari 
Zuniga and Jonathan Greenard, 
playing his ﬁ  rst game in orange and 
blue, combined for 12 tackles, ﬁ  ve 
tackles for loss and three sacks and 
dominated in Miami’s backﬁ  eld.
In what was largely a defensive battle, Flori-
da’s defense shined, and its offense did what it 
had to do. Franks, in classic fashion, played the 
villain and the hero, but when it mattered most, 
he delivered an absolute dime to Josh Hammond 
and capped off the go-ahead drive with a three-
yard rushing touchdown.
Then, his defense made sure that drive was 
in fact the game-winning drive by making a stop 
after Franks threw an inexplicable interception.
The game got a little off the hinges, especially 
in the ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve minutes. How off-course it be-
came made it somewhat difﬁ  cult to draw conclu-
sions from either team’s performance so, if noth-
ing else, take away this: Florida beat a fringe top 
25 team in spite of fumbles, interceptions, missed 
tackles and repeated pass interference fouls.
The Gators now have an off week to address 
those issues and then a cupcake game to translate 
its practice into performance. And they have the 
cushion of being 1-0 all the while.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBy the way, the Gators wonKyle's FilesChris King / Alligator Staff
UF receiver Trevon Grimes (right) on quarterback Feleipe Franks' celebrations: "People don’t 
understand, he goes through so much stuff. He goes through so much criticism. " 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Feleipe Franks hit receiver Josh Hammond on a 65-yard streak in 
the fourth quarter. It set up  Franks' game-winning touchdown run.
Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 12your proper eye control that allows 
you to maintain your leverage. And 
then choices, you’ve got to under-stand there’s a sideline, when the 
guy’s out of bounds, you can’t hit 
him. So that’s pretty basic.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team is in the middle 
of a ﬁ  ve-match road trip. This stretch fea-
tures ﬁ  ve top 25 opponents, three top 5 
opponents and a contest against the No. 1 
Florida State Seminoles. 
On Tuesday, the Gators ﬂ  ew to Los 
Angeles to face two of those top 5 teams: 
Southern California (5) and UCLA (4). While these opponents are much stiffer 
competition than Friday and Sunday’s con-
tests against Florida Atlantic and South 
Florida, those games should give them 
conﬁ  dence heading out west, here’s why:
Espinoza in goal
Entering year one as the full-time start-
er, Susi Espinoza has been brilliant in her 
ﬁ  rst two games in 2019. The 5-foot-6 goal-keeper registered a career-best eight saves 
against USF. 
Full-time Rose
In 2018, Deanne Rose only played 10 
games in a Florida uniform because of 
her time spent with the Canadian national 
team. However, the junior from Ontario, 
Canada, is now back for the Gators and has 
been UF’s biggest scoring threat so far this 
season with three goals in 
two games. 
“We all know how good 
she is, it’s just great when 
she’s able to be here,” 
coach Becky Burleigh said 
about her star player. “This 
season’s going to be a lot 
better than last season in 
terms of her availability, so 
we’re excited about that.” 
A healthy Loferski
Redshirt junior Kit Lofer-
ski’s Florida career, to this 
point, has been riddled with 
injuries. After contributing 
as a freshman in 2016 by 
appearing in 19 games and 
scoring three goals, 2017 
and 2018 brought her sea-son-ending knee injuries. Now that she’s 
at full health and netted a goal against the 
Bulls, Loferski has already given a boost to 
UF’s scoring, an enormous problem for the 
team in 2018. 
In addition to coach Burleigh getting 
back a healthy Loferski, she is conﬁ  dent 
after their last two victories.
“Those were two big wins for us be-
cause we were on the road against two 
quality opponents, USF’s a ranked oppo-
nent,” Burleigh said. “Always tough to 
play both of those teams, and I think that 
both of those teams will do really well this 
year, so really happy to start out 2-0.” 
USF was ranked No. 18 heading into 
Sunday’s game, but the Gators’ dominant 
2-0 performance knocked them out of the 
top 25. Furthermore, Florida received more 
votes in the most recently updated poll 
(44) than the Bulls did (36). 
The past two games have already helped 
UF climb back into top 25 territory. Con-
tinuing to face tough opponents provides 
the Gators plenty of opportunity to move 
up. 
“Our next three games are against three 
teams in the top 5,” Burleigh said. “We’ll 
know a lot more about our team after this 
week.” 
gmarsh@alligator.org
@GrahamMarshUF12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeFOOTBALL,  from pg. 11Sounds from Tuesday
Alligator File Photo
UF forward Deanne Rose scored three goals in the Gators' first two games. She only played in 
10 games in 2018 due to her obligations to the Canadian national team.
SOCCER
Gators head to Los Angeles to play two top 5 opponents