We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Arrest at Trump Jr. protest
Read about the only ﬁ  ght that broke out Thursday, pg 5
UF celebrates National Coming Out Day 
Gay comedian and transgender athlete spoke to students, pg 3Gators push forward after loss
After losing to Georgia last year, the 
Gators came out ﬂ  at against Missouri. 
They hope to prevent the same against 
South Carolina on Saturday, pg. 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 23
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DAY 
REPLACED COLUMBUS 
DAY IN PARTS OF US
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Matthew Diaz didn’t feel repre-
sented at UF, so he made a space for 
students like him. 
As a Hispanic student with indig-
enous Peruvian Quechua and Puerto Rican Taíno roots, he said he noticed 
more representation for minority 
groups but still felt that Native Amer-
icans were left out. So he founded 
and became president of the Indige-
nous-American Student Association, 
a new club to honor and represent 
indigenous students at UF. 
For Indigenous Peoples Day, 
which is today, the club will focus 
on education outreach through ta-
bling, displaying art in the UF Multi-cultural & Diversity Affairs suite and 
showing a ﬁ  lm in the Reitz Union 
Hispanic-Latino Engagement Center, 
or La Salita, from 5 to 7 p.m. 
“Part of doing that was then re-
alizing how little representation 
these different sides of myself had 
throughout my life,” Diaz said. “And 
the reason I didn’t identify with 
them as strongly was because you 
don’t see them anywhere.”UF students start new indigenous club
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Chi Phi chapter is on 
interim suspension after allega-
tions of hazing were reported to 
the fraternity’s national ofﬁ  ce 
and UF administration. 
Chi Phi national executive 
director Michael Azarian en-
acted the suspension on Oct. 2, 
according to a letter he emailed 
Chad Grodi, president of UF’s 
Chi Phi chapter. All chapter ac-
tivities are banned, and the al-
legations are currently under 
investigation. 
Banned activities include all 
“parties, mixers, Brotherhood 
events, recruitment, rituals, 
philanthropies, fundraisers, in-
tramurals, Homecoming events, 
and all New Member activities,” 
Azarian wrote. 
He also banned new mem-
bers from entering the chap-
ter house until the suspension 
ends. It is uncertain when this 
will happen. 
Dean of Students Heather 
White emailed Grodi on Oct. 3 after Chi Phi’s national ofﬁ  ce 
notiﬁ  ed UF of possible hazing. 
She placed the fraternity on UF-
backed interim suspension and 
added that all members, not just 
new ones, should not visit the 
fraternity house until the inves-
tigation is over unless they live 
or eat there. 
No further speciﬁ  cs were 
given regarding the recent haz-
ing allegations. The Alligator 
emailed Grodi and UF Interfra-
ternity Council President Tyler 
Enright, but they did not imme-
diately respond to comment. 
In September 2018, Chi Phi 
faced possible suspension and 
was banned from hosting events 
with new members following 
other hazing allegations, ac-
cording to Alligator archives. 
The 2018 allegations includ-
ed lining new recruits up and 
blindfolding them while blast-
ing music in a dark hot room, 
according to UF’s Student Con-
ﬂ  ict and Conﬂ  ict Resolution site.
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgChi Phi suspended 
from campus 
UF HAS SEVEN AFRICAN 
AMERICAN FEMALE TENURE, 
TENURE-TRACKED MEMBERS
By Chasity Maynard
Alligator Staff Writer
Denise Simmons sees herself 
reﬂ  ected in her students, and she 
hopes her students feel the same.
The African American civil and 
coastal engineering associate pro-
fessor understood the importance 
of representation when approached 
by a black female engineering fresh-
man, who told Simmons she appre-
ciated her presence at a meeting they 
both attended. 
“Without me needing to ask her any other questions, I knew imme-
diately what she meant,” Simmons 
said. 
UF ranked ﬁ  rst in the U.S. in em-
ploying African American female 
faculty members in tenure or tenure-
track positions, according to the 
American Society for Engineering 
Education, a nonproﬁ  t dedicated to 
engineering education. This was out 
of 338 four-year degree-granting en-
gineering schools.
The society ranked UF above two 
historically black universities in a re-
port published in its October Prism 
magazine issue. UF has seven female 
African American faculty members, 
Morgan State University ranked sec-
ond with six faculty members and Howard University in third with ﬁ  ve.
“I sense UF cares about who we 
are and the sustaining of us as pro-
fessionals and looks at us more than 
just a commodity to show off,” Sim-
mons said. 
Lakiesha Williams, a biomedical 
engineering associate professor, said 
UF’s Herbert Wertheim College of 
Engineering is welcoming, and the 
university works toward making its 
staff as diverse as Florida’s popula-
tion.
“Representation is critical, and 
it’s important for students to see 
people who look like themselves 
in the classroom and outside of the 
classroom,” Williams said.Report: UF engineering has most African 
American female faculty in USHAZING ALLEGATIONS ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION
SEE ENGINEERING,  PAGE 4
Sam Thomas/ Alligator Staff
The Gators’ 10-game winning streak ended Saturday night, as quarterback Joe Burrow 
and LSU erupted for 511 yards of offense in a 42-28 win. STREAK OVER
SEE INDIGENOUS,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  67°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Celebrating Indigenous 
Peoples' Day: Film Showcase 
at La Salita
When: Today, 5 to 7 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union 
Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs Department, Reitz Union 
2nd floor
What: The Indigenous American 
Student Association is retaking 
what has historically been 
known as Columbus Day invite 
people to celebrate Indigenpus 
Peoples' Day. From 5 p.m. to 7 
p.m. students can stop by the 
Hispanic and Latino Engagement 
Center to  talk about what it 
means to be Indigenous, modern 
issues facing Indigenous Peoples 
today and more. 
SciArt Meetup: Pollinators
When: Tuesday, 6:30 to 9 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: Visit the SciArt Meetups 
to explore exhibits and create art 
inspired by Florida nature and 
culture. Join the museum for a 
brief art or science presentation 
on pollinators. The program fee 
is $7 per person and includes a 
working studio space and after-
hours entry to select exhibits. 
Artists must bring their own 
supplies. For more information 
or to register, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
sciart-pollinators or call 352-273-2062.
Science on Tap
When: Thursday, 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m.
Where: Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Co., 1001 NW 4th St.
What: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History and the 
UF’s Thompson Earth Systems 
Institute will host “Science on 
Tap: Sharks” as part of the 
series “Is Florida Trying to 
Kill Me?” The guest speaker is 
Tyler Bowling of the Florida 
Program for Shark Research. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
sot-sharks or call 352-273-2062.
Florida Museum celebrates 
LBGTQ+ community in STEM
When: Saturday, 1 to 4 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: Hear from LGBTQ+ 
panelists as they discuss their 
experiences in STEM fields and 
educate guests on how to be 
better allies to the community. 
Get a behind-the-scenes tour 
of the McGuire Center for 
Lepidoptera and Biodiversity, 
discover organisms in nature 
that have LGBTQ+ traits, make 
wearable buttons and more. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
lgbtq or call 352-273-2055.Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Friday through Sunday, 
7 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 874 SE 
Fourth St.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests can upgrade 
their experience with Petty For 
The People Packages to receive 
additional merchandise and 
support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine.
Friends of the Library Book 
Sale 
When: Oct. 19, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., 
Oct. 23, noon to 6 p.m.
Where: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County, 430-B N Main 
St.
What: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County is hosting the 
Friends of the Library Sale. In 
addition to books, the sale will 
include art, comic books, manga, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records and 
more. Most items are priced 
between 25 cents and $4. On 
Tuesday, everything will be 
marked half-off, and Wednesday 
everything will be 10 cents. All 
proceeds support the Alachua 
County Library District and area 
literacy projects. Sale hours are 
Saturday, Oct. 19  from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. and noon to 6 p.m. 
Sunday through Wednesday. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 23
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org     
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
280 STUDENTS ATTENDED
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
Comedian Matteo Lane’s didn’t have to come 
out. His job said it all.
“My coming out story?” Lane asked UF students. 
“I was working at Michaels.” 
Students laughed as Lane coyly shrugged his 
shoulders with a smirk. 
Lane carried on with a Mariah Carey imperson-
ation and Food Network roasts at the Reitz Union on 
Friday, National Coming Out Day, a holiday found-
ed in remembrance of the anniversary of the 1987 
March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights.  
Lane, an LGBTQ+ advocate and New York-based 
comedian, performed for 280 students at Gator 
Nights hosted by Reitz Programming Board’s for 
National Coming Out Day. He was paid $5,500 from 
student activity and service fees.
Lane’s routine included jokes and personal anec-
dotes on his life as a gay man, which many of the at-
tendees could relate to. His hour-long performance 
was followed by a Q&A session.  
He worked as a television storyboard artist before 
starting his comedy career and later performed on 
comedy shows through Netflix, Comedy Central and 
late-night television.   
Itzhak Nevati, a 22-year-old UF industrial and 
systems engineering fifth-year, said it was inspiring to see a gay man successfully represent the LGBTQ 
community, especially on National Coming Out Day. 
“He’s very comfortable with his sexuality,” Ne-
vati said. “I think that enables people to be who 
they are, to show people you can be successful no 
matter your sexual orientation.”
RPB has hosted National Coming Out Day events 
for three years, but this year is the first time the 
board has brought in talent for a Coming Out Day 
event, said Tori Chin, RPB vice president of external 
affairs.
Chin said the event used to be much smaller and 
outside of the Reitz Union — but group members 
wanted to expand the event as much as possible.  
“We’ve seen the impact this event has had on 
people, and we wanted to make it bigger this year,” 
Chin said. “Each year we focus to make our events 
diverse and inclusive.”
AJ Ariondo, a 23-year-old UF history senior, has 
been watching Lane on Netflix and YouTube for 
about a year. His favorite anecdote of Lane’s is his 
story about Starbucks baristas chastising him for 
wearing fake glasses, he said. 
“He lived up to expectations, which was super 
nice,” Ariondo said. 
His favorite part of Lane’s show was the Q&A. 
“Having a comedian who’s been there, who’s 
come out to his parents... it’s nice to have that sort 
of representation,” he said
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org UF Celebrates National Coming Out Day 
Comedian, MTV star jokes about coming out story
Kasamba Kokayi / Alligator Contributor
Matteo Lane speaks to students during Gator nights Friday at the 
Reitz Union. 
SCHUYLER BAILAR SPOKE TO 
ABOUT 50 PEOPLE 
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
   Schuyler Bailar thought he lost his 
Harvard acceptance before he even started 
college. 
   Bailar was recruited for the Harvard women’s swim team and was terrified that 
he was going to lose his Harvard acceptance 
and team after coming out as a transgender 
male athlete.
   Bailar’s shared his story about becom-
ing the first transgender NCAA Division I 
athlete to compete in any sport at the Reitz 
Union Friday on National Coming Out Day. 
     He spoke to an audience of about 50 
people at an event hosted by Pride Student Union. He was paid $2,500.
   After coming out to the women’s coach 
before his freshman year, he was given the 
option to swim for the women’s or men’s 
team but was terrified instead of relieved. 
His dreams of reaching the Olympics be-
came blurry. 
   “I started really considering what it would 
actually mean to choose my happiness over 
my potential excellence,” he said.   After meeting with both teams and feeling 
support from both, Bailar decided to swim 
with the men’s team.  
     In the past, he has shared his story of 
accepting himself as a transgender male and 
the obstacles he’s faced, such as his eating 
disorder, on 60 Minutes and The Ellen De-
Generes Show. 
   During the Q&A, he was asked about ar-
guments against transgender athletes, such 
as the stereotype that transgender men have 
more feminine bodies, making them worse 
at sports.
    “My response is simply factual,” he said. 
“I beat 85 percent of all the men in this 
country.”
    Bailar’s UF presentation marked the end 
of the fifth week of his six-week speaking 
tour. He speaks to audiences of all ages and 
backgrounds, from kindergarteners and UF 
students to therapists.
   “The connections that I make with other 
trans folks means the absolute world to me 
because I can see that this means to them 
that they can exist too,” Bailar said.  “I 
didn’t have that when I was a kid, and I 
want to give that to people.” 
   Pride Student Union president Georges 
Obayi said members look up to Bailar as a 
role model, prompting the group to invite 
him. 
   “We want to recognize that history is 
always being made every single day,” Obayi 
said. “There’s always new opportunities to 
be had, and we always want to encourage 
you to keep forging along on your path.” 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgHarvard alum discusses journey as first transgender NCAA Division I athlete  
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Schuyler Bailar, 23, the first Division 1 NCAA transgender athlete, speaks about his life Friday to students. His speech marked the 
culmination of events put on by Pride Student Union celebrating National Coming Out Day.
4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019
GOVERNOR PLANS TO 
INCREASE MINIMUM 
TEACHER SALARY TO $47,500 
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis wants to in-
crease starting pay for Florida teach-
ers. However, some local educators 
are concerned about how his plan 
will affect veteran teachers. 
On Oct. 7, DeSantis announced 
he will ask lawmakers to raise the 
minimum teacher salary to $47,500 
in the next legislative session. But 
while some educators are happy to 
see a renewed focus on teacher sala-
ries in Florida, others have pointed 
out ﬂ  aws in DeSantis’ plan.
Jackie Johnson, spokesperson for Alachua County School Board, said 
there is concern that only new teach-
ers would beneﬁ  t. 
“While this would certainly help 
districts recruit more new teachers, 
it does absolutely nothing to help us 
retain existing teachers,” she said. 
“In fact, it could create divisions be-
tween beginning teachers and vet-
eran teachers.”
If lawmakers approve DeSantis’ 
proposal, Johnson said some new 
teachers could end up earning the 
same as underpaid veteran educa-
tors. 
The average starting pay for 
teachers in Florida is just below 
$38,000, according to 2017-18 data 
from the National Education Asso-
ciation.
DeSantis’ announcement comes two weeks after he announced his 
plan to abolish the controversial Best 
and Brightest bonus program, a pro-
gram created by the State of Florida 
to provide recruitment and retention 
awards to educators. He plans to re-
place Best and Brightest with the pay 
raise idea.  
The governor said via press re-
lease his budget proposal will in-
crease salaries for about 100,000 
teachers across the state and boost 
Florida’s ranking to second highest 
in the nation for average starting 
teacher pay. 
The proposal will help alleviate 
the shortage of teachers in the state, 
he said in the release. 
Alachua County Education As-
sociation president Carmen Ward 
said DeSantis’ announcement has brought more questions than an-
swers regarding how the $600 mil-
lion he’s requesting will be distrib-
uted. 
“We don’t know if this is reoc-
curring. We don’t know where the 
funds are coming from, or if there’s 
going to be additional funding for 
moving this base pay up,” she said. 
“There’s just a lot of unknown.”
However, Ward said many teach-
ers prefer a salary increase over the 
Best and Brightest bonus, which she 
said is a “one-year commitment” 
that previously discouraged teachers 
from remaining in the profession. 
“We are professional educators, 
and we want people to be in our 
profession for more than one year.” 
said Ward. “Educating students is 
so important to our civilization. It needs to be valued, and value looks 
like money.”
@alexldeluca
adeluca@alligator.orgGov. DeSantis’ teacher pay proposal met with confusion 
2017-2018 Average 
Starting T eacher 
Salaries by State:
• District of Columbia - 
$55,209
• New Jersey - $51,443
• California - $46,992
• Hawaii - $46,790
• New York - $45,589
• Florida - $37,636
Diaz, a 22-year-old UF politi-
cal science senior, had the idea to 
start the club during Spring and 
worked on logistics throughout 
the summer. The club announced 
itself on Instagram and Facebook 
Thursday. 
The association has four stu-
dent leaders who all have indig-
enous backgrounds. It does not 
have UF Student Government 
funding but does have support 
from MCDA and funding from 
UF’s American Indian and Indige-
nous Studies program, Diaz said. 
“Especially with Native Amer-
icans, it’s all painted over with 
a broad stroke, when in reality, 
there’s more than 500 different 
nations of Native American tribes 
that all speak different languages 
and have different cultures,” he 
said. 
Robin Wright, an associate 
professor in UF’s religion depart-
ment, is the faculty adviser of the 
Indigenous-American Student As-
sociation. He has been working with indigenous people for about 
50 years as a religion, anthropol-
ogy, Latin American studies and 
indigenous studies researcher. 
A decade ago, Indigenous 
Peoples Day was not celebrated 
in Gainesville, which is an area 
with a rich indigenous history, he 
said. 
“All of this land was once in-
digenous,” Wright said. 
The Timucua people inhab-
ited the Gainesville area and had 
long-term organized settlements, 
he said. With the introduction of 
infectious disease from European 
colonizers, the Timucua settle-ment was reduced to nothing but 
left its legacy on the area. 
Local indigenous history is 
seen even in the name of Alachua 
County.  Alachua is a word from 
a Native American language that 
means “sink,” according to the 
City of Alachua’s website.  
“People should be aware of 
not only the historical presence of 
native people in America but also 
the situations they face today,” 
Wright said. 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgINDIGENOUS,  from pg. 1‘All of this land was once indigenous’
However, the 2018 University of 
Southern California Race and Equity 
Center report gave UF an F for racial 
representation, the lowest grade in 
the racial representation category. The 
center measured racial equity by com-
paring black undergraduate enrollment 
to the black Florida resident population 
in the 18- to 24-year-old age group.
The UF math department employs 
one African American professor, who 
is a woman, as of February.
According to UF’s enrollment web-
site, the Student Body is:
- 57.07 percent white 
- 15 percent Hispanic/Latinx
- 7.35 percent Asian
- 7.08 percent black or African 
American
- 0.32 percent American Indian or 
Alaska Native 
- 0.29 percent Native Hawaiian or 
Paciﬁ  c Islander
Juan Gilbert, computer and infor-
mation science and engineering depart-
ment chair, said UF should be praised. 
Gilbert said outpacing two historically 
black universities challenges other schools nationwide 
to meet new diver-
sity expectations. 
“Many colleg-
es of engineering 
would say, ‘Well, 
we would never 
be number one for 
African American 
female tenure track 
faculty. The HBCUs 
will always beat 
us,’” Gilbert said. 
“They can’t say that 
now.”
Antonio Farias, 
UF’s chief diversity 
ofﬁ  cer, wrote in an 
email that diversity is important to re-
taining students and faculty.
“Students come to UF expecting to 
experience the diversity and sense of 
belonging of their neighborhoods,” he 
wrote. “When students feel like they 
belong, it removes barriers to experi-
encing the full power of the Gator Na-
tion.”
@chasitymaynard0
cmaynard@alligator.orgENGINEERING,  from pg. 1UF Student Body is 7 percent black
Simmons
Williams
1792: Columbus Day celebrations begin in New York City
1977: Indigenous Peoples Day ﬁ  rst celebrated 
2014: Seattle and Minneapolis replace Columbus Day for 
Indigenous Peoples Day
Fall 2019: Indigenous-American Student Association 
started at UF 
Oct. 2019: At least eight states, 10 universities and more 
than 130 cities observe Indigenous Peoples Day 
(According to USA T oday)UF GRADUATE ASSISTANT 
CHARGED FOR TAKING 
TRUMP SUPPORTER’S HAT 
By Dana Cassidy and April 
Rubin
Alligator Staff Writers
While hundreds protested Donald 
Trump Jr. and senior campaign adviser 
Kimberly Guilfoyle’s speech Thursday, a 
confrontation between two men led to a 
UF graduate assistant’s arrest.
Richard Tate, 36, was arrested af-
ter grabbing a man’s “Make America 
Great Again” hat at the protest outside 
of Trump Jr.’s speech at UF. The man 
wearing the hat, Brian Patrick Smith, 
was holding a poster that read, “ISLAM 
IS RIGHT ABOUT WOMEN.” 
Smith got his hat back by tackling 
Tate. The confrontation appears to be 
the only physically violent incident at 
the protest.
Tate was charged with robbery by 
sudden snatching after Smith pressed 
charges, according to court records. Tate 
was released from jail on his own recog-
nizance Friday afternoon.
Trump supporters such as Smith 
were also outside the University Audi-
torium. 
Smith was standing outside the au-
ditorium holding the poster above his 
head while walking through a crowd 
of people. When behind Smith, Tate 
grabbed Smith’s cap and started running 
away. Smith followed Tate and tackled him to the ground. 
Tate declined to comment until he 
spoke with his attorney when The Alli-
gator contacted him. 
Smith spoke to The Alligator on 
Thursday when he returned after police 
escorted him away from the area.
“I pressed charges on somebody who 
attacked me for holding a sign, for sim-
ply holding a sign because he doesn’t 
like it,” Smith said. He later said he “rag-
dolled [Tate] to the ground.” 
The protest was organized the same 
day ACCENT Speakers Bureau Trump Jr. 
and Guilfoyle’s speech was announced. 
Outside the University Auditorium, more 
than 300 people held signs and chanted 
against the speakers and the $50,000 of 
student fees used to pay them. 
University Police provided security 
inside and outside the event. 
Isabella Garcia, a 21-year-old UF po-
litical science and telecommunication 
junior, ﬁ  lmed the ﬁ  ght and posted it on 
Facebook. She said Smith was verbally 
provoking students. Law enforcement 
told her they couldn’t do anything un-
less he harmed someone. 
Garcia’s video shows Smith cursing 
and yelling at student protesters when 
he returned. 
“I feel safety wasn’t provided for stu-
dents,” Garcia said. “Maybe for one side 
of the students who were going to the 
speech, but the students protesting out-
side didn’t get enough security.”
dcassidy@alligator.org
arubin@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
NARAYANA ARY IS 
ACCUSED OF 
ATTEMPTED MURDER
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of stabbing his 
friend multiple times Saturday at 
midnight after an argument was ar-
rested.
Narayana Ary, 38, was taken into custody by SWAT, the Negotiations 
Response Team and the Emergency 
Services Team after refusing to leave 
his apartment on the 900 block of 
Southwest Eighth Avenue for seven 
hours following the incident, accord-
ing to a Gainesville Police release. 
He is currently in the Alachua 
County Jail on an attempted murder 
charge with no bond as of Saturday 
afternoon.
The victim was found within minutes of the ofﬁ  cers’ arrival and 
taken to the hospital under a trauma 
alert.
At midnight, law enforcement 
were parked along the street and to-
ward the back of the Kappa Alpha 
Theta sorority house. The area was 
quiet with little to no people watch-
ing.
“This was a dynamic and lengthy 
occurrence,” the press release wrote.
UF alerts were sent to students early Saturday morning. 
Updates and more information 
will be provided today, according to 
the release.
Ary was previously arrested in 
2015 after stealing people’s identities 
to open store credit cards in Broward 
and Palm Beach County, according 
to court records.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGPD: Man arrested for stabbing his friend after argument
April Rubin / Alligator Staff
Brian Patrick Smith (right) was outside University Auditorium Thursday night among people 
protesting against Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle’s speech. Richard T ate was arrested 
after taking Smith’s “Make America Great Again” cap.
One MAGA hat, one arrest: The only ﬁ  ght at Trump Jr. protestAry
EditorialMONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
Over a week ago, House Speaker Nancy 
Pelosi announced that the House of Rep-
resentatives was launching an ofﬁ  cial im-
peachment inquiry into President Donald 
Trump. The announcement came after 
reports emerged of an anonymous whistle-blower 
complaint regarding a phone call between Trump 
and Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky. It 
was thought that Trump had pressured Zelensky 
during the call for political dirt on former Vice 
President Joe Biden in exchange for foreign aid. 
And before any details were known about the call, 
Pelosi accused Trump of “betraying his oath of ofﬁ  ce,” in-
voking the founders’s constitutional vision of impeachment 
to remove a sitting president. 
However, now we know the details surrounding the 
call, and opponents of the president have failed to high-
light any “high crime or misdemeanor,” which are the 
prerequisites for impeachment. Instead, politicians like 
Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez or Maxine Waters have 
used broad language to describe the president’s general, 
thematic misbehavior, diminishing the latest revelations 
as simply “another reason” to impeach. Their argument, 
though, has actually been articulated before, and it reﬂ  ects 
the ones our framers had with each other at the constitu-
tional convention. 
After the Articles of Confederation failed to produce an 
orderly nation, Alexander Hamilton and James Madison 
penned the Federalist papers to advocate for a stronger 
federal government. Within Federalist Paper 65, Hamilton 
argued that the Congress should possess impeachment pow-
ers against the president, a necessary tool to enforce the 
idea of checks and balances. But our framers disagreed on 
the grounds by which the president could be impeached. 
George Mason, for example, felt that the president should be 
impeached under the guidelines of “maladministration,” a 
broad legal term used by six states in the colonies to indicate bad, or corrupt, governance. Mason held this view 
because of his strong fear of tyranny. But Madi-
son, often referred to as the “father of the Consti-
tution,” objected to this terminology, saying, “so 
vague a term will be equivalent to a tenure during 
pleasure of the Senate.” 
Madison correctly understood that factions, 
a term we now understand as political parties, 
would likely abuse this broad language to unfairly 
remove a duly elected president in the pursuit of 
political power. It would also weaken the federal 
government, which our framers were attempting 
to strengthen through the Constitution. Instead, the framers 
agreed upon the idea that impeachment proceedings would 
occur under the guidelines of “high crimes and misdemean-
ors,” a more concrete legal term found in English common 
law. Chief Justice John Marshall, for example, said, “It is 
used in a very old statute of that country whose language 
is our language, and whose laws form the substratum of 
our laws.” It encompassed crimes beyond treason and brib-
ery but did not give factions the opportunity to weaken the 
federal government or easily pursue their own political in-
terests. 
It is clear that Democrat partisans view impeachment of 
Trump as Mason once did. They are certainly unhappy with 
Trump’s method of governance and want to see him re-
moved from ofﬁ  ce one way or another. But as of now, there 
is no incident where Trump can be impeached under the 
Constitution’s guidelines. If Democrats continue to pursue 
this course, they risk making Trump the ﬁ  rst U.S. president 
in history to be impeached and later go on to win reelection. 
When the children of the future learn their presidential 
history, they might see this impeachment process as a battle 
between factions in pursuit of political power and the people 
who elected Trump as their president.
Anthony Leonardi is a UF political science senior.There’s no reason to impeach the president
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The problems that 
come after #MeToo
No one likes being ignored. It’s one of the most 
annoying things you can do to a person, oth-
er than completely misinterpreting something 
they’ve said. This is especially annoying when it 
relates to one of the most important movements 
in modern history.
The #MeToo movement is under attack. We aren’t 
speciﬁ  cally talking about President Donald Trump’s 
mocking remarks or the #HimToo movement (which 
thankfully went down in history as a meme). The true 
problem seems to lie within the workforce.
According to the Hufﬁ  ngton Post, 60 percent of male 
managers say they are uncomfortable with working 
closely with female workers. This includes working 
one-on-one, mentoring or even just socializing with fe-
male workers. That number was just 28 percent in 2018, 
when to the #MeToo movement ﬁ  rst started. 
Why is this the case? It seems like men are starting 
to care more about their jobs. Too bad they can’t care 
about women instead. 
The focus of sexual assault prevention seems to be 
on the allegations themselves rather than the women 
affected. People appear to care less about progressing 
women’s rights and more about keeping the workplace 
civil, and unfortunately, to them, women are part of this 
problem.
Women are less likely to be hired. According to 
Forbes, 21 percent of men and 12 percent of women are 
reluctant to hire women in jobs that would require close 
relations with men. What’s even more shocking is that 
6 percent of women say that attractive women are less 
likely to be hired due to the #MeToo movement. Women 
are already 30 percent less likely to be considered within 
a hiring process when compared to men, so this recent 
hiring trend is even more concerning.
Overall, women’s relationships with their bosses are 
suffering, and it’s affecting their ability to climb the cor-
porate ladder. Having the right skill set is one thing, but 
it’s also important to build relationships within one’s 
place of work. Commonly known as a sponsorship, 
people in the workplace tend to have a mentor who 
looks out for them in case they do something wrong. 
The sponsor or mentor tries to ﬁ  nd ways in which they 
can advance their mentee’s career. In some cases, it’s 
even called “having a rabbi” due to the closeness of the 
relationship. Unfortunately, it’s difﬁ  cult to have a rela-
tionship with someone who’s afraid of being alone in a 
room with you. 
Despite this, the #MeToo movement is still essential 
for the progression of women’s rights. In fact, the down-
sides showcase how important the movement really is. 
The fact that there are still issues with sexual harass-
ment in the workplace, whether it be the actual action 
or fear of it, shows that there is more work to be done. 
We have to work harder to ensure that the things we 
ﬁ  ght for are what we get and that there are no possible 
ways to be cheated out of them.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Anthony 
Leonardt
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
As college students, our majors are 
closely tied to our identities, whether 
we like to admit it or not. 
It’s always questioned within the 
ﬁ  rst few minutes of meeting another 
student and tends to come with the usual ex-
pressions. There’s the dreaded tilt of the head, 
the confused furrow of brows or maybe the 
arrogant shift in the eyes afﬁ  rming their supe-
riority over you. All of this comes before the 
question: 
“Well, what are you going to do with that?” 
Sigh. 
As a former English major, I understand the 
judgment that can spew from this conversation 
all too well. 
It’s a judgment that’s centered around non-
STEM majors and their alleged limited ability 
to ﬁ  nd a job or make a decent salary after col-
lege. Engineering and nursing majors never get 
questioned. There’s a common understanding 
that they’ll struggle in college and ﬁ  nd a job 
once they graduate, but in this day and age, you’d be ignorant to believe that 
anything is guaranteed. 
It’s not about what major you 
pursue right now, it’s what you do 
with it.
Non-STEM majors often teach 
students how to communicate and 
formulate an argument, instead of 
regurgitating the same thought as 
the one read off the internet. There 
is not a straight, predetermined path 
toward your future: you’re the one 
who gets to design it.
Students with history majors may be co-
ordinating ground-breaking studies that will 
push their careers forward. English majors 
may end up completing studies for the govern-
ment. In some cases, humanities majors can 
have more credentials on their resumes than 
STEM majors.  
According to LinkedIn’s research, the most 
desired “soft-skills” in 2019 were creativity and 
persuasion, both of which are at the center of many humanities degrees. Addition-
ally, a 2015 study concluded that 
medical students with a humanities 
degree have more positive skills like 
empathy in their practice.
Ask some questions before you 
jump to judge someone’s major. 
At a high-ranking university like 
UF, they’re all going to have their 
challenges. Financial accounting is 
rough. Fine arts majors put in way 
more time and dedication than the 
number of credit hours they sign up for.          
Instead of just asking someone, “What are 
you going to do with that?” try asking some-
one, “Why did you choose that major?” The 
answers you’ll receive will be immensely more 
interesting and demonstrative of the person’s 
character. 
In fact, when passion spills from one’s lips, 
the major doesn’t matter. It’s not always about 
what type of major one has. It’s how one uses 
it. It’s what skills one garners from the curricu-lum and how one pitches oneself afterward.
You could also ask someone what they 
like about their major. When it comes to your 
bachelor’s degree, the major is not as impor-
tant. According to The Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, only about a quarter of college 
graduates with jobs that require a bachelor’s 
degree are working in a job related to their ma-
jor.  
At the end of the day, have respect for the 
major people choose. The only thing you might 
be able to judge is their reasoning behind it. 
And at the very least, please try to hide your 
judgment when asking: “What are you going 
to do with that?” 
Following in another’s footsteps might not 
let you see the paths best suited to you. 
Lauren Rousseau is UF journalism sopho-
more. Questions to ask that aren’t, “What are you going to do with that major?”Column
It’s the most wonder-
ful time of the year, 
and there are dozens 
of movies to watch to 
get you into the holi-
day spirit. It’s spooky sea-
son, and we can honor the 
ghouls and goblins this 
month by watching proper 
seasonal ﬁ  lms.
Hands down, the best 
Halloween movie, beyond 
a doubt, is “It’s the Great Pump-
kin, Charlie Brown.” Any Charles 
M. Schulz movie will always take 
the cake. The aesthetic of pink and 
purple watercolor sunsets makes the 
ﬁ  lm not only entertaining, but a work 
of art. The soundtrack, produced by 
the Vince Guaraldi Trio, is sure to 
put you in a festive mood. Then, of 
course, there is the humor native to 
all “Peanuts” comics, with Charlie 
Brown lamenting that he got a rock 
while trick or treating, and Snoopy 
ﬂ  ying his dog house as a WWI air-
craft, yet making it home on time for 
the Halloween festivities. Linus and 
his innocent belief in the arrival of 
the Great Pumpkin will get you into 
the holiday spirit, especially if you’re 
feeling a bit overwhelmed with mid-
term exams and papers. 
Tim Burton’s “The Nightmare 
Before Christmas” is a close second. 
If creepy is what you like, creepy 
is what you get. Some people are 
averse to his aesthetic, but all my fa-
vorite movies are stop motion (i.e., 
“Fantastic Mr. Fox”). The weirder 
the better, right? This 1993 movie 
combines my two favorite holidays 
in one, so what’s not to love? If you 
like romance, you’ll like the subplot 
of Jack and Sally’s undying love for 
one another: #RelationshipGoals. If 
you’re more into horror, this movie is 
deﬁ  nitely for you. The characters are 
lovable, the music is fantastic and the 
plot is intriguing. The Pumpkin King 
is here to get you excited for Oct. 31. 
Burton is in the rankings yet again, 
but this time for the stop motion ﬁ  lm 
“Corpse Bride.” The 2005 movie em-
bodies the Victorian era as it follows 
the love triangle between Victor, Vic-
toria and Emily, the undead bride 
who was murdered by her ex-ﬁ  ance. Helena Bonham Carter and 
Johnny Depp are serving 
serious spooky vibes in 
this classic ﬁ  lm.  The dark 
hues of this haunted mov-
ie are sure to leave you 
creeped out, yet the happy 
ending will ﬁ  ll you with 
warmth — if the hot cider 
you ought to drink while 
watching hasn’t already. If 
you’re even remotely inter-
ested in British literature or Victorian 
history, I highly recommend watch-
ing “Corpse Bride.”
Next there’s Disney’s 1949 “The 
Legend of Sleepy Hollow,” which 
is a 30-minute short ﬁ  lm included 
in “The Adventures of Ichabod and 
Mr. Toad.” This 70-year-old movie 
depicts the tale of Ichabod Crane 
and his encounter with the Headless 
Horseman on Halloween night. Bing 
Crosby narrated and sang for this as 
well, so it’s full of bangers. This clas-
sic movie is great for kids and adults 
alike, as it’s not too scary yet highly 
entertaining. 
Last but not least on my short 
list of must-see Halloween movies is 
“Coraline.” Neil Gaiman must have 
been on acid when he wrote the nov-
el it was based on because — wow. 
It’s a confusing conglomeration of 
buttons, evil parents, insects, magical 
mice-rats, dead dogs, ghost children 
and circus performers. I’m not com-
plaining, though, I eagerly anticipate 
watching “Coraline” every October. If 
you need a song for a synchronized 
swimming routine, look no further 
than the “Coraline” soundtrack. If 
you only have time for ﬁ  ve movies 
this Halloween season, be sure to 
see “It’s the Great Pumpkin, Char-
lie Brown,” “The Nightmare Before 
Christmas,” “Corpse Bride,” the 1949 
version of “The Legend of Sleepy 
Hollow” and “Coraline.” Get out your 
pumpkin scented candle and holiday 
printed cookies so you can cozy up to 
a fun-ﬁ  lled night of Halloween movie 
watching. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
junior.Halloween movies you must watchColumn
Hannah 
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
Lauren 
Rousseau
opinions@alligator.org
About a week ago, I was in a discus-
sion focusing on what made UF 
alumni special. I learned that sev-
eral companies speciﬁ  cally seek 
out our alumni above all others, 
but I never learned why. 
Certainly, we come from a distin-
guished institution, but many others do 
as well. As we talked, the group consen-
sus was UF cultivates leadership in a way 
that few other schools manage to do. Our 
involvement culture spurs budding leaders to reach 
their fullest potential. In my opinion, there is a lot 
of truth to this. This campus does offer a staggering 
amount of involvement opportunities and leadership 
roles, but I would urge caution in promoting involve-
ment as a part of our campus brand. From what I’ve 
seen, this involvement culture can hurt just as much 
as it helps. 
While investigating this topic, I reached out to 
friends to ask how they viewed involvement culture 
and what their personal experiences with it were like. 
What I learned from these conversations was that 
UF’s culture often invokes a pressure on students — a 
pressure to not only to suceed but to do so through 
involvement. 
Are you in Cicerones? What leadership roles do 
you hold? Are you in a “Big 9” club? 
Overall, this kind of motivation isn’t inherently 
bad. If you’re the kind of student who showed up on 
campus on day one ready to dive into anything and 
everything, this social pressure was probably a great 
source of encouragement to drive you forward. The 
problem is that, for some, this pressure can be a hin-drance in ﬁ  nding their footing as leaders. 
From my conversations, I gathered that 
the negative consequences of involvement 
culture will usually show themselves in two 
ways. The ﬁ  rst is a student will push them-
selves to get involved in as many things as 
possible and end up overextending them-
selves. The second is that a student might 
be unable to get as involved as their peers, 
resulting in feelings of inadequacy. I have 
seen this a few times, and it sucks because 
it promotes unhealthy comparisons rather 
than working toward self-actualization.
If you step back and think about the goal 
of involvement, what is it? Overall, I think it should 
be personal and professional growth. I think that too 
often involvement culture encourages involvement 
for the sake of living up to a social standard rather 
than fulﬁ  lling personal ambitions. 
At UF there are great ways to participate in the 
community and leave your mark, and they come in 
various shapes and sizes. From early on, you’ll see 
many examples of what this could look like through 
Student Body presidents or leaders of huge organiza-
tions, and it can seem daunting. But whether you’re 
involved in twenty organizations or one, as long as 
you’re on track to self-fulﬁ  llment, you are as much of 
a success as anyone else. The goal with involvement 
should be quality over quantity, and quality doesn’t 
always mean well-known. 
Following in another’s footsteps might not let you 
see the paths best suited to you. 
Matthew Diaz is the Hispanic Caucus leader in UF 
Student Government Senate.Taming involvement cultureColumn
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.org
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Part-time bilingual office assistant (English/
Spanish) for law office. Please send your 
resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com.    10-21-
19-8-14
Drivers needed
for taxi company. 
Contact us at (352)777-9488.       10-28-19-
8-14
Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-14
Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs a 
new sales team member! Looking for an 
honest, hard working, outgoing person who 
wants to work with sports and outdoor fans. 
Availability must include 1 day on the week-
ends. Stop in to pick up an application at 
1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF. No phone 
calls please.      10-16-19-3-14
SIMEDHealth is currently seeking Full Time 
Certified Medical Assistants for several of our 
clinics in our Gainesville, FL office location. 
Apply on our website at www.simedhealth.
com.      10-25-19-7-141For Rent
furnished9 Bicycles 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
8 Electronics
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Livens (up)
5 River through 
the Lake of the 
Ozarks
10 GPS diagrams
14 Teen heartthrob
15 Rocker Eddie 
Van __
16 Tennis great 
Arthur who wrote 
“A Hard Road to 
Glory”
17 Toy component 
of a miniature 
cabin ($5)
19 Actor Gosling
20 “__ suggestions?”
21 Mindless 
repetition
22 “You __ 
grounded!”
23 Jack Sprat no-no
24 One applying for 
a financial gift 
($50)
27 “What __ state of 
affairs!”
29 Frosty coating
30 Par __: via 
airmail, in Arles
32 Intend to say
34 WWII turning 
point
38 Doozy
39 High-tech eye 
surgery
40 Self-defense 
spray
41 Roach or termite
42 Stuntman Knievel
43 Like Cheerios, 
grain-wise
44 Fine-tune, as 
skills
46 Author Rice
47 Popular Wyoming 
mountain resort 
($20)
52 Myrna of “The 
Thin Man”
55 High hairdos
56 Greek “i”
57 Simpson trial 
judge
58 Unfocused image
59 Exactly right ... 
and where parts 
of 17-, 24- and 
47-Across appear
62 First, in “Who’s 
on First?”
63 Worse, as 
excuses go64 “I, Claudius” role
65 “__ girl!”
66 Accomplishments
67 “No warranties”
DOWN
1 Seasoned rice 
dish
2 Patsy’s “Ab Fab” 
pal
3 Hairstyles named 
for an equine 
feature
4 Utah luggage tag 
initials
5 “Dear God!”
6 Reindeer reins 
holder
7 Filmmaker Woody
8 Former Prizm 
maker
9 London lang.
10 Guy wearing a 
ring, perhaps
11 Until now
12 New moon, e.g.
13 Mexican title
18 Church keyboard
22 Escort’s offer
25 Oregon or 
Chisholm
26 Bat one eye
28 Place to eat 
Seoul food30 Mont Blanc, e.g.
31 Saturn SUV
32 Expert
33 Language suffix
35 Starts of many 
news stories
36 Expert
37 Strong desire
39 Jay of late-night 
TV
43 Late hr. to turn in
45 CIA forerunner
46 Changes47 __ the Hutt of 
“Star Wars”
48 Note after G
49 Pizza feature
50 Blackjack request
51 __ and aahed
53 Comical Cheri
54 Up-and-down 
toys
59 Ancient
60 Dumfries denial
61 Words before roll 
or streak
By Erik Agard
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, October 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 Online gay 
dating site
7 Bridge 
accessory
15 Electrically 
overhaul
16 Provençal olive-
and-capers 
spread
17 Many
18 Bent
19 Legal end
20 Eponymous 
German 
bacteriologist
22 Nuzzled
23 Relative of “You 
go!”
25 Yogurt-based 
condiment
27 Contents of 
some weekly 
organizers
28 “Alas ... ”
30 Forensic 
workplace
32 Volumes on 
devices
34 Cheeks asset
35 Lose juice 
entirely
38 Sci-fi science
41 Palindromic 
observance
42 Imprecise  
words
43 Stand-up comic 
Boosler
44 Words of denial
46 Was upheld on 
appeal
47 Radio letters
50 Many of the 
characters in 
the 2018 film 
“Smallfoot”
52 Italian  
cabbage?
53 Part of UCSD
55 Radical cousin
57 Cheese go-with
58 Handy annuals
60 It was created in 
Philly in 1792
62 Small tuft
63 White, to Juan
64 Persistent
65 Unifying alloyDOWN
1 Park it
2 Sympathetic
3 Defiant refusal
4 Micromanager’s 
excess
5 Fall
6 Direct
7 Competitions in 
which batting is 
forbidden
8 Goalpost look-
alike
9 Go (for)
10 Control during 
riding
11 Lay to rest
12 Meaning of two 
vertical lines, at 
times
13 Put in later
14 Done things
21 Tiny bit
24 Wound 
application
26 Without help
29 Informal “Dig?”
31 Base  
runners?
33 Deviate
35 “Excu-u-use 
me!”36 “Learning [is] 
the kind of __ 
distinguishing 
the studious”: 
Bierce
37 Triangular chart 
user
39 Basic natures
40 Having a timing 
problem
44 “Let’s”
45 Familia member47 Change for the 
better
48 __ Vanilli
49 Big bone
51 Theater buff’s 
collection
54 Turow memoir
56 Parliament 
: London :: 
Storting : __
59 Pale __
61 Not bien
10/11/19
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SHARED NANNY in a family home. I have 2 
full time spots available. Providing exceptional 
& loving care for children of busy professionals. 
Bilingual. Small groups. FT or PT. Over 25 yrs 
exp. FHdaycare.com 352-213-5375    10-14-
19-10-15
PhD tutor in Spanish or English
$20 per hour.
donaldar@cox.net 352-332-1818       10-14-
5-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
*Upto $3,500/ Month
Taking Paid Surveys Online. 
Hurry, Jump to:  www.SurveysLifestyle.com          
10-14-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.15 Services 20 Events/Notices
1.  ____ box
1.  Opportune, convenient 5.  ____ Etna
2.  Crunch6.  Cost
3.  Mesh, trellis7.  Most recent
4.  Count onAECTKL
YLIMETNTUMO
RPCEI
CPLREMU
ACETLITWTSNEE
TXEPCEANSWERS: 1A-Tackle  5A-Mount  6A-Price  7A-Newest
1D-Timely  2D-Crumple  3D-Lattice  4D-Expect  B-Mickey Mantle10-14-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was inducted into the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1974.BONUS
SOLUTION BELOW
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the north -
ernmost of the Great Lakes?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What would 
a phillumenist collect or study?
3. MOVIES: Which movie was based 
on the novel "Do Androids Dream of 
Electric Sheep?"?
4. HISTORY: The Treaty of Versailles 
ended which major 20th-century 
war?
5. LANGUAGE: What does the Greek 
prefix "lex" mean in English?6. TELEVISION: What was the nick -
name of Carrie Bradshaw's boyfriend 
in the comedic series "Sex and the 
City"?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: How many eyes 
does a honey bee have?
8. MEASUREMENTS: What does a cali -
per measure?
9. MUSIC: Who sang the hit 1970s 
song "Love Me Like a Rock"?
10. ANATOMY: What is a common 
word for the sternum?Trivia Test     By Fifi Rodriguez                           ANSWERS BELOWTRIVIA TEST ANSWERS
1. Lake Superior
2. Matchbook covers and boxes
3. "Blade Runner"
4. World War I
5. Word
6. Mr. Big
7. Five
8. Distance between two opposite sides of an object
9. Paul Simon
10. Breastbone
(c) 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
TO DONATE, VISIT: alligator .org/rivalryFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Freshman Blaise Bicknell of 
Florida's men's tennis team 
picked up an extra singles win 
at the 2019 Bedford Cup on 
Sunday in T allahassee. Bicknell 
ﬁ  nished 2-1 on the weekend.Florida-South Carolina set for noon kickoff
The Gators will go up against the Gamecocks at noon in Columbia, South 
Carolina on Saturday. Viewers can watch the game on ESPN. The game will 
mark the beginning of a stretch of four SEC East matchups in a row for UF. FOOTBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Adversity is nothing new to 
the Gators football team. The 
rash of injuries to key players on 
both sides of the ball has been 
well documented, but a loss is 
something Florida hasn’t swal-
lowed in quite some time.
With four straight games 
coming up against SEC East op-
ponents, coach Dan Mullen is 
quickly putting Saturday’s 42-28 
loss to LSU in the past.
“Next week is a much bigger 
game than this game,” he said. 
Mullen is right about that. And 
even though No. 9 Florida (6-1, 
3-1 SEC) lost its ﬁ  rst game of the 
season to the Tigers, Georgia —  
UF’s main competition in the SEC 
East — dropped a home game to 
South Carolina this past week-
end. (No. 22 Missouri, which is 
in ﬁ  rst place in the division, is not postseason eligible.)
The Gators’ path to Atlanta is 
clear now: beat Georgia and get 
rewarded with a rematch vs. LSU 
or a meeting against Alabama.
The Bulldogs don’t have an 
easy schedule to ﬁ  nish the sea-
son, having to host Missouri and 
Texas A&M and take on No. 11 
Auburn on the road. But Florida’s 
remaining schedule isn’t much 
better. The Gators draw Missouri 
and a Gamecocks team fresh off 
a top-ﬁ  ve upset both on the road 
and, of course, Georgia.
The health of linebacker Jon-
athan Greenard and defensive 
end Jabari Zuniga going forward 
could be the deciding factor in 
these games.
Cornerback Marco Wilson said 
that losing Greenard, who appar-
ently reaggravated an injury he 
suffered against Auburn, killed 
the team’s vibe and not having 
Zuniga on the ﬁ  eld for the whole game took the air out of the team.
UF drifted away from its de-
fensive identity against LSU, and 
those injuries are at least in part 
to blame. The Tigers put up sea-
son highs in rushing yards, pass-
ing yards and points for a Florida 
opponent. 
Quarterback Kyle Trask 
seemed up to the task of a shoot-
out against the No. 1 offense in 
the nation, but the scoring ﬁ  zzled 
out in the second half and the 
Gators defense only forced three 
punts all game.
Luckily for Florida, LSU was 
the best offense it will have to 
face in the regular season. But 
the holes that running back Clyde 
Edwards-Helaire and even quar-
terback Joe Burrow found gives 
cause for concern against a team 
with a stout offensive line and 
rushing attack like UGA.Florida's season isn't derailed by loss to Tigers
Realistically, 
what were the 
expectations 
for this Florida 
team going 
into the season?
Win a New Year’s 
Six Bowl? Play in the 
SEC Championship 
Game for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 2008? Make the 
College Football Playoff?
All of these goals are still 
within reach for UF despite 
Saturday’s 42-28 loss to now-No. 
2 LSU.
Sure, an upset over the Tigers 
would’ve been a signature win. It 
would have vaulted Florida into 
the top 5 of the AP Poll.
But, it wouldn’t have 
guaranteed a shot at either the 
conference championship or the 
College Football Playoff for the 
Gators.
Those hopes rest solely on the 
outcome of the Florida-Georgia 
game Nov. 2. 
The winner will, in all 
likelihood, win the SEC East 
and advance to the conference 
championship game. A victory in 
Atlanta would guarantee a spot in the CFP, assuming 
the winner navigated 
the rest of the regular 
season without a 
second loss.
The loser will be a 
New Year’s Six team 
at best.
“(The) next four 
games are against SEC 
East teams,” coach 
Dan Mullen said after Saturday’s 
loss. “We (have) control of our 
own destiny.”
The three other divisional 
matchups left besides Georgia 
are at South Carolina, home 
vs. Vanderbilt and at No. 22 
Missouri. Florida is a 6.5-point 
favorite over South Carolina next 
week and ﬁ  gures to be a huge 
favorite over Vanderbilt. Missouri 
will be a tougher game, but UF 
can lose and still make the SEC 
Championship game (thanks to 
the Tigers’ postseason ban) if it 
beats UGA and the Gamecocks.
Beat Georgia. Take care of 
business against inferior teams. 
Play in Atlanta.
It’s the same exact situation Losing to LSU changes nothingGreen Eggs and SamSam Thomas / Alligator Staff
The Gators lead the SEC in sacks and turnovers, yet, they didn't add 
any to their resume following the 42-28 loss in Death Valley. 
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
The Gators defense came up short against a strong LSU offense, as they allowed the Tigers to score 21 
points in the second half, which was the most any team has notched against Florida so far this season. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12
Sam Campisano
Twitter: @scampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
VOLLEYBALL
SOCCERBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
A smooth start and a rocky 
middle left an uncertain result for 
Florida’s volleyball team Sunday 
afternoon.
The No. 14 Gators won the 
first two frames with a four-point 
margin (25-23 each set). But the 
next two sets told a different sto-
ry as the Aggies defended their 
home court with back-to-back set 
wins (25-15 and 25-14).
Everything was on the line in 
the fifth set as Florida inched fur-
ther away from a conference win 
on the road, trailing Texas A&M 
9-3.
Everything shifted when out-
side hitter Paige Hammons hit 
the service line, leading her team 
on a nine-point run and helping 
them garner the first lead the 
Gators (13-3, 4-1 SEC) held in the 
match since the second set.
The momentum propelled 
Florida to seal the win on the 
road, handing the Aggies (11-5, 
3-3 SEC) their first loss of the sea-
son at home and moving to 16-1 
in the series overall.  
Florida’s defense kept the team 
in the game early on in the match, 
often going point-for-point in the 
first two sets. Texas A&M was 
able to stay within four points of 
Florida during the first set before 
breaking out of the mold in the third and fourth frames.
Setter Marlie Monserez has 
sported a bandage on her right 
pinkie finger for a couple of 
weeks now, but despite Florida’s 
best efforts, the damages caught 
up with the Gators on Sunday af-
ternoon.
Monserez was absent for some 
of the third frame, forcing oppo-
site attacker (and setter) Holly 
Carlton to lead the charge for 
the offense for the first time this 
season. The switch brought in at-
tackers Haley Warner and Mia So-
kolowski into the lineup.
Monserez came back for the 
fourth and fifth sets, but her ab-
sence in the third showed just 
how low this Florida team could 
go without her in the lineup.
Texas A&M jumped out to a 
13-3 lead in the third frame and 
by the end of it, Florida had hit 
zero percent on the set. The Ag-
gies jumped out, again, in the 
fourth set, garnering a 6-1 lead 
before Florida could get its feet 
on the ground. The set ended on 
another sour note as the Gators 
couldn’t get any closer than six 
points to Texas A&M.
Despite the highs and lows this 
Florida team showed Sunday af-
ternoon, one thing was made very 
apparent: This team has grit.
During the fifth set, the Aggies 
burned two timeouts in an effort 
to stop the Gators’ momentum. Neither time did it work as the 
team continued its 9-0 run, rally-
ing back from a 9-3 deficit.
The likes of Texas A&M’s libe-
ro Camila Gomez wasn’t helping 
matters either. Missy Whittemore, 
a Florida setter from 1992-95 and 
one of Sunday’s color analyst for 
the match, said Gomez was steal-
ing kills from Hall. And after the 
match, Hall said Whittemore was 
right.
“She (Gomez) was all over the 
place,” Hall said. “It was frus-
trating at times. But Marlie kept 
putting up balls and running our 
offense and we finally started 
clicking.”
Hall led her team’s offense 
with 18 kills on the match — 
which included the final three 
points of the game  — eight more 
kills than the next-highest con-
tributors on her team (Hammons 
and Carlton).
The team has preached a need 
for consistency since the start of 
the season, but as the year con-
tinues it becomes harder to break 
old habits.
“Going up two sets and getting 
complacent in the third set, we 
just got comfortable,” Hall said. 
“You go up two sets, it’s what ev-
ery team does, especially on the 
road.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
 
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team was in the midst of 
a six-game winning streak before Ole Miss 
came to Gainesville and took down the Gators 
on Thursday. It was UF’s first loss since Sept. 
8 when it fell to Central Florida in the sixth 
fixture of the season.
Sunday afternoon was the perfect oppor-
tunity for No. 19 Florida to bounce back, as 
Kentucky came into Donald R. Dizney Sta-
dium with seven consecutive losses. And the 
Gators added another loss to the tally in a 4-2 
victory over the Wildcats. 
UF (9-5, 5-1 SEC) left acres of open space 
along its back line in the opening minutes, 
and UK (5-8-2, 0-6 SEC) took advantage with 
piercing runs to get behind Florida’s defend-
ers.
One of those runs resulted in a corner kick 
for the Wildcats, which eventually led to their 
first goal of the match in the 17th minute. A 
botched clearance following the corner saw 
the ball go straight to forward Julia Grosso, 
who hammered the ball into the back of the 
net to give Kentucky a 1-0 lead.
The rest of the first half was highlighted by 
a pair of freshman midfielders for the Gators: 
Laney Steed and Ava Kuyken. Both players 
recorded their first collegiate goals in stun-
ning fashion.
Steed tied the game in the 26th minute on 
a half-volley with her left foot from the edge 
of the 18-yard box, while Kuyken shook her 
defender and blasted the ball into the top-left 
corner in the 39th minute to put UF ahead 
2-1.
“We’re actually roommates, so we’re to-
gether all the time… It was just so much more special that we both had our first (goals) to-
day,” Steed said. “We just looked at each 
other with a look of amazement in both of 
our eyes.”
Florida asserted its dominance over un-
ranked Kentucky at the start of the second 
half, as freshman forward Kouri Peace scored 
her second goal of the campaign in the 50th 
minute on a pass from junior forward Deanne 
Rose.
Fourteen minutes later, redshirt junior 
midfielder Parker Roberts scored on a free 
kick to give the Gators a comfortable 4-1 ad-
vantage.
“It says a lot when you can come back 
from a goal down,” coach Becky Burleigh 
said. “If we played the first 20 minutes (of the 
first half) like we did in the first 20 minutes 
of the second half, then maybe it’s a totally 
different game.”
Wildcats forward Jordyn Rhodes convert-
ed a penalty kick to make it a 4-2 game with 
19 minutes remaining, but it was too late for 
the visiting team to mount a comeback.
Not only did UF ditch its orange and blue 
kits for pink ones to show support for those 
fighting breast cancer in the program’s 11th 
annual Pink Match on Sunday; but it also 
celebrated Burleigh’s 52nd birthday after the 
victory.
“You just can’t take moments for granted. 
I know that very well with my mom having 
had multiple types of cancers,” Burleigh said. 
“When you are playing for something bigger 
than yourself, it helps you get focused in and 
realize that moments are precious.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida takes down Texas A&M in 5-set matchup
Florida bounces back with conference victory over KentuckySamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior opposite attacker Holly Carlton (right) and 
sophomore setter Marlie Monserez (left) combined for 46 assists 
on Saturday against the T exas A&M Aggies. 
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Freshman midfielder Laney Steed notched a game-tying goal in Florida’s 4-2 win 
over Kentucky, which marked the first goal of her collegiate career.
12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019
WOMEN'S GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
It was a tale of two rounds for the 
Gators women’s golf team this weekend in 
Northern California.
Friday’s ﬁ  rst round at the Stanford In-
tercollegiate saw the No. 6 Florida squad 
combine for its highest single round team 
total all year, a 296 (12 over) team total 
that set it woefully in 15th place of 17 
teams.
For the Gators — who made the trek to 
NorCal without senior star Sierra Brooks — 
it was a dismal start for a contingent that 
hasn’t ﬁ  nished worse than third in its three 
previous fall tournaments.In Brooks’ absence (the Wake Forest 
transfer was in Venice, Florida, compet-
ing in Stage II of LPGA Tour Q-School), no 
Florida player matched or bettered par in 
round one.
Whatever caused the Gators to play so 
poorly on Stanford’s par 71 home layout on 
Friday was quickly erased from memory by 
Saturday’s second round.
Florida was brilliant, ﬁ  ring a blazing 
10-under team total to climb nine spots up 
the leaderboard. Its second round 274 total 
was the lowest one-day team score of the 
tournament by four shots and positioned 
the Gators in sole sixth place by the day’s 
end.
Sophomore Clara Manzalini carded a near-ﬂ  awless 66 (5 under), followed by a 
68 from junior Elin Esborn and a 69 from 
senior Marta Perez. 
“The second round was special,” coach 
Emily Glaser said in a release at the tour-
nament’s conclusion. “Not only because 
we went low, but because of how we were 
able to rebound after round one.”
Though Florida couldn’t fully retain 
the momentum that brought it back into 
the tournament a day prior, Sunday’s ﬁ  nal 
round offered consistent play from Glaser’s 
squad.
Junior Addie Baggarly – playing at the 
No. 1 spot in place of Brooks – signed for a 
solid 69 to lead her team in Sunday’s ﬁ  nal 
round. The Gators ended their stay in Stan-ford with a 286 (2 over) team total ﬁ  nish-
ing in a tie for ﬁ  fth.
After a successful fall campaign, Florida 
has plenty of positives to take into its four-
month break from action before the season 
returns again in February. Brooks is a vital 
part of the program, but the Gators showed 
their depth and grit without their star at 
Stanford this weekend.
“We played with a lot of heart this 
week,” Glaser said. 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgFlorida rallies to ﬁ  nish 5th at Stanford Intercollegiate
UF was looking at before the loss to LSU. 
The only difference is that the Gators fell 
a few spots in the rankings.
For Florida to achieve its dreams, it has 
to beat Georgia. There’s no way around it. 
It was true before the season began, and 
it’s true now.
The Gators have nothing left to prove 
after beating Auburn and going toe-to-toe 
with LSU in Death Valley. If anything, UF’s ﬁ  rst loss of the season provided the 
team �— and speciﬁ  cally, quarterback Kyle 
Trask, who made the ﬁ  rst road start of his 
career �— with invaluable experience in a 
hostile environment against a top-5 team. 
Now the Gators have a chance to test their 
resiliency. 
“We’re trying to win the East, trying to 
get to Atlanta, and that’s still possible with 
this loss,” defensive back Marco Wilson 
said. “Put this behind us and watch the 
ﬁ  lm. Get better.”Still, as far as 14-point 
losses go, this was an en-
couraging one for Florida. 
At the very least, it didn’t 
derail the season and will 
show as a quality loss now 
that LSU moved up to No. 
2.
“I know we could play 
with anybody,” Wilson said.
Following the game, 
multiple players were 
asked how to avoid one 
loss becoming two, as 
was the case last season 
against Georgia and Mis-
souri, the last time the 
Gators lost. Senior center 
Nick Buchanan called the 
loss a freebie, but said 
things could get out of 
hand with a second one.“When you lose one 
game everything is still 
in front of you,” he said. 
“You lose two games and 
then you start having 
questions about where 
you want to be at the end 
of the year. We can’t let 
this one game affect us 
and get us down.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 10 FOOTBALL,  from pg. 10Mullen: Gators control destiny UF faces Georgia in 2 weeks
$6,541
$4,984
