We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperActivists protest prison abuse
Former inmates and others protest at Lowell Correctional In-
stitute, pg. 6
‘The Price Is Right’ coming to Gainesville
The game show will go live in April 2020, pg. 6Bye week comes at a good time 
The Gators are battling a slew of injuries, so 
they’ll take full advantage of a week off 
before facing Georgia, pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 26
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
FULL SURVEY RESULTS 
LIKEL Y TO BE 
RELEASED TUESDAY
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Reported sexual misconduct at UF is in-
creasing.
In his monthly Alligator column, UF Pres-
ident Kent Fuchs wrote that preliminary re-
sults of a climate survey from the Association 
of American Universities on sexual miscon-
duct showed “distressing” results. The rate 
of reported sexual assaults and misconduct 
at UF and other universities are on the rise.
The full results of the Spring 2019 survey 
will likely be made public Tuesday, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando.
“I am discouraged and disheartened by 
what I have learned,” Fuchs wrote.
In April, Fuchs announced the Campus 
Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Mis-
conduct to UF students in an email. The 
survey asked students questions about their 
knowledge of on-campus resources, what 
sexual assault is and their thoughts on how 
prevalent sexual assault is at UF. A similar 
2015 survey had a 17 percent participation 
rate.
Since 2015, undergraduate female reports 
of nonconsensual sexual conduct, threats of 
physical force or incapacitation increased 
from 23 to 26 percent and male from 5 to 
7 percent. The ﬁ  rst study included 26 other 
universities and the recent one included 32, Fuchs wrote.
Since the start of Fall 2019, a former UF 
resident assistant was arrested after a stu-
dent accused him of attempting to sexually 
batter her, a former UF football player was 
accused of rape and multiple occurances of 
sexual battery on campus were made public.
A UF student also came forward about 
being raped while on her way to the Home-
coming football game on Oct. 5.
With these results, Fuchs said UF needs 
to re-examine what it can do to prevent and 
aid these situations.
“In order for UF to be truly great, it must 
lead in eliminating sexual assault,” he wrote.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSurvey: Campus sexual misconduct reports rise
BIRTHDAY BASH
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Matt Burke, lead vocalist for Have Gun, Will Travel, performs with his band at Depot Park during the first night of the 
T om Petty Birthday Bash on Friday night. The event was founded to commemorate the life of Gainesville native and 
musician T om Petty. Read the story on page 4.By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A 25-year-old female UF graduate student 
fell to her death on Friday at the University of 
South Florida Tampa campus.
Just after 3:15 p.m., Thao Thi Thanh 
Tran, a Port Richey, Florida, resident and UF 
pharmacy student who studied at the Mofﬁ  tt 
Cancer Center, fell off the Richard A. Beard 
parking garage. Authorities found she was 
experiencing “personal stress,” according to 
a USF public safety alert.
There aren’t any indications of foul play as 
of Saturday and authorities believe she may 
have taken her own life, according to a USF 
police press release.
UF College of Pharmacy Dean Julie John-
son released a statement saying the college 
is saddened over the loss of the fourth-year 
graduate student. She said Tran was sched-
uled to graduate as a double Gator this 
Spring. Johnson encouraged students to seek 
support in light her death.
“We are a close-knit college, and we are 
mourning the loss of Thao,” Johnson said.
Danielle McDonald, the USF assistant vice 
president and dean of students, listed re-
sources and offered consolation to students 
on Facebook following the incident. 
McDonald wrote there wasn’t a threat to 
the community but urged people to reach out 
for help if needed.
“While you may not have a direct relation-
ship to this incident, it is tragic and could 
bring up many emotions,” McDonald wrote. 
“It is important when tragedy occurs, that 
you all know there are resources here for UF graduate 
student falls 
to death from 
USF building 
SEE SUICIDE,  PAGE 4THE 25-YEAR-OLD WOMAN WAS 
FROM PORT RICHEY, FLORIDAT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  73°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
National Geographic Live: 
“Untamed”
When: Tuesday, 7:30 to 9 p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: “National Geographic Live” 
is a night of exploration through 
film, photography and discus-
sion with National Geographic 
photographers. Filmmaker Filipe 
DeAndrade is a UF graduate and 
the star of “Untamed,” which gives 
his unfiltered look at what it’s like 
to come face to face with wild 
animals, survive in extreme envi-
ronments and make unexpected 
discoveries. Tickets are $25 for 
adults and $10 for children and UF 
students. For more information or 
to buy tickets, visit www.florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/nat-geo-
untamed or call 352-392-2787.
Alachua County Labor Coalition: 
General Membership Meeting on 
Tenant Unions
When: Tuesday, 6:30 to 8 p.m.
Where: Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, 1236 NW 18 Ave.
What: The Labor Coalition and 
Safe and Affordable Housing for 
All Campaign invites residents to 
receive updates on the current city 
ordinance they have crafted to ad-
dress issues renters can face, such 
as high utility bills, landlord dis-
putes and more. Learn more about 
your rights as renters and how to 
support the building of a bottom-
up movement to empower renters in Gainesville and Alachua County. 
GCM Food Fest
When: Thursday, 5 to 9 p.m. 
Where: Celebration Pointe
What: Come enjoy great food from 
over 50 of Gainesville's restaurants 
all in one location. Gainesville 
Community Ministry (GCM)  
teamed up with Celebration Pointe 
to close the avenue in front of the 
Nike store and the Tommy Hilfiger 
store and fill it with music, food, 
beer, wine and kids activities. 
Admission to the 2019 GCM Food 
Festival is free. Meal and drink 
tickets will be sold a la carte for $2 
each. 
National DEA Drug Take-Back 
Day Event
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Where: Alachua County Library 
Partnership Branch, 912 NE 16th 
Ave.
What: The Alachua County Health 
Promotion and Wellness Coalition 
are partnering with the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office and the 
Drug Enforcement Administration 
(DEA) to host an event to prevent 
abuse and misuse of drugs. The 
public is invited to anonymously 
drop off any expired or unused 
medications at any of the four 
specified locations: Gainesville, 
Archer, Micanopy and Alachua. 
The Gainesville drop-off location 
is at the Alachua County Library 
Partnership Branch. Ask a Scientist: Not So Scary 
Science 
When: Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natural 
History
What: Florida Museum of Natural 
History visitors can find answers 
during an afternoon of discovery 
and learning at “Ask a Scientist: 
Not So Scary Science." Visitors can 
come in costume, meet live ani-
mals and discover the science be-
hind creatures that can seem scary. 
For more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/ask-
a-scientist or call 352-273-2061.
Ghouls Night Out Halloween 
Dance and Costume Party 
When: Oct. 31, 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW Second 
Ave.
What: Hosted by Lady Grinning 
Soul, the High Dive is hosting a 
Halloween Costume Party and cos-
tume contest. The contest will have 
three prizes: first prize wins $100, 
second prize gets their bar tab cov-
ered and third prize will win two 
free tickets to any High Dive show. 
Tickets are available online at Hear 
Again Records with a $1 fee and at 
the High Dive box office with no 
fee. Prices are $5 in advance and 
$7 the day of for those 21 or older. 
All guests under 21 will have a $3 
additional charge. 
Chris Kattan & Friends at High 
Dive 
When: Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 2nd 
Ave.
What: Saturday Night Live vet-
eran, stand up comic, actor and 
author comes to Gainesville for the 
first time for an unforgettable night 
at High Dive.  Tickets are available 
online at Hear Again Records with 
a $1 fee and at the High Dive box 
office with no fee. General admis-
sion seating is $25 in advance and 
$28 the day of the show.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 26
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M002194  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
MORE THAN 8,000 PEOPLE ATTENDED 
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
There was a soft breeze in the air and a subtle 
aroma of marijuana. Thousands gathered around 
the Dreamville main stage at Depot Park, drinking 
beer, laughing and talking.  
Children shufﬂ  ed along the grass, hula hooped 
and frolicked. 
College students and adults swayed back and 
forth, danced and sang along to “American Girl.”  
This was Gainesville’s birthday celebration of its 
native rock ’n’ roll icon, Tom Petty. Sunday would 
have been his 69th birthday.
More than 8,000 people traveled from all over 
the country for the Tom Petty Birthday Bash 2019 
to gather in the place that inspired some of the 
most well-known rock ’n’ roll lyrics to come out 
of Gainesville. The celebration united Gainesville’s 
community of locals, musicians and artists who 
wanted to feel the spirit of Tom Petty and the Heart-
breakers this weekend. 
Birthday Bash Coordinator Sarah Hedges said 
her husband Jason, the frontman for cover band 
Heavy Petty, wanted to start the free festival after 
Petty died on Oct. 2, 2017. 
Jason Hedges created a ﬁ  ve-hour tribute show in 
honor of Petty’s birthday, Sarah Hedges said. More 
than 3,000 people came to the show in 2017. 
“It was such an amazing night,” Sarah Hedges 
said. “People wanted to be in Gainesville, where 
Tom was from.” 
Birthday Bash became a tradition that night, she 
said, and it gets bigger every year. 
This year, she and the other coordinators dis-
played Tom Petty memorabilia, such as his black 
leather guitar strap and hand-written lyrics to 
“Don’t Come Around Here No More.” 
Additionally, the proceeds from the festival’s VIP 
packages, food, drink and merchandise sales will go 
to the UF Health Shands’ Arts in Medicine program, 
Sarah Hedges said. 
Birthday Bash offered attendees several packag-
es priced up to $189 that included merchandise and 
exclusive access to its kickoff party, all to contribute 
to Arts in Medicine. “We’re kind of putting Gainesville back on the 
music map,” she said. “Our dream is to keep grow-
ing and to bring in top-talent rock ’n’ roll bands.” 
Despite a delay due to the weather on Saturday, 
fans continued to dance in ponchos and umbrellas 
throughout the weekend. The party continued un-
der Sunday’s sunny blue skies. 
Bands of rock, alternative, country and Ameri-
cana genres played original songs as well as Petty 
covers. Local artists such as Edan Archer and Dixie 
Desperados drew audiences in with their unworried 
Southern, folk-rock sounds. 
“It [music] brings people together,” Birth-
day Bash master of ceremonies Gregg Jones said. 
“It’s a great commemoration of a homeboy from 
Gainesville since this was his home where he ﬁ  rst 
discovered music.” 
The main cover band Heavy Petty performed at 
8:30 p.m. after the crowd gathered for a ﬁ  reworks 
show and a happy birthday Petty sing-along. 
Meri Nantz, an attendee, said she has lived in 
Gainesville since 1985 and has always loved Petty’s 
music. Her favorite song is “I Won’t Back Down,” 
she said. 
“He’s the soundtrack of my life,” Nantz said. “I 
think it’s great for Gainesville, and it brings people 
from all walks of life together who really have a love 
for Tom and a love for rock ’n’ roll.” 
Nantz said this is her second year attending 
Birthday Bash. She said she saw people of all ages  
attend the festival and thinks everyone can embrace 
the music and its hometown spirit. 
“There’s a shared spirit, almost like a camarade-
rie,” she said. “We have a common bond.” 
The bond was apparent at the end of the night 
when Heavy Petty’s rendition of “Free Fallin’” 
rallied the audience to dance and sing with their 
friends and loved ones. 
“I love how Tom’s music connects to many peo-
ple,” Sarah Hedges said. “Tom was an incredible 
songwriter. Jason always says you can hear a little 
bit of Gainesville in all of his songs.”
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org Gainesville rocks and rolls at Tom Petty Birthday Bash
you.”
The death comes months af-
ter a UF graduate student died by 
suicide on campus.
In June, UF began investigat-
ing the death of Huixiang Chen, 
an international doctoral candi-
date in the Department of Electri-
cal and Computer Engineering. 
He was found dead on UF’s cam-
pus in Benton Hall after taking his 
own life.
UF Graduate Assistants United 
declined to comment on Tran’s 
death. The group is waiting to 
learn more information from law 
enforcement before making a 
statement.
The investigation is ongoing 
and authorities are waiting on the 
medical examiner’s report, ac-
cording to the alert. Anyone with information can contact USF po-
lice at 813-974-2628.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSUICIDE,  from pg. 1Investigation is ongoingThe Alligator’s T op 10 T om Petty songs:
• Suicide hotline:
1-800-273-8255
• UF Counseling and 
Wellness Center:
352-392-1575 
• Alachua County 
Crisis Center: 352-
264-6789
USF resources:
• Counseling center: 
813-974-2831
• Victim’s advocacy: 
813-974-5756
AVENUE SPECIAL
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Jesus Martinez, a visual artist also known as Seck 37, works on the 
T om Petty tribute mural with his wife, Carrie Martinez, during the T om 
Petty Birthday Bash. Jesus and Carrie Martinez are local painters and 
muralists based in Gainesville, and have about 40 murals around town, 
including the mural at the High Dive. Carrie and Jesus also founded 
Visionary FAM, an art gallery, event space and music venue that 
supports local musicians and artists. 
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Lexi McCaughey practices acroyoga with her partner, Dustin McCaughey, during 
the T om Petty Birthday Bash at Depot Park Sunday afternoon. “I’ve been doing it 
for about ﬁ  ve years, ” Lexi McCaughey said. “It’s empowering, but it feels like play. ”
1. “You Wreck Me”
2. “Luna”
3. “Mary Jane’s Last 
Dance”
4. “I Won’t Back Down”
5. “Rockin’ Around (With 
You)”6. “American Girl”
7. “Honey Bee”
8. “Runnin’ Down a 
Dream”
9. “Don’t Do Me Like That”
10.  “You Don’t Know How 
It Feels”MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Allison Veliz / Alligator Staff 
Budelynn Noel, 22, strikes a pose at Asha Florida’s Indo Western Fashion Show Friday 
night at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
ASHA FLORIDA SUPPORTS 
CHILDREN’S EDUCATION 
IN INDIA
By Rachelle Westervelt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Honey Tumbaga was one of two mod-
els who strutted down a runway in the Re-
itz Union holding the train of a pink dress 
with a 3D ﬂ  amingo saree design. 
Although Tumbaga wasn’t front and 
center, she said the experience gave her 
conﬁ  dence as friends cheered her on. 
The Filipino-American 21-year-old UF 
psychology senior had her modeling debut 
at an Indo-Western fashion show hosted 
by UF’s chapter of Asha Florida, an orga-
nization that supports children’s educa-
tion in India. The show featured 44 mod-
els of different cultures and clothing sizes. 
Tumbaga said she joined because she 
believed in Asha’s cause.
“Modeling was actually really hard, but 
it was a great experience,” she said. 
Appajosula Yashodhara “Yashu” Rao, a 
27-year-old UF materials science and engi-
neering doctoral candidate and UF’s Asha 
president, said she organized the show to 
combine her interest in the arts with rais-
ing awareness for a cause she cares about. 
“The event was not just about fash-ion, the Gator community or a plus-sized 
model that got bullied,” she said. “It was 
about the children in India and this Asha 
community.”
The group encouraged people to donate 
on its website, but a donation was not re-
quired to get in, Rao said.
Although Rao doesn’t expect the show 
to become a regular event, she said she 
wants to provide more avenues for people 
to get involved and raise awareness.  
“Asha has so much more planned,” she 
said. “This was just my ﬁ  rst baby step.” 
Rao accepted the models who audi-
tioned in September, and she designed 
their outﬁ  ts. She said it wasn’t in her na-
ture as a plus-sized Indian woman to re-
ject models.
Anthony Collins, a 20-year-old UF psy-
chology junior, said his favorite outﬁ  t was 
Aecha Kimball’s — she wore a baby pink 
dress with a 3D ﬂ  amingo saree design, 
which was the dress Tumbaga helped hold 
the  train of. 
Other outﬁ  ts included a rufﬂ  ed saree 
with gold chains and a red rhinestone 
headpiece and tangerine orange ﬂ  are 
pants with a matching tube top. 
“One thing I found interesting about 
the outﬁ  ts was that some were more tradi-
tional, some were more modern and oth-
ers were a blend of the two,” Collins said.Models showcase Indo-Western fashion to support education 
STUDENTS WENT MONTHS
 WITHOUT ACCESS TO 
DISCOUNTED RIDES
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
After months without Uber Safe Rides, UF students can ﬁ  -
nally access the discount.
UF extended its contract with Uber, reactivating the program 
on Wednesday night, Scott Fox, UF transportation and park-
ing services senior director, wrote in an email.  His department 
realized the codes, which offer a 25 percent discount, were not 
working on Oct. 11. 
The promotion was inactive for the majority of the semester, 
Fox said. 
UF and Uber’s contract started in Spring 2015 with a 50 percent discount. Uber decides how often the codes are recre-
ated, Fox wrote.Uber Safe Rides lowered its discount from 50 
to 25 percent on Oct. 24, 2018, because of ﬁ  nancial restrictions, 
according to the TAP announcement. The UF Student Trafﬁ  c 
Court contributed an additional $92,000 to continuing the ser-
vice through Fall.
“We will be taking steps to assure there are no gaps moving 
forward,” Fox said. 
With Uber Safe Rides, UF students currently have a 25 per-
cent discount in a designated zone Wednesday to Sunday each 
week. The zone includes UF’s campus, Midtown, the outskirts 
of campus by Archer road and areas close to downtown.
During times with high rider demand, Uber increases its 
fares based on the rider’s location, according to Uber’s website 
explaining price surging. 
While the code was inactive, students like Kasia Weich, a 
22-year-old UF physics senior, paid regular Uber prices even 
with price surging at night and on football game days. She and her sister took an Uber ride home from the football 
game that was more expensive than they anticipated, but they 
had no other choice, Weich said. 
She asked on the UF Class of 2020 Facebook page if Uber 
Safe Rides was still operating on Oct. 5, and other students 
asked similar questions. 
“I think it’s really relevant to students,” she said. “A lot of us 
Uber pretty frequently and college students are pretty broke so 
Uber Safe Rides is really nice and helpful.”
Although the discount is back and ready for use, Weich said 
she would like to see the discounted zone expanded. 
“I think they should expand it to anywhere students com-
monly live,” she said. “I lived at The Pavilion last year, which is 
out of the zone, and that was really frustrating.” 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org Uber Safe Rides promo code updated, students’ access renewed   6  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
FORMER INMATES, ACTIVISTS 
AND FORMER CORRECTIONAL 
OFFICERS PROTESTED SATURDAY 
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Driving down Gainesville Road toward Lowell 
Correctional Institution, Aniesha “Tatu” Austin’s 
stomach clenched and her eyes ﬁ  lled with tears. 
Since her release from the prison in March, 
she’s returned half a dozen times. Nonetheless, as 
she approached the compound Saturday to pro-
test alongside other ex-inmates and prison reform 
advocates, she found herself overwhelmed with 
emotion once again. 
“You don’t notice how heavy the abuse is until 
you get out and look back,” said Austin, 47, who 
served 25 years at Lowell.
Austin was one of nearly 60 women, men and 
children who traveled from all over Florida to  
Lowell, one of the largest women’s prisons in the 
nation. They gathered outside the prison, which is 
40 minutes south of Gainesville, to protest inmate 
abuse and the beating of inmate Cheryl Weimar. 
Weimar, a 51-year-old inmate who was as-
saulted by guards and left paralyzed on Aug. 21, is 
said to have a history of mental and physical dis-
abilities, according to the civil rights lawsuit ﬁ  led 
against the Florida Department of Corrections.
Dressed in powder blue T-shirts, protesters 
stood side-by-side in front of the compound hold-
ing posters and banners with photos of Weimar. 
Some stood silently with bright pink tape covering 
their mouths. 
Debra Bennett, a 51-year-old ex-inmate of the 
prison and the organizer of the protest, said she 
and others are hoping to bring awareness to the 
abuse at Lowell while also demanding account-
ability for Weimar’s attack. The ofﬁ  cers responsible for her beating have 
yet to be charged or ﬁ  red, Bennett said. 
“We are going on two months since the beat-
ing on Aug. 21. There haven’t even been names 
released,” Bennett said. “We’re not gonna let peo-
ple forget what happened.” 
Weimar is now being held at the Florida Wom-
en’s Reception Center, which is directly across the 
street from Lowell. Bennett said Weimar is being 
monitored by ofﬁ  cers from the same agency as 
those who are accused of attacking her.
The Alligator emailed and called the Florida 
Department of Corrections multiple times for 
comment but received no response as of Sunday 
evening. 
This protest wasn’t the ﬁ  rst that Bennett orga-
nized following the attack. On Sept. 7, protesters 
gathered outside the prison in a similar fashion. 
Bennett said that since then, their network of ad-
vocates has grown. 
The majority of protesters were former in-
mates. Their loved ones, prison reform activists 
and former correctional ofﬁ  cers also came to sup-
port Weimar.
Janice Spears, a 49-year-old resident of Bron-
son, Florida, was one of several former correction-
al ofﬁ  cers who protested. Spears said she resigned 
from her position at Lowell about ﬁ  ve years ago to 
pursue a new path as a caretaker. 
“You’re either part of the solution or part of 
the problem. The ofﬁ  cers that are in [Lowell] — 
quit being the problem,” Spears said. “Please, stop 
abusing these women.” 
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgEx-inmates and advocates protest at Lowell Correctional Institution 
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Maureen Houston, a 59-year-old St. Petersburg resident, protests 
Saturday outside the Lowell Correctional Institution in Ocala. She has 
been out of prison for eight years.
SHOW TO COME TO 
O’CONNELL CENTER IN 
APRIL 2020
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents will soon 
put their best guesses forward dur-
ing a live show of “The Price is 
Right.”
The non-televised Gainesville 
show was announced last Mon-
day and will take place at the 
O’Connell Center on April 16 as 
part of its North American tour. 
Tickets, which were still avail-
able on Ticketmaster as of Sunday 
night, cost between $38 and $59 
depending on seat location. 
Ticket sales for the live show 
have been available since Friday 
through Ticketmaster and the Uni-
versity Box Ofﬁ  ce. Lynda Reinhart, 
director of the O’Connell Center, 
wrote in an email that 3,200 seats 
are available. The number of tick-
ets sold so far will be available to-
day. 
“We hope everyone who grew 
up loving the show will come 
out and be part of the excitement 
to ‘Come On Down’,” Reinhart 
wrote.Registration to be a contestant will 
open three hours before the show’s 
start time. Attendees must be at least 
18 years old to be a contestant and 
will be selected by random drawing. 
Reinhart does not know who 
the host of the Gainesville live 
show will be yet or when it will 
be announced, but celebrities have 
hosted live shows before. 
Kayla Whitby, 27, lives about 
an hour away from Gainesville in 
Old Town, Florida, and will attend 
the live show. She said she has 
been a fan of “The Price Is Right” 
her whole life. 
Whitby’s favorite game from 
the show is Plinko, in which con-
testants win money by sliding 
round discs down a pegged board.
She is excited to experience the 
show she grew up watching in 
person. 
“You stay home from school 
sick, you watch ‘The Price Is 
Right,’” she said. “I remember 
watching it with my great-grand-
ma. If we would go to her house 
and ‘The Price Is Right’ would 
come on, everyone had to be quiet.
@tientle11
tle@alligator.org‘The Price Is Right’ Live 
coming to Gainesville 
T ommy Wolfe / Alligator Contributor
Deputy PJ Mauldin, a school resource officer for Kimball Wiles Elementary School, offers candy 
to Kerryn O’Neal Friday night at the First Responders Trunk or Treat event at the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office. The event was presented by the Youth and Community Resource Unit and offered 
food, candy and games with prizes. About 300 people attended. 
Trunk or Treat
EditorialMONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The strange life, death and rebirth of Uber Safe Rides
Uber Safe Rides has been a project that 
I’ve been fascinated with since my 
freshman year in 2016. Originally, a 
hefty 50 percent discount on night-
time rides in and around campus, I 
was impressed that UF Student Government 
had been able to enact a program that would 
make a big difference in the lives of students.
As you can imagine, I was less amused 
when an investigative reporter at The Chron-
icle of Higher Education started writing about 
the political advocacy group Turning Point USA and 
how they were secretly funneling money into SG elec-
tions across the country to support conservative candi-
dates.
The reporter identiﬁ  ed that a lot of the campaign 
platforms had one thing in common: Uber (because 
nothing says free-market capitalism like Uber). The re-
porter wrote that SGs across the country had been “set-
ting aside student government funds for late night ‘Safe 
Ride’ programs that provide free or discounted Uber 
service to students.”
I was even less amused when The Chronicle of High-
er Education later published a 28-page brochure from 
the organization that mentioned that they had tried to 
inﬂ  uence the SG elections at UF. 
I’m sure it’s just a coincidence that the founder of 
Turning Point USA came by for the Donald Trump Jr. 
event and is also dropping by to speak at UF next month.
Politics aside, I know that 50 percent off of an Uber 
ride probably does a lot to improve student night time 
safety, so I still decided to support the program. To 
me, it’s a clear example of something SG can do to put 
money directly back into your pocket. Saving money is 
a bipartisan value.
So as you can imagine, I was even less amused than before when I discovered the discount was 
dropping to 25 percent in 2018. Safe Rides 
had outgrown the funding originally budget-
ed for the program, according to its webpage. 
As a result, the discount was cut in half start-
ing in October of 2018.
That year, the codes to access the discount 
lasted until June 30. I remember checking 
that summer and seeing that they hadn’t 
been updated for the next ﬁ  scal year. I was 
out of the country, so I didn’t think much of 
it. I ﬁ  gured that our very competent executive branch 
would take care of things.
Nothing happened (to my knowledge) until August 
of this year. I noticed, by virtue of an unrelated pub-
lic records request, there was communication between 
SG’s executive branch and Transportation and Parking 
Services (TAPS) about setting up a meeting to discuss 
Uber Safe Rides. 
Whatever happened there sure didn’t ﬁ  x the glaring 
issue at hand — only the good Lord knows what oc-
curred.
Months later, on Oct. 5, a student posted in one of 
the UF class Facebook groups asking “Is Uber safe rides 
still a thing?” I responded by saying I’d look into it. 
I contacted TAPS, and they quickly resolved the is-
sue by reaching out to Uber. That was all it took.
As a result, the 53,000 or so students at UF now have 
access to the discount again.
My big question is; why didn’t the executive branch 
resolve this issue?
The world may never know.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science senior and 
serves as the Murphree Area UF Student Government 
senator.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Pride may have 
flaws, but it’s still 
a community
It’s almost too hard to believe that a few years ago, 
many of the freedoms gained by the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity would be illegal or even considered insane. 
Until the ’70s, being homosexual was considered 
a mental illness, transgender women couldn’t play in 
the U.S. Open tennis championships and two men couldn’t 
even dance in the streets of New York City. The U.S. has 
made a lot of progress relating to the rights of LGBTQ+ 
people, but it’s also important to look at issues that might 
be hurting the community, especially when they relate to 
feeling included.  
According to a study complied by Her, a dating app for 
lesbian and bisexual women, 31 percent of bisexual and 
lesbian women do not feel comfortable or welcome at Pride 
events. More than 40 percent of the participants did not 
plan on going to a Pride festival in 2018, and more than a 
third had not been to one at all. 
The division within the LGBTQ+ community is a con-
troversial subject, and some organizations even try to push 
people further apart. Take Lesbian Rights Alliance, for ex-
ample. The organization has been accused of being trans-
phobic for insisting that transgender women are tricking les-
bians into having sex with them. Other organizations such 
as Women’s Liberation Front say the increased amount of 
people identifying as transgender is an “epidemic” and aim 
to reduce the rights that trangender individuals have strug-
gled for. We wonder what they would have said to trans-
gender activist Marsha Johnson during the Stonewall Riots. 
Looking back at the progress, it hurts to see such views 
within the LGBTQ+ community, but it’s important to ad-
dress them in oder to solve the true issue. It’s also impor-
tant to remember that this is a minority within the commu-
nity. The majority of the community doesn’t feel this way, 
and maybe we can learn from each other to ﬁ  x it. There’s a 
reason we call it a community after all.
Pride is for the people, not the festivities. Yes, it’s a cel-
ebration, but it’s the people that make it great. When we 
asked students what motivates them to keep going to Pride, 
they each said the same thing: the sense of community they 
feel. People at Pride will pick you up when you’re down and 
lend you a shoulder to lean on.
If you’re interested, there are different ways to partici-
pate in LGBTQ+ affairs, like getting involved with UF Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs and Pride Student Union. 
Also, going to a Pride festival is hands down one of the 
best ways to have fun while supporting social change. We 
encourage you to go to the Gainesville Pride Parade and 
Festival, hosted by the Pride Community Center of North 
Central Florida, this Saturday. 
Continue to uphold the standard that makes Pride so 
great: loving people for who they are. The ﬁ  rst Pride festival 
was created to support people who needed help, so it only 
makes sense we continue the tradition. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Gorgeous Lake House. Fish, swim & ski. 
beautful Lake Winnott (near Melrose, FL). 
3br/2ba cement block built in '03. Split floor-
plan w/approx 12'x 42' glassed-in FL room w/
heat & air Concrete drive, boat ramp, fenced 
yd.18x31 enclosed RV/boat barn. Poss own-
er financing. Call for photo & addl info 352-
278-4644 Agents welcome. 4% commission.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6DSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
What is the #1 start-up business
finance secret? Get in the money 
game! Try Imaginet Studios Books. 
Now available on Alibris.com and 
Amazon.com .                         10-21-1-10
Time to sell your Glow Worm? Your Garbage 
Pail Kids? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Fun Fact: In the 19th Century, Aluminum was consid -
ered to be more valuable than gold
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR unit. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 
352-672-8657    10-28-19-5-1
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
kids maze
 ANSWER ON PAGE 9MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Part-time bilingual office assistant (English/
Spanish) for law office. Please send your 
resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com.    10-21-
19-8-14
Drivers needed
for taxi company. 
Contact us at (352)777-9488.       10-28-19-
8-14
Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-14
SIMEDHealth is currently seeking Full Time 
Certified Medical Assistants for several of our 
clinics in our Gainesville, FL office location. 
Apply on our website at www.simedhealth.
com.      10-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgAlcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
By Kevin Salat
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 Thespian’s 
platform
6 English Derby site
11 Earlier
14 Handsome god
15 “Me too!”
16 Coffee hour 
vessel
17 Vessel for Bond
19 Sigma follower
20 Golf tournament 
kickoff
21 Clairvoyant
22 B-ball
24 Spanish “month”
25 Money in the 
middle of a poker 
table
27 Smoke for 
Sherlock
28 “... for the 
remainder of my 
days”
34 No-holds-__
37 “Like it __ ... ”
38 2020 Super Bowl 
number
39 Lemony Snicket’s 
evil count
40 Celestial shower 
component
42 Ice cream holder
43 “The Greatest” 
boxer
44 Painter of café 
scenes
45 John of “Three’s 
Company”
47 Places to get 
bronzed skin
50 Adolescent
51 Cuteness 
reactions
52 State-of-the-__
55 “Me too!”
56 Give off
59 Debate topic
61 Game with Draw 
Two cards
62 Communication 
confusion ... or 
what’s literally 
found in this 
puzzle’s three 
sets of circles
65 Quito’s country, 
to the IOC
66 “Time is money,” 
e.g.
67 Texting devices
68 Filming site
69 Tibetan priests
70 Engaged in battleDOWN
1 Fifth tire
2 Pamplona 
runners
3 Utah ski resort
4 Quick look
5 Ages and ages
6 Beat by a bit
7 Paperwork 
accumulation
8 “A __ Is Born”
9 Tense NBA 
periods
10 Slam-dancing 
area
11 Tesla self-driving 
car system
12 Fruity metaphor 
for a rumor mill
13 Burden
14 Clock radio 
toggle
18 “No one __ 
blame”
23 Crude in a tanker
26 2018 Best Actor 
Gary
28 Dog’s bark
29 What students 
take at lectures
30 Legendary Garbo
31 Twelve 
24-Acrosses
32 Melancholy33 Of all time
34 Yacht or ferry
35 Suddenly
36 Postponed, as a 
ball game
41 U.K. language
42 Dime’s 10: Abbr.
44 Barely enough
46 Acumen
48 Prefix with liberal
49 Pull-up muscles, 
briefly
52 Yoga posture53 Measuring stick
54 Hardy’s “__ of the 
D’Urbervilles”
55 Takes to court
56 More than a quiz
57 Prefix between 
kilo- and giga-
58 March 15, 
notably
60 Skiing surface
63 Wash. neighbor
64 Hoppy brew, for 
short
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, October 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Safari sight
11 Class clown, at 
times
15 MRI safety 
consideration
16 Fabric used in 
sci-fi costumes
17 Ones concerned 
with public 
images?
18 Infuriates
19 Where food may 
be collected
20 Many Egon 
Schiele works
22 Lacking a key
26 __ code
27 Has as an 
address
31 “__ Mio”
32 Gradual process 
of concern to 
periodontists
34 Recognizes
35 See 46-Down
38 Annoying sort
39 Leporello in “Don 
Giovanni,” e.g.
40 Dorm figs.
41 Vacation itinerary 
entry
43 French dispatch 
boat
45 Summer fun item 
attached to a 
ladder
49 Cetera of 
Chicago
50 __ powder
51 Intellectual 
property statute
56 Greece neighbor: 
Abbr.
57 Oklahoma city
58 Payment
62 Coleridge work
63 Fair
64 Hightailed it
65 Musical with the 
song “Sex Is in 
the Heel”
DOWN
1 Rec room 
amenity
2 Ask
3 Sappho’s home
4 Gere title role
5 Ottoman honorific6 News initials 
since 1851
7 Romeo’s last 
words
8 Baskerville Hall 
setting
9 “It came __ 
surprise”
10 Opposite of 
provided
11 Eatery “just a half 
a mile from the 
railroad track”
12 Conspiracy 
theory origin, 
perhaps
13 Green shades
14 Antsy
21 Wall St. events
23 Ink spots?
24 Commotion
25 Tempo of 
Chopin’s 
“Marche funèbre”
28 Clinch
29 Last Olds model
30 Where the heart is
33 Like some 
wasted milk
35 Early Hudson’s 
Bay Company 
employees36 Imbibe  
minimally
37 Anticipatory 
question
39 Franklin half-
dollar image
41 Undecided
42 Org. with beeping 
wands
44 Like some rye
46 With 35-Across, 
self-confident 
words47 Pleasing to the 
ear
48 Places firmly (in)
52 “Star __”
53 First name in 
casual wear
54 “And that goes for 
me, too!”
55 Pretend not to 
see, with “at”
59 Old possessive
60 Q neighbor
61 “Is that __?”
10/18/19
1. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the broomstick that Harry 
Potter received as a gift in “Harry Pot-
ter and the Sorcerer’s Stone”?
2. MEDICAL: Which disease was 
once known as the Great White Plague 
because of the pale appearance of the 
patients?
3. BIBLE: Which biblical city was 
ruled by Nebuchadnezzar?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident was assassinated less than four 
months after taking office?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of India?
6. COMICS: In what century did the 
adventures of Buck Rogers take place?
7. GAMES: What is the name of the 
curved wicker basket used to throw 
and catch balls in jai alai?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What were the Galapagos Islands 
named after?
9. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: 
Which company once used the ad slo-
gan, “You deserve a break today”?
10. ANATOMY: What is a common 
name for the pollex in human anatomy?
Answers
1. Nimbus 2000
2. Tuberculosis
3. Babylon
4. James Garfield
5. New Delhi 
6. 25th
7. Cesta
8. The tortoises found there. 
9. McDonald’s
10. Thumb
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 21, 2019King Features Weekly Service1. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the broomstick that Harry 
Potter received as a gift in “Harry Pot-
ter and the Sorcerer’s Stone”?
2. MEDICAL: Which disease was 
once known as the Great White Plague 
because of the pale appearance of the 
patients?
3. BIBLE: Which biblical city was 
ruled by Nebuchadnezzar?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident was assassinated less than four 
months after taking office?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of India?
6. COMICS: In what century did the 
adventures of Buck Rogers take place?
7. GAMES: What is the name of the 
curved wicker basket used to throw 
and catch balls in jai alai?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What were the Galapagos Islands 
named after?
9. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: 
Which company once used the ad slo-
gan, “You deserve a break today”?
10. ANATOMY: What is a common 
name for the pollex in human anatomy?
Answers
1. Nimbus 2000
2. Tuberculosis
3. Babylon
4. James Garfield
5. New Delhi 
6. 25th
7. Cesta
8. The tortoises found there. 
9. McDonald’s
10. Thumb
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.October 21, 2019King Features Weekly Service ANSWERS BELOWTRIVIA TEST ANSWERSSOLUTION BELOW
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
belowFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators up to No. 7 in newest AP Poll
Florida's football team jumped two spots in this week's AP T op 25 Poll, mak-
ing it the highest-ranked one-loss team in the nation. The ﬁ  rst College Foot-
ball Playoff rankings debut on Nov. 5.Cross country athlete Jessica 
Pascoe made UF history 
Saturday, when she became the 
ﬁ  rst women's runner to earn 
four-straight titles in the ﬁ  rst 
four meets of the season.
FOOTBALL
VOLLEYBALLBy Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
It’s all happening for Florida's football 
team.
The Gators just notched a quality 
division road win over South Carolina, 
rose to a season-high No. 7 in the AP Poll 
and have sole possession of ﬁ  rst place in 
the SEC East.
Now, UF heads into its second bye week 
right where it wants to be, in the words of 
coach Dan Mullen.
“It’s good credit to the guys, our team, 
of (the) next guy up to get us in this 
position with all the injuries we’ve had to 
deal with this year,” Mullen said.
Those injuries are what make Florida’s 
breather before a Nov. 2 matchup against 
rival No. 10 Georgia in Jacksonville so 
important.
The Gators were without defensive end 
Jabari Zuniga and edge rusher Jonathan 
Greenard against the Gamecocks in the 
team’s 38-27 win, and it was abundantly clear the team’s vaunted defense was not 
at full strength.
For the second straight game, UF 
yielded over 200 rushing yards to its 
opponent. Zuniga and Greenard both 
played in limited capacities against then-
No. 5 LSU two weeks ago, Florida’s 42-28 
loss in which the team gave up a season-
high 511 yards.
Both defensive anchors are dealing with 
ankle injuries, but Mullen believes they’ll 
both be available for the Georgia game, 
which may decide which team comes out 
of the SEC East.
“By medical standards and timing, I’m 
very optimistic that they’ll be good to go,” 
he said. “I’m optimistic, honestly, that 
they’ll be good to go for next Monday’s 
practice.”
The extra time may also allow receiver 
Kadarius Toney to return to action on the 
other end of the bye week. He has not 
played since injuring his shoulder against 
UT Martin in Week 2, but Mullen has not 
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
There is no such thing as style 
points in volleyball. 
It wasn’t stylish, it wasn’t 
ﬂ  ashy, but a sweep is still a 
sweep. 
And on the road in conference 
play, the Gators will take it, even 
if they didn’t look as dominant as 
they probably should have been. 
The 25-20, 25-20, 25-21 win 
over LSU is Florida’s 10th sweep 
of the season and its fourth in 
conference play. 
The No. 13 Gators (15-3, 6-1 
SEC) jumped out to an early 8-4 
lead in the ﬁ  rst set. LSU (10-8, 
4-4 SEC) responded by scoring 
seven of the next nine to take an 
11-10 lead. After the teams were 
tied at 11 and again at 12, UF out-
scored LSU 13-8 to end the frame. 
Florida’s .220 hitting percent-
age in the set was its lowest of 
the match. 
The second set was even 
tighter than the ﬁ  rst. Its back-
and-forth nature resembled more 
of a ping-pong match than a vol-
leyball game. 
Neither team led by more than 
three points until the Gators took 
a 23-19 lead on a 7-1 run late in 
the frame. There were 10 ties 
during the set until the Gators 
emerged with a 25-20 win. The Tigers took a 7-4 lead to 
begin the third frame, but Florida 
recorded seven of the next nine 
points for an 11-9 advantage. The 
Gators led by as much as six, 
but the Tigers cut it down to two 
at 19-17 and the deﬁ  cit was too 
much as Hammons buried a kill 
to complete the sweep. 
Sunday was not one of the 
Gators’ best performances this 
season. Their .276 hitting per-
centage is only slightly above 
their hitting percentage for the 
season (.266). They allowed the 
Tigers to hit .214, the ﬁ  fth-high-
est they have allowed all season. Outside hitter Thayer Hall 
and opposite attacker Holly Carl-
ton combined for 30 kills on 61 
swings. Florida desperately need-
ed those performances because 
the rest of the team only totaled 
17 kills on 55 swings with six at-
tack errors. 
LSU outside hitter Taylor Ban-
nister terrorized the Gators’ de-
fense the entire afternoon. The 
junior hammered 20 kills on 42 
swings and carried the Tigers’ 
offense. Bannister had as many 
kills as the rest of the team com-
bined. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators welcome bye week after road win at South Carolina
Hall, Carlton carry Florida oﬀ  enseChris King / Alligator Staff
Injured players, like receiver Kadarius T oney, can use the bye week to recuperate.
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Holly Carlton combined with Thayer Hall to log 30 kills Sunday.
Every road trip is 
the same.
There’s the 
beginning, when 
it’s fun and ex-
citing. You have a 
world of experiences 
in front of you and 
don’t know what’s go-
ing to happen.
Then there’s the 
settling phase. When the conver-
sation and feverishness die down. 
You put your headphones in and 
try to fall asleep. This is where 
you settle in for the long haul.
But then there’s the end. The 
homestretch. This is the longest 
phase. After you’ve slept every 
possible wink, and you're on the 
ﬁ  fth loop of your favorite playlist.
After an exciting start to the 
season with comeback wins, 
national attention and backup 
quarterback Kyle Trask’s coming 
out party, Florida settled in for 
back-to-back top-10 matchups. It 
played well and maintained a top-
10 ranking. But its third ranked 
matchup against Georgia on Nov. 
2 will mark the beginning of the 
end. The homestretch of the 2019 
season. And it needs to be healthy 
if it’s going to ﬁ  nish strong.
The Gators have been without 
two of their best defensive line-men in edge rusher 
Jonathan Greenard 
and tackle Jabari 
Zuniga. Coach Dan 
Mullen said after Sat-
urday’s game that 
they're on track to 
make their return 
the week leading up 
to the matchup with 
Georgia.
The game against South Caro-
lina also saw star cornerback C.J. 
Henderson and defensive tackle 
Marlon Dunlap Jr. go down with 
injuries. They should all be back 
— and they better be — because 
it will be a long rest of the season 
if the injuries continue to linger.
“We’ve got a bye week. A 
chance to hopefully get some guys 
healthy," Mullen said. "We’ve got 
a big break and have got a big 
three-game stretch after the bye 
to try to win the SEC East."
When healthy, UF’s defense 
stacks up with any in the country. 
It showed that with a 10-sack per-
formance against Miami in Week 
0 and holding then-No. 7 Auburn 
to 13 points. 
But if the injuries continue, 
this team is in some trouble. 
We saw a sneak peak of how UF is good, if it gets healthyHeroes and DylansSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 12
Dylan Rudolph
Twitter: @dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
Alligator File Photo
Florida’s men’s golf team is currently in second place after one round of play at the 
T avistock Collegiate Invitational in Orlando. At least two freshmen have cracked the 
starting lineup in each of the Gators’ tournaments.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
McCartney Kessler will compete in the final of the ITA Southeast Regional Championship in T allahassee on 
Monday. She will face off against Georgia’s Lea Ma. Kessler earned two victories on Sunday.
MEN’S GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
It’s been a fall season 
full of trial and error for 
the Gators men’s golf 
team.
In its three starts be-
fore Sunday, the squad 
failed to finish higher 
than seventh place and 
battled a constant mix 
of inexperience and poor 
form throughout the early 
part of the season.
At least two freshmen 
have been present in the 
starting lineup at each 
tournament, a testament 
to the youth of coach J.C. 
Deacon’s current pro-
gram. 
That trend continued 
this weekend, as Florida 
made the short trek to 
Orlando for the 54-hole 
Tavistock Collegiate Invi-
tational with three first-
years in tow.
The UCF-hosted, in-
vite-only event became an 
annual stop on Florida’s 
fall calendar following a 
team and individual win 
in 2016.
Five ranked teams in Golfstat’s current rank-
ings were also selected to 
compete this week at the 
Isleworth Golf and Coun-
try Club: No. 2 Texas 
Tech, No. 8 Arizona State, 
No. 21 Vanderbilt, No. 22 
Texas and No. 24 Auburn.
A string of difficult 
team qualifying and the 
brute 7,544-yard, par-72 
layout at Isleworth fared 
the Gators well during 
Sunday’s first round. The 
men strung together a 285 
(3 under) team total, solid 
enough to sit in lone sec-
ond behind UCF.
John Axelsen led the 
Gators, again, from the 
pole position. The junior 
carded a bogey-free 68 (4 
under) on the day to sit 
tied for third individu-
ally. Close behind were 
the three freshmen, with 
Ricky Castillo and John 
DuBois firing even par 
72s and Fred Biondi sign-
ing for 73.
Considering Florida’s 
best post-first round po-
sitioning up to this point 
in the season had been 
a meager eighth place 
(at both the OFCC/Fight-ing Illini Invitational and 
the Nike Collegiate In-
vitational), Deacon was 
pleased with his team’s 
lowest single-round team 
total this year.
“It was nice to get 
off to a good start,” the 
sixth-year coach said in 
a release. “The guys were 
able to take all the good 
golf we have been playing 
at home in qualifying and 
have it translate on the 
road.”
For the Gators to con-
tinue building on Sun-
day’s momentum into 
Monday and Tuesday’s fi-
nal two rounds, they will 
have to continue scoring 
on an Isleworth track that 
is considerably longer, 
faster and firmer than any 
course they have played 
this year.
“We have a long way 
to go,” Deacon said. “We 
just have to continue to 
take care of our business 
and play smart golf with 
an aggressive mindset.”
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgGators in 2nd after 1st round
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
At this point in Florida’s 
women’s tennis season, 
there has been one player 
who has emerged as a star: 
McCartney Kessler.
Entering this weekend, 
the junior had already 
played in a team-high 15 
matches and accumulated a 
10-5 record. 
She was also coming off 
an appearance last week 
at the ITA All-American 
Championships where even 
though she finished 3-2, 
she played against three 
ranked opponents and two 
All-Americans. This week-
end she had a chance to 
improve herself at ITA 
Southeast Regional Cham-
pionship in Tallahassee.
And so far, she has de-
livered. However, it isn’t 
over yet.
Kessler will play in the 
final of the regionals Mon-
day and will battle Lea Ma 
of Georgia. On Sunday, Kes-
sler defeated Martina Kude-
lova of FAU in the quarter-
finals and Victoria Flores of 
Georgia Tech in the semifi-
nals. Both wins came in 
straight sets. In fact, Kes-
sler has yet to lose a set in 
the tournament, so far. She 
has won five consecutive 
matches for the second time 
this fall.
Kessler was joined by 
senior Tsveta Dimitriva and 
sophomores Sydney Berlin 
and Marlee Zein in Talla-
hassee; however, none of 
the others made it past Fri-
day in singles play. Dimi-
trova lost in the Round of 
64, while Berlin and Zein 
lost in the Round of 32. Ber-
lin and Dimitrova competed 
in doubles and won on Fri-
day but lost on Saturday to 
Sasha Hill and Petra Hule of 
FSU 8-2.
“She (Kessler) is making 
great decisions on the court 
with how she is wanting to 
construct the points in her 
favor,” assistant coach Lau-
ren Embree said, “and on 
the big points it’s paying 
off.” 
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida finishes weekend at ITA Southeast Regionals12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019
$6,950
$6,023
recently commented on his status.
Florida may be catching Georgia at its most vulnerable 
in the past three years. The Bulldogs lost to South Carolina 
in overtime 20-17 two weeks ago at home as the No. 3 
team in the nation. UGA followed that performance up 
with a scoreless ﬁ  rst half against Kentucky, but ultimately 
ended up winning 21-0.
Georgia quarterback Jake Fromm has just 330 yards, a touchdown and three interceptions in the past two weeks. 
Running back D’Andre Swift, however, has 292 yards on 
the ground and three touchdowns in that same period. His 
production further underlines how important Greenard 
and Zuniga’s potential returns will be to the Gators’ run 
defense.
This off week also splits up an often talked about ﬁ  ve-
week stretch in which Florida faces three top-10 teams. 
Three weeks ago, UF defeated then-No. 7 Auburn at 
home, two weeks ago it lost to LSU and, if Florida and 
Georgia’s positions hold, the game in Jacksonville will 
round out that gauntlet.
“It was a rough little stretch, but I think we handled it 
well,” defensive end Zach Carter said.The past month saw the Gators build up an impressive 
resume, with their only blemish being a quality loss to the 
best offense in the country. This is evidenced by Florida 
being the highest-ranked team with a loss. But players are 
welcoming the rest before their next game.
“I think this bye week will do us very well,” receiver 
Freddie Swain said. “Getting guys back, getting guys 
rested and getting the young guys an opportunity in 
practice to show what they can do.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org
a shorthanded UFs’ defense 
looked up against LSU when 
it gave up 42 points and 511 
yards of total offense. 
Not good enough. Not 
good enough to beat Geor-
gia. Not good enough to 
make the SEC Champion-
ship. Not good enough to 
make the College Football 
Playoff, and if that’s not 
where this team has its 
sights set, then why even 
suit up?
“I think that’s what we 
build this defense on: ﬁ  ght-
ing and never giving up and 
relentless effort,” defensive 
end Zach Carter said. “It was a rough little stretch, 
but I think we handled 
it well. We’ll continue to 
build off of this, because 
we know we’re in control 
of our own destiny, so we 
know what we have ahead 
of us.”
The Gators are in the 
home stretch. And this 
team, if it can hold on and 
stay healthy, is good enough 
to do what it set out to do. 
But they need all hands on 
the wheel, because it’s still 
a long way until they get to 
their destination.FOOTBALL,  from pg. 10
COLUMN,  from pg. 10Bye, then Bulldogs
Plague of injuries
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Edge rusher Jonathan Greenard has missed Florida's last two games, and its defense has struggled without him.
