We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
See Phi Mu’s new digs
The UF sorority chapter’s house just got a $2.7 million 
renovation, pg. 8
Cancer Survivor
A UF student recently ﬁ  nished chemotherapy, pg. 9UF looks to close-out a win at UGA
Coach Mike White and the UF men’s 
basketball team will try and solve its late-game 
woes against Georgia on Saturday, pg. 14FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 48
FEATURE FRIDAY
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Plastic bags were the ﬁ  rst to 
go from Loosey’s.
The foam containers used to 
hold half-eaten leftovers were 
next. And soon, every other 
business in Gainesville will be 
doing the same. 
The Gainesville City Com-
mission voted unanimously 
to pass an ordinance banning 
single-use plastic bags and foam 
containers in Gainesville Thurs-
day evening.
By Aug. 1, businesses will no 
longer be able to give customers 
foam products like cups, plates 
or to-go boxes or any plastic bag 
with handles, like the ones at 
Walmart and Publix. 
The idea for the ban came 
about a year and a half ago when the com-
mission adopted a zero-waste initiative. City 
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos, who 
advocated for the ordinance, said the deci-
sion is one of the ﬁ  rst steps for Gainesville 
to be waste-free by 2040.
Gainesville will join communities like 
Coral Gables, Florida, which was the ﬁ  rst 
city in the state to implement this ban in 
2016. Coral Gables received pushback when 
the Florida Retail Federation ﬁ  led a lawsuit 
against the city, arguing that the ordinance 
was unconstitutional. 
Hayes-Santos said he’s not worried about 
a lawsuit. 
“If retail associations want to sue the city 
to try to pollute our community more, I’d be 
happy to take on that ﬁ  ght,” he said. 
If businesses don’t follow suit, each cita-
tion will cost $250. 
Enforcement will be mostly complaint-
driven, Hayes-Santos said. When someone 
complains that a business isn’t following the ordinance, code enforcement will issue the 
ﬁ  ne. 
Loosey’s won’t worry about the ﬁ  ne. 
The transition to sustainable products 
in 2017 wasn’t exactly easy for Loosey’s, a 
Gainesville bar and restaurant that has two 
locations, because they cost about three 
times more than traditional products, said 
Joy Hughes, Loosey’s co-owner.
Foam containers are the industry stan-
dard, making it the cheapest option, said 
Robert Cason, a district sales representative 
at Cheney Brothers Inc., a Florida food sup-
plier. Foam is cheap and efﬁ  cient. It doesn’t 
leak, and is well insulated, unlike some pa-
per alternatives. 
Cason supplies nearly 60 businesses in 
Gainesville with plastic products. The typi-
cal plastic bag costs anywhere from one to 
four cents each while paper or biodegrad-
able plastic alternatives will cost about 25 to 
40 cents each.
Cason said that if businesses don’t start 
THE
PLASTIC
BANGainesville 
will be 100 
percent waste 
free by 2040STUDENT TICKETS 
WILL COST $10.
By Dana Cassidy and Lakshmi 
Gomez
Alligator Staff Writers
Rapper 21 Savage 
is coming to UF in cel-
ebration of Black His-
tory Month. 
At 6:30 p.m. Feb. 
27, Shayaa Bin Abra-
ham-Joseph, better 
known as 21 Savage, 
will perform at the O’Connell Center, 
said Akil Reynolds, a 21-year-old UF 
public health senior and the UF Black 
Student Union president. 
21 Savage will be paid $110,000 to 
perform an hour-long set, according to 
his contract with UF.
UF Student Government Productions 
and the UF Black Student Union will 
host the event, Reynolds said. Student 
tickets will cost $10 and general tickets 
will cost $20. Presale will begin 10 a.m. 
Jan. 30 with UF students able to pur-
chase up to four tickets at a time. Sales 
to the general public will begin Jan. 31 
at the O’Connell Center box ofﬁ  ce and 
Ticketmaster.com.
Collaborations between the Black 
Student Union and Student Government 
Productions are important because they 
allow a marginalized group to be at the 
forefront of a decision process they’re 
usually excluded from, Reynolds said.
21 Savage was considered as a per-
former for UF before the release of his 
album “i am > i was” in December, 
Reynolds said. After listening to a few 
of the new singles, Reynolds knew the 
album was going to be popular with ev-
eryone.
UF has a diverse student population 
with diverse interests, Reynolds said. 
By bringing a diverse artist to perform, 
groups of people can be brought togeth-
er.
“It’s important for black performers 
in music to come out because when you 
look at [Billboard’s Hot 100] a lot of it 
is coming from black performers,” Reyn-
olds said.
The opening act for the rapper has 
not been announced yet, said Andrew 
Kelly, the chairman of Student Govern-
ment Productions and a 21-year-old UF 21 Savage to 
perform at UF  
A PERMANENT MANAGER 
WILL BE DISCUSSED AT NEXT 
COMMISSION MEETING.
By Kelly Hayes and T aylor 
Girtman
Alligator Staff Writers
The Gainesville City 
Commission chose a 
new interim city man-
ager Thursday. 
Former City Manag-
er Anthony Lyons  gave 
the commission his let-
ter of resignation on 
Dec. 11 after citizens complained during 
a Dec. 8 commission meeting. 
In a unanimous decision, Deborah 
Bowie, 48, was chosen for the interim 
manager position and the discussion of 
ﬁ  nding a permanent city manager was 
moved to the next commission meeting. 
She will begin her role at 5 p.m. today. 
Bowie has been chief of staff to Ly-
ons since May. She has also worked in 
high positions of local governments in 
Georgia and Alabama. In Albany, Geor-
gia, she worked for the chamber of com-
merce, and in Birmingham, Alabama, 
she worked as the mayor’s chief of staff 
and as the chamber of commerce’s vice 
president of community development.
“Bowie has a raft of experience, 
which makes her uniquely qualiﬁ  ed for 
this position at this moment in time,” 
Commissioner David Arreola said.
The commissioners who initially vot-
ed for Bowie praised her leadership and 
enthusiasm for teamwork. 
Bowie said the interim city manager 
should focus on government operations 
and empowering people rather than fo-
cusing on personal priorities.
“I am honestly honored,” Bowie said. 
“I want to latch on to the positives. Our 
team is always looking for the opportu-
nity to work together.”
The interim position is expected to 
last six to nine months until the perma-
nent manager is selected, Arreola said. 
Lyons will remain an adviser to the in-City 
chooses 
interim 
manager
Nicole Needles / Alligator Staff
Mayor Lauren Poe and Gainesville city 
commissioners listen to the public’s comments 
Thursday during the Gainesville City Commission 
meeting at City Hall. The meeting was over four 
hours long, and the panel of legislators passed 
legislation that banned the use of plastic bags in 
Gainesville.
SEE PLASTIC,  PAGE 5 SEE 21 SAVAGE,  PAGE 5 SEE MANAGER,  PAGE 521 Savage
Bowie
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Consciousness in Science 
Symposium
Scientists and scholars will 
get together for a conference 
from 6:30-9 p.m. at the Harn 
Museum of Art, at 3259 Hull 
Road. The event is free and 
open to the public. Light re-
freshments will be provided 
at a reception starting at 6:30 
p.m. Keynote addresses will 
take place in the auditorium 
at 7 p.m. The keynote speak-
ers include Stuart Hameroff, an 
anesthesiologist and University 
of Arizona professor who 
helped develop a quantum 
theory of consciousness, and 
Brenda Dunne of the Princeton 
Environmental Engineering 
Anomalies Research labora-
tory, who will speak about the 
subject and objective aspects of 
consciousness.   
GatorNights – The Price is Reitz
From 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., a game 
show-themed Gator Nights will 
be hosted for free at the Reitz 
Union. Attendees must be cur-
rent UF students and must 
bring their Gator 1 Card to en-
ter. One guest per student is 
allowed. Attendees can play 
game challenges like “Family 
Feud” and “Minute to Win It.” 
There will also be a “Wipeout” challenge and a “Shark Tank” 
mechanical shark. The first 
painting class of the semester 
will accept the first 100 stu-
dents. Sign-ups begin at 7:30 
p.m. in Room 3315. Guests can 
create do-it-yourself stickers, 
TV picture frames, wooden bird 
houses and take-home street 
signs. Florida Swing Dancing 
Club will host “So You Think 
You Can Swing Dance.” The 
Club Creole Pageant will also 
be held. “Night School” will be 
shown at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. 
in the Chamber. There will be 
free bowling and billiards in the 
Game Room, a global coffee-
house and pizza will be served 
at Midnight Munchies.
What Colors Do You Bleed?
All LifeSouth area donor cen-
ters and bloodmobiles are par-
ticipating in a competition be-
tween UF and the University 
of Kentucky. The bloodmobiles 
will be located at 1221 NW 13th 
St. and 4039 Newberry Road. 
The competition ends today. 
T-shirts will be given away. 
All donors will be entered in a 
drawing to win a pair of tick-
ets to the UF versus University 
of Kentucky basketball game. 
Spirit points toward Dance 
Marathon and the Spring Greek 
Blood Drives will be given and 
double the points will be earned 
for donating at a LifeSouth 
Community Blood Center.
  SATURDAY
Great Invader Raider Rally
From 9-11 a.m., volunteers 
will help remove invasive 
plants from Gainesville’s pre-
assigned natural areas. After 
the restoration, the volunteers 
are invited to Morningside 
Nature Center from 11 a.m. to 
1 p.m. to celebrate with music, 
T-shirts, prizes, environmental 
booths, games and food. Email 
Ludovica Weaver to pre-regis-
ter at weaverl@cityofgaines-
ville.org.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  73° LOW  51°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Ashlyn Jones, Graham Marsh,
Blake TrauschkeMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 48FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Hangry?
Good to go.
From grab and go Chobani smoothies
to granola bars, shop and save close to campus.
Your Campus T arget
Just north of campus on
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
© 2019 T arget Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and T arget are registered trademarks of T arget Brands, Inc. C-000807-03-0114   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
THE CENTER HAS THE FIRST 
PROGRAM OF ITS KIND IN 
THE SOUTHEAST.
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
A new health center in Alachua is tackling 
the way mental health is treated for new and 
expecting mothers.
Better Beginnings, a center helping women 
with mental health issues before, during and 
after pregnancy, opened Jan. 2, said Lauren De-
Paola, the center’s founder.
Better Beginnings will hold its grand open-
ing 5 p.m. Friday, DePaola said.
The center was created to serve women 
with perinatal mental health issues, such as 
postpartum depression, as well as providing 
them with psychiatric services like counsel-
ing, DePaola said. 
“Women’s mental health has come a long 
way but still has a long way to go,” she said.
After struggling with postpartum depression 
and realizing there were no perinatal mental 
health resources in Florida, DePaola decided to 
create a center to help other women. 
DePaola is a licensed clinical social worker 
who had a previous counseling center, Post-
partum Wellness & Family Counseling, in 
Gainesville. She chose to relocate her practice 
to the quieter city of Alachua to create a more 
relaxing environment, she said.
Better Beginnings has the first partial hospi-
talization program, which follows an intensive 
five-day-a-week outpatient plan, for mothers 
and their babies in the southeast, DePaola said.Up to one in five women combat postpartum 
depression and struggle to find the appropriate 
resources and medications when dealing with 
perinatal mental health issues, DePaola said.
Other services include yoga classes, acu-
puncture and massage, DePaola said. The cen-
ter also has an on-site nursery, so mothers don’t 
have to worry about childcare during visits.
Mental health is a field where professionals 
do not have the additional education they need, 
DePaola said. 
“We have to seek out the additional edu-
cation,” DePaola said. “It’s not normal in our 
regular clinical education.”
DePaola received her education at Postpar-
tum Support International where she received 
her perinatal mental health certification. 
Dr. Wendy Davis, the executive director of 
Postpartum Support International, said cen-
ters like Better Beginnings can prevent crises 
when not enough treatment is available. There 
are only 82 perinatal mental health specialists 
certified by Postpartum Support International, 
like DePaola.
“The fact that centers like this are opening 
now is really encouraging to people who have 
been waiting for this kind of specialized care,” 
Davis said.
Women often go to their general doctors, 
nurses or midwives who don’t have the prop-
er information on how to recognize, diagnose 
or treat mental health issues, said Ann Smith, 
president of Postpartum Support International.
“We’re really happy when programs like 
this open up,” Smith said. “We know how im-
portant they are.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgMom mental health center opens
MORE THAN $5,000 IN 
DONATIONS WAS COLLECTED.
By Katherine  
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
In the aftermath of a fiery Interstate 75 
crash that killed seven people, one mother 
filed a lawsuit after she lost her child and 
another woman collected donations for 
the victims.
Lawsuit
Chasity Warren lost her 14-year-old son 
two weeks ago and still doesn’t know why.
On Jan. 3, an I-75 crash killed five chil-
dren including her son Jeremiah Warren,   
Joel Cloud, 14; Cierra “Cece” Bordelan, 9; 
Cara Descant, 13; and Brieana Descant, 10. 
Two semitruck drivers, Steve Holland and 
Douglas Bolkema, were also killed. Eight 
more people were injured.
Holland was driving northbound on I-75 
and hit Robyn Rattray’s car. Both vehicles 
went through the guardrail and hit two ve-
hicles going south: the passenger van the 
children were in and Bolkema’s semitruck. 
The van overturned, ejecting some passen-
gers and both semitrucks caught fire.
The cause of the crash is still unknown, 
said Warren’s attorney Joseph Fried. 
On Jan. 10, Warren filed an auto negli-
gence lawsuit in hopes of finding answers. 
She sued the drivers who started the crash, 
Holland and Rattray, and the companies 
of the semitrucks, Eagle Express Lines and 
New Prime Inc., Fried said. Warren hasn’t yet filed a suit against Bolkema.
Eagle Express Lines declined to comment 
and New Prime Inc. couldn’t be reached.
“Money, justice doesn’t bring kids back 
and so families who suffer these types of 
losses generally want answers,” Fried said.
There’s no set amount of money that 
Warren is suing for yet, Fried said. It will 
take a few months for his investigation to be 
completed.
Donation
Kristy Bickmeyer was heading to bed 
when she heard about the I-75 crash on 
Jan. 3. 
“I read that it was a van full of kids go-
ing to Disney, and that just made it so much 
worse,” said Bickmeyer, 41.
On Jan. 4, after reading Facebook posts 
about people wanting to help the victims, 
Bickmeyer reached out to UF Shands Health 
Center and was told what patients needed. 
Later that day, she posted on Facebook 
that she was accepting any donations for the 
victims, Bickmeyer said. She received more 
than $5,000.
Bickmeyer paid for gas cards, clothes 
and a pediatric wheelchair for the in-
jured, she said. 
On Jan. 10, Bickmeyer donated the left-
over money to the Pentecostals of Gainesville 
to help with funeral costs. 
The church bought five burial plots, said 
Jimmy Toney, pastor of the Pentecostals of 
Gainesville. The plots cost $10,150. 
All the deceased children were buried.
           @katwf98
   kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgLawsuit filed following I-75 crash  planning for the ban soon, the price increase 
could potentially put them out of business. 
Cheney Brothers Inc. stocks about 17,000 
items ranging from cleaning chemicals to 
pizza dough in its Ocala warehouse. Cason 
said the new ordinance won’t affect how he 
and Cheney Brothers Inc. do business. 
As the Aug. 1 deadline looms, Cason 
will increase his inventory of alternatives 
and work with businesses to follow the new 
rules.
“It’s going to be a big learning curve for 
the restaurants, for their operators and for 
their managers,” Cason said. “It’s going to 
be a greater expense for them. It’s going to 
hurt.” 
Other compostable and biodegradable 
paper and plastic products are available but 
will cost anywhere from 20 to 40 percent 
more. 
About 20 percent of Loosey’s business 
comes from takeout orders. Loosey’s uses 
a pulp-based compostable container that is 
165 percent more expensive than its foam 
counterpart, Hughes said. For Loosey’s, fac-
ing the price increase was worth protecting 
the environment. 
“We’re never going to be able to get as 
cheap as Styrofoam is,” Hughes said. “But at 
what cost environmentally?”
Foam and plastics make their way to wa-
terways because of their weight and ability 
to float, said Matthew Williams, the director 
of the UF Office of Sustainability. Animals 
are then exposed to the products.
A foam cup Williams pulled from Cres-
cent Beach with barnacles and oysters cling-
ing to it is a testament to the environmental 
effect these products have. Williams believes 
the faded logo printed on the cup is from a 
1980s convenience store.
Foam and plastics don’t break down, 
meaning they affect not only wildlife but 
also humans. Williams said tiny pieces of 
plastics, known as microplastics, are already 
digested by humans and animals.
“It’s kind of an experiment we’re doing 
on ourselves. We’re only talking about three 
or four generations of humans that have been exposed to plastics,” Williams said.
UF has already taken steps to reduce its 
waste, even though the ordinance won’t af-
fect it, Williams said. As a state entity, the 
university follows state policy, meaning UF 
doesn’t have to adhere to local ordinances 
like the ban.
Gator Dining eliminated foam containers 
in 2011 and plastic bags in 2013. Businesses 
that cater to events on campus are also asked 
not to use foam products, he said.
Leonardo’s By The Slice co-owner Brian 
Johnson said he wants to use eco-friendly 
products, but his business runs on thin mar-gins. He tries to save the restaurant money 
in any way he can before Leonardo’s moves 
locations when the lease ends in June 2020.
“I have fears of costs on everything, all 
day, every day,” Johnson said. “I tend to 
think [the ban] is a waste of time, but if it’s 
the right thing to do, it’s the right thing to 
do.” 
Timothy Townsend, a UF environmen-
tal engineering professor, emphasized the 
global scope of the issue. Because recycling 
companies spend time and effort sorting out 
plastics that can’t be recycled, the overall 
cost to recycle plastics is increasing. “As an environmental engineer, I think 
it’s great that the city of Gainesville is going 
to do that,” Townsend said. “But it’s not go-
ing to solve all the big picture issues.”
Consumers don’t often think about how 
products like foam containers and plastic 
bags are nearly impossible to recycle, said 
Gina Hawkins, the executive director of Keep 
Alachua County Beautiful. 
The new ordinance will make both busi-
nesses and consumers think about where 
their pile of plastic bags could end up, she 
said. 
“People learn: bring your box, bring your 
bag,” Hawkins said. “We need to really be 
thinking about what we’re consuming and 
where it goes.”
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
terim manager until Feb. 14. 
In 2018, Lyons made more than $220,000 
as city manager, according to city data.
Bowie said she is not interested in the per-
manent position. 
In December and January, Bowie, Mi-
chelle Park and Steve Varvel applied for the 
interim position.
“I’m looking for a city manager that can 
stabilize and unify the city,” Commissioner 
Gail Johnson said about her vote for Bowie 
during the meeting.
The appointment was met with disagree-
ment from commissioners Helen Warren and 
Gigi Simmons. Simmons advocated for Park 
during the meeting, citing Park’s experience with the city and job performance.
“I’ve been in Gainesville my whole life,” 
Simmons said. “When you talk about morale, 
[Park] is respected.”
Evelyn Foxx, the president of the local 
NAACP branch, spoke to the commission and 
said Bowie’s appointment will only further 
divide Gainesville because she does not have 
a history with the city. 
“The community is upset,” Foxx said to 
the commission. “We have people in the city 
who have been here for years that could step 
right in. It’s not helping the employee mo-
rale.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgMANAGER,  from pg. 1The former city manager made over $220,000.Karina Elwood / Alligator Staff
finance senior.
21 Savage was chosen to perform 
at UF due to his music style best ex-
emplifying African American influence 
within popular music, Kelly wrote in 
an email. Outside of music, 21 Savage 
is promoting financial literacy among 
lower-income neighborhoods through 
his 21 Savage Bank Account Campaign.
As a performer, 21 Savage is enjoy-
able to all audiences due to his authen-
ticity in his lyrics and ability to connect 
with the audience, Kelly said.
“Together, these characteristics will create an unforgettable experience for 
those in attendance,” he said.
Aliyah Malcolm, a 19-year-old UF 
industrial engineering junior, doesn’t 
listen to 21 Savage’s music often but 
still plans to go to have a fun night out 
with friends. 
“Most of my friends are pumped to 
go, so I’ll go, too,” she said. “I’m inter-
ested to see his performance and what 
he’ll come with.” 
 
@danacassidy_
Dcassidy@alligator.org
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.org21 SAVAGE,  from pg. 1He will be paid $110,000 to perform.PLASTIC,  from pg. 1The idea came 
a year and a 
half ago. 
“W e’re never going to be able to get as cheap as Styrofoam is. 
... But at what cost environmentally?”
Joy Hughes
Loosey’s co-ownerThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s the second week of school, and everyone’s ﬁ  rst week 
excitement has quickly diminished. Thoughts of skipping 
class are quickly creeping into the minds of students and 
the need for a distraction is becoming apparent. Monday is 
a holiday, which means our ﬁ  rst break of the semester is 
just around the corner. You decide it’s the perfect chance 
to escape Gainesville and all the stress of a new semester.
You hop into the car with your best friends because a 
road trip is the perfect remedy for any toxic feelings you 
may be developing about school. The windows are down, 
letting in the cool January air and early 2000s pop is blast-
ing through the speakers. This is it. It’s the perfect time 
for a nap, because after all, this is a long drive. You feel 
yourself begin to drift to sleep as the sweet sounds of Nelly 
Furtado tracks lull you deeper and deeper.
You wake up to eager sounds coming from your friends 
in the front of the car. You look out the window expect-
ing to see your destination, but all you see is a sign in the 
distance, quickly coming closer. The words are blurry, but 
then you see it, those words you’ve been waiting for all 
week. You are now entering…
Darts and Laurels
On Thursday, the New York Times reported that many 
more migrant families may have been separated at the bor-
der. It was reported that possibly thousands of families 
were separated beginning in 2017, before a formal count 
was sanctioned by the court. A dart goes to the Trump 
administration for failing to report they were separating a 
higher number of families than previously reported before 
they unveiled their “zero tolerance” policy in 2018. Harsher 
separation policies began in 2017, but the true number of 
families separated will most likely never be known after the 
Health and Human Services Department said it is not plan-
ning on beginning a count.
Next we look to a Gillette, a razor company that is taking 
some sharp criticism. In an ad that was released this week, 
the company combated toxic masculinity, sexism and bully-
ing in their message to men. A laurel goes to the company 
for moving in the right direction by creating an ad with a 
powerful message. Some have said the ad unfairly attacks 
men, but maybe those are the people that need to hear the 
message the most.
In an odd change of pace for the White House, President 
Trump served the National Championship-winning Clem-
son Tigers a feast of American fast food. A dart goes out to 
Trump for feeding the Tigers McDonald’s and Wendy’s for 
their celebration dinner. Due to the government shutdown, 
Trump said he decided to provide the Tigers with fast food. 
We’re sure the food was appreciated, but we were thinking 
a White House dinner might not be something you could get 
on nearly every street corner. The spread was huge, in true 
Trump fashion; however, the true cost was not ofﬁ  cially 
released.
Lastly, looking closer to home, we offer a laurel to Ryan 
Hinterleiter for becoming cancer-free. The 20-year-old UF 
business administration junior was diagnosed with cancer 
in September. The aggressive Stage 3 Burkitt’s lymphoma 
was combated with four cycles of chemotherapy. Hinter-
leiter is already back in the swing of things this semester, 
setting an example for us all to stay strong in the new year.As we wave goodbye to the second 
week of 2019, other parts of our life 
also bid us farewell. The excitement 
of the holiday season ﬁ  nally fades, 
we start to get into the meaty part of 
classes and New Year’s resolutions drop off 
the radar.
If you already failed to follow through on 
your New Year’s resolutions, don’t fret. Reso-
lutions are pointless and rarely bring about 
any meaningful changes. I appreciate the concept of re-
ﬂ  ection because it’s important to look back on the last 
year and recognize the moments or choices you want to 
learn from. Acknowledging the things you want to change, 
however, doesn’t mean you can instantly ﬁ  x them. We are 
only human. If I could just make every aspect of my life 
perfect in the blink of an eye, I would have perfected ev-
erything years ago.
I see people putting this unnecessary and irrational 
pressure on themselves to accomplish these unattainable 
goals at the start of each year. Think about it: Everyone 
hates when a professor creates a million assignments that 
are all due on the same day. So why would you do that to 
yourself by creating New Year’s resolutions? You’re set-
ting yourself up for failure or at least for a heaping amount 
of undue stress.
People preach “new year, new you” and ﬂ  aunt their 
New Year’s resolutions at the start of every January. In 
fact, my next door neighbors even wrote the saying on 
their front door. I propose a different approach to tackling 
2019: “New year, same you.”
I know, I know. This is the part where you’re like, “OK, 
that makes no sense.” But hear me out. Over winter break, 
I ﬁ  nally found time to evaluate 2018 and I learned a really 
valuable lesson about self-growth. The last couple of years 
were pretty rough for me. I experienced loss, heartbreak, rejection and hurt. At the end of December, I 
realized these events forced me into a “surviv-
al” mode of sorts, in which I lived with dismal 
dreams and a bleak outlook on life.
The thing is, I see people sink into this 
slump every day. Life becomes habitual, not 
purposeful. It’s easy to get bogged down by 
school, work and the routine of daily life. 
Fighting for your ambitions or just to get a C 
in chemistry becomes so laborious that people 
toss aside passions and beeline to the mindless entertain-
ment of Netﬂ  ix or Midtown.
I love Netﬂ  ix just as much as the next person, but there 
are so many pursuits I enjoy more. That “new year, same 
you” status and a wholesome life require dedicating your-
self to your passions and interests outside of work and 
school. That commitment means branching out and test-
ing new pastimes, but it also signiﬁ  es pursuing hobbies 
you already know and love.
I don’t have any resolutions for 2019 because I know 
by the second week of January they’ll be forgotten or long 
gone. Instead of developing new interests, I choose to fo-
cus on including my favorite recreations in my daily life. 
This provides an opportunity to expand without totally 
reinventing myself. It offers time for trying new things 
through the course of the whole year, for actually experi-
encing new things, rather than burning through a bunch 
of changes in a few days.
“New year, same you” allows for change and growth, 
but it doesn’t pressure you into becoming a “new you.” 
Instead of attempting (and likely failing) to rebrand the 
instant calendar page ﬂ  ips, maybe just test out being your-
self a second year around. After all, practice makes per-
fect.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism freshman. Her 
column appears on Fridays.In 2019, the best resolution is to stay the same
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
When UF announces its admis-
sions decisions on Feb. 8, some 
students will receive good news, 
but many will not. We received 
42,000 applications for only 6,500 
available positions.
Even those who are elated at being admit-
ted may wonder how they and their families 
will pay the costs of attending college.
I myself faced that challenge. When I was 
an undergraduate, my parents weren’t able 
to contribute to my college expenses, so I 
washed dishes in the dining hall during the 
academic year and worked as a construction 
laborer in South Miami in the summers. I 
also took out today’s equivalent of $40,000 
in student loans. Many current UF students 
work and take out student loans, as did thou-
sands of alumni.
For me, learning to manage money, time, 
work and my studies was an important part 
of college. Also, in my experience, loans can 
be beneﬁ  cial when they help students gradu-
ate and begin their professional careers in a 
timely manner.
However, even though UF’s tuition is 
among the lowest in the nation, for some stu-
dents, the cost of going to college is simply too high.
Helping these students is a pri-
ority for UF. We currently invest 
nearly $16 million in ﬁ  nancial aid 
for undergraduates each year, and 
we are committed to doing even 
more.
In 2006, we launched the Ma-
chen Florida Opportunity Scholars 
Program. The program provides 
funding for successful applicants who are 
Florida residents, the ﬁ  rst generation in their 
families to attend college and whose fami-
lies earn $40,000 or less each year. We’ve 
awarded Machen scholarships to about 300 
new students each year.
In Fall 2016, we began offering micro 
grants to assist students in unexpected ﬁ  nan-
cial crisis. We’ve since given grants to about 
150 students.
The UF Welcome Grant, launched this 
past Fall, directs funds for one-time startup 
expenses to ﬁ  rst-generation, low-income stu-
dents and has beneﬁ  ted about 120 freshmen.
Grad-A-Gator, being launched this Spring, 
is designed to help some students who are 
experiencing special ﬁ  nancial strain to in-
crease their credit load to 15 hours, with the goal of speeding them to gradua-
tion and reducing their costs.
While UF’s investment in ﬁ  nan-
cial aid is substantial, and while 
our tuition is among the lowest in 
the nation, I believe UF, the state 
and nation all need to increase our 
aid.
For our part, we’re focused on 
growing our endowment for ﬁ  nan-
cial aid for students in need. Our goal for 
UF’s Go Greater fundraising campaign is to 
add $100 million to the ﬁ  nancial aid endow-
ment. I thank all our alumni and friends who 
are helping us get there.
At the state level, I am grateful that our 
lawmakers have more than doubled Florida 
Student Assistance Grant funding for stu-
dents with ﬁ  nancial need in the past two 
years, increasing UF’s annual allocation to 
more than $14 million. This is an important 
investment by the state in our students.
Florida’s signature ﬁ  nancial aid program 
is the Bright Futures Scholarship, which 
generously rewards high-performing stu-
dents who attend Florida public universities.  
Ninety-three percent of UF’s in-state fresh-
men received a Bright Futures scholarship last academic year.
I thank our lawmakers for creating this 
program and for expanding their investment 
in Bright Futures in recent years; this in-
cludes allowing students to use the scholar-
ship to attend summer school.
Bright Futures awards are based on aca-
demic merit, which I support. However, I 
would like to see the amount of the awards 
be based on the ﬁ  nancial needs of students 
and families. A student with ﬁ  nancial need 
would get more than a student with no ﬁ  -
nancial need. Bright Futures should be merit-
based and need-aware.
On the federal level, the Pell Grant also 
recently began providing ﬁ  nancial aid for 
some summer classes. This is a great devel-
opment, and I hope our federal lawmakers 
will continue to expand the Pell program.
In a few weeks, the next class of Gators 
will celebrate as they learn of their admission 
to UF. They should also know that with the 
assistance of ﬁ  nancial aid, this is a university 
where they can afford to go to college.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. His 
column appears monthly.From UF President Kent Fuchs: ﬁ  nancial aid and how it impacts UF studentsColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
I love coffee as much as 
the next student. My per-
sonal drink of choice is an 
espresso with soy milk and 
honey: plain, simple and re-
freshing. But I don’t drink coffee 
every morning. When I choose 
not to drink coffee, I’ll turn to a 
simple caffeine pill.
This pill, while well-known, 
is somewhat controversial sim-
ply because it comes in the form of a pill. 
Why is it that the student who goes through 
four double-shot espressos is lauded as a 
fallen hero, working tirelessly against the 
agenda they set for themselves, but the stu-
dent getting the same caffeine from a pill is 
considered a hack for trying to get an edge 
above the rest? Whatever the cultural or so-
cial ideas you have about caffeine and how 
to ingest it, it seems hypocritical to tear 
down someone who may just not want to 
go through the process of roasting, grinding 
and brewing their cup every day or pick-
ing up their regular order at the Starbucks 
counter.
But while our socially acceptable crutch 
of caffeine is enjoyed almost universally on 
campus, there is a culture of normalization 
we need to be careful about propagating. 
The levels of stress we as students put on 
ourselves cannot be an excuse to seek short-
cuts or "enhancements" that help us in the 
short-term because they can devastate us 
in the long-term. The normal conversations 
about exam week coming up coincide with 
more students seeking prescription drugs 
like Adderall to help them focus on work 
and be able to study. It’s a bad habit that 
can leave students feeling dependent on 
prescription medications.
I have felt the stress of studying for 
hours for several classes. Juggling the con-
cepts of political theory and the history of 
mass communication in media can be a 
lot for anyone’s brain. But I had enough 
foresight to seek help and support from other classmates and get ahead 
of the curriculum to make sure 
the night before wasn’t a night-
mare of stress and lack of sleep. 
I actively discouraged my class-
mates from seeking medication 
to focus on studying, some took 
my advice and some didn’t.
There are still plenty of things 
students can do to give them-
selves a boost without some sort 
of drug. School shouldn’t be a competition 
for who made the best grades or the best 
project in the class. We all came to college 
to become our best selves. Sometimes we 
may need a medical prescription, but for 
those of us who have no requirements for 
pills, we need to learn accountability in or-
der to to own up to our failures and work to 
better ourselves.
What we can take away from this is that 
there is a common fear of failure. I fear 
every day something I do or don’t do may 
leave me with nowhere to go in life. I fear 
I may not reach some level of mastery oth-
ers seem to so quickly attain. Those fears 
are more common than we realize. When 
we pull the curtains back, some of the most 
proliﬁ  c thinkers and workers in the world 
today have gone through many trials to get 
where they are now. 
Leslie Jones was in comedy for more 
than 30 years before she became the old-
est Saturday Night Live cast member to join 
the show at 47. The author who penned 
“Dracula,” Bram Stoker, didn’t publish his 
gothic masterpiece until he was 51. 
We as a generation feel burdened to 
rush ourselves to be like those before us, 
but those before us took years before they 
reached their height. Take a breather. Your 
great work isn’t going to run away from 
you. You just need to grow into it.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism 
sophomore. His column appears on Fridays.Pills and why they aren’t for all of usColumn
Have you ever walked to class 
and thought to yourself: “Wow, I 
would love for my backpack to be 
even heavier.”
No. No one has. The per-
petual hot, humid weather that 
Gainesville experiences most of 
the year is multiplied when your 
backpack is full of books and 
binders. No one wants to scram-
ble into a lecture just to have 
everyone behind them checking out their 
sweaty T-shirt.
Sure, you could wear dark colors or may-
be even buy one of those backpacks with 
wheels. But what if I told you there’s an 
even simpler option, an option that could 
also potentially save you money every se-
mester?
The secret? Ditch the paper. All of it.
Let’s start with the heaviest objects occu-
pying most student’s backpacks, textbooks. 
Not only do traditional books weigh more, 
they also cost a lot more. In my last 3 1/2 
years at UF, I can’t remember ever ﬁ  nding 
the best price for a textbook at the campus 
bookstore.
The internet is full of resources for ﬁ  nd-
ing cheap books. In my experience, how-
ever, Amazon is the best for two reasons. 
First, they outright beat the competition in 
regards to prices. If you don’t believe me, 
look at what you just paid for books and 
then compare it with what Amazon charges.
Second, between about 70 to 80 percent 
of my previous textbooks had a Kindle e-
book edition. This is absolutely your best op-
tion. Not only are they signiﬁ  cantly cheaper 
than the hard copies sold by Amazon, but 
they are available to read on any of your 
electronic devices — immediately lightening 
the load you carry to class every day.
Another enormous beneﬁ  t of ditching 
the paper is that all books instantly become searchable documents. That 
means all it takes is a few sec-
onds to ﬁ  nd a speciﬁ  c keyword 
or paragraph anywhere in the 
book. This is extremely help-
ful for identifying terms when 
you’re studying for a quiz or 
test.
Despite all of this, UF does 
offer a few helpful tools for stu-
dents looking to get rid of heavy 
hard copies. Many narrative-style books 
teachers assign can be found for free on the 
websites of UF libraries. Much like Amazon, 
lots of these books are also searchable and 
downloadable, and did I mention free?
So now that we’ve taken a few pounds 
of books out of our backpacks, what’s next? 
Pretty much everything else.
For any Mac users out there, Pages is a 
free alternative for Microsoft Word. It has 
note-taking templates that will have you 
throwing your traditional notebooks in the 
trash. Like e-books, electronic notes allow 
you to search and identify keywords much 
faster. Personally, I label my notes by chap-
ter and date, so when I’m studying for mid-
terms and ﬁ  nals, I can instantly jump to sec-
tions I’m looking for.
Lastly, the hidden beneﬁ  t of eliminating 
paper from different aspects of your life is 
environmental conservation. According to 
the University of Southern Indiana, about 1 
billion trees of paper in the U.S. is wasted. 
The world only has a ﬁ  nite amount of land 
and resources available, and it’s up to us to 
conserve where we can. Take a look in your 
backpack and see how you can do your part 
by getting rid of excess amounts of paper 
— it may even let you take a load off your 
shoulders.  
Elijah Rawls is a UF journalism senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.Ditch paper textbooks this semester 
to save money and the environmentColumn
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org
Elijah Rawls
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
The previously pink house on Sorority Row has fin-
ished the first half of its face-lift.
The Phi Mu sorority house, at 1152 E. Panhellenic 
Drive, is done with the first phase of its new renovations. 
A three-story addition to the side of the house is the main 
feature. The project cost an estimated $2.7 million, said 
Chris Trowell, the vice president of BBI Construction Man-
agement Inc. 
The company teamed up with Walker Architects, both 
located in Gainesville, to bring Phi Mu’s plans to life, 
Trowell said. Construction began last May. 
Phase one consisted of adding 7,500 square feet, a new 
library and gathering room and 14 more rooms to house 
30 sorority members, Trowell said.
“Phi Mu knew they needed to add more room as more 
demand for girls wanting to live in-house has increased 
dramatically over the last four to five years,” Trowell said.
The project was funded by alumni and a savings ac-
count created by Phi Mu Alpha Nu Housing Corporation, 
said Ally Tacket, the UF president of the Alpha Nu chap-
ter.
Tackett said member dues did not need to increase in 
order to accommodate the new additions.
“Our executive council was very adamant against pric-
es going up for the girls,” the 21-year-old UF health sci-
ence junior said. “We know that attending a large public 
university is a financial burden, so we made sure the new 
changes would be accessible to all women in our chapter.”
The renovations came after members of Phi Mu’s Na-
tional Council, located in Georgia, came for a visit in 
Spring 2017. They said the house needed to be updated, 
Tackett said.
“We wanted a place for a larger space for sisters to 
have more area to live and to just enjoy,” Tackett said. 
“The new house is a wonderful place we all love and live 
in, but it’s our sisterhood that creates the sentiment of a 
home.” 
The construction company will begin the second phase 
of the project in Summer 2019. 
Features include a new foyer and an exterior porch 
that will move the house closer to East Panhellenic Drive, 
Trowell said.
Paris Kemeny, Phi Mu’s 2018 UF pledge class presi-
dent, said she and the rest of her pledge class could not 
stop talking about how excited they were to move in next 
Fall once all renovations are completed. 
“I’m looking forward to the new library,” the 18-year-
old UF finance freshman said. “It’s going to be so nice 
to have a dedicated, quiet study area with plugs for our 
computers and no distractions.”
Although the baby pink of the house exterior has now 
been replaced with a soft gray, “house dad,” Don Gad-
do, 80, who helps manage the maintenance of the house, 
plans to memorialize the old color. A 20-inch by 20-inch 
framed pink plaque will be added to the back entrance, 
with the words “Forever — The pink castle on the hill” 
engraved on it.
“It’s a memory that no one will ever forget,” Gaddo 
said.Phi Mu sorority completes phase one of house renovations
Members move into the new space later this week.
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
UF Phi Mu Alpha Nu chapter finishes phase one of two of its housing renovation project. The full project is set to 
be complete August 2019. 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Renovations include a new gathering room, a library and 14 more bedrooms. Courtesy of BBI Construction 
Management Inc.
PHI MU SORORITY HOUSE RENOVATIONS
• 7,500 square feet of additional space
• A new coat of gray paint on the exterior of 
the house
• A three-story addition to the side of the house
• A new library
• A new gathering room
• 14 new bedroomsFRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
HE WAS DIAGNOSED
IN SEPTEMBER.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Four cycles of chemother-
apy, 12 spinal taps and one 
surgery later, Ryan Hinter-
leiter is ofﬁ  cially cancer-free. 
The news came Monday 
after Hinterleiter, a 20-year-
old UF business administra-
tion junior, underwent 12 
weeks of treatment for Stage 
3 Burkitt’s lymphoma, a form 
of cancer recognized as the fastest-growing hu-
man tumor, that began in September. 
What Hinterleiter thought was a stomach 
cramp in early August ended up being the re-
sult of an aggressive cancer that attacks the im-
mune system. After assessing his softball-sized 
tumor, doctors knew immediately that Hinter-
leiter could possibly face a death sentence. 
Four months ago, doctors told Hinterleiter 
he would likely get sick often and need emer-
gency medical attention during chemotherapy. 
But Hinterleiter said his process was ﬂ  awless. 
“I didn’t think it would be as easy as it 
was,” Hinterleiter said. “With the ﬁ  rst dose 
of chemo in the ﬁ  rst three days, [the tumor] 
shrunk 70 percent.” 
A nurse at UF Health Shands Hospital told 
Hinterleiter he was one of two patients she’d 
worked with who didn’t need blood or plate-
lets during chemotherapy. Despite his body handling the treatment 
well, Hinterleiter said he had his good and bad 
days. Mouth sores, nausea and constant leth-
argy were the worst symptoms. 
“You don’t want to move, you don’t want to 
eat. You just kind of sleep it out,” he said. “It 
kind of just takes the life out of you.”
His family kept him from sinking into a de-
pression and kept his boredom at bay, he said. 
His two sisters, Cori and Logan, and his dad 
drove to Gainesville from Tampa, Jacksonville 
and Hobe Sound, Florida, almost every week-
end while his mom lived in his living room on 
an air mattress.
Cori Hinterleiter, 25, said she has seen her 
once “nagging little brother” mature in the last 
few months. 
“He’s my little brother, but in a literal and 
hypothetical sense, I look up to him,” she said. 
The next step for Hinterleiter comes Friday. 
His “PowerPort,” a small, implantable port 
underneath his skin used to administer che-
motherapy, will be surgically removed. Every 
three months after, he will receive different 
ultrasounds, scans and electrocardiograms, or 
EKGs. 
Hinterleiter is already getting back to his 
normal schedule. He is taking 14 credit hours 
of classes and talking to recruits for his frater-
nity, Delta Tau Delta, this week. 
“He, being Ryan, was not going to take it 
easy,” Cori Hinterleiter said. “I think it helps 
him heal just being able to be normal.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgUF student announced cancer-
free months after rare diagnosis
Hinterleiter
Chris King  / Alligator Staff
SMALL TOWN FESTIVITIES
Mike Johnson, a 44-year-old singer and rhythm guitarist for the band 
Aunt Jackie, covers “Mary Jane’s Last Dance” by Gainesville’s T om Petty 
at the Third Thursday on Main party in Alachua. Every third Thursday of 
the month, the City of Alachua Community Redevelopment Agency hosts 
bands, vendors and local shops for a farmers-market-style event. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
9By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
In 1972, he became the Colo-
rado Springs Police Department’s 
first black officer.
In 1979, he went undercover to 
infiltrate the Ku Klux Klan, and he 
lived to tell the story.
Ron Stallworth spoke to 460 
people Wednesday night at the 
Rion Ballroom in the Reitz Union 
about police brutality, white su-
premacy and having his experience 
become a book and then a movie. 
Mark Reid, a UF English professor, 
facilitated the discussion by ask-
ing questions that were submitted 
by members of the Black Graduate 
Student Organization. 
Reid discussed Richard Spen-
cer’s speech at UF in 2017 and how 
he presents himself as a kind, in-
telligent man. He also asked Stall-
worth about the changing face of 
white supremacy. 
“A white supremacist is a white 
supremacist,” Stallworth said. “I 
don’t care what organization they 
represent, how they dress or what 
they may be.”
During Stallworth’s time with 
the KKK, he said former Grand 
Wizard David Duke tried to change 
the face of the organization and 
make it more acceptable to be a 
member. 
Stallworth said he believes 
President Donald Trump has fol-
lowed Duke’s plan and is giving 
such organizations a wink and a 
nod that it’s OK to behave in such 
a way. 
Stallworth talked about his first experience with Duke and how he 
threatened Duke with five years of 
prison for the assault of a police of-
ficer if he harmed Stallworth.
“I was a n----- with a badge and 
a gun, and I had a right to pop a 
cap in his a--,” Stallworth said.
An audience member asked 
Stallworth how he felt about being 
the first black officer at Colorado 
Springs. He said it was a shame it‘s still significant for a black person, 
or any person of color, to be the 
first. 
“We should be past that,” he 
said. “We should be able to just be 
the person who got the job based 
on their qualifications.”
His book, “Black Klansman: 
Race, Hate, and the Undercover 
Investigation of a Lifetime,” was 
written on a whim in 2013 after Stallworth said people thought it’d 
make an interesting story. 
When asked why he waited de-
cades after the event to write his 
book, Stallworth said he didn’t 
think the story would have had the 
same impact if released earlier.
Supporting the Black Lives 
Matter movement, a campaign 
against systemic violence and 
racism against black people, has caused Stallworth to lose friends. 
Although he agrees with the move-
ment, he asked the audience to 
remember not all officers are bad. 
“One bad apple can spoil the 
barrel, but when you deal with 
people’s lives, careers and futures, 
you got to get those apples out of 
there as soon as possible,” Stall-
worth said.
Stallworth asked the young 
people in the audience to get in-
volved in social change and stand 
up for what they believe in.
“You young people are going 
to change this world that my and 
the generation before mine messed 
up,” he said. 
Samantha Arango, a 21-year-
old UF psychology senior, read 
Stallworth’s book before the 
event and appreciated hearing his 
thoughts and experiences with rac-
ism in person.
“Actually hearing it come out 
of his mouth and his thoughts on 
race relations now versus back 
then, it’s really still terrible,” Aran-
go said. “People need to realize it.”
Seeing the movie when it first 
came to theaters was moving be-
cause it brought the issue of rac-
ism to a new light, said Vanessa 
Young, a 24-year-old UF sociology 
junior. Most people tend to see 
the issue as irrelevant now, Young 
said.
“I think it’s a little bit mirroring 
of some of the contemporary issues 
we see today,” she said. “Hearing 
about it from someone who was in 
the midst of it means a lot to me.”  
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgRon Stallworth speaks on police brutality, white supremacy
Stallworth recalled his undercover work investigating the KKK.
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Ron Stallworth speaks to an audience of about 460 people Wednesday about his experience infiltrating the 
Ku Klux Klan in 1979. Stallworth is a retired police officer and author of “Black Klansman: Race, Hate, and 
the Undercover Investigation of a Lifetime. ” The 2018 film “BlacKkKlansman” is based on his investigation.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Monday, January 28, 2019 at 10:00 A.M.
Keyko Americas Corp
2500 W. 84 Street, Unit 6
Hialeah, FL 33016
For sale: Large Qty. of Keyko brand batter -
ies (SLA seal lead acid AGM technology and 
deep cycle batteries) for wheelchairs, emer -
gency lights, scooters, UPS back-ups, pow -
ersports, motorcycle gels, security, home/
fire alarms, medical devices, outdoor lamps, 
ATV&#39;s etc. • Keyko Lithium batteries for
cameras, tactical flashlights, scales etc. • fur -
niture &amp; equipment • testing equipment 
• packaging supplies and more.
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 8:30-10AM.
15%-18% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#2018-039114-CA-01
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS | info@moeckerauctions.
com    AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      1-18-
1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N      1-18-1-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Biologist Wanted for Part-Time Employment: 
Run a 3D Digital PCR
Biologist with extensive digital PCR experi -
ence wanted. Envision one to two days a 
week running non-diagnostic blood samples 
for local non-profit research organization. 
Co-authorship on papers possible. Contact 
jclement@betterhumans.org      1-23-19-5-
14
EARN $400 Or More A Week!
 Start Now At:
Collegeincomes.com      1-25-19-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
★★★★★ Five Star Pizza ★★★★★
on Tower Road is now hiring Delivery 
Drivers, Pizza Makers and Phone Personnel. 
Full Time and Part Time positions available. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St.    1-18-
19-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      1-18-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
New Acupuncture Patients Welcome
Interested in experiencing the physical, men -
tal and emotional benefits of Acupuncture?  
Clinic Intern, in final school year of Masters 
Program, accepting new patients starting Jan 
2019.  Appointments will take place at the 
school's clinic in downtown, Gainesville, FL.  
Appointment times:  Monday mornings and 
Tuesday afternoons. Cost:  1st appointment 
$45 and follow up appointments $35 Serious 
inquiries only: 302colette@gmail.com      1-18-
19-3-16
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16Lung Cancer? Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket. 
For Information - 855-259-0557      1-18-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
Come hear about “Fear and Flourishing
in the Age of Robots,” a discussion with
expert and author Nigel Cameron at the
Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, 
Monday, January 28 at 6 p.m. 
Tickets at cademuseum.org
1-28-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, January 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Figura de __: 
Spanish skating 
move
5 Besides
9 Cut back a lot
14 It might not be 
proper
15 Secular
16 Edmonton athlete
17 Likely to B 
surprisingly 
difficult
20 __ space
21 Spring bloom
22 __-fa: set of 
musical syllables
23 One might Q 
Shamu
26 Cycle starter
27 Place to drive 
from
28 Not irr.
29 Affirmative reply
32 “The Aviator” 
(2004) Oscar 
nominee
34 Buffoons
37 “The fool __ think 
he is wise ...”: “As 
You Like It”
38 U can soak in 
one
41 Biblical hunter
43 It was originally 
called a “Biscuit”
44 They’re mostly on 
the phone
48 Bygone predators
50 Long-legged 
runner
52 Bulldog booster
53 Component of a 
sweep, maybe
54 Something to C 
at Carnegie Hall
58 Downed
59 Countenance
60 Lenya of “From 
Russia With 
Love”
61 Possible reason 
Y lights get 
turned off
65 They’re changed 
on the road
66 Sandwich staple
67 Frequently
68 French greeting
69 Reach
70 Out of __DOWN
1 College town 
WSW of Albany
2 Island resort near 
Cancún
3 Went like a 
runaway train
4 It’s a start
5 Lord of the ring?
6 Brit’s bud
7 Sub (for)
8 Earthy tone
9 Juniors, maybe
10 Razz
11 “My temper got 
the best of me”
12 Holiday candle 
holder
13 Heat at a meet, 
for short
18 LAX landings
19 Opposite of 
stuffy
24 Entire range
25 Shoshone Falls 
state
30 Academic 
address ending
31 Nagano noodle
33 “Iliad” warrior
35 Behind
36 Handle the 
wheel39 Ont. neighbor
40 Heavy reading?
41 Coastal East 
African country
42 Coastal West 
African country
45 In a small-
minded way
46 Army outfit
47 Bit of obscenity?
48 Musical saw 
sounds
49 Bias51 Pauley Pavilion 
Pac-12 team
55 Fits one within 
another
56 Best
57 Frat letters
59 Guinness book 
adjective
62 French  
vineyard
63 Biological chain 
letters
64 Moving aid
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/17/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/17/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 17, 2019
ACROSS
1 Fear of spiders, 
usually
7 Google Earth 
predecessors
14 Aesthetic 
feature?
16 Hillary supporters
17 Lumberjack’s 
favorite pirate 
phrase?
19 Theater award
20 Actor Holm
21 Slender Olive
22 Lumberjack’s 
main interest in 
naval records?
27 Eero Saarinen’s 
father
30 Many Sinatra 
recordings
31 Pipe shape
32 Quick cuts
33 Gig gear
35 “__ pinch of ... ”: 
recipe words
36 Lumberjack’s 
way to punch an 
opponent?
39 Reverberate
40 Baltic capital
41 Store __
42 Small matter
43 Toon crime-
fighter __ 
Possible
44 Check phrase
45 Lumberjack’s 
preferred ABC 
News reporter?
49 Civil War soldier
50 __ of the woods: 
mushroom type
51 Athlete who 
wrote a history of 
African-American 
athletes
55 Lumberjack’s 
reaction to an 
overly hard 
crossword?
60 Track foundation
61 French’s product
62 Bottomless pits
63 Ignore
DOWN
1 Sideways 
whisper
2 Crackers once 
sold in a red box
3 Actress Lena
4 Quail group
5 Having four 
sharps6 Pertaining to a 
heart chamber
7 PEI setting
8 Meteorologist’s 
scale: Abbr.
9 Veal piccata 
chef’s needs
10 Contrary to 
popular belief, 
its name is not 
derived from 
its trademark 
sandwich
11 Described in 
detail
12 “For all in vain 
comes counsel to 
his __”: Shak.
13 Old draft org.
15 Jane Hamilton’s 
“__ of the World”
18 Med. specialist
22 “__ la vie!”
23 A, as in Athens
24 __ dixit: 
unproven claim
25 One who knows 
the ropes
26 Tumbler, e.g.
27 13th-century 
Norwegian king
28 Sensor that 
detects objects 
using closely 
spaced beams29 Texter’s modest 
intro
32 How things are 
going
33 Jungian concept
34 Corp. get-
together
35 Mate’s greeting
37 Bearded flower
38 Burn a bit
43 Food on sticks
44 Repressed
46 Cries out for
47 “Please explain”48 Cowpoke’s polite 
assent
51 Tsp. and oz.
52 Places to  
unwind
53 Cilantro, e.g.
54 Watery swirl
55 Nest egg 
acronym
56 __ rule
57 Novelist Harper
58 Mormon  
initials
59 Mex. neighbor
1.  Displayed
1.  Dash5.  Pay ____
2.  Menacing 6.  Troy ____
3.  Never-ending 7.  Refuge
4.  YellDEWHSO
PSNITRRESAI
CEUON
OIMSOUN
LEERNATMSYAUL
RCMAESANSWERS: 1A-Showed  5A-Raise  6A-Ounce  7A-Asylum
1D-Sprint  2D-Ominous  3D-Eternal  4D-Scream  B-West Point1-18-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Astronaut Buzz Aldrin 
graduated from ____ ____.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
UF ranked No. 1 in SEC softball coaches poll
Tha Gators softball team topped the ranking in the ﬁ  rst SEC coaches poll, re-
ceiving 10 ﬁ  rst place votes. Florida is the four-time defending SEC regular-
season champion. Ida Jarlskog and the Gators women's 
tennis team begin the spring season 
this weekend at the Freeman 
Memorial in Las Vegas.24-Evan / Opinion 
The NFL’s elite teams will 
be vying for a spot in the Super 
Bowl this weekend.
Meanwhile, the Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers are far from one of 
those elite teams.
The Bucs last made a play-
off appearance in January 2008. 
Jon Gruden was ﬁ  red in 2009 
and a decade of instability has 
followed. Since Gruden’s depar-
ture, Tampa Bay has been re-
duced to one of the bigger laughing stocks in 
pro football after siphoning through four dif-
ferent head coaches and going a combined 
55-105 in that timeframe.
There’s nowhere to go but up for Tampa, 
and I believe its fortunes will change for one 
reason and one reason only: Bruce Charles 
Arians.
The Buccaneers introduced Arians at One 
Buc Place last Thursday, much to the cha-
grin of those hoping for the next Sean McVay 
to walk through those glass doors. But in all 
honesty, if the Bucs want to win now, gener-al manager Jason Licht and the 
owners of the team, the Glazers, 
made the correct decision.
Arians has an impressive 
track record of turning losing 
teams into contenders, fast.
How fast?
Well, in 2013, after leading 
the Indianapolis Colts as the 
interim head coach to a 9-3 re-
cord, complete with a playoff 
berth and AP Coach of the Year 
honors, Arians was hired by the Arizona 
Cardinals to turn around a team that won 18 
combined games in the three seasons prior.
He led Arizona to a 10-win season that 
year, then to 11 in 2014, followed by 13 and 
an NFC Championship appearance in 2015.
There’s no denying the guy’s success in 
the NFL, and that’s hard to ignore when 
you’re a desperate organization that hasn’t 
sniffed a playoff appearance in over a de-
cade.
He has been there before, with three Su-Tampa Bay Buccaneers made right 
decision by hiring Bruce AriansGYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
Captain Ahab spends the entirety of 
the famed 1851 novel Moby Dick attempt-
ing to defeat the “white whale.” It’s more 
of a “white tiger” for the UF gymnastics 
team. 
No. 3 Florida travels to Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, on Friday to face off against 
the LSU Tigers, a team it hasn’t defeated 
in the regular season since 2014. 
The No. 5 Tigers, the current defend-
ing SEC champions, host UF on their 
home ﬂ  oor after winning at the O’Connell 
Center last year.
With the Gators coming off a strong 
performance against Missouri and LSU 
coming off its ﬁ  rst regular season loss 
since 2016, it will likely be a close battle 
between the two top-ﬁ  ve squads. Here are 
a couple things to look out for on both 
sides of the meet.The Team To Beat
The Gators lost sophomore Alyssa Bau-
mann when she injured herself on the un-
even bars a day before the team’s meet 
against Missouri, and LSU was also with-
out one of its own key gymnasts due to 
injury last Friday.
Tigers senior McKenna Kelley suf-
fered an injury during warmups before 
their meet against No. 17 Auburn, caus-
ing them to hastily throw freshman Bailey 
Ferrer into the lineup. Despite the jarring 
setback, the teams were even heading into 
the last rotation, but Auburn managed to 
pull ahead to defeat the Tigers 196.700-
196.275. According to an article by The 
Advocate, Kelley has been practicing this 
week and intends to compete on the ﬂ  oor 
and in the vault event against the Gators.
Gymnasts to watch on Friday will be 
sophomore Sami Durante, an SEC All-
Freshman last year who scored a 9.925 on Florida heads to Baton Rouge 
to face longtime rival in LSU 
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports writer
It has been the same story over and 
over again for the past two weeks.
The Florida men’s basketball team 
is leading in the ﬁ  nal minutes of the 
game. Then, it just falls apart. That’s 
it.
Hardly any ﬁ  eld goals made, a 
bunch of unnecessary fouls and defen-
sive collapses, and when the buzzer 
rings out, the Gators are on the losing-
end.
It happened against South Carolina 
on Chris Silva’s dunk. It happened 
against then-No. 3 Tennessee when 
the the Volunteers scored nine points 
in the last 44 seconds. 
It happened on Tuesday against 
Mississippi State when Quinndary 
Weatherspoon made an and-one layup 
with four seconds left.
So what will it be when UF plays 
against Georgia on Saturday in Athens?
“(We’ll) continue to improve, shore 
up some mistakes down the stretch,” 
Florida coach Mike White said. “You 
know, it wasn’t a missed blockout, it 
was a missed assignment in a 1-3-1, it was not holding your seal offsensively. 
Turnover, pick-six.”
Both teams are eerily similar on pa-
per.
They each hold a 9-7 record, are 1-3 
in SEC play and are 4-4 in their last 
eight contests.
It should be an evenly matched 
game, but the biggest differences be-
tween these two teams are how those 
games went down.
Florida has played four consecutive 
contests down to the wire, only escap-
ing one with a win. It was arguably a 
play or two away from being undefeat-
ed in that stretch. It couldn’t hold on 
to the lead long enough to pull out the 
victory, nor could it make those last-
second, game-winning shots.
White had the same message for his 
team after each of those loses.
“I’m not sure we have much frustra-
tion,” White said on Monday. “I’m not 
sure how important it is, and if there is 
it’s not communicated. Trying to mus-
ter up the competitiveness. I’d rather 
our guys get really ticked off; I’d rather 
them get ticked off at me.”Gators attempt to break end-of-game funk against Georgia
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
The Florida men's basketball team's last four games have all come down to the ﬁ  nal minutes, with 
the Gators escaping with just one win. "(We'll) continue to improve, " White said. 
Evan Lepak
Twitter: @EvanMPLepakSEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
It has been a frustrating season for the Florida women’s 
basketball team, but one signal that greener pastures could 
be on the horizon can be found at the bottom of the stat sheet 
after every game: bench points.
The team’s bench, composed mostly of younger players, 
is outscoring opponents 336-218 this season. It has also out-
scored the opposition’s bench in all five of its wins.
“If your bench isn’t scoring, then you’re doing something 
wrong,” coach Cam Newbauer said. “You always wanna 
have something different when [bench players] come in. 
Bring something new, whether it be energy, different skillset 
or something off the bench when you get in the game.”
With the season now past its halfway point, the bench is 
starting to contribute more. It’s averaging 23.75 points per 
game in SEC play, a solid four points above the season aver-
age.
The two biggest contributors have been forward Zada 
Williams and guard Ariel Johnson. Williams, a redshirt ju-
nior, has emerged as the team’s third-leading scorer with 
9.1 points per game despite starting only four of 17 games. 
Johnson, a freshman, is averaging 5.3 points per game and 
is second on the team with 22 threes despite only starting 
three games.
“You know when it’s your time to come out the game, 
you have somebody to replace you that can come in and 
play the same role as you,” Delicia Washington, the team’s 
second-leading scorer, said. “That’s a good feeling.”
Williams and Johnson aren’t the only two factors in mak-
ing Florida’s bench a dominant one. Redshirt sophomore 
guard Danielle Rainey has been a big factor lately, averag-
ing eight points a game in SEC play, including a team-high 
and career-high 16 in the Gators’ upset win over Missouri 
on Sunday.The significant margin by which Florida’s bench has out-
scored its opponents bodes well for next season, with leading 
scorer Funda Nakkasoglu in her final season with the team. 
Nakkasoglu is one of just a few players who was with the 
team last year, and her 16.6 points per game is by far the 
highest average on the team.
Newbauer eased most of his new players into roles with the team early in the season while Washington and Nakkaso-
glu did most of the scoring. Now, with the team’s chances at 
a postseason berth basically nonexistent, look for Newbauer 
to continue incorporating more of the younger players as the 
season continues.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFlorida’s bench has been one of its few bright spots
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Ariel Johnson is averaging 5.3 points per game and is second on the team with 22 three-pointers.
TRACK AND FIELD
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Coach Mike Holloway and the 
Florida track and field program will 
attempt to add more trophies to its 
display case this upcoming season 
— just like it has done for the past 
decade.
The Gators have won at least 
one conference or national title ev-
ery year since 2009. The expecta-
tions are no different this season.
The men’s team enters the 2019 
campaign ranked No. 2, while the 
women enter the season at No. 6 in 
the USTFCCCA National Track and 
Field Rating Index.
With KeAndre Bates graduating 
from Florida and turning pro, the 
men’s team will turn to the versa-
tility of Grant Holloway to extend 
its run of dominance. Holloway, 
who chose to delay a professional 
career and return for his junior sea-
son, was one of 10 men named to 
the Bowerman Preseason Watch 
List this year after a historic 2018 
campaign. 
Holloway broke the collegiate 
record in the 60-meter hurdles last 
season with a time of 7.42 and the 
school record in the 110-meter hur-
dles (13.16). His individual records 
along with the accomplishments 
of the men’s team — NCAA In-
door Champions and SEC Outdoor champions — earned him both the 
SEC Indoor and Outdoor Runner of 
the Year awards. 
Holloway was not the only man 
with a record-breaking season last 
year, however. 
Redshirt senior AJ McFarland 
thrice broke his own indoor school 
record in the weight throw with a 
distance of 22.20 meters.
Redshirt senior Anders Eriksson 
set the school record in the ham-
mer throw (74.19 meters) at the 
SEC Championships.
Florida’s women’s team will 
have to cope with the loss of Lloy-
dricia Cameron, Avione Allgood 
and, most notably, Darrielle Mc-
Queen. 
McQueen left her mark at UF 
with several spots in the Gators’ 
all-time top ten lists, coming in at 
No. 2 and No. 4 in the long jump 
and triple jump, respectively, for 
the indoor list. She also finished in 
the No. 4 and No. 5 spots in the 
long jump and triple jump, respec-
tively, for the outdoor list.
The addition of junior transfers 
Natricia Hooper and Kala Penn will 
make it easier for coach Holloway 
to offset the absence of McQueen 
this season. The two jumpers give 
the Gators two more viable options 
at the conference and national lev-
el.
One cannot talk about the women’s team without mentioning 
seniors Yanis David and Sharrika 
Barnett, who both set school re-
cords in the triple jump and the 400 
meters, respectively, last season.Florida’s runners and high 
jumpers open their season this 
weekend at the Clemson Invita-
tional, while the horizontal jump-
ers and throwers head to Virginia Tech to compete in the Hokie In-
vitational.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators look to maintain dominance in 2019 campaign
Alligator File Photo
Florida track and field coach Mike Holloway boasts the No. 2-best men’s team and the No. 6-best 
women’s team in the country.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
the uneven bars against Auburn. Senior Sarah Finnegan 
was the team’s best all-arounder last Friday, scoring a 
39.475 overall and winning her 51st individual award.
If At First You Don’t Succeed…
Try, try again. And again. And again.
Last year, Florida hosted the Tigers in the O’Connell 
Center and walked out with a loss by only 0.125th of a 
point, and that’s not an abnormality for these matches. In 
the last 20 meetings between the two squads, 17 of them 
have been decided by less than .500, including three of the 
last four meets after the last time Florida beat LSU.
“It deﬁ  nitely is a meet that we’ve been looking for-
ward to all year,” senior Amelia Hundley said in a release. 
“They’ve always been a good competitor for us.”
The team will hope for another strong performance from 
senior Alicia Boren, who took home SEC Gymnast of the 
Week for her efforts against Mizzou, and some more high 
scores from freshmen like Trinity Thomas, who netted a 
9.950 on the uneven bars and was named co-SEC Freshman 
of the Week. 
Hundley made it clear on Thursday that the team is done 
preparing for the No. 5 team in the country, and that re-
gardless of the result the meet is bound to be a learning 
experience.
“I think it’s time,” Hundley said. “I think we’re ready 
for it. We’re really excited and we’re gonna put our best 
foot forward.”  
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14LSU won by 0.125th of a point last season against UF
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida gymnast Alicia Boren earned SEC gymnast of the week for her 
performance against Missouri on Friday at the O'Connell Center.
per Bowl appearances as an assistant with 
the Pittsburgh Steelers under his belt, he 
has been a part of a stable franchise that 
knows how to get to the peak of the league.
That swagger he possesses was unmis-
takable at his introductory press confer-
ence on Thursday. 
“I think we have the core here to win 
quickly,” Arians said. “I’m not about 
building, I’m about reloading. With that, I 
can’t say how excited I am to be a Tampa 
Bay Buc.”
Chills. As a Bucs fan, that should give 
you chills.
Arians is right — the Bucs have tal-
ent, and they’ve shown the ability to be 
great at times since their last playoff ap-
pearance. Unfortunately, Tampa Bay just 
hasn’t been able to shake the loser mental-
ity. I think that all changes starting next 
season.
Many people are skeptical about Ari-
ans’ age despite the abundant success, and 
so was I, but the team did its due diligence 
by having him participate in a physical 
during the interview process.
“I’m ready,” Arians told Licht. “I may 
be 66, but I’m 66 and sexy, baby.”
It’s time for the Tampa Bay Bucs to be-
come a sexy team to root for, once again.
Evan Lepak is a sports writer. You can 
follow him on Twitter @evanmplepak or 
contact him at elepak@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
He might see that frustration 
boil over against the Bulldogs.
Georgia is coming off a two-
loss span in which it was blown 
out by at least 15 points against 
both Auburn and Kentucky. It 
was held to just 49 points against the Wildcats, well below its sea-
son average of 74.5 points per 
game.
The Bulldogs are having an 
identity crisis on offense, simi-
lar to what the Gators are going 
through this season.
Forward Yante Maten was 
UGA’s leading scorer last season with 19.3 points per game. He has 
since graduated, and this season, 
the Bulldogs haven’t had anyone 
truly step up and ﬁ  ll Maten’s role.
They have three players aver-
aging double-digits — forwards 
Rayshaun Hammonds (13.4) and 
Nicolas Claxton (12.1), and guard 
Tyree Crump (10.1) — but none of them are producing on the 
same level as Maten.
If Florida is going to snap 
this funk it has been in, its best 
chance will be against Georgia on 
Saturday. Some players know that 
it’s just a matter of time until they 
end that streak of mediocracy.
“At the end of the day, we’re not that old of a team,” forward 
Dontay Bassett said. “So, I mean, 
a lot of things come with experi-
ence and come with just going 
through things and learning from 
your game. So, I think the team’s 
handling it well, taking it well.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Georgia was held to 49 points against Kentucky on Tuesday