We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
ABBY WAMBACH EXCLUSIVE
U.S. soccer legend Abby Wambach talks to al-
ligatorSports about the World Cup, the Gators 
and her favorite Gainesville pizza place, pg 11
Airboat curfew regulation motion passes
The Alachua County Commission passed a motion calling for a 
new deputy and airboat and allocatted $20,000 to fund,  pg 4
Man charged for June 29 shooting
Dionte Detraun Rutledge, 29, was charged with two counts of 
attempted murder from a June 29 incident, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 100
PECK ADDRESSED MORE 
THAN 800 PEOPLE IN 
UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Nostalgia hit hard in the Uni-
versity Auditorium at the Accent 
Speakers Bureau event Wednes-day night when a star from be-
loved Nickelodeon show “Drake 
& Josh” took the stage. 
Josh Peck, a 32-year-old co-
median and social media inﬂ  u-
encer who co-starred on “Drake 
& Josh” from 2004 to 2007, spoke 
on topics ranging from his fam-
ily, growing up in the entertain-
ment industry and the new age of creating content. 
Peck told stories about work-
ing in the ﬁ  lm industry and 
shared with the audience that 
when ﬁ  lming the movie “Red 
Dawn,” co-star Chris Hemsworth 
called him and the other young 
castmates “cubs.”
RODDENBERRY WON $1,000 
AT MISS UF AND $8,000 AT MISS 
FLORIDA
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Backstage, a room is ﬁ  lled with young 
women rushing around. Some are stretching, 
some are singing opera and others are putting 
on their evening gowns to prepare for an inter-
view. Nerves are running high.
But the craziness halts on stage. It’s just the 
contestant and the audience now. The lights 
shine brightly and adrenaline pumps.  
This is the life of UF student and pageant 
contestant Leah Roddenberry. Roddenberry won ﬁ  rst runner-up at the 
Miss Florida competition June 29. She also re-
ceived the Newcomer award and the Quality 
of Life award. She was able to compete after 
winning Miss University of Florida in March. 
Roddenberry, a 20-year-old UF family, youth 
and community sciences junior, won $1,000 at 
Miss UF and $8,000 at Miss Florida. The money 
funds her education, she said. 
Keith Williams, Miss Florida executive direc-
tor, said Roddenberry stood out to the judges. 
“She was prepared,” Williams said. “She 
knew what she wanted to do. She went in fo-
cused and had a very good outcome.” 
The Miss Florida competition included an 
interview process, an onstage question, red car-
pet eveningwear and a social initiative impact statement, Williams said. 
Roddenberry is “talented and smart,” he 
said. Unfortunately, her scores weren’t high 
enough to win the overall competition. 
The scores are sealed, so there’s no telling 
why, he said. And for Williams, the hardest 
part of the competition is there can only be one 
winner. The candidates are all deserving of the 
title, he said. 
The Miss UF pageant was a bit different 
from Miss Florida. The Miss UF pageant had 
ﬁ  ve different elements of competition: a private 
interview, an onstage question, eveningwear, 
talent and swimwear, said Miss UF Director 
Chloe Judge. 
In the upcoming year, rules are changing, 
she said. There will no longer be a swimsuit portion, 
and the competition will also add a social im-
pact statement. These changes are nationwide 
as part of the Miss America 2.0 rules — a new 
version of Miss America to reﬂ  ect inclusive-
ness. 
Miss UF is a local preliminary competition, 
meaning the winner moves on to Miss Florida, 
Judge said. The winner of Miss Florida will 
then compete in the Miss America pageant in 
September. 
The biggest portions of the competition are 
interview and talent because the organization 
wants to ensure the person who wins is posi-
tive, well-spoken and intelligent, Judge said. 
Miss UF wasn’t the ﬁ  rst time Roddenberry MORE THAN 150 
PEOPLE ATTENDED THE 
CELEBRATION OF LIFE
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
Huixiang Chen’s phone still 
lights up with a text message from 
his mom every day. 
However, his mom will never re-
ceive a reply. 
Chen’s family sat in the front row of the UF Baughman Center 
Wednesday afternoon. Daylight 
shone through the glass windows 
lining the paneled wooden walls, il-
luminating the overﬂ  ow of UF com-
munity members who left standing 
room only in the building.
More than 150 people gathered 
together to commemorate the life of 
Chen at the UF-hosted celebration 
of life memorial service. 
Chen, an international UF doc-toral candidate in the Department 
of Electrical and Computer Engi-
neering, was found dead June 13 on 
campus in Benton Hall after taking 
his own life.
UF released a statement regard-
ing his death after UF Graduate 
Assistants United requested an in-
dependent investigation, aside from 
the police investigation, follow-
ing the circumstances that led to 
Josh Peck talks family, child stardom
UF student takes ﬁ  rst runner-up at Miss Florida pageantUF community gathers to honor doctoral student’s life
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
A memorial for Huixiang Chen, a UF international doctoral 
candidate who died on June 13, was made up of photos of Chen, 
candles and a variety of prepared dishes Wednesday at the front 
of the Baughman Center during a celebration of life service. 
There was standing room only in the chapel as over 150 people 
gathered to remember Chen and pay respects to the family.
SEE PECK,  PAGE 4
SEE PAGEANT,  PAGE 3SEE CHEN,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasSocial Media StrategistHIGH  90° LOW  73°
 Celebrate Apollo 11 
at the UF Campus 
Teaching Observatory
The UF Department of 
Astronomy will have a free 
public session on July 19 at the 
Campus Teaching Observatory 
to celebrate the 50th anniversa-
ry of Apollo 11 landing on the 
moon. The observatory plans to 
open from 9 p.m. to 11:30 p.m., 
but the event is weather de-
pendent. Jaydeep Mukherjee, 
director of the Florida Space Grant Consortium, will give 
a talk titled “The Moon: Past, 
Present and the Future” at 9. 
The observing session starts 
at 9:30 p.m. Jupiter, Saturn, 
the binary star Mizar, the Ring 
nebula and globular clusters 
may be visible. For more in-
formation visit: https://www.
astro.ufl.edu/outreach/Public_
Nights.html
GRU rate protest
Today from 11 a.m. until noon, all Alachua County Gainesville 
Regional Utilities customers and 
Gainesville citizens are invited 
to City Hall, 200 E. University 
Ave., for a peaceful protest 
against proposed rate increases 
to the City Commission.
Community Conversations
Friday through Sunday, FEM 
Films, a UF entertainment pro-
duction club, is hosting an art 
and film festival with live per-
formances, vendors and films 
at SL8 Gallery, 10 E. University 
Ave. There will be panel discus-
sions about systemic racism, 
self-care, sustainability and 
more. Tickets are $5 per day 
or $12 for all three days. Bands 
for unlimited alcohol cost $7 
per day or $16 for the week-
end. You can purchase tickets 
through Cashapp, Venmo or at 
the door. Friday and Saturday 
will last from 5:30 p.m. to 10 
p.m. and Sunday will be from 
2:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 100
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, located 
at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from 
now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator ofﬁ  ces in 
a meeting open to the public on Friday, July 26th. Applicants must be degree-
seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who 
have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Chen’s death.
The Baughman Center was dec-
orated with photos of Chen and a 
playlist of Chen’s favorite Buddhist 
music ﬁ  lled the hall.
David Norton, vice president for 
research at UF, offered his condo-
lences on behalf of the university.
“There is nothing more heart-
breaking for this university than to 
lose one of our own,” Norton said. 
He said Chen was known and loved by his friends and family for 
his kindness and empathy. 
Norton also said Chen had pas-
sions and talents outside of aca-
demics. He was an excellent cook 
and a devoted fan of the NBA’s 
San Antonio Spurs. 
“You will always be a Gator, 
you will always be part of our 
community,” Norton said, refer-
ring to Chen. 
Cammy Abernathy, dean of the 
Herbert Wertheim College of Engi-
neering, said Chen was a man of intelligence and dedication. 
She said students have dozens 
of options when it comes to choos-
ing a major and Chen picked one 
of the most difﬁ  cult tracks of study 
on any campus: engineering. 
“That requires commitment, 
perseverance and dedication,” Ab-
ernathy said. “He did not shy for 
this commitment.”
After the UF ofﬁ  cials expressed 
their condolences, Chen’s cousin 
Hairong Guo spoke on behalf of 
his family and the struggles they 
have been facing since his death. 
Guo delivered her statement in 
Chinese, which was translated through an English interpreter af-
ter she spoke. 
“Huixiang’s mother continues 
to send a text message to him ev-
ery day,” Guo said. 
She said the family cannot ac-
cept Chen’s death, and wants to 
know what he had experienced.
“He should have [had] a bright 
future,” Guo said. “He should have 
[had] the opportunity to appreciate 
the joy of life.” 
The university reserved the 
Baughman Center until 4 p.m. in 
order for people to stay. Counsel-
ors from the UF Counseling and Wellness Center stayed in the back 
for people to talk to after the ser-
vice. 
Zhong Guo, a 25-year-old UF 
mechanical engineering doctoral 
student, was an acquaintance of 
Chen. He attended the service with 
other graduate students. 
“I appreciate that the university 
held this service in honor of Huixi-
ang’s life, but I think it should 
have been done sooner,” he said. 
“He passed away almost a month 
ago.” 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.org
ROUTE 
DELIVERY 
DRIVER 
NEEDED
(immediately) *
NON-STUDENT POSITION*See Classifieds  for full job description.
Email elight@alligator.org  for more info.WE’RE HIRING!WE’RE HIRING!
NON-STUDENT POSITION
 for full job description.
 for more info.
was involved in the world of pag-
eantry. 
She’s been showcasing her tal-
ent since she was 6 and was part 
of the Sunshine Princess Program, 
where Miss Florida contestants 
mentor young girls, Roddenberry 
said. The program is designed to 
introduce young girls to the world 
of pageantry. 
Roddenberry’s mentor was UF 
alumna and ESPN reporter Laura 
Rutledge. 
Roddenberry was Rutledge’s 
Sunshine Princess in 2011. The 
two got to share the stage to-
gether when Rutledge won Miss 
Florida. To spend time together, 
the two made crafts or danced. 
Rutledge feels Roddenberry 
also mentored her back in the 
day. 
“I still think Leah taught me 
more than I ever taught her,” 
Rutledge said. “She was so spe-
cial then and has grown into an 
amazing young woman.”
Roddenberry also helped calm Rutledge down whenever she 
would get nervous. 
“Leah always impressed me 
with her intelligence and her in-
nate calm,” she said. “She was 
always incredibly thoughtful and 
kind and even though she was a 
lot younger, she actually made 
me feel more comfortable in mo-
ments where I was nervous.” 
Rutledge still supports her 
mentee and loves to watch Rod-
denberry on stage. To her, she is 
an example to young women ev-
erywhere. 
“Leah walks into the room 
and instantly you know there is 
something unique about her, and 
that grabs your attention,” she 
said. “She is radiant, and that 
shines from the inside out.” 
Roddenberry also learned 
from Rutledge and said the Sun-
shine Princess Program inspired 
her to compete in pageants. 
“I saw how accomplished 
these young women were,” Rod-
denberry said. “And all the things 
they were achieving due to this 
program  — how it grew them for 
the real world — in their careers and job interviews.”
At 13, Roddenberry started 
competing in the Outstanding 
Teen Program, she said. Rod-
denberry was Miss Florida’s Out-
standing Teen in 2015. 
Pageantry has taught her im-
portant life lessons, from inter-
view skills to being a community 
advocate, she said. 
She keeps up with politics and 
current events to ensure she can 
give reason to her opinion in her 
interviews and stays active in her 
community. 
Roddenberry started her own 
student organization at UF called 
Ignite Political Power in Every 
Young Woman in 2018 with the 
goal of empowering young wom-
en to be active in their communi-
ties and take on leadership posi-
tions, she said. 
She’s also involved with her 
Panhellenic sorority Alpha Delta 
Pi, Accent Speakers Bureau and 
Students Taking Action Against 
Racism.
Roddenberry said her favorite 
section of a pageant is talent. For 
her, its dancing. 
Dancing is special to her be-
cause at 17, her doctor told her 
she may not dance again.  She had spinal fusion surgery 
from her scoliosis, having to get 
her back corrected from a 63-de-
gree curvature, she said. 
And although she’s not the 
same dancer she was before the 
surgery, she said she’s grateful to 
be able to pursue her passion. 
“I think it’s helped me because 
it’s taught me that I have grit and 
perseverance,” she said. “You 
can’t let these obstacles stop you 
from pursuing your passions.” 
Jazz is her favorite dance be-
cause of its upbeat sound, she 
said. 
Roddenberry loves pageants 
because of the sisterhood it cre-
ates. She feels the friendships 
she’s made are strong, and the 
women she competes with push 
her to be a better version of her-
self. 
“Growing up, I was so shy... 
I was afraid to raise my hand in 
class and scared of what other 
people thought,” Roddenberry 
said. “But this organization has 
taught me to use my voice and 
not be afraid to share my opin-
ions.” 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgPAGEANT,  from pg. 1Roddenberry started at 6
Courtesy from Leah Roddenberry to The Alligator.
Leah Roddenberry (right) congratulates 
Michaela McLean, winner of Miss Florida. 
CHEN,  from pg. 1Chen’s cousin spoke for family4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Pentecostal
Prevailing Word
Bible Church, Inc.
Sunday Worship: 9 am
Friday: 7 pm
4908 NW 34th BLVD Suite #9
Pst. Olabode Ogedengbe, Resident Pastor (352)231-9031
Helping ordinary people to 
become passionate followers 
of God! The Church you can 
belong to before you believe!
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service
@6:35 pm
in Trinity Chapel
Sunday services:
9:30 & 11:00 am
352-376-6615
TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDEWORSHIP
GUIDE
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
WORSHIP
Contact Alligator Advertising:
Contact Alligator Advertising:
352.376.4482ALACHUA COUNTY SHERIFF’S 
OFFICE MAY PURCHASE AIRBOAT 
AS WELL 
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
The Alachua County Commission passed a 
motion Tuesday to hire a new rural services 
deputy and possibly purchase a new airboat. 
The commissioners discussed different 
ways to enforce the airboat curfew. They al-
located $20,000 toward the motion, which in-
cluded hiring an additional third rural services 
deputy to help enforce curfew and the poten-
tial purchase of an airboat.
The motion passed 4-1 with Commissioner 
Mike Byerly in dissent.  
The airboat curfew states airboats cannot 
be operated between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. due to 
excessive noise, which can cause disturbances to the sleep, peace of mind and welfare of resi-
dents. 
Airboat activity is predominant across Ala-
chua County in Orange Lake, Newnans Lake, 
Watermelon Pond, Lake Santa Fe, Lochloosa 
Lake and Little Orange Lake. Airboat activity 
spikes during months with alligator and wa-
terfowl hunting, which spans from August to 
January.
Byerly said he felt a sense of deja vu dis-
cussing the topic considering airboat curfew 
enforcement has been a topic of discussion for 
about a decade. 
“We’ve come full circle from that again, 
and we’re back to what I think is the worst, 
most expensive, least effective way to enforce 
this ordinance, which is to pay overtime law 
enforcement ofﬁ  cers to chase people around 
the lakes in boats,” Byerly said. “That’s smack-
ing the mosquito with a sledgehammer.” 
Byerly suggested evaluating other plans ful-
ly instead of committing to the heavy-handed law enforcement route that results in misde-
meanor charges on people’s records.  
He suggested evaluating a plan that uses 
code enforcement ofﬁ  cers with a non-confron-
tational approach in parking lots a few times a 
year to take photographic evidence and send 
people citations.  
“I don’t feel like we need to rush to adopt a 
plan just to say that we did something if it’s the 
wrong plan,” Byerly said. 
Commissioner Ken Cornell, who lives on 
Lake Santa Fe, noted the differences between 
the presence of a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer and 
a code enforcement ofﬁ  cer.
“When ACSO is present, we have much 
less of a problem,” Cornell said. “I think it’s a 
law enforcement issue, it’s not a code enforce-
ment issue. I think having a presence on the 
lake prior to 7 [p.m.], a preventative presence, 
and then a handful of enforcement activities 
by a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer will solve this 
problem.” Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Col. David 
Huckstep emphasized his need for equipment 
and personnel to enforce the curfew. He said 
he is already stretched on personnel covering 
the county’s 911 calls.  
“We’ve talked about this for 10 years. You 
keep wanting enforcement, then you don’t 
want to take the enforcement action,” Huck-
step said. “Our proposal has been and has al-
ways been I need the tools to do the job and I 
need the personnel.”
Commissioner Charles Chestnut said he felt 
the issue’s resolution was long overdue.
“I’m at the point that we gotta try some-
thing. We’ve just been bickering over dollars 
and money,” Chestnut said. “If it is a serious 
issue to the residents on Orange Lake, or any 
lake, then we need to do something.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgCounty Commission allocates $20,000 for airboat regulationChris Day / Alligator Staff
Josh Peck, known for his starring role in the Nickelodeon 
show “Drake & Josh, ” speaks Wednesday evening at 
the UF University Auditorium. Peck told the sold-out 
crowd about being married and becoming a dad. “I can’t 
believe I found someone to procreate with, ” Peck joked. 
He also addressed more serious 
topics throughout the night including 
his struggles being typecast when he 
was overweight as a kid. Peck said he 
was only offered roles as the chubby 
sidekick or the big school bully. 
“The frustrating thing is how pow-
erless you are as a creator in tradi-
tional media,” Peck said. 
As an actor, Peck didn’t have con-
trol over the content he was in and 
was stuck being whoever directors 
perceived him to be. That is why he 
found Vine, and now YouTube, as 
exhilarating places to be creative and 
try new things, he said.
He encouraged his audience to 
take a chance and try out creating their own content. 
“Go for it,” Peck said. “It is not like 
it once was, where you have to be in 
New York or L.A., or know the right 
people, or have representatives.” 
The night ended with questions 
from the audience. Someone asked 
what his favorite episode of “Drake 
& Josh” to ﬁ  lm was, and Peck said 
it was the episode where a baby was 
left on the roof (“The Two Idiots and 
a Baby”). Another person asked if he 
liked chicken nuggets (An enthusias-
tic “yes”).
Alyssa Torres, a 20-year-old biol-
ogy junior, was one of the many peo-
ple who waited in line to ask Peck a 
question. She planned to camp out-
side the auditorium at 9 a.m., but her 
friends talked her out of it. She is a 
huge fan of Peck and his friends who make up the YouTube group known 
as “the Vlog Squad.”
Torres had her question pre-
pared and asked about Max, Peck’s 
6-month-old son, and if there were 
any milestones yet.
Peck’s eyes crinkled with a smile 
at the question and talked about how 
he loves picking up Max in the morn-
ing when he is the happiest.
“Max is dope,” he said. 
Torres rose to her feet clapping 
and screaming when the event ended.
“He has helped me a lot through 
really sad and depressing times,” Tor-
res said. “His videos bring a smile to 
my face.” 
@BtNwallace
bwallace1@alligator.orgPECK,  from pg. 1Peck’s advice to attendees: “Go for it.”THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·THIRTEEN PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE 
LANDSCAPING DISCUSSION
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
The Alachua County Environ-
mental Protection Department met 
with residents during its ﬁ  rst public 
discussion about landscaping Tues-
day evening. 
The 13 attendees discussed 
their concerns including irrigation 
and fertilizer regulations, reducing 
water and fertilizer use and what homeowners should know about 
landscape maintenance.
Joy Hazell, the meeting’s facili-
tator, said it was “relatively suc-
cessful” because of the diversity of 
opinions and the constructive en-
vironment that allowed people to 
express them, which she said was 
ultimately her goal. 
“What’s important is that we 
can collaborate over time to come 
up with the best decision to meet 
the needs of the environment and 
the needs and values of the com-
munity,” Hazell said. 
Hazell also said this meeting 
was only the ﬁ  rst step of many and this sort of decision making is 
a multiyear process. She said it is 
important for attendees to keep this 
bigger picture in mind when listen-
ing to and supporting each other. 
The next meeting will occur 
July 30. 
“There’s a conﬂ  ict of ideas, but 
there wasn’t a conﬂ  ict of person-
alities and people becoming upset 
with each other,” Hazell said. 
Rusty Thompson, 37, owns lo-
cal landscaping company The Mas-
ter’s Lawn Care and agreed with 
Hazell. He acknowledged the many 
sides of the landscaping issues.  
Thompson said that it’s not a debate for or against clean water 
but over the source of the issues 
and the role fertilizer plays. 
He said one concern is the pos-
sibility of landscapers who use fer-
tilizer being painted as the “bad 
guys.”
Though new regulations on “the 
green industry” are part of the so-
lution, they may not completely 
solve the problem on their own, 
Thompson said. 
“Everyone has good intentions, 
but we sometimes make knee-jerk 
reactions based on what we think 
feels good, and I think maybe that’s 
the enemy,” he said. “It needs to be a partnership approach.”
David Moritz, a retired pho-
tographer who is involved with 
ACEPD, was one collaborator for 
Thompson. 
Though Moritz said they had 
very different opinions, the two 
men ended up seated next to each 
other during the group discussion. 
“I found it very refreshing and 
enjoyable to talk with him,” Moritz 
said, “and you know, I had to read-
just my opinion based upon what 
he said.”. 
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgDiﬀ  ering opinions voiced at county landscaping meeting 
POLICE SAY SHE ATTEMPTED TO HIDE 
HER HUSBAND FROM INVESTIGATORS
Jennifer Surrency, 37-year-old wife of Thad-
deus Surrency (man arrested in connection to a 
June 25 Alachua shooting) was charged as an 
accessory to her husbands charges Monday by 
Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies. 
When investigators arrived at the apartment 
in which Thaddeus lived on June 28, they were 
met by Jennifer at the front door. She told depu-
ties that Thaddeus was not home, and she had 
not seen him since the Tuesday prior, according 
to a police report.
After investigators told Jennifer they had a 
warrant for his arrest, she said she wanted to 
get one of her daughters from another room. 
Investigators asked if there was anyone else 
home, but Jennifer said only her children and 
her niece were there. Once Jennifer and her family were gathered 
in one room, investigators noticed a pebble on 
the edge of a washing machine, below the en-
trance to an attic, where one investigator said 
he heard noises, according to the report. 
After asking Thaddeus to come down from 
the attic, deputies got an additional search war-
rant for the apartment next door, which shared 
attic access.
Pepper spray and tear gas were pumped into 
the neighboring apartment. Eventually, Thad-
deus surrendered and was placed under arrest. 
During a recorded jail phone call the fol-
lowing day, Jennifer told Thaddeus about the 
debris on the washer. Thaddeus told her, “You 
were supposed to wipe that off,” but Jennifer 
said she was in a rush to open the door.
She was charged with being an accessory 
after the fact, a second-degree felony. She was 
released on $25,000 bail on Tuesday.  Wife charged with helping spouse 
hide from cops after June shooting
THE INCIDENT TOOK 
PLACE IN JUNE
A Gainesville man was arrested 
Monday after a warrant was issued by 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
in connection to a June shooting, ac-
cording to a police report.
On June 29 shortly after 1 a.m., 
two women were driving away from 
a home at Gardenia Garden Apart-
ments, located at 1727 NE Eighth Ave. 
Dionte Detraun Rutledge, 25, shot 
at their car, according to the report. 
Both women told police they saw Rut-
ledge with a handgun.
One bullet reportedly hit the car 
behind the front tire of the driver’s 
side door, within inches of one of the women. Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers 
were called to the scene and noted the 
bullet hole in the vehicle, according to 
the report. 
One of the women identiﬁ  ed Rut-
ledge in a photo lineup and a warrant 
was issued.
Rutledge was charged with two 
counts of attempted murder, both 
ﬁ  rst-degree felonies. He was addition-
ally charged with possession of a ﬁ  re-
arm by a convicted felon, a second-
degree felony. 
He had previously been convicted 
of a felony in 2012 in connection to a 
convenience store burglary. 
Rutledge is being held at the Ala-
chua County Jail with no opportunity 
for bond. Gainesville man gets with two 
charges for attempted murderBy Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgEditorialTHURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Swimming until your ﬁ  ngertips form mountain ridges, 
reading library books as the regularly scheduled rain 
pings at your window and napping with the smell of 
sunscreen lotion lingering on your cool sheets are 
just a few of the childhood summer mementos we 
hold close to our sunburnt hearts. Just because you have 
summer classes doesn’t mean you can’t tap into a youthful 
experience with exploration and adventure in a town most 
students only get to know in their adult life. Here are our 
favorite (somewhat) hidden gems and summer pastimes.
A sunset on one of the Paynes Prairie trails has hues 
of pink and orange burned into our minds. The humidity 
might hurt, but seeing the colors reﬂ  ected on the ﬂ  ooded 
plains of the prairie makes it all worthwhile. Not only is it a 
great place to watch the sky turn into a watercolor painting, 
but a variety of wildlife teeming within the prairie makes it 
the closest thing to a real life Animal Crossing. Wild horses, 
strange birds and insects will have you whipping out your 
phone to try and capture the wildlife existing just a short 
ride south on 441. Pull your car up to the side of the road 
if you don’t want to do any walking, and take in the free 
light show happening every day of the week with a different 
outcome each time. 
Devil’s Millhopper on a cloudy day stands out in terms 
of a creepy yet calming summer activity. The wooden steps 
down to the sinkhole give off “Goonies” treasure hunting 
vibes with a touch of “Bridge to Terabithia.” If it starts to 
drizzle, the trees surrounding the trail act as a large-scale 
umbrella. The sound of water drops hitting the leaves and 
bouncing on the wood walkway sends relaxating chills 
down spines. Unlike Paynes Prairie, Devil’s Millhopper 
doesn’t house many animal-watching opportunities. Yet, 
the stillness and quiet make up for it. Not all summer ac-
tivities have to be sun-oriented. A darker activity can do 
some good for the soul, especially when milking a sunburn. 
Whoever said, “No one looks back at their life and re-
members the nights they had plenty of sleep,” may have 
been onto something. A night spent dancing ﬁ  xes any need 
to ‘shake it out.’ House, jazz, salsa, whatever you want 
to shufﬂ  e to, there is a place in town to satisfy your ears’ 
needs. If dancing doesn’t release the same endorphins as 
belting out a tune, karaoke bars exist for said reason. 
After late-night shenanigans and sleeping in an embar-
rassing amount, some artsy-fartsy activities may replenish 
whatever brain cells you lost head-banging to your favorite 
song. An indie ﬁ  lm or mainstage performance at the Hip-
podrome is a good way to get caught up on eclectic pop cul-
ture to impress your hipster friends when they returnfrom 
traveling to whichever country they keep posting about on 
social media. 
If you really want to impress pompous friends, the open 
mic poetry nights may be the time to rack up some bragging 
rights. For those not posed enough for poetry, comedy clubs 
throughout Gainesville can be the place to break the ice 
with new friends. Nothing says, “Let’s be friends forever,” 
like bonding over a successful or (even more so) bad com-
edy performance.  
Whether it’s a night out dancing or a day spent exploring 
Gainesville’s nature, ﬁ  nd your own hidden places to make 
memories with new friends. Go to a part of town you’ve 
never been to before. Drive down the Bed and Breakfast 
district. Rollerblade in Depot Park. Go to the Matheson 
Museum. A summer in Gainesville is the time to try out the 
weird activities sitting way down your to-do list (if they’re 
even lucky enough to be on your list). Less people and more 
daylight hours make now the best time to uncover a new, 
memorable place.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORWow, someone did something horrible 
in Student Government; we all sure 
haven’t heard of that one before, 
have we?
Much like in other legislative en-
tities, SG Senators have the ability to serve on 
committees. Unlike in the professional world, not 
everyone gets to serve on a committee, though, 
since the majority party isn’t interested in giving 
everyone a seat at the table and only cares about 
boosting up particular individuals.
Some committees are more important than others. The 
Budget and Appropriations committee truly gets to own 
the coveted resume line of playing around with $21 million 
,while the Rules and Ethics committee typically is stuck read-
ing Senators’ absence excuse forms. That’s why I give more 
scrutiny to those appointed to the budget committee than 
others.
Back in March, Senator Audrey Wikan applied for the 
budget committee listing “Florida Legislature District 31 Sec-
retary” from April to August 2018 on her resume. Under-
neath the title was a single bullet point that curtly stated: 
“District Secretary to House Member Jennifer Sullivan.” 
Looking back, I suppose that was red ﬂ  ag No. 1, though it 
could have easily just been characterized as “sloppy” at the 
time. Had this poor girl actually fudged her resume better, 
she would have probably passed our judgment, but nay —
we still thought she was unqualiﬁ  ed after reading her ﬁ  shy 
resume. After the Replacement and Agenda Committee ap-
proved her nomination, the minority party decided to object 
to their recommendation of her to the budget committee.
Anyway, this poor girl goes up in front of the Senate and 
cites, as her number one qualiﬁ  cation, her experience as dis-
trict secretary. She also claimed to have been her school’s 
Future Business Leaders of America chapter treasurer and 
had to explain the reason she didn’t include the experience in her resume was because she “simply ran out 
of room.”
In questioning, we pressed her on her time as 
district secretary, and she started to crack a little, 
mentioning it was “really an aide position.” Uh 
oh. Then, in the ﬁ  rst round of pro-con debate, 
Minority Party Leader Ashley Grabowski called 
Wikan’s bluff, saying, “I do not believe you are 
solely responsible for managing that budget,” be-
fore going off on Wikan for misrepresenting her 
qualiﬁ  cations. We didn’t know what we know 
now, but Grabowski was surely onto something.
The majority party vigorously defended Wi-
kan. Budget and Appropriations Committee 
Chairman Cooper Brown hit us with the “I just 
want to point out that I think it’s unfair to kind of say what 
her job was as district secretary” before going off to talk as if 
he actually knew what Wikan was doing in the job. Judiciary 
Committee Chairman Will Sandifer hit us with, “I ﬁ  nd it in-
credibly disrespectful to call Senator Wikan a liar about her 
qualiﬁ  cations previously serving as, uh, district secretary.”
Now, notice Grabowski didn’t actually call Wikan a liar; 
Sandifer went for the “strawman” logical fallacy and ended 
up being the ﬁ  rst person to use the word “liar” in relation to 
Wikan. I mean, given Wikan actually was lying, I guess we 
sort of won this one.
Anyhow, the minority party didn’t have enough votes to 
block the conﬁ  rmation (as usual), and Wikan’s recommen-
dation to the budget committee made it through the Senate.
Usually that’s the end of the story with most unqualiﬁ  ed 
applicants, but Wikan unfortunately (for her) served in a 
position in the Florida legislature, which meant the records 
from her time of employment are subject to public records 
requests. Two days later, I shot off a request to the Florida 
House of Representatives, and so I wait.
And so you’ll wait too... until next week!
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.How to catch a liar (part 1)
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Over 100 million animals are burned, crip-
pled, poisoned and abused in US labs ev-
ery year in the name of “science.” 
Results from animal testing often 
can’t be applied to humans. In fact, 92 
percent of experimental drugs that are safe and 
effective in animals fail in human clinical trials. 
So, why does the US continue to test on animals? 
According to the FDA, animal testing provides a 
means to determine the safety of a product. Sci-
entists use animal testing to determine a drug’s 
chemistry, effects and potential damage to the body. 
Supporters of animal testing argue animal testing allowed 
for countless lifesaving treatments, and the beneﬁ  ts it pro-
vides to extend human life outweigh the animals’ suffering. 
But, as I’ve already mentioned, the results from animal 
testing aren’t always relevant to humans. Scientists may over 
or underestimate the hazard a drug will have on humans. 
More importantly, there are viable alternatives to animal 
testing. Non-animal tests that use human cell-based tests 
(vitro methods) and computer models (silico methods) are 
more applicable to humans. Allergy skin tests conducted 
on guinea pigs only accurately predict human reactions 72 
percent of the time, but a combination of chemistry and 
cell-based alternative methods accurately predicts human 
reactions 90 percent of the time. Additionally, alternatives 
can often be conducted more quickly and are typically more cost-effective.  
It isn’t only animal rights activists who have 
spoken out against the government’s use of ani-
mal testing. Former U.S. National Institutes of 
Health director said, “The problem is that [animal 
testing] hasn’t worked, and it’s time we stopped 
dancing around the problem.… We need to refo-
cus and adapt new methodologies for use in hu-
mans to understand disease biology in humans.” 
It is no surprise UF, as one of the leading 
schools for medicine, conducts animal testing. In 
2017, UF researchers performed a botched surgery 
on a goat, partially paralyzing the animal. Also in 
2017, UF partnered with Texas A&M University to 
conduct experiments on 3-month-old golden re-
trievers who were deliberately bred to have a severe, painful 
form of canine muscular dystrophy. In the footage, the pup-
pies are seen struggling to walk, swallow and breathe. 
Everyone knows the golden rule: “Do unto others as you 
would have them do unto you.” This philosophy should ex-
tend to our treatment of animals as well, as they also have 
the ability to suffer and experience complex emotions. 
UF has the ability to do it. They have the resources to 
invest in non-animal-based testing methods that would be 
more accurate, cost and time-effective. UF can set the stan-
dard for other universities to show you can still produce 
meaningful scientiﬁ  c research without harming animals.
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Thursdays. Read the rest of her column on www.
alligator.org/opinion.UF’s dark history of animal testingColumn
Cassidy 
Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators in MLB: June and July
Learn about the strong Gator presence in the MLB.  pg. 12Wambach talks USWNT, UF in Q&A
Gator Alum Abby Wambach talks USWNT World Cup Win and 
Gator Nation in this Q&A.  Pg. 11THE “TANYA SOLOMON: 
TRUTH ASSASSIN” TOUR 
COMES TO GAINESVILLE
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer 
The belief magic shows are 
only for children is an idea Tanya 
Solomon wants to discard on her 
national tour, “Tanya Solomon: 
Truth Assassin.”The 42-year-old will be take 
the stage at the High Dive Aug. 1, 
with opening act Dr. Sinn’s Freak 
Island Musical Sideshow, a local 
clown band. 
This is only the second time 
the High Dive has booked a ma-
gician, as illusionist Dan Sperry 
performed last summer. 
While known for its live music 
events, the High Dive also books 
comedy acts, theater shows and 
even food truck rallies. “At High Dive, our goal is to 
book a variety of awesome talent 
and shows,” said Pat Lavery, High 
Dive facility and event manager.
Solomon was born and raised 
in Kansas City, Missouri, and 
moved to New York City in 1994, 
after ﬁ  nishing college.
“I went into publishing,” Sol-
omon said. “I was never a per-
former. I became obsessed with 
the circus, and I literally ran away 
with it at the age of 30.”
She started out in the Coney 
Island SideShow in 2002 where 
she performed staggering stunts 
like walking on broken glass. She 
started dabbling in magic in 2006 
but didn’t steer her focus to the 
art form until 2012.
“Most magicians get into it as 
little boys, and they’re very fo-
cused on the technique,” Solomon 
said. “I came to magic as some-
one already performing, so I was 
focused on the performance as 
much as the technique.” 
Now, Solomon is one of the 
few professional female magicians 
in the world and is on her sec-
ond national tour with her show 
“Truth Assassin.” She said during 
the show she would demonstrate 
her target skills while blindfolded 
with knives, make “interesting” 
things happen with cream corn, 
and shatter her audiences’ idea of 
the truth. 
Solomon has been perform-
ing for 17 years, so she is famil-
iar with reading a crowd’s energy 
and keeping them entertained. When it comes to her shows, she 
said she believes her performance 
skills give her an edge compared 
to other magicians. 
“The magic has to be very sol-
id, but I want to make people feel 
like reality is slipping away and 
give them a sense of the impossi-
ble for a moment, and I just want to keep working for that goal,” 
Solomon said. 
The doors will open at 8 p.m. 
and the show will begin at 9. 
Tickets are $10 at the door and $8 
in advance.  
@BtNwallace
bwallace1@alligator.orgMagician Tanya Solomon redefines the truth
ART
Courtesy to The Alligator
Dr. Sinn’s Freak Island Musical Sideshow features Gainesville 
musicians and burlesque performers Dr. Becky Sinn, Mr. 
Fiddlesticks, Jenny Castle, Henrietta Henhouse, and Sally B. 
Dash.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Her show “T anya Solomon: Truth Assassin” premiered at 
New York City’s Voorhees Theater in 2016 and ﬁ  rst toured 
nationally in 2018.
THE VIGIL WILL PROTEST THE TRUMP 
ADMINISTRATION’S RECENT 
ANTI-IMMIGRATION POLICY
By Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
Thousands of people around the world 
will light candles Friday in a silent vigil to 
protest the treatment of immigrants at the 
US-Mexico border. 
These vigils will be hosted by the organi-
zation Lights for Liberty at 9 p.m. in over 554 
locations across the globe. Gainesville will 
host its own vigil at the City Hall Complex 
on 200 E. University Avenue. 
Lights for Liberty aims to spread aware-ness to the inhumane conditions immigrants 
are living in detention centers at the border 
and protest the policies the Trump adminis-
tration has put in place. 
Jyoti Parmar, founder and president of 
North Central Florida Indivisible, will be co-
hosting the event with local clergy and ac-
tivists such as Jenna Preble. The Gainesville 
event will begin at 7:30 p.m. with activists 
and affected individuals speaking about hu-
man detention camps. 
According to Preble, the tentative list 
of speakers includes Marcie de Stefan Al-
varado, Margaret Hamer, Larry Green, Tyra 
Edwards, Jyoti Parmar and Parmar’s son, 
Aagneya. At 9 p.m., participants will light 
their candles.
Local resident Karenn Castro plans to take part in the event and encourages others 
to do the same. 
“The Lights for Liberty event is important 
for the community because, though it may 
seem like many are aware of what’s going 
on, just as many are unbothered by it, un-
aware of it, too busy to even have time to 
look it up,” Castro said. 
The organization hopes the vigil inspires 
participants to join the cause. 
“At the end, I hope that attendees are mo-
tivated to take tangible action in this ﬁ  ght 
for justice in the form of witnessing these 
camps, making donations to organizations 
ﬁ  ghting for justice and working to elect com-
passionate legislators,” Preble said. 
Preble said participants should come with 
the candle app downloaded on their phone, a bottle of water and their voices ready to 
be heard.
Donations to support Madres Sin Fron-
teras, a Gainesville organization dedicated 
to creating policy at the local level that op-
poses anti-immigration legislation, will be 
accepted. 
Participants can text “Lights” to 977-79 
for more information about the vigil.
“Never again is now, and the American 
people will not allow the knowing and pur-
poseful abuse and criminal neglect of chil-
dren and families at our door,” Parmar said. 
“We will not let this happen in our time, in 
our name.”
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .edu‘Never Again is Now’: Lights for Liberty vigil Friday
LIFESTYLE,8  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
TAKE A LOOK AT OUR 
FAVORITE ALBUMS 
RELEASED DURING THIS 
FIRST HALF OF THE YEAR
As we’ve ﬁ  nally surpassed the 
halfway point of the year, the Av-
enue decided to take a look at 2019 
and highlight some of our favorite 
albums released so far. From punk 
to pop to R&B and everything in be-
tween, each writer has selected their 
favorite album that’s been released 
this year and discussed why it’s at 
the top of their list.
Nick Hudson
“Wasted Time” - Dial Drive
The Orlando based pop-punk 
band released its ﬁ  rst full album 
last March. With quick drumming, 
heavy bass lines and crisp vocals, 
Dial Drive has created a relentlessly 
fast album reminiscent of some of 
the best pop-punk music from the 
early 2000’s.  
Lily Girton
“When I Get Home” - Solange
The album is unlike most music 
released nowadays. Solange blends 
psychedelic blues with R&B and jazz 
to create both relaxing and timeless 
songs. 
Harley Smith
“Superdream” - Big Wild 
This album tugs on the heart-strings in the best way. Big Wild’s 
chilled electronic sound is uplifting 
and makes listeners smile about 
the simple joy of being alive. “6’s to 
9’s” is the ﬁ  rst song I heard off of 
Superdrem, and I immediately con-
nected with its impassioned lyrics 
and melody. 
Priya Dames
“Lucid” - Raveena
This album is warm and heal-
ing. Raveena combines introspective 
songwriting with soothing vocals 
and her signature R&B style. 
Brittany Wallace
“Cuz I Love” - Lizzo
I love Lizzo and how she stands 
for self-love, and her album reﬂ  ects 
that theme. Her music makes me 
want to dance and it empowers me 
to be a better person.  
Tranelle Maner
“When we all fall asleep where 
do we go?” - Billie Eilish
When Billie Eilish ﬁ  rst released 
her song “Ocean Eyes” in 2017 po-
eple were mesmerized by her voice 
and metaphorical lyrics. After years 
of releasing separate singles she 
came out with her album “When we 
all fall asleep where do we go?” and 
every song helps narrate important 
moments in her life. While she has 
a very notable way of singing, each 
song is unique in the way it helps tell 
a story in such a short time. Avenue Recommends: 
Favorite Albums — so far 
MUSIC
TRAN “THE PIANO 
MAN” WHITLEY AND 
FRIENDS ARE COVERING 
SONGS FROM 1969 TO 
CELEBRATE THE FIFTIETH 
ANNIVERSARY OF ONE OF 
THE MOST ICONIC YEARS 
IN MUSIC AND CULTURE
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
This weekend, Gainesville’s 
free concert series will pay trib-
ute to one of the most iconic 
years in music history.
The Free Fridays Concert Se-
ries is hosting “The Summer of 
‘69: Fifty Years On” at Bo Did-
dley Plaza on Friday, July 12. 
The show aims to celebrate both 
the music and the cultural events 
of 1969. The concert is from 8-10 
p.m. and is free to attend.
Musician Tran “The Piano 
Man” Whitley and his band will 
be performing covers of songs 
released in 1969. The setlist in-
cludes songs such as “Get To-
gether,” “Badge,” “Suspicious Minds,” “Bad Moon Rising” and 
“Son of a Preacher Man”.
While many people associate 
the summer of ‘69 with Wood-
stock, Whitley wants the show 
to be about the entire year, rath-
er than a single event.
“Obviously, you can’t do a 
‘Summer of ‘69 without doing 
something from Woodstock”, 
Whitley said. “What I wanted to 
do was expand the entire year of 
1969.”
To achieve this goal, Whitley 
decided to incorporate different 
styles of music into his setlist, as 
well as reference societal events 
that occurred throughout the 
year.
“It’s not going to be just the 
songs”, Whitley said. “I also 
want to have a shout-out to oth-
er things that happened then.”
Whitley plans to show archi-
val footage from the year, in-
cluding the moon landing, tele-
vision reporters delivering news, 
Rodney Dangerﬁ  eld on the Ed 
Sullivan Show and black come-
dian Godfrey Cambridge doing 
standup.
During 1969, Whitley was 20 and an up-and-coming musi-
cian in Gainesville. He said there 
were more opportunities for new 
kinds of musical expression than 
in previous years.
“In 1969, there was a lot of 
excitement about being in a 
band. You could play your own 
music. You could do your own 
thing and be creative,” Whitley 
said. “You could play all over 
town and all over the area. It 
was great.”
The Free Friday Concert se-
ries is an outdoor concert series 
hosted by the City of Gainesville 
at Bo Diddley Plaza every Friday 
from May through October. Each 
week features different local and 
regional musicians playing both 
covers and original songs of a 
variety of genres including clas-
sic rock, reggae, soul, funk and 
blues.
Information about upcoming 
performances can be found on 
the series’s website.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgFree Friday Concert Series is reliving the 
“Summer of ‘69” with a tribute show
MUSIC
I’M DOPE’S  WANTS TO HELP ELEVATE 
AND EMPOWER WOMEN
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
After years of joining different women’s empow-
erment groups, one Gainesville resident is taking 
matters into her own hands to create a space for 
women to discuss concerns and learn from each 
other.
The women’s empowerment group I’m DOPE 
will have its ﬁ  rst meetup this Saturday from 6 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. at Cypress and Grove Brewing Company. 
The meetup will have fun music, giveaways, food 
and inspiring speakers. 
“The purpose behind I’m DOPE is to highlight the 
everyday woman that’s doing really dope things,” 
said founder Katie McKnight-Johnson.
McKnight-Johnson, 36, said she spent many 
years in search of the right empowerment group 
hoping to grow emotionally, physically and spiritu-
ally. However, she said she left many of the groups 
feeling the exact opposite. 
“I was never really feeling empowered,” McK-
night-Johnson said. “It’s good to see people, but 
what am I learning from it? What am I actually able 
to take from these meetings and apply to my every-
day life?”
After going through multiple group trials and 
failed attempts, McKnight-Johnson decided to take 
matters into her own hands.
About a year ago, McKnight-Johnson created the 
I’m DOPE women’s empowerment network. 
The acronym DOPE stands for Deﬁ  nitely On 
Personal Elevation. McKnight-Johnson said a DOPE 
woman is comfortable with herself and possess the ability and desire to learn from others. 
She said her goal for the group is to have meet-
ups once a quarter, where women can come, check-
in with each other and learn from guest speakers. 
“My vision for this event is for women to get 
together in one room with like-minded individuals 
to learn and to grow,” McKnight-Johnson said. She 
added the night’s discussion points will include a 
variety of topics including health, ﬁ  nances, relation-
ships and whatever it takes to make women better 
holistically.
Saturday attendees can also look forward to a 
yoga instructor who will teach them about how to 
use yoga and meditation to destress from the pres-
sures of being a mom, student and/or working 
woman. 
McKnight-Johnson said at times women can be 
complicated beings and that they have to let go of 
the stress and complications of life to truly grow.
“If we sit inside of the complication and never 
elevate ourselves, we learn to accept dysfunction,” 
she said. “If you continue to elevate yourself, no 
matter what may come, you will always come out 
on the positive side because you can learn from it.”
McKnight-Johnson left a piece of advice for those 
who want to start elevating themselves today. 
“Take care of yourself. Self-care is important,” 
she said.
Ticket sales for the DOPE Summer Night closed 
on Wednesday; however, those interested in joining 
the empowerment network can stay up to date with 
their future meetups by connecting with the group 
on their Facebook page. 
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comGainesville women’s empowerment 
group to host ﬁ  rst event Saturday
LIFESTYLE
THE MUSEUM IS 
COLLABORATING 
TO COMMEMORATE 
ANNIVERSARY OF 
HIS DEATH
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
Art enthusiasts will be smiling 
brighter than the Mona Lisa as they 
gather to celebrate the anniversary 
and legacy of the famous painter.
This Friday, the Florida Museum 
of Natural History and Creative B, a 
summer program for UF students, will 
continue a series of free screenings to 
showcase ﬁ  lms that incorporate as-
pects of Leonardo da Vinci’s career.
Da Vinci contributed countless 
concepts and pieces to the art commu-
nity throughout his career, such as the 
“Mona Lisa” and “The Last Supper,” 
which is why the museum is com-
memorating the 500th anniversary of 
his death with the ﬁ  lms and a discus-
sion.
The event will begin at 7 p.m. with 
a panel consisting of Florida Museum 
exhibit designer Ian Breheny, spe-
cial effects expert Tim Lawrence, UF 
Liberal Arts and Sciences associate 
professor Terry Harpold and UF hon-
ors program director Mark Law. The 
discussion will also be live streamed 
online.The Creative B summer program 
began in 2010 for UF students to con-
solidate the collective resources and 
talents of the many creative programs 
at the university, including cultural 
performances and interdisciplinary 
activities.
The Creative B website lists this 
year’s partners as UF’s Center for Arts 
in Medicine, Center for Undergradu-
ate Research, College of the Arts, the 
FLMNH and the Harn Museum of Art.
A listing for all of their events is 
available on their website.
“I attended the Creative B movie 
series event on July 5,” said 19-year-
old UF sociology sophomore Riley 
Kearney. “ ‘Ever After: A Cinderella 
Story’ accompanied with the discus-
sion panel is much more engaging 
than going to a movie theater.” 
Friday’s discussion will be fol-
lowed by the screening of “Those 
Magniﬁ  cent Men in Their Flying Ma-
chines.” Later weeks in the ﬁ  lm series 
will include “Fantastic Voyage” and 
“Mr. Peabody & Sherman,” both of 
which allude to Da Vinci in parts of 
the movie.  
The museum exhibits will extend 
their hours until 10 p.m. excluding the 
Crocs, Discovery Zone and Butterﬂ  y 
Rainforest.
@LilyGirton
lgirton@alligator.orgFlorida Museum hosts 
Leonardo da Vinci celebration
ARTTHURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Time to sell your Glow Worm? Your Garbage 
Pail Kids? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. 
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-141For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished8 Electronics 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
SOLUTION ON PAGE 1010   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Now Hiring Substitute Teachers for Alachua 
County Public Schools
Minimum criteria for becoming a substitute 
teacher: 
• High School Diploma
• The ability to pass background, drug and 
fingerprint screenings 
• Must be 21 years or older
Please call 352-363-2013 or email
2074@kellyservices.com      7-23-19-5-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Now hiring happy, athletic people for PT/FT. 
Regular consistent availability and 1 day on 
the weekend a must. Apply in person to 1504 
NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF.    7-18-19-4-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certified. 
Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    7-30-
19-7-14
Tutor/Respite care provider: tutor algebra 
and other topics at Santa Fe College level; 
an understanding of working with someone 
with special needs; must have patience and 
is willing to work with our son on developing 
independent skills. Pay is $15/hr / 10-15 hrs a 
week, 2 - 3 hrs daily at our house. Start week 
of August 19. annemiekecoron@gmail.com     
7-23-19-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
A+ CLEANING & PAINTING SERVICES
Seeking homes and offices to clean or paint. 
We customize for each client.
In Central Florida since 1986.
Call 386-717-2929    7-11-5-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip ar-
rangements or show off your bus and 
shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find some-
thing, you can place a FREE 
FOUND AD in our lost & found sec-
tion. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.*Tree Trimming, Stump
Grinding & Brush Removal*
Call 3 H Enterprise 352-414-8222 Free
estimates. Located in Gainesville. Quality, 
Reliable & Affordable Services call today!    
7-23-19-5-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      7-11-
1-15
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, July 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Red ink list
6 Editor’s “never 
mind”
10 Fast one
14 Naturally lit 
courtyards
15 Mex. title
16 Roughly
17 Devious 
nestling’s cry?
19 Word on  
diet food 
packaging
20 Like a coach after 
a rough game, 
maybe
21 Marriott-owned 
hotel chain
23 Sets, as a price
24 Div. won by the 
Braves 13 times
26 Besmirch
27 Early-rising 
duck’s call?
32 __ Maria
35 Big bully
36 Protected at sea
37 Counselor
39 Watch for money, 
usually
42 Four-time 
Grammy  
winners Kings 
of __
43 Backspace over
45 Hosp. areas
46 Prizeworthy 
cornfield 
sounds?
49 Amigo
50 Letters from the 
Civil War
51 Mine bonanza
55 Skated on thin 
ice
59 Look into again, 
as a cold case
61 Brought into play
62 Elegant dove’s 
murmur?
64 Many a retired 
thoroughbred
65 “It __ up to me”
66 Catcher’s 
interference, in 
baseball rules
67 Kit Carson House 
site
68 Throw away
69 Nostalgically 
fashionableDOWN
1 Russian country 
house
2 Cultural spirit
3 Work stoppage?
4 Elaborate cake 
layers
5 Easy marks
6 Kazakhstan, 
once: Abbr.
7 Split into thirds
8 Inscribe
9 Start liking
10 Astronomical 
time period
11 Lit __
12 In the matter of
13 Kohler rival
18 Academic goal
22 Churchill’s “so 
few”: Abbr.
25 Bay leaf source
27 Moon and Starr 
of the NFL
28 Skewered fare
29 “And another 
thing ... ”
30 2003 Masters 
champ Mike
31 Brings home
32 Locker room 
sprinkle
33 Brain wave34 Admit frankly
38 To a great 
degree
40 Equally hard to 
find
41 Contest where 
participants stand 
for a spell
44 Figures
47 Elevator __
48 Bring out
51 He played Ugarte 
in “Casablanca”52 Eyeball benders
53 HGTV topic
54 Two before marzo
55 Reddish shade
56 Where to find 
Java
57 Student of 
Seneca
58 Just all right
60 Hungarian wine 
region
63 Rehab symptom, 
for short
By Alan Olschwang
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/10/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/10/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, July 10, 2019
ACROSS
1 Chopped garden 
clods
5 Wash
10 Thailand 
neighbor
14 Basketball Hall of 
Famer Donovan
15 Dislike to the max
16 Foot part
17 Rose and ruby
18 *Soft material
20 “Downton 
Abbey” actor 
Stevens
21 Ph.D. hurdle
22 Quarterback 
Manning
23 *Supply support 
for a claim
29 Absolute
30 Cork’s land: 
Abbr.
31 “Mazel __!”
32 Ancient city on 
the Nile
34 “That scared me!”
35 Many a map dot
36 *“Coming Home” 
and “Nebraska” 
Oscar nominee
39 West Point team
42 It’s never free of 
charge
43 E-tailer
47 Life story, briefly
48 Spike TV, once
49 Candle 
emanation
50 *Like many new 
job seekers
55 Filming site
56 Phnom __, 
Cambodia
57 Ancient times, 
poetically
58 Card game 
declaration, and 
a hint to what can 
be found in the 
four other longest 
answers
62 Tire swing 
support
63 “A Beautiful Mind” 
mathematician
64 Numbered 
market section
65 Is in session
66 Slow-moving 
boats
67 Old Renault
68 38-Down, e.g.DOWN
1 Barely able
2 The heck
3 Back-of-the-book 
explanatory 
comment
4 Paris’ Pont __ 
Arts
5 Like 101 courses
6 Vituperation
7 This and this
8 Brick carrier
9 Prior to, in verse
10 De Gaulle’s 
birthplace
11 Applies holy oil to
12 U.N. Day month
13 “Be quiet!”
19 Relinquish 
officially
21 Engraver Albrecht
24 “You Light Up 
My Life” singer 
Boone
25 Competed
26 Ticked
27 KFC title
28 Biblical garden 
denizen
33 Acting litigiously
34 Poetic twilight
35 IV part
37 Cold Stone 
Creamery buy38 Orkin target
39 “The Rookie” 
network
40 __ Grande
41 Oyster or clam
44 Social circle
45 Brunch buffet 
station fare
46 Superlatively 
26-Down
48 Beret’s perch
51 Highland  
waters52 Protestant 
denom.
53 Street in a law 
office
54 Sedated
58 Paternity identifier
59 Musical gift
60 “Do the Right 
Thing” pizzeria 
owner
61 LPGA golfer 
Michelle
62 Dose meas.
07/09/19
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/Notices
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
UF football players CJ 
Henderson (pictured) and 
Kadarius T oney will both 
wear No. 1 for the Gators next 
season. UF football players announced for SEC Media Days
Feleipe Franks, Lamical Perine and Jabari Zuniga will join head coach Dan 
Mullen in Hoover, Alabama, for the 2019 SEC Football Media Days. They'll 
appear on Monday, July 15 with LSU and Missouri and the event will be tele-
vised on ESPN and SEC Network.By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Sports editor Sam Campisano 
had the opportunity to chat with re-
tired soccer legend Abby Wambach 
before the Gatorade Player of the 
Year awards on Tuesday. 
Read what she had to say on this 
year’s World Cup, the 1998 Gators 
and her favorite Gainesville pizza 
place:
How about that World Cup?
Abby: How about that U.S. Na-
tional Team and the Women’s 
World Cup championship team? 
Epic in almost every fashion, right? 
It had excitement, it had pressure, 
it had a little bit of naysayer, it 
had speculation, it had analysis. 
Everything about this World Cup 
was so interesting and almost dra-
matic in this beautiful way, and our 
women’s team just kind of flipped 
it all on its head. They just took it 
by the horns and went with it and 
rode this World Cup to the end, 
and now they’re celebrating back in 
the States and having their ticker-
tape parade tomorrow, so it’s super 
awesome. I’m thrilled for them and 
happy to be a part of the national 
team family.
Was it weird for you not being 
a part of the World Cup, seeing 
the team instead of playing for 
them?
Abby: No, I think that four years 
had passed since I retired, so that’s 
enough time. My wife asked me the 
same thing, ‘Do you have any feel-
ings about this?’ And it’s like, you 
know, all of these women have ex-
perienced these last four years to-gether, and I haven’t been a part of 
that. So I don’t know what they’re 
going through in terms of the inside 
jokes, I don’t know exactly what 
this lead-up has been like, I don’t 
know what the conversations are 
all like. I generally can figure it out, 
but this is their team, and though I 
was a part of this team for so many 
years, I would never want to insert 
myself into a team that I never be-
longed in. They made a name for 
themselves, and they are defining -- 
almost redefining, in a sense -- our 
women’s national team and what 
champion women can look like and 
how champion women can operate. 
It has been so beautiful and so hon-
oring and so touching to watch. To 
have been a part of it for so many 
years is honestly the privilege and 
honor of my life, and I can’t wait 
to continue watching them be-
cause this is just the beginning. The 
Olympics are next summer.
Do you still follow the Gators 
soccer team? Do you still keep 
in touch with (UF soccer coach) 
Becky Burleigh?
Abby: Oh, yeah. Yeah, we were 
texting throughout the whole tour-
nament. She was there, Erin Baxter 
was actually at the game, the cap-
tain of the UF team in 1998, the 
championship team, so I saw her 
in France. We were there with our 
kids, so it was really special.
You spoke about that ’98 
team, the first and (so far) only 
Gators team to win a national 
championship. Where does that 
rank in terms of accomplish-
ments in your career?
Abby: I think it’s definitely in 
the top five. Winning a national championship is no easy feat, and 
we did it against the University of 
North Carolina. Do I wish the Uni-
versity of Florida had more national 
championships? Absolutely. But 
like I said, it’s a hard thing, espe-
cially with the parity of women’s 
soccer.
Here’s one for you: Favorite 
Gainesville pizza place?
Abby: Oh, what is it called? 
Leonardo’s. The garlic sauce, you 
can’t get better.
I’m sure they’ll love hearing 
that.
Abby: Are they still open? I 
heard that they’re closing.
Yes, as of right now they are 
still open. But word on the street 
is that they could close at any 
minute, so if you’re ever in town, 
make sure you stop by.
Abby: Oh, I do (when I'm in 
town), yeah.
Anything you want to say to 
the Gator Nation out there?
Abby: Yeah, I’m so proud of the 
time that I spent as a Florida Gator 
and it was instrumental in my de-
velopment. The Florida Gator pro-
gram really helped shape the way 
that I think about sports and helped 
turn me into a professional, so I’m 
so grateful, so thankful for them 
and always, forever, will bleed or-
ange and blue.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgWambach talks USWNT, UF in Q&ASOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
There’s been much talk in 
Gainesville about UF’s quarterback 
situation. Supporters and detrac-
tors of starting quarterback Feleipe 
Franks have often discussed 
whether his impact on Florida’s 
offense is a positive or a negative 
one, and any good or bad day it has 
is typically analyzed through the 
lens of the quarterback position.
Much of Florida’s offensive suc-
cess last year, however, came at 
the hands of its running game. The 
UF backfield averaged 213.3 yards 
per game last year – just barely 
under the 213.5 from UF’s passing 
offense – and averaged 5.3 yards 
per carry. Fans can expect similar 
numbers this year, as most of the 
core group that made it happen in 
2018 will make up the backfield 
once more.
The Gators’ true bell cow is Lam-
ical Perine. Last season, he notched 
826 yards, seven touchdowns and 
averaged 6.2 yards a carry, the lat-
ter of which was the SEC’s eighth 
best. Perine was also one of two UF 
running backs to record a receiving 
touchdown last year and the sole 
member of the group to eclipse 100 
receiving yards (170). Perine will 
almost certainly be Florida’s lead 
back, and his ability to be a threat 
in both the running and passing 
game should once again bode well 
for the Gators.
Another notable returning play-
er is Malik Davis, who sustained 
a season-ending knee injury after 
playing just three games last year. 
He’ll hope to play his first full sea-
son in a Gators uniform in 2019, as his season was also cut short two 
years ago after a season-ending 
foot injury against Georgia. He av-
eraged 4.7 yards per carry over sev-
en games and ran for two touch-
downs during his 2017 campaign.
With the departure of Jordan 
Scarlett to the Carolina Panthers, 
it’s likely that sophomore Dame-
on Pierce will see a larger role in 
Florida’s running game. Pierce had 
the second-most yards per carry for 
running backs on the team with 6.1 
and was third in yards behind Scar-
lett with 424. Pierce was the other 
UF running back to catch a touch-
down last year, and he should be 
a solid compliment to Perine and 
Davis in 2019.
Florida also has some freshman 
talent to accommodate its returning 
running backs. The most notable 
running back recruit is Nay’Quan 
Wright, a four-star signee out of 
Miami Carol City. Wright was ES-
PN’s 22nd ranked running back in 
the 2019 class, and he combined 
for 1,793 rushing yards and 19 
touchdowns in his freshman and 
sophomore seasons of high school 
football.
Aside from Scarlett’s departure, 
the Gators’ consistency in the back-
field should bode well for them in 
Dan Mullen’s second season as 
head coach. The returning squad is 
likely to open up the passing game, 
and should Franks capitalize on a 
somewhat strong end to his sea-
son last year, UF’s offense could 
improve exponentially for its 2019 
campaign.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgPosition-by-position: 
Running backsFOOTBALLAssociated Press
Abby Wambach (left) played for UF from 1998 to 2001, where 
she won a national championship and four consecutive SEC 
Championships.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Lamical Perine was the team's leading rusher last year with 826 yards, seven 
touchdowns and 6.2 yards per carry. 
12  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
NightsBASEBALL
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEKDylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
A month has passed since the last review 
of Gators around the majors, but there is still a 
strong UF presence in Major League Baseball. 
Now that the league has reached the All-Star 
break, let’s look at how some former Gators 
are doing at the halfway point.
The brightest star of the bunch is New York 
Mets rookie ﬁ  rst baseman Pete Alonso. Alonso 
currently holds a .280 batting average, an OBP 
of .372 and 68 RBIs. Of his 91 career hits, 30 of 
them are home runs. 
To add to his impressive stat line, Alonso made the MLB All-Star Game - the only Gator 
to do so - and won the All-Star Game Home 
Run Derby. Alonso went 1-2 with 2 RBIs in 
the National League’s 4-3 loss to the American 
League. 
He is undoubtedly the front-runner for NL 
Rookie of the Year, as he leads all rookies in 
every major offensive statistical category.
Former Gator and current St. Louis Cardi-
nals outﬁ  elder Harrison Bader is another play-
er getting everyday playing time in the majors. 
Bader, who has played in 73 games so far this 
season, has a .205 BA, .316 OBP and 19 RBIs. 
He’s also added six round-trippers to his 
stat line this year. Although his batting aver-
age needs improvement, Bader has been a solid contributor to the Cardinals and looks to 
remain on their roster in the future.
Heading to the rubber, Anthony DeSclafani 
is putting together a solid season for the Cin-
cinnati Reds. DeSclafani has appeared in 17 
games this season - all starts - and has regis-
tered a 4.26 ERA. The Reds right hander has a 
5-4 record in nine decisions this year.
Tampa Bay Rays catcher Mike Zunino has 
also added to the Gators presence in 2019. 
Zunino is having a down year at the plate, hit-
ting .182 with a .236 OBP and 19 RBIs. How-
ever, Zunino’s commanding presence at the 
backstop has helped him receive a fair amount 
of playing time this season.
While those players are the only everyday 
players in the majors, there are a few former 
UF players who have contributed on MLB ros-
ters this year.
Baltimore Orioles shortstop Richie Martin has been an effective backup this season. He 
has appeared in 69 games with the club and 
holds a .166 batting average and a .226 OBP. 
He has four home runs and nine RBIs heading 
into the second half of the year.
Pitcher Shaun Anderson has started 10 
games for the San Francisco Giants in 2019. 
He has a 3-2 record in ﬁ  ve decisions and a 4.23 
ERA.
Bullpen arms Justin Shafer of the Toronto 
Blue Jays and Brian Johnson of the Boston Red 
Sox have also registered time in the league this 
year.
Braves right-handed reliever Darren O’Day 
has been on the injured list all season. He has 
had a successful 11-year career that included 
an All-Star appearance in 2015.
doshea@alligator.com
@dylanoshea24Gators in MLB: June and July
Associated Press
Former UF ﬁ  rst baseman Pete Alonso  was the only Gator to make it to the MLB All-Star Game this 
year, where he went 1-2 with 2 RBIs in the National League’s 4-3 defeat.
 River Wells
