We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Tattoos for cancer treatment
A local tattoo shop hosted a fundraiser to help one of its regular 
customers fund her breast cancer treatment, pg. 4
A breakdown of UF’s diversity
See the make up of the UF colleges, pg. 5UF pitchers out-dueled by MSU
The UF baseball team failed to produce 
against Bulldogs starters Ethan Small and JT 
Ginn, pg. 14. MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 69
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s basketball team is going 
dancing again.
Fourth-year coach Mike White’s team re-
turns to the NCAA Tournament for the third-
straight season, this time as the No. 10 seed in 
the West Region.
UF will take on No. 7-seed Nevada in Des Moines, Iowa, on Thursday at 6:50 p.m. The 
Wolfpack ﬁ  nished with a 29-4 record and took 
home a share of the Mountain West regular 
season title.
Nevada coach Eric Musselman, now in his 
fourth season with the program, has compiled 
a 110-33 record. The Wolfpack are headed to 
their third-straight tournament appearance, in-
cluding a Sweet 16 run in 2018.
As the top seed in the Mountain West Con-ference Tournament, Nevada fell to San Diego 
State in the semiﬁ  nals 65-56.
Florida must contend with twin Wolfpack 
forwards Caleb and Cody Martin. Caleb leads 
Nevada in scoring with 19.2 points per game, 
while Cody averages 11.7 points.
Should UF beat the Wolfpack, it will likely 
face Michigan in the Round of 32. The No. 
2-seed Wolverines take on No. 15-seed Mon-
tana in their ﬁ  rst game.Michigan is coming off a disappointing ﬁ  ve-
point loss against rival Michigan State in the 
Big Ten Championship on Sunday. The na-
tional runner-up from a year ago is looking to 
return to the Final Four in Minneapolis, and 
assuming the Wolverines avoid a ﬁ  rst-round 
upset, Florida could have an early crack at a 
high seed.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgTICKET PUNCHED: Gators play Nevada to open March Madness
VIGIL FOLLOWS MOSQUE 
ATTACKS THAT KILLED 50
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Islam On Campus will hold a ﬂ  ower 
memorial on Monday night in honor of the 
50 victims of the Christchurch shootings in 
New Zealand. 
The vigil will be held at 7 p.m. on Tur-
lington Plaza said Sana Nimer, the presi-
dent of UF Islam On Campus. Nimer hopes 
the vigil will show the community’s soli-
darity. 
“When hate crimes like this happen, it’s really easy to feel like the world is against 
you,” Nimer said. “But at the same time, 
there have been so many instances of com-
munity members letting us know that they 
stand with us.”
On Friday, a gunman opened ﬁ  re at 
Masjid Al-Noor and Linwood mosques in 
Christchurch killing 50 and hospitalizing 
36, according to The Associated Press. The 
youngest victim was a 3-year-old boy.
New Zealand’s Prime Minister Jacinda 
Ardern expressed determination to change 
gun laws within the country after the at-
tack, AP reports. 
Although the community, like the rest UF Muslim community to 
remember shooting victims Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Need for Speed
Hundreds of people watch Brittany Force (left) and Chris Karamesines (right) race Sunday during the 50th Amalie Motor Oil NHRA Gatornationals at the Gainesville Raceway. 
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 4By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Start planning your cheesecake orders 
now. The Cheesecake Factory is coming to 
Butler Town Center.  
Deborah Butler, the Butler Enterpris-
es president, ofﬁ  cially announced that 
The Cheesecake Factory will open in fall 
Gainesville at a press conference on Friday. 
The 8,000 square-foot restaurant will be 
located at 2851 SW 35th Drive, next to Whole 
Foods and behind Grub Burger Bar, Butler 
said. 
The Gainesville Cheesecake Factory will 
join 16 other Florida locations, with the clos-
est in Jacksonville. 
“Look at what we have today compared to 
when I was a kid,” Butler said. “We’ve been 
a city on the rise.”
The restaurant will join a variety of other 
restaurants and shops, such as PF Chang’s, which opened Sept. 3. 
City Commissioner David Arreola said 
the introduction of The Cheesecake Factory 
means that franchises think the city is able to 
support business.
“It shows that the purchasing power of the 
Gainesville market is attractive,” Arreola said. 
The Butler Plaza Town Center is still in de-
velopment but will eventually be a mixed-use 
center for people to walk around and shop, 
Arreola said. 
Lillian Connell, a 19-year-old UF business 
administration sophomore, said The Cheese-
cake Factory is her favorite restaurant, and 
she is excited about the new addition. 
“My favorite cheesecake is the Oreo be-
cause it’s just so good,” Connell said. “I’m 
going to be going there a lot.”
 
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgThe Cheesecake Factory to open 
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING
MONDAY
RTS Driver Appreciation Day
When: 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
Where: Turlington Plaza
What: Islam On Campus, the Asian 
American Student Union, the 
Hispanic Student Association 
and the Women’s Student 
Association will present an 
event to show appreciation for 
RTS drivers. People can pick up 
ﬂ  owers and thank-you cards to 
gift to bus drivers.Cube of Truth
When: 5:30-8 p.m.
Where: Turlington Plaza
What: The Cube of Truth is a struc-
tured demonstration by a group 
that wants to lead bystanders to 
a vegan lifestyle with animal ex-
ploitation footage. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  52°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Hope Hathcock
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn JonesMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.   Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 69MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
www.usa.edu Campuses in St. Augustine and MiamiLET YOUR 
PASSION 
POWER 
YOUR 
FUTURE
Take the next step. 
Discover how our innovative programs 
can help set you apart as a licensed 
occupational therapist.
Schedule a tour today at usa.edu4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019of the world, is grieving, Nimer said she 
was not shocked it occurred. 
As a Muslim woman, she said she of-
ten has to be vigilant. 
“We’re reacting the same way the rest 
of the world is reacting, which is just sad-
ness, and grief and mourning,” she said. 
“But I think one thing to know is that 
none of us are really shocked.”
Speakers at the vigil will include stu-
dents, members of the executive board of Islam On Campus, UF President Kent 
Fuchs and other campus partners, she 
said. 
“It’s very empowering to understand 
that the world isn’t against us, and we 
don’t have to be ashamed of our identi-
ty,” she said.
Looking to the future, Nimer said she 
encourages people outside the Muslim 
community to reach out and be allies. She 
said it shows unity amidst tragedy.
“Come talk to us,” she said. “That’s 
really the only way to eradicate the sort of hateful mentalities.”
Nushrat Nur, a 21-year-old UF jour-
nalism junior, wrote an article for “The 
Tempest,” an online storytelling medium, 
in response to Friday’s tragedy about her 
experience growing up in mosques. 
She read the article at the vigil. 
“For a brief moment, I can just take 
away a little bit of the pain and just re-
mind them that our communities are so 
important,” Nur said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgVIGIL,  from pg. 1‘None of us are really shocked’$7,000 IN PROCEEDS WILL 
GO TO HER
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Flowers and pink and white bal-
loons decorated the walls covered 
in drawings of vicious panthers, 
skulls and crossbones and pin-up 
girls at Death or Glory Tattoo Par-
lour Saturday.
More than 200 people went to 
the shop, at 8 E. University Ave., 
over the course of the day to raise 
money for a longtime client fighting 
breast cancer. 
The event raised more than 
$7,000.
Nicole Hall, 42, has been get-
ting tattooed by Mike “Little Mike” 
Mehaffey at Death or Glory Tattoo 
Parlour for more years than she can 
count. 
“Mike and the people here are 
more like family than friends,” she 
said. “He was heartbroken when I 
told him the cancer came back.”
Mehaffey was one of the first 
people she told when her breast 
cancer returned earlier this year af-
ter her first diagnosis in 2017.
Mehaffey immediately started 
planning a tattoo benefit at the shop 
to raise money to pay for Hall’s 
treatment. 
After finding a lump, doctors 
told Hall she would be facing two 
rounds of chemotherapy, surgery 
and then radiation treatment. 
She was in the hospital when 
Mehaffey told her about the event. 
“I was blown away when I 
found out he was doing this in my 
honor,” she said. “It stinks to have 
to go through this again, but I’m so 
overwhelmed by the support of the 
community.”
From noon to 10 p.m., the artists 
tattooed everyone who came in and 
donated all the money to Hall.
There was also a bar in the back 
of the shop serving beer and liquor 
for donations. 
Hall was dressed head to toe in 
pink and white while she attended 
the event with her husband and two 
children. 
Throughout the day, tattoo art-
ists shared their favorite memories 
with Hall, mostly reminiscing on 
how she always brought trays of food to the shop to make sure ev-
eryone ate. 
Mehaffey tattooed throughout 
the day and said the event was 
much larger than the crew expected.
 “It’s one of those things where 
I wanted to help but couldn’t and 
now that I’m in the position to help, 
so I did.” 
He had worked for three weeks 
nonstop to find vendors, raffle priz-
es and advertise the event to make 
sure people came. 
“When she comes in, it’s like an 
event. We’re all happy to see her,” 
he said. “We wanted to help her out 
and celebrate her life.”
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgDeath or Glory Tattoo holds cancer benefit for longtime client
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Jesus Lopez, a 30-year-old tattoo artist at Death or Glory T attoo Parlour, outlines a shark tattoo Saturday afternoon during Death 
or Glory’s tattoo benefit fundraiser. All money made at the event will go towards treatment for Nicole Hall’s breast cancer. Hall is a 
frequent customer at Death or Glory, and more than 200 people attended the benefit.
UF’s vigil information
When: Monday, March 18 at 7 p.m.
Where: Turlington Plaza
What: Vigil honoring the 50 victims of 
the Christchurch tragedy 
Who: Hosted by UF Islam On Campus; 
Speakers include students, President 
Kent Fuchs and other campus partners
Why: T o come together in solidarity and 
pay respects to the victimsChris King / Alligator Staff
Cai Mains, a 22-year-old UF biology senior, gets a tattoo Saturday at Death or Glory during a fundraising event. 
MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterBy Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 50 percent of students are white 
in every UF college besides one.
Despite these numbers for the colleges 
overall, a National Science Foundation report 
released this year found that UF ranks high 
in its number of African American and Latinx 
doctoral students in science and engineering. 
The university scored higher than universities 
well-known in these ﬁ  elds, such as the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard 
University. 
The foundation ranked UF ninth out of the 
top 30 universities of black science and engi-
neering doctorate recipients, with 75 graduates 
from 2007 to 2016. 
The university is ranked fourth for Hispanic 
or Latinx recipients, with 184 graduates in this 
category, according to the report. This averages 
to about four to 13 African American graduates 
and ﬁ  ve to 19 Hispanic graduates every year.
The UF Herbert Wertheim College of En-
gineering’s enrollment for undergraduate and 
graduate programs combined is 49.25 percent 
white, according to a UF report. This is the 
only college that didn’t have more than 50 per-
cent white students.
Each college has its own microculture, so 
each needs to be treated differently when ad-
dressing diversity, said Antonio Farias, the UF 
Chief Diversity Ofﬁ  cer. 
Since starting at UF in May, Farias estab-
lished an initiative to put campus diversity liai-
sons in each college. The role of these liaisons 
is to expand diversity on campus by recruit-ing a diverse group of applicants and student 
majors, Farias said. The liaisons will also work 
with the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Community Relations, 
which develops and maintain relationships 
with North Central Florida communities.
Because the liaisons are new, the university 
will evaluate how well they perform and then 
decide its next steps to address diversity, said 
Susan Crowley, the UF Community Relations 
assistant vice president.
“We need a diverse university in order to 
have a diverse education for our students,” 
Crowley said. “We need to be sure our univer-
sity is reﬂ  ective of the world.”
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Community Relations also 
worked with Gainesville to create a racial eq-
uity study, she said. The UF Bureau for Eco-
nomic and Business Research completed the 
study and released it in January 2018.
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Community Relations also 
worked with Gainesville to staff a racial equity 
study to show inequality in the area, she said. 
The department served as a bridge between UF 
and the community to solve inequality and im-
prove diversity.
“Doing the work we did in the general com-
munity certainly set the stage for us to now 
work with diversity on campus,” Crowley said.
Nathan Athouriste, the UF Black Student 
Union assistant secretary, hopes to see more 
changes speciﬁ  cally in his college, the UF 
Heavener School of Business, he said. 
The college has 4.21 percent black or Afri-
can American students enrolled, while white 
students make up 62.53 percent, according to 
a UF report. 
This suggests that inequity is a problem in this college, and its diversity can be improved, 
Athouriste said. 
“We need to increase diversity by the num-
bers, as well as educate students on the mat-
ter,” the 19-year-old UF marketing sophomore 
said. “Underrepresented communities should 
be given the right resources to be successful.”
The UF College of Medicine also primar-
ily enrolls white students, according to UF re-
ports. Overall, in the school, 58.71 percent of 
students are white, while 9.01 percent are His-
panic or Latinx and just 6.21 percent are black 
or African American.
Madeline Joseph, the recently appointed as-
sociate dean for Inclusion and Equity for the 
UF College of Medicine in Jacksonville, said 
this new position is a big step in increasing di-
versity in the college. 
The position was created to widen the 
scope of the diversity liaison team beyond the 
parameters of campus at the teaching hospital 
located in Jacksonville, Joseph said.
The College of Medicine in Jacksonville cur-
rently has a mentoring program in the works 
to offer underrepresented medical students the 
opportunity to be mentored by an underrepre-
sented faculty member, Joseph said.
“Diversity and inclusion are critical for true 
innovation and high performance of teams in 
the medical ﬁ  eld since it breaks barriers that 
hinder our progress,” Joseph said.
The UF Health Diversity Council is pursu-
ing initiatives to work with veterans, LGBTQ+ 
members and millennials to ensure equity 
across the board, she said.
Gender, sexual orientation, religious be-
liefs and socioeconomic status all play a part in understanding diversity in the medical ﬁ  eld, 
Joseph said.
“Diversity in health care is complex, and 
it is much more than just a language barrier,” 
she said. “It is about understanding our pa-
tients and families within the larger context of 
culture.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF adds liaison positions, engages in study to address lack of diversity
Demographics of Enrollment 
Across UF Colleges
Liberal Arts and Sciences: 
White - 53.81%
Black or African American - 9.81%
Hispanic/Latinx - 16.66%
Nursing:
White - 69.39%
Black or African American - 8.15%
Hispanic/Latinx - 11.64%
Medicine:
White - 58.71%
Black or African American - 6.21%
Hispanic/Latinx - 9.01%
Business:
White - 62.53%
Black or African American - 4.21%
Hispanic/Latinx - 14.69%
Engineering:
White - 49.25%
Black or African American - 3.98%
Hispanic/Latinx - 14.77%By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF professor Clifford Will looks 
no further than physics for relax-
ation.
After 50 years of studying phys-
ics, including seven at UF, Will is 
the ﬁ  rst UF physicist to be awarded 
the Albert Einstein Medal. 
The Albert Einstein Medal is giv-
en to physicists who have studied 
Einstein’s work and created their 
own ﬁ  ndings or publications. Phys-icists are nominated anonymously 
and voted on by the Board of Trust-
ees. Stephen Hawking received the 
ﬁ  rst medal in 1979. 
Will, 73, will receive the 2019 
medal for his work on Einstein’s 
theory of general relativity, which 
says everything moves relative to 
other objects, on June 6 in Bern, 
Switzerland. 
Will was nominated for his ob-
servable ideas of Einstein’s theory, 
like measurements with telescopes 
and space crafts, instead of its com-plicated mathematics. 
Will said he didn’t expect to re-
ceive this award, but he loves phys-
ics, saying he can’t think of any-
thing that’s more fun. He said he 
likes to predict the future and un-
derstand nature through the ﬁ  eld.  
“It’s a great honor to be included 
in a list of names of people who are 
great ﬁ  gures in the ﬁ  eld,” Will said. 
His research earned him the 
award and recognition, he said.
Outside of his research, Will 
mentors young researchers of Ein-stein’s theory 
and hosts an 
annual seminar 
in Florida, said 
Kevin Ingersent, 
the UF phys-
ics department 
chair. 
“We’re proud 
of Professor Will,” Ingersent said. 
“He already had a strong reputa-
tion as a leader in his area, and he’s 
continued that work.”
Ingersent said Will’s work and the work of other medal winners 
is important because it determines 
if Einstein’s theory is complete or 
there is further research to uncover.
Whenever questioned about re-
tirement, Will said he will never 
stop doing what he loves.
“My friends who are not scien-
tists say ‘When are you going to 
retire?’ and I say never,” he said. 
“I will always keep doing physics.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgUF physics professor awarded Albert Einstein Medal
Will
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsBlurred lines 
create an unchecked 
government  
The system of checks and balances is as fundamental to 
the U.S. as the Constitution itself. However, in recent de-
cades, the lines between the government’s branches have 
blurred. On Friday, President Donald Trump issued the 
first veto of his presidency, an act many presidents before 
him have used. This act is within his constitutional power, but 
what sets it apart from any other presidential veto is his manipu-
lation of executive power. 
The president asked for the funding of his border wall, but 
it was denied by Congress. He then wanted to use the National 
Emergencies Act of 1976, claiming a lack of border security as 
a national emergency. This act was also denied by Congress on 
Thursday in a rare agreement between both parties with a vote 
of 59-41 in the Senate. After the news of the denial broke, Trump 
responded in a short, but not-so-subtle tweet. “VETO!” 
With his intentions clear, Trump used his power to veto on 
Friday, which will allow him to allocate $6 billion to his bor-
der wall. Whether or not you agree with the necessity of the 
border wall is a different problem entirely. The glaring problem 
with this veto is that it’s an overstep of executive power. What 
Trump did was constitutional, but it still feels wrong. Trump was 
denied twice by Congress (even with a red Senate) to approve 
the amount of money he wanted. It’s one of the first times in 
Trump’s presidency that even his own political party has denied 
one of his requests. 
There are two major issues with Trump bypassing Congress: 
the declaration of emergency itself and the constitutionality of 
going against Congress twice. Trump’s use of the National Emer-
gencies Act of 1976 has been controversial. When asked how 
the president can justify the use of the act, he stated that he’s 
using “many stats” from “a lot of sources” to make his decisions. 
However, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, most 
drugs seized from the southern border are found at ports by Cus-
toms officers, not by Border Patrol agents. 
Trump intends to use $6 billion of taxpayers’ money to fund 
the building of his wall. This is a problem when the entire branch 
of elected officials, the House and the Senate, has denied the re-
quest. If the legislative branch is supposed to represent the major-
ity, and the president has knowingly acted against the people’s 
will, there’s a moral injustice in that. Over the years, the execu-
tive branch has continually gained power in a government sys-
tem where all branches are supposed to have equal power. 
Political scientists can debate all day about how the powers 
of each branch are allocated and who really has the power to do 
certain things in government, but we think they’d agree that all 
branches are supposed to have equal power and have those pow-
ers checked. The president has overstepped his bounds, but there 
is still one more branch of government that will most likely have 
a say in the argument: the judicial branch. Twenty states, includ-
ing New York and California, have come together to sue the pres-
ident for his use of the National Emergencies Act of 1976. Their 
argument is that the president has no control over how money 
is spent, and with the use of the act, Trump will have complete 
control over $6 billion. It will be up to the courts to figure out the 
actual legality of what the president has done. 
If the courts were to find the acts of the president constitu-
tional, it would only further blur the branches’ lines of power. 
The judicial branch has the responsibility to keep both the legis-
lative and the executive branch in check, as do we, the people. 
We have to keep our government in check when it comes to it 
overstepping its roles. At the end of the day, it’s our money that’s 
funding a wall that has never been approved by Congress. We 
have the power to do something about it. 
Are Santa Fe students disconnected from all 
of the culture Gainesville has to offer?
Gainesville is a great town to live in. It has just about 
everything you need. There are countless restaurants, a 
thriving art scene and state parks that take your breath 
away. Gainesville’s gem is UF, one of the state’s most 
vibrant institutions of higher learning. The heartbeat of 
Gainesville is connected to the university, and so much 
activity is centered around it. The town’s culture is the 
Gators, which is why I feel like it is often forgotten that 
another college exists within the city limits.
I was a student at Santa Fe College until last semester. 
Santa Fe is located in northwest Gainesville, right near 
I-75. Despite being of slightly smaller stature than the 
university next door, I thoroughly enjoyed my time at 
Santa Fe. The school has incredible teachers, supportive 
staff and friendly students. Santa Fe is a place that pro-
vides an excellent education. 
After obtaining my associate degree from the college, I 
transferred to UF. I immediately felt as though something 
changed. When I became a student at UF, I felt so much 
more connected to Gainesville’s culture as a whole, de-
spite living in this city for a year prior. I wanted to know 
if other students, past and present, felt the same way I 
did. I wanted to know if other Santa Fe students felt dis-
connected from Gainesville as I had.
The first thing I did was talk to my roommate, Aidan. 
He is from St. Petersburg, Florida, and he went to Santa 
Fe for a few semesters before transferring to UF. I asked 
him about what he liked about Gainesville, and he went 
on about Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park as well as 
the nightlife in town. Then I asked him if he liked these 
things when he attended Santa Fe. He described his ex-
perience saying, “I don’t think I had been to Paynes Prai-rie at that point. I didn’t really know anything about the 
nightlife. I know there were a lot of events I didn’t know 
much about that happened downtown and were prob-
ably UF related.” I was surprised. 
Then I asked him what changed, and he replied, “I 
think it would just have to be the students at UF. Just be-
ing at UF, you get more info about what’s going on. You 
get emails about what is happening, about basketball 
games that everyone goes to, that the whole city goes to. 
I think you just know more about what’s going on when 
you’re at UF.”
One other person’s experience is a coincidence, not 
a trend, so I decided to talk with a current Santa Fe stu-
dent. My friend Marlon is from Ocala, Florida, and he is 
a current student at Santa Fe. I asked him what he liked 
about Gainesville. He described his love for the different 
neighborhoods in Gainesville and his love for the com-
munity atmosphere. I also asked him how connected he 
felt to Gainesville. His reply highlighted the relationship 
between the colleges. “I think that the students of UF get 
more credit. Santa Fe gets a role, but it’s sort of a down-
played role in comparison to the space that UF gets.”
According to my and my peers’ experiences, Santa Fe 
is disconnected from the rest of the town it is a part of. As 
Gainesville continues to grow, I hope Santa Fe students 
and faculty and community members put thought into 
the practical inlcusion of Santa Fe students. I appreciate 
the culture Gainesville has, and I want to see this culture 
become easier to access for everyone. I want everyone to 
be able to enjoy what Gainesville has to offer.
Christian Wertz is a junior transfer student from UF.Letter to the Editor
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORMONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
With Spring Break 
gone and a ter-
rifyingly chal-
lenging week of 
classes under our 
belts, we have all settled 
back in. It’s different this 
time, though. After a Spring 
Break without responsibili-
ties or rules, it’s hard to rid 
ourselves of that mindset. 
We’ve tasted what life is like for the 
elite members of society who don’t have 
to work for things, and returning to the 
"Gainesville grind" now feels like a pain-
ful vacation to a penitentiary. What did 
we do to deserve this? Students’ breakup 
with Spring Break is cruel, and now we 
are left with the sloppy second half of the 
semester. Is there any hope that it’ll get 
better?
First order of business: We need to 
address the feeling of post-break depres-
sion. People will tell you that it will fade 
as the #UFLife inspires feelings of joy and 
pride to rise up from the deepest chasms 
of your soul. This is hilariously false. We 
may be in the home stretch, but it isn’t 
getting any easier. 
Maybe you probably drank too much 
over break and put on some extra weight. 
Attending college, keeping up with extra-
curriculars and hanging out with friends 
makes it difﬁ  cult to stay in shape for the 
rest of the semester. Maybe you partied 
for the nine-day duration of spring break, 
neglecting sleep because you didn’t want 
to miss those late nights in Miami getting 
your fake ID denied at the city’s extensive 
list of nightclubs. If you counted on get-
ting sleep at school, need I remind you 
that you are a Florida Gator? Sleep is not 
part of your degree, so kiss that goodbye 
as well.
So, the ﬁ  rst three weeks are bad. A 
positive thinker might say, “The next 
three can’t possibly be as hard, it’s the 
home stretch.” I am not one of those posi-
tive thinkers. The last three weeks of the 
year will play out as follows.During the third-to-last 
week of the semester all 
throughout The Swamp, 
students will have their 
daydreams of Spring Break 
replaced by those of a two-
month reprieve from their 
majors and the hellish 
weather of Alachua County 
in April. Summer, baby! It’ll 
be three weeks away though, 
which leaves an angsty bitterness in stu-
dents’ guts all week.
The second-to-last week will look a lit-
tle like this, the anger about the distance 
from summer will begin to fade. Howev-
er, the realization that ﬁ  nals are coming 
can sour everyone's moods. Students will 
begin to cram with Study Edge, Smokin’ 
Notes, insomnia and prayers. They still 
won’t consider paying attention or going 
to ofﬁ  ce hours (we might be smart at UF, 
but we never stoop that low), but they 
will complain all week about their lack 
of academic resources or about how their 
“professors are bad.” Right.
Finally, the week before freedom, the 
ﬁ  nal layer of defense this semester has 
to offer against the reprieve of summer. 
There’s an entire week of tests, causing 
us to have to say goodbye to friends, 
sleep and brain cells, all against the back-
drop of 90-degree weather. As you drive 
home after moving out of your dorm or 
apartment, it feels like a victory. It’s the 
kind of victory they had in “The Empire 
Strikes Back” though, where they escape 
Darth Vader, but Han Solo is an ice cube. 
It’s called a pyrrhic victory, and it’s the 
best you can hope for out of this semes-
ter.
So, what’s the verdict for the rest of 
the semester? Regrettably, while Spring 
2019 may still be here, it has been tainted 
by the fond memories of Spring Break, 
the tantalizing promise of summer and 
the combined forces of college life. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.The ﬁ  nal weeks of the semester are the worst Column
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.orgLast Friday, 50 lives were lost in Christ-
church, New Zealand, after a gunman 
opened ﬁ  re in two mosques. The per-
petrator is understood to be a white na-
tionalist who posted a racist manifesto 
online prior to the attack and live-streamed 
the killings on Facebook. He was identiﬁ  ed 
as 28-year-old Brenton Harrison Tarrant from 
Australia. According to New Zealand Prime 
Minister Jacinda Ardern, he will go to trial in 
New Zealand where he will face the justice 
system for the acts of terror he committed.
The shooting came as a shock to many – 
especially because mass shootings are not the 
norm in New Zealand, unlike the way they are 
in the U.S. Before Friday, the last mass shoot-
ing in New Zealand took place in 1997 and re-
sulted in six lives. The deadliest mass shooting 
the country had ever seen, which left 13 dead, 
happened seven years prior, in 1990.
After the 1990 shooting, New Zealand al-
most immediately altered its gun regulation 
laws. Since these legal changes were put in 
place almost 30 years ago, New Zealand has 
had about four gun violence incidents where 
ﬁ  ve or more people were killed.When these gun violence statis-
tics are compared to our own, the 
contrast is stark. Since 1990, there 
have been 103 mass shootings in 
the U.S., killing over 800 people. 
Despite the obvious problem the 
U.S. is facing, we continue to reject 
efforts to enforce stricter gun regula-
tions.
According to Ardern, the gov-
ernment plans to make changes to 
the already strict gun laws in response to the 
most recent shooting. For New Zealand, what 
made this atrocity possible is not a mystery. If 
people don’t have guns, they can’t kill others 
with them. For some reason, America has yet 
to grasp this seemingly obvious cause and ef-
fect chain. As a result, the best we can offer our 
citizens is “thoughts and prayers.”
New Zealand does not guarantee a consti-
tutional right to bear arms, unlike the U.S. This 
is why their government, and many others 
across the globe, have an easier time restrict-
ing ﬁ  rearm access. That being said, it should 
also be kept in mind that the Second Amend-
ment to the U.S. Constitution was ratiﬁ  ed in 1791. In the late 1700s, women still 
didn’t have the right to vote, African 
Americans were only considered 
three-ﬁ  fths of a person and the U.S. 
was made up of only 14 states. So, 
maybe we should consider that this 
law might be antiquated.
Beyond the archaic nature of the 
Second Amendment, we also need 
to remember that the guns available 
in 1791 were hardly capable of the 
damage seen today. A typical musket could ﬁ  re 
one round per minute, maybe three. An AR-15 
can ﬁ  re about 600 rounds per minute.  
You do need to pass a background check in 
most U.S. states to obtain an AR-15. However, 
there are easy ways for those who might not 
pass the background check to get their hands 
on an AR-15 and similar weapons. People can 
borrow or steal weapons from someone who 
did pass a background check or they can take 
advantage of the loopholes at many gun shows 
that circumvent the necessary background 
checks.
With more guns in circulation, there is a 
larger chance that a dangerous weapon could get into the hands of someone who should not 
have it. For some reason, however, Americans 
continue to reject this obvious rationality. In-
stead, they continue to ﬁ  ght for guns, even if it 
means more lives will be lost.
The rate of mass shootings in the U.S. 
should be considered a national emergency. 
How much longer do students need to sit in 
fear throughout the school day, wondering if 
a gunman will burst through the doors? When 
will churchgoers feel safe in their places of 
worship? At what point can yogis practice in 
their studios without fear?
It’s time that Americans look around them 
and realize that our laws cause innocent people 
to die every day and that the extent to which 
this happens is unique to our country. The evi-
dence is there: Countries with stricter gun laws 
have fewer shootings. It’s time we realize this, 
follow logical countries like New Zealand and 
take legal action to keep our citizens safe.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science 
and journalism senior. Her column appears 
on Mondays.US lawmakers should look to New Zealand to solve our mass shooting epidemicColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
College admissions have been 
rocked by scandal recently. 
Federal authorities have 
busted a scheme in which 
wealthy parents paid a man 
named William “Rick” Singer to get 
their children into college. He bribed 
college coaches to recruit children as 
star athletes (even if they had never 
played the sport in question) and 
bribed SAT or other college entrance 
exam proctors to give the children an advan-
tage (such as the proctor correcting his or her 
answers or allowing someone else to take the 
test in the child’s place). Numerous ﬁ  gures from 
all sorts of professional ﬁ  elds were involved, 
including law, real estate developers, execu-
tives, etc. Including the ones that grabbed the 
most attention were actresses Lori Loughlin of 
“Full House” and Felicity Huffman of “Desper-
ate Housewives.” What Loughlin, Huffman and 
others did is clearly illegal, and they should face 
justice for their actions. However, outright brib-
ery and fraud aren’t the only things wrong with 
college admissions, and many of those problems 
are perfectly legal.
One thing that stood out to me was a record-
ed conversation Singer had with some of the 
parents involved. He laid out his business mod-
el, calling regular admissions the “front door” to 
elite colleges, his business the “side door” and 
“institutional advancement” (factors such as 
donations to the school and legacy admissions) 
as the “back door.” Singer’s comments, though 
dreadfully cynical, do show that pure merit isn’t 
the only way to get into elite colleges. Another 
way is to donate large sums of money to the 
school, giving children of donors a much better 
chance at admission. 
As reported by Forbes, ultra-wealthy peo-
ple have been reported as using the side door 
method, which allows people to legally get their 
children into elite colleges. This includes people 
such as  Charles Kushner, real estate developer 
and father of White House Senior Adviser Jared 
Kushner, and Les Wexner, whose companies in-
cludes famous brands like Victoria’s Secret and 
Bath & Body Works. This is especially the case 
for legacy admissions, which is when the chil-
dren or other relatives of alumni are given pref-
erence in admissions. As The Atlantic explained, legacy admissions tend to favor 
wealthier parents, and these parents 
often give generously to their alma 
mater (even if their donations are not 
quite as generous as their billionaire 
counterparts). Between legacy ad-
missions and donations, genuinely 
skilled and worthy children have a 
tougher time being admitted to col-
lege as their spots are taken by chil-
dren who maybe aren’t as deserving.
The problems I mentioned are mostly linked 
to elite colleges in the U.S., like Harvard, Stan-
ford and Yale. At Harvard, for example, 13 to 
19 percent of undergrads are legacy admissions, 
which has its pros and cons. On one hand, stu-
dents who apply to high-quality state schools 
like UF will have an easier time, as school dona-
tions and other tricks by the wealthy aren’t as 
prevalent. On the other hand, elite schools still 
churn out many of the nation’s most powerful 
people in politics, business and other inﬂ  uential 
ﬁ  elds. Eight U.S. presidents have degrees from 
Harvard, and a 2018 ranking found that three 
Harvard graduates are the most Fortune 100 
CEOs of any school. If our business and politi-
cal leaders are coming from elite schools, and 
these elite schools favor families who are al-
ready wealthy, then we have a system where it’s 
much easier for the rich and powerful to sustain 
their power through multiple generations, while 
those who have to work their way to the top will 
have a tougher time.
There are two problems we need to address. 
First is the admissions themselves, which we 
can remedy by reducing legacy admissions and 
giving public universities more state money so 
they aren’t as dependent on donations. But a cul-
tural shift may also be required, de-emphasizing 
these Ivy League-level colleges. Public and state 
universities also provide a valuable education, 
and perhaps more examples of public university 
graduates in high places would help. If you’re 
a future CEO or future politician disappointed 
you’re going to UF instead of Harvard or Yale, 
don’t be discouraged. You could be the start of 
a new movement in educating America’s power-
ful people.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.The bribery scandal is just the tip of the 
iceberg regarding college admission problemsColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgEast
WestMidwest
South
Download the FREE 
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
or call 
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol
MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019  ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
First Round
March 21-22Second Round
March 23-24Sweet 16
March 28-19Elite Eight
March 30-31Final Four
April 6        Final Four
April 6Elite Eight
March 30-31Sweet 16
March 28-29Second Round
March 23-24First Round
March 21-22National Championship
April 8
First Four
 March 19-20
16 F. Dickinson
16 Prairie View A&M
March 1911 T emple
11 Belmont
March 1916 NC Central
16 North Dakota St.
March 2011 St. John’s
11 Arizona State
March 20
alligator’s
NEWSLETTERWant The Alligator’s top stories sent to your email inbox 
every day?  Subscribe to our free e-newsletter
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday 
for your newsletter
STEP ONE:
ifla.news/get-informedSTEP TWO:
Enter your email address
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
Gainesville
3857 SW Archer Road
352-372-9464$5 OFFYour next 
purchase
of $25 or more
Valid for $5 off any purchase of $25 or more at 
WingHouse Bar + Grill of Gainesville ONLY. Not valid with 
any other offer. One offer per person, per visit. No cash 
value. Dine-In only. No reproductions accepted. Present 
this coupon to your server. Expires 5/19/19
Order Online at: WingHouse.comwww.littleguys.com
Apply Online
TOURNAMENT
SPECIAL
4036 SW 30 PL. Butler NorthBUY ONE,
GET ONE
FREE
concretes any size
offer valid until 
4/8/2019
mention this ad
restaurant & rooftop bar
WATCH THE GAMES IN STYLE
Over 70 TV’s and 38 different Craft Beers 1728 West University Avenue
FIND 
US ON
@floridaalligator
@TheAlligator
@thealligator_1 Duke
16 NC Central OR N. Dakota St.
8 VCU
9 UCF
5 Mississippi State
12 Liberty
 4 Virginia T ech
13 Saint Louis
6 Maryland
11 Belmont OR T emple
3 LSU
14 Yale
7 Louisville
10 Minnesota
2 Michigan State
15 Bradley
1 Gonzaga
16 FDU OR Prairie View A&M
8 Syracuse
9 Baylor
5 Marquette
12 Murray State
4 Florida State
13 Vermont
6 Buffalo
11 Arizona St. OR St. John’s
3 T exas T ech
14 Northern Kentucky
7 Nevada
10 Florida
2 Michigan
15 Montana1 Virginia
1 North Carolina16 Gardner-Webb
16 Iona8 Ole Miss
8 Utah State9 Oklahoma
9 Washington5 Wisconsin
5 Auburn12 Oregon
12 New Mexico State4 Kansas State
4 Kansas13 UC Irvine
13 Northeastern6 Villanova
6 Iowa State11 Saint Mary’s
11 Ohio State3 Purdue
3 Houston14 Old Dominion
14 Georgia State7 Cincinnati
7 Wofford10 Iowa
10 Seton Hall2 T ennessee
2 Kentucky15 Colgate
15 Abilene ChristianFor Lunch
Tues - Sat 
11am - 5pm
@cindybgoodagainOPEN
•Homebaked Goods•Bread Bowls
•Calzones•Antique Shop
•Collectibles•Automobilia
Specialty orders avaiable upon request
1001 NW 5th Ave 
(corner of 10th St. and 5th Ave.)
352-283-102410   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff
Flower Child
Saanvi Kulkarni, 3, gets her face painted by Emily T omlinson, a 
23-year-old Santa Fe College art therapy freshman. T omlinson 
said a professor at the college recommended her to partake in 
the festival, as she’s facepaint for years.
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE HAS A $170,000 BOND
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
An 18-year-old man accused 
of holding the wrong teenager at 
gunpoint after a high school ﬁ  ght 
was arrested Friday.
On Feb. 23, Vandale Martin, of 
Gainesville, and another 15-year-
old suspect drove to the Lincoln 
Oaks neighborhood in search of 
a teenager who was involved in 
a ﬁ  ght at Buchholz High School 
with the 15-year-old on Feb. 19, 
according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
warrant afﬁ  da-
vit.
While driv-
ing, Martin and 
the suspect mis-
took a 17-year-
old boy with the 
teenager they 
were looking for, the afﬁ  davit 
said. They got out of the car while 
pointing handguns and shouting 
curse words at him.
The teenager tried to get away 
but was hit on the left side of 
his face by Martin with the gun, 
the afﬁ  davit said. He was able to escape, while Martin and the 
suspect got back in their car and 
circled the block looking for him.
A warrant was issued for Mar-
tin’s arrest on Feb. 28 and was 
served on Friday, the afﬁ  davit 
said.
Vandale Martin was charged 
with aggravated assault, aggravat-
ed battery and aggravated child 
abuse, the afﬁ  davit said.
He remained in the Alachua 
County Jail Sunday in lieu of a 
$170,000 bond.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.org 
SMALL PLASTIC BAGGIES 
AND TWO SCALES WERE 
ALSO FOUND 
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Gainesville man was accused 
of having 211 grams of marijuana 
in a U.S. Postal Service box.
On Saturday, Julius Donat, 22, 
of Gainesville, was sitting in the 
front passenger seat of a car when 
he was pulled over for improper 
lane change, according to an Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
Deputies  
smelled burnt 
marijuana com-
ing from the car, 
the report said. 
Donat told 
deputies he had 
“weed” under 
his seat. A U.S. Postal Service box 
contained two sealed bags of ap-
proximately 211 grams of marijua-
na, the report said. 
There was also a small bag 
found in the vehicle that contained 
small plastic baggies and two 
scales, the report said. Deputies said these were for the sale and dis-
tribution of the marijuana.
Donat said the marijuana did be-
long to him, but he did not know 
who the scale and baggies belonged 
to, the report said. 
Donat was charged with selling 
marijuana and possessing marijua-
na, the report said. He was released 
from the Alachua County Jail on 
Saturday on a $5,000 bail. 
He could not be reached for 
comment.
@JoFuller24
JFuller@alligator.orgTHEY STOLE ABOUT 
$3,152.79 IN ITEMS
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Three Chieﬂ  and, Florida, 
men were arrested Wednes-
day in connection to a series of 
Gainesville car burglaries.
At about 4:30 a.m., 
Gainesville Police were noti-
ﬁ  ed of car burglaries at Aviara 
Apartments, at 205 SE 16th 
Ave., according to a Gainesville 
police arrest report. Police saw 
Jarquez Williams, 22, look-
ing into a car with a ﬂ  ashlight 
while 20-year-olds Sh-Ron El-
lison and Rashad Hooper were 
near Hooper’s car.
After being arrested, other 
car burglaries were reported. 
Authorities believe there are 
other unreported burglaries, 
the report said.
Several burglaries were re-
ported Wednesday, the sher-
iff’s ofﬁ  ce report said. The 
stolen items are valued at $3,152.79. 
Police found several items 
in Hooper’s car believed to 
be related to the burglaries, 
including a ﬁ  shing tackle kit, 
police said.
Hooper was charged with 
eight counts of burglary, four 
counts of petit theft, two 
counts of grand theft, one 
count of resisting an ofﬁ  cer 
without violence and one 
count of failure to obey an of-
ﬁ  cer. He remains in the Ala-
chua County Jail with a bond 
of $63,000.
Ellison was charged with 
nine counts of burglary, three 
counts of petit theft and three 
counts of grand theft. He re-
mains in the Alachua County 
Jail with a bond of $66,000.
Williams was charged with 
ﬁ  ve counts of burglary, two 
counts of petit theft and one 
count of resisting arrest with-
out violence. He was released 
from the jail Thursday on his 
own recognizance. 
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.org18-year-old accused of hitting teen with handgun
Man accused of having 211 grams of marijuana Chieﬂ  and men accused of 
Gainesville car burglariesSHE WORKED ON ABOUT 
120 PROJECTS OVER 13 
YEARS
By Brittney Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bahar Armaghani always wanted 
to be an engineer but society wanted 
different. 
Growing up in Kurdistan, a semi-
autonomous region of Iraq, being a 
female engineer was not an option, 
said Armaghani, 62. Women were ex-
pected to be nurses or teachers. 
So that is what she did. After col-
lege, she became a teacher and then a 
principal, she said. At 26, she and her 
future husband came to the U.S., and 
she saw it as her chance to pursue her 
passion.
When deciding to get her bach-
elor’s in environmental engineering, 
she was inspired by her homeland’s 
beauty and its preservation, she said.
“I have been here for maybe 35 
years, and I still have those images in 
my head about that beautiful place,” 
she said. 
After graduating from UF with 
her bachelor’s in 1997, Armaghani later returned and 
earned a master’s 
degree in civil 
engineering, she 
said. 
She brought 
these degrees to-
gether when she 
worked to inte-
grate the Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design program into 
UF’s construction standards in 2001, 
making the university the ﬁ  rst to do 
so in Florida, she said.
“This green building movement 
started to focus on what are the 
things that we need to do to decrease 
[environmental] impacts,” she said.
Armaghani said the three main 
factors that can decrease a building’s 
energy consumption are operation 
and maintenance, energy and water 
use.  
The ﬁ  rst campus building was cer-
tiﬁ  ed in 2003. Sixteen years later, 75 
UF buildings are certiﬁ  ed, she said.
The program, which is a volun-
tary building rating system that helps 
improve building performances and 
decrease environmental impacts, 
shaped her work when she became 
a project manager at the UF Planning, Design and Construction division in 
2003. 
From 2003 to 2016, she handled 
more than $380 million across about 
120 projects at UF, she said. She con-
tributed to buildings such as Library 
West, Southwest Recreation Center 
and O’Connell Center. 
In 2014, she was announced as a 
LEED fellow, which represents a mas-
tery level of the program and recog-
nizes outstanding leaders in the ﬁ  eld, 
she said. She is one of four to receive 
it in Florida and the only woman.
In 2006, she began lecturing in the 
UF College of Design, Construction & 
Planning, she said. Last May, she be-
came the director of the Sustainability 
and the Built Environment program in 
the college.
Chimay Anumba, the dean of the 
college, said Armaghani’s creation of 
the UF Green Building Learning Col-
laborative, an advisory board for the 
program, has opened up opportuni-
ties for students.
“She has the best interests of the 
students at heart, and she’s always 
trying to think of new ways to im-
prove the quality and visibility of 
the program,” he said.UF professor led UF to become more green
Williams
 Hooper
 Ellison
Martin
Donat
Armaghani
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Student
Must have some knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Any time between: 
Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
WEEKEND SERVER NEEDED
Country Foodly is now hiring. Please drop off 
a resume during our operating hours (7AM to 
1PM). Open six days a week and closed on 
Tuesdays. 5240 NW 34th Blvd    3-25-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu -
dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs 
a week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours 
and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy 
interacting with others in a professional man -
ner and have a positive attitude. Retail, cus -
tomer service or volunteer experience is a 
plus. Apply online for requisition #: 222980 at 
www.gatordining.com      3-20-19-3-14  
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.Eyes Up. Phone Off.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedMONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Learn how to make an extra $400
a week filling out surveys as a student.
Go to uniopportunity.club       3-20-195-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. When was the last time before 2017-
18 that the Colorado Rockies reached 
the postseason in consecutive years?
2. Name the player who hit the most 
home runs in a season for the Chicago 
White Sox.
3. When was the last time before 
2017 that Penn State’s football team 
was ranked as high as No. 2 in The 
Associated Press poll?
4. Who was the last player before 
Philadelphia’s Joel Embiid in 2017 to 
have at least 40 points, seven assists 
and seven blocked shots in a game?
5. In 2018, David Quinn became the 
fifth head coach to go directly from 
an NCAA Division I team to an NHL 
team (New York Rangers). Name two 
of the other four to do it.
6. When was the last time before 
2018 that England’s men’s soccer 
team reached the semifinals of the 
World Cup?
7. Who was the last American male 
chess player before Fabiano Carua-
na to compete for the World Chess 
Championship?
Answers
1. It was the first time. The Rockies 
also made the postseason in 1995, 
2007 and 2009.
2. Albert Belle belted 49 home runs 
for the White Sox in 1998.
3. It was October of 1999.
4. Philadelphia’s Julius Erving, in 
1982.
5. Jim Montgomery (Dallas, 2018), 
Dave Hakstol (Philadelphia, 2015), 
Bob Johnson (Calgary, 1982) and Ned 
Harkness (Detroit, 1970).
6. It was 1990.
7. Gata Kamsky, in 1996.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 18, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1.  Movie ____
1.  Quell 5.  Stringed instrument
2.  Urban ____6.  ____ noise
3.  Side view 7.  Customer
4.  Although RPSCTI
UUBSDEJNBAO
WTIEH
ERENALW
LFRPOEINTLCEI
ETLABIANSWERS: 1A-Script  5A-Banjo  6A-White  7A-Client
1D-Subdue  2D-Renewal  3D-Profile  4D-Albeit  B-Julia Roberts3-18-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was the first actress to earn 
a $20 million salary for starring in a film. BONUS
By Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, March 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Slick-talking
5 Crime 
organizations
10 On the Atlantic, 
say
14 Bow-and-arrow-
carrying Hindu 
god
15 Spry
16 Running shoe 
brand
17 Smartphone 
downloads
18 Tonto’s friend, 
with “The”
20 Copper-and-zinc 
alloy
22 Countries
23 Early Neil 
Diamond hit
26 Fireworks 
reaction
28 “Honest” prez
29 Suffix with ranch
30 Work into a frenzy
32 Brother of Bobby 
Kennedy
33 Lawman Wyatt
35 Body art, briefly
36 Offspring sans 
siblings
40 Sheet music pitch 
indicator
43 Leaning Tower 
site
44 “Survivor” station
47 Gauchos’ lariats
50 Chair part
51 Paintings, 
etchings, etc.
52 10-minute NFL 
periods, if they 
last that long
53 Used car selling 
point
57 Alike in many 
respects
59 Capital of Yemen
60 Something unlike 
any other
63 Repairs with turf, 
as a lawn
64 Cap’n’s mate
65 Birds in a gaggle
66 French cruise 
stops
67 “The Simpsons” 
bus driver
68 __ Allan Poe
69 Laundry brand
DOWN
1 Clutches for
2 Carriage 
passenger’s 
warmer3 Stabbed by 
Buffy, as a 
vampire
4 Voices below 
tenori
5 Four qts.
6 In days of yore
7 Fool
8 Eye twinkle
9 Sealy 
competitors
10 Year in Tuscany
11 Lady of Italy
12 Barely  
manages,  
as a living
13 Bubbly prefix
19 “__ That a 
Shame”
21 Dutch painter 
Jan
24 Devastated 
Asian sea
25 Golfer McIlroy
27 Some laptops
31 “__ be my 
pleasure”
34 Angel dust, for 
short
36 Shakespearean 
“frequently”
37 Jack and Jill went 
up one
38 “Understood”
39 Old Nigerian 
capital40 __-Magnon
41 “Better if we skip 
this”
42 Most simple
44 Tubular ricotta-
filled pastry
45 Covered with 
crumbs before 
cooking
46 Street in Berlin
48 “Not likely!”
49 Stored fodder
54 In one’s birthday 
suit55 “Norwegian 
Dances” 
composer
56 “__ something I 
said?”
58 Pre-stereo
60 “Name a price-
-I’m flexible,” in 
ads
61 Intel-gathering 
govt. group
62 __ Spiegel: 
German 
magazine
By Samuel A. Donaldson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, March 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Some halftime 
performers
11 Galaxy array
15 Home to Gotham 
City, Metropolis, 
etc.
16 Persian for “king”
17 Technology term 
from the Greek 
for “far sight”
18 Rhode Island’s 
motto
19 Factory 
problems
20 Maintained
22 Queen who 
sings, “The cold 
never bothered 
me anyway”
23 Holy one?
24 Church marriage 
notice
27 Red head of the 
20th century
29 Cut off
31 Fathom, e.g.
32 Old-timey proof of 
purchase
34 Hawaiian for 
“long”
35 1-Down part: 
Abbr.
36 Slangy “Please 
call”
37 Rough case
38 “The More You 
Know” segment, 
briefly
39 Tribute opening
40 Green roller
41 “What a tragedy”
43 Messenger 
substance
44 Play __
45 Montana team in 
the ’80s
47 Subject of 
the 1975 film 
“Overlord”
49 Triangular pastry
50 Fair treat
53 Walk with effort
54 Hardly a lost 
cause
57 Pine product
58 Jicama or 
rutabaga
59 Gets on
60 Parts of a bigger 
pictureDOWN
1 Colo. summer 
setting
2 Dell alternative
3 “Three Coins in 
the Fountain” 
composer Styne
4 The slightest 
change
5 Watterson’s 
Calvin and Susie, 
at times
6 What Pandora 
released
7 Model X maker, 
before 2017
8 “Divergent” 
heroine __ Prior
9 Spanish “that”
10 Contextual 
meaning
11 Note near B
12 Facebook upload
13 One way to 
spread the news
14 Lose
21 “The Sound of 
Music” name
23 Squee-worthy
24 Goose __
25 Snack that 
doesn’t sound 
very appetizing26 “To Be Young, 
Gifted and Black” 
singer
28 Guitarist, 
slangily
30 Wonderland trial 
evidence
32 Was fooled by 
the fake
33 Unsafe?
36 Underworld
40 Prospector’s 
prize42 Cell terminals
44 Sacred Indian 
river
46 Runs
48 Deadpan
49 Spot saver?: 
Abbr.
50 Nursery item
51 Wind in a pit
52 Grab (onto)
55 Norfolk sch.
56 Search subjects 
for 100+ yrs.16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Correction: We posted in Thursday's 
women's basketball article that Delicia 
Washington will return next season. 
She announced on Twitter on March 11 
her intent to transfer.NCAA T ournament bracket released 
The March Madness bracket was revealed Sunday night and the Florida 
men's basketball team earned the No. 10 seed in the West Region. The T our-
nament's four No. 1 seeds are Duke, UNC, Virginia and Gonzaga. Look at the 
full bracket on page 8.BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team hoped its 
20-run outing against FSU was a sign of 
things to come. Instead, the Gators strug-
gled mightily against Michigan State's elite 
pitching staff.
The Bulldogs (18-2) clinched the series 
in the front end of the doubleheader on 
Saturday, but Florida (15-7) fought back to 
avoid the sweep later that day.
Mississippi State starters Ethan Small 
and JT Ginn combined for 22 strikeouts 
(11 each) and subdued Florida’s first four 
batters on Friday and in the first Saturday 
game. Jacob Young, Brady McConnell, 
Kendrick Calilao and Nelson Maldonado 
were a combined 6 for 32 at the plate with 
14 strikeouts in the first two games of the 
series.
Heading into the weekend, Young and 
McConnell were two of Florida’s most con-
sistent hitters, riding 11- and 15-game hit-ting streaks, respectively. That duo, who 
hit first and second, went 3 for 23 on the 
weekend with nine strikeouts.
The lack of run support spoiled a strong 
start by Tommy Mace on Friday. The soph-
omore matched up well against Small on 
the mound for 6.1 innings, but Florida’s of-
fense only managed one run in that time 
frame. The Gators rallied in the eighth and 
ninth innings, but their comeback attempt 
came up short which led to Mace’s first ca-
reer loss.
UF’s offense returned to form in the first 
game on Saturday, but once again, an early 
deficit forced Florida to fight from behind. 
Mississippi State took Jack Leftwich deep 
three times in five innings. He finished with 
six strikeouts in five innings, but those long 
balls ultimately sunk the Gators.
Aside from those three home runs, MSU 
managed another 14 hits en route to a 10-
run result.
In the two games that MSU won, its Bulldogs too tough a test for young UF squad 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida designated hitter Nelson Maldonado went 5 for 11 during UF's weekend 
series against Mississippi State.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
The Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
The Florida men’s basketball 
team has finally reached its 
destination.
A tumultuous, inconsis-
tent 2018-19 season has led 
the Gators to a No. 10 seed in the 
NCAA Tournament, where they’ll 
face seventh-seeded Nevada in Des 
Moines, Iowa, on Thursday at 6:50 
p.m.
Florida earned an at-large bid af-
ter compiling a 19-15 record through the regu-
lar season and the SEC Tournament, where it 
was eliminated by eventual winner Auburn.
The Gators can find solace in the fact that 
they were a team very much on the bubble en-
tering the SEC Tournament. It put just enough 
quality wins on its resume with tournament 
victories over Arkansas and LSU to convince 
the selection committee they were worthy of a 
No. 10 seed. 
But they could potentially face a tough series 
of opponents in the West Region. At the very 
least, they’ll take on an experienced Wolfpack 
team that will present a tremendous challenge 
with twin forwards Caleb and Cody Martin, 
who will play in their third March Madness. 
Caleb has led Nevada in scoring for the past 
two seasons (19.2 during the 2018-19 season and 18.9 during 2017-18), while 
Cody led the team in assists during 
that span with 5.1 and 4.7 assists per 
game.
UF has never faced Nevada.
However, it bodes well for the 
Gators that they have seniors KeV-
aughn Allen (who leads the team 
with 12 points per game), Jalen Hud-
son (nine points per game) and Ke-
varrius Hayes (who leads the team 
in blocks with 1.9 per game and rebounds with 
6.3), who have experienced the pressure of the 
NCAA Tournament three times before.
They’ll need that leadership to carry them 
entering Thursday’s matchup as three-point 
underdogs against a team that ranked No. 24 in 
the nation with 81.7 points per game.
Florida certainly has the defense to handle 
it. 
The Gators only allowed 63.6 points per 
game during the regular season (20th best in 
Division I and best in the SEC).
They have the experience with coach Mike 
White, who’s taking his third-straight team to 
the NCAA Tournament.
And regular season wins over LSU and Ole 
Miss in overtime show they have the toughness Florida is in for tough challenge in 
West Region of NCAA TournamentSOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
UF outfielder Jade Caraway 
tracked a high, fly ball to the left-
field wall in the bottom of the fifth 
inning. She leaped up and stretched 
her glove over the wall to attempt a 
home-run rob.
She was not successful. The soft-
ball fell just out of her reach and 
smacked into the bare hands of an 
awaiting fan. The Tigers had their 
third home run of the night and took 
a 5-0 lead. 
No. 9 LSU defended its home field 
and tied the series with No. 7 Florida 
after an 8-0 run-rule victory in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana. The series will be 
decided at Tiger Park on Monday at 
7 p.m.
The Gators’ 20 home runs allowed 
are the second-most in the SEC, and 
11 of those have come in their five 
conference games. 
UF starting pitcher Natalie Lugo 
gave up the first long ball of the day 
in the bottom of the second inning. 
She left a pitch up in the strike zone 
to second baseman Shemiah Sanchez, who belted the offering over the left-
field wall for a two-run home run. 
Lugo left the contest after allow-
ing two earned runs in two innings of 
work, and freshman Elizabeth Hight-
ower replaced her. 
Florida (24-5, 2-3 SEC) featured 
four pitchers on the night. 
Hightower faced one batter in the 
third before giving up her first home 
run of the season, a solo shot by third 
baseman Amanda Sanchez. She also 
gave up the two-run homer in the 
fifth to designated player Shelbi Sun-
seri. 
Junior Katie Chronister came in to 
throw the sixth inning. She failed to 
get an out and allowed an RBI single 
to pinch hitter Georgia Clark and a 
bases-loaded walk to Amanda San-
chez. UF coach Tim Walton elected 
to pitch freshman Danni Farley with 
the bases loaded and a 7-0 deficit. 
LSU (23-6, 3-2 SEC) plated its final 
run on a wild pitch by Farley. 
The Gators couldn’t manufacture 
runs despite getting the leadoff bat-
ter on base in five of six offensive Gators hammered by 
LSU in run-rule loss
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16Alanis Thames
Twitter: @alanisthames
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Players on the Florida women’s lacrosse 
team made their way toward senior goalkeeper 
Haley Hicklen as she walked off the field after 
Saturday’s loss to No. 3 North Carolina.
Hicklen’s teammates showered her with 
hugs and tapped her bright orange helmet to 
show their appreciation for the senior’s 11-
save performance.
“Haley (Hicklen) was lights out,” coach 
Amanda O’Leary said. “She just came up with 
some huge saves to keep us in the game.”
The two-time Big East Goalkeeper of the 
Year will need a similar outing for the Gators 
when they host No. 8 Princeton on Tuesday 
night.
UNC came into Donald R. Dizney Stadium 
averaging 16.9 goals per game, but UF (3-5) 
allowed only 11.
O’Leary said her team did this by man-
marking attackers Jamie Ortega and Katie 
Hoeg.
Sophomore defender Sabrina Cristodero 
was responsible for Ortega, who was tied for 
fifth in the nation in goals with 31 coming into 
the game, and held her to only one goal on 
seven shots.
Junior defender Cara Trombetta was tasked 
with following Hoeg, the Tar Heels’ leader in 
assists, and limited her to only one.
“We went after their one-two punch with 
our one-two punch,” O’Leary said, “and I 
thought (Cristodero and Trombetta) did fan-
tastic.”
The Tigers (4-1) have the nation’s eighth-
ranked scoring offense, which averages 16 
goals per game.
Attackers Tess D’Orsi and Elizabeth George 
are at the forefront of Princeton’s attack, hav-
ing scored 20 and 15 goals, respectively.
George is the primary draw taker for a 
Princeton team that wins more than half of its 
draw controls (57 percent).
That’s bad news for Florida.
It has lost the draw control battle in each of 
its five defeats this season.
“The draw circle is where the game is won 
and lost, for the most part,” O’Leary said.
Sophomore midfielder Shannon Kavanagh 
takes most of the draws for the Gators, while 
Cristodero and senior attacker Lindsey Ron-
beck line up around the draw circle.
When the three of them work together to 
gain possession, it leads to victories.
UF had more draw controls in its triumphs over then-No. 18 Colorado in the season open-
er and Elon on March 7.
The final score in Florida’s win against High 
Point on March 9, 16-15, reflected the impor-
tance of the draw. Both teams controlled the 
draw 16 times, leading to a back-and-forth 
game, which was decided in the final four minutes.
The trio of Kavanagh, Cristodero and Ron-
beck have to command the draw circle against 
the Tigers to avoid a third-straight loss.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators welcome eighth-ranked Princeton WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Victoria Emma was getting frustrated. 
She dropped her first set in singles to 
Tennessee’s Johanna Silva but quickly 
captured the second set and took a com-
manding 4-1 lead in the third.
She seemed to be headed towards 
a third singles victory but had trouble 
finishing Silva off. Emma dropped con-
secutive 40-40 games, and a meltdown 
seemed imminent. 
But Emma rallied back, won the next 
game and froze Silva with a powerful 
serve to claim Florida’s third point of the 
match.
That mentality, which aided Emma 
in her crucial win, helped Florida (7-6) 
defeat No. 16 Tennessee (12-5) 4-2 at 
home on a rainy Sunday. Slated to start 
at 1 p.m., the match was delayed due to 
inclement weather and moved inside the 
Perry Indoor Facility. 
“The highlight of the day, I think, was 
Victoria (Emma) and the way she carried 
herself,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. 
“We talked a lot about her body language 
and the warrior mentality with her.”
Florida entered doubles play unchar-
acteristically lethargic and was ham-
mered by the Volunteers. Tennessee 
dominated in its first victory coming 
from No. 8-ranked duo Sadie Hammond 
and Kaitlin Staines over Emma and Mc-
Cartney Kessler (6-1), while Silva and Re-
beka Mertena handled freshmen Marlee 
Zein and Anastasia Kharitonova (6-3). 
The transfer tandem of Ida Jarlskog 
and Tsveta Dimitrova managed to get a 
6-1 win for Florida, but the effort wasn’t 
enough. Florida dropped the opening 
point in its second-consecutive match.
Jarlskog brought a new energy for the 
Gators in singles play. The Georgia Tech 
transfer continued to show why she’s 
ranked No. 12 in the country, routing 
No. 65 Hammond for her ninth win of 
the season (6-3, 6-3). 
No. 44 Kessler put Florida on top after 
defeating Staines 6-2, 7-6 (8-6) on Court 
2. Kessler led 5-4 and held a triple-match 
point in the second set, but lost the next 
four points to drop the game. She lost the 
next one as well, but fought back to force 
a tiebreaker and ultimately seal the sec-
ond point for the Gators and pick up her 
sixth win of the season.
No. 52 Emma subsequently finished 
Silva 4-6, 6-2, 7-5 in a three-set thriller 
that put Florida in control with three re-
maining matches to play. Emma claimed 
her third singles victory this season, mak-
ing up for her straight-set loss to UGA’s 
Lourdes Carle on Friday.
Tennessee earned its second point of 
the match after Ariadna Riley defeated 
Dimitrova 6-3, 6-3 to make the match 
3-2. Zein quickly closed out Mertena on 
Court 1 and ultimately defeated the Ten-
nessee freshman 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 to clinch 
the victory for Florida.
“The reaction by the three players that 
went on right after the doubles loss was 
really good and set the tone for the rest of 
the match,” Thornqvist said. “I thought 
we saw some fantastic tennis in singles.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgFlorida upsets 
Tennessee in 
Gainesville
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The No. 8 Gators men’s tennis team did 
something on Sunday it hadn’t done in nine 
years: Start SEC play 5-0.
Florida improved to 12-2 overall after a 
5-2 win over No. 22 Tennessee on Sunday at 
the Goodfriend Tennis Center in Knoxville. 
In 2010, it started 7-0 and finished second in 
the conference. 
With the loss, the Volunteers fell to 11-5 
overall and 2-3 in conference play.
The Gators began the match by losing 
the doubles point for the third time in four 
matches. Sophomore Oliver Crawford and 
freshman Sam Riffice fell 6-4 after winning against Georgia on Friday. This was just their 
second loss of the season together and Craw-
ford’s first ever doubles loss in SEC play. 
Sophomore Duarte Vale and senior Mc-
Clain Kessler couldn’t defeat Tennessee’s 
Timo Stodder and Preston Touliatos, and the 
Volunteers took the point.
UF bounced back in singles once again, 
winning four of the six first sets. 
Vale was the first to respond, with a 6-4, 
6-1 win over Martim Prata on court six. 
No. 48 Riffice improved to 5-0 in confer-
ence play and won his sixth match in a row, 
outlasting Scott Jones 6-3, 6-4 in a straight-
set win. 
Tennessee briefly tied the match when 
No. 93 Adam Walton upset No. 54 sopho-more Andy Andrade in straight sets. Craw-
ford gave the Gators the lead back with a 
6-2, 7-5 win over No. 59 Stodder. This was 
Crawford’s third-straight singles win over a 
ranked opponent.
Attention turned to Courts 4 and 5 where 
freshman Lukas Greif and junior Johannes 
Ingildsen were involved in tight three-set 
matches. Greif prevailed over Luca Wieden-
mann 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 and clinched the match 
for the Gators for the second time this sea-
son. Seconds later, Ingildsen sealed his and 
Florida’s win with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 victory over 
Touliatos. 
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgUF sweeps weekend with win over TennesseeChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Shannon Kavanagh (left) is second on the Gators with 24 draw 
controls this season and is the main option for the draw circle. “The draw circle is 
where the game is won and lost, for the most part, ” coach Amanda O’Leary said.
MEN’S TENNIS16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
www.gainesvillecc.comWHERE INTELLECTUAL CURIOSITY MEETS FUN
Because you are part of the Gator Nation, you should be part of the 
Gainesville Country Club Nation. 
For a limited time, University of Florida full-time faculty and staﬀ   will receive a 
FREE MONTH  of full membership and an INITIATION FEE W AIVER ($10,000 value) to
join the Gainesville Country Club. Oﬀ  er expires March 31st, so hurry and be part of this Nation.
Contact Erin Henderson at (352) 372-1458, ext. 205 or Membership@gainesvillecc.com
Satisfy your intellectual curiosity and come have fun!
WHERE INTELLECTUAL
CURIOSITY MEETS FUN
Because you are part of the Gator Nation,  
you should be part of the  
Gainesville Country Club Nation. 
For a limited time, University of Florida full-time faculty 
and staff  will receive a FREE MONTH of full membership 
and an INITIATION FEE WAIVER ($10,000 value) to join 
the Gainesville Country Club.Off er expires March 31st,  
so hurry and be part of this Nation.
Contact Erin Henderson at (352) 372-1458, ext. 205 or  
Membership@gainesvillecc.com
Satisfy your intellectual curiosity and come have fun!
www.gainesvillecc.com
www.gainesvillecc.comWHERE INTELLECTUAL CURIOSITY MEETS FUN
Because you are part of the Gator Nation, you should be part of the 
Gainesville Country Club Nation. 
For a limited time, University of Florida full-time faculty and staﬀ   will receive a 
FREE MONTH  of full membership and an INITIATION FEE W AIVER ($10,000 value) to
join the Gainesville Country Club. Oﬀ  er expires March 31st, so hurry and be part of this Nation.
Contact Erin Henderson at (352) 372-1458, ext. 205 or Membership@gainesvillecc.com
Satisfy your intellectual curiosity and come have fun!
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
leadoff hitter Jake Mangum hit 5 for 10 with 
three RBIs and three runs scored. He went 0 
for 4 in the one game that Florida won.
The Gators overpowered Mississippi State 
at the plate and on the mound in the second 
game of the doubleheader behind a strong 
start from Tyler Dyson and a three-hit game 
by Maldonado. Dyson ﬁ  nished with just one 
strikeout but went six innings and allowed 
just two runs.
Maldonado provided most of the run sup-port that Mace and Leftwich lacked in the two 
previous games. The senior captain went 3 for 
4 at the plate with a home run and two runs 
scored.
This is the second-consecutive series that 
Mississippi State has taken against Florida. 
The Bulldogs swept the Gators in Starkville, 
Mississippi, in 2018.
UF cannot lean on its pitching staff as much 
as it did last season. Mace, Leftwich and Dy-
son make up a solid rotation, but against a 
staff led by the likes of Small and Ginn, they 
were simply overpowered.The Gators will conclude its 14-game 
homestand on Tuesday against Jacksonville. 
These two teams went to extra innings earlier 
this season, and Florida won 5-4. 
Things get tougher for the Gators next 
weekend as they travel to Nashville, Tennes-
see, to face No. 1 Vanderbilt for a road series.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Florida faces Jacksonville on Tuesday at 6 p.m.
frames. They went 1 for 17 with 
runners on base and 0 for 6 with 
runners in scoring position.
Catcher Jordan Roberts left 
runners on second and third base 
in the ﬁ  rst and third innings. She 
struck out and ﬂ  ied out in the re-spective innings.
A base-running error by short-
stop Sophia Reynoso squandered 
a scoring opportunity with one 
out in the top of the fourth. She 
was the lead runner with Jaime 
Hoover on ﬁ  rst when Jade Cara-
way lined a hit past LSU short-
stop Amber Serrett. 
Reynoso expected the inﬁ  elder would make a play and hesitated 
to run. Center ﬁ  elder Aliyah An-
drews gunned her out at third. 
If Reynoso reached, ﬁ  rst base-
man Amanda Lorenz would’ve 
had the bases loaded and one out 
with designated player Kendyl 
Lindaman due up after her. Lo-
renz popped out to end the inning 
instead.  “We had runners on ﬁ  rst and 
second and no outs twice,” Wal-
ton said in an interview with 
ESPN during the game. “We’ve 
got to produce in the middle of 
our lineup, and we haven’t.” 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14The Gators went 1 for 17 with runners on baseto win tight games should one 
of their upcoming matchups 
remain close until the end.
But they’ll have to prove 
that again starting Thursday 
against the Wolfpack.
The Gators will likely face 
No. 2-seed Michigan if they 
beat Nevada, and they could 
potentially face tough chal-
lengers, such as Florida State 
(No. 4 seed) and Texas Tech 
(who eliminated Florida last 
season), all of whom sit in the 
West Region, along with No.1-
seed Gonzaga.
Florida will need to quick-
ly lace up its dancing shoes 
and prepare for the challenge 
ahead. The madness awaits.
Alanis Thames is the online 
sports editor of the Alligator. 
Follow her on Twitter @al-
anisthames and contact her at 
athames@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14