We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Architecture building plans prove controversial
Some students don’t want to raise the roof, pg 5
High school students threaten classmates
Two sophomores were arrested Monday, pg 4SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGators hoops wins season opener
Florida’s men’s basketball team beat UNF 74-
59 Tuesday night. Read the highlights, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 33
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
FEST
EMAILS SHOW 
COMMUNICATION WITH 
TRUMP CAMPAIGN OFFICIAL
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students took to the Student Gov-
ernment Senate chamber Tuesday 
night to demand the resignation of the 
Student Body President from his ofﬁ  ce 
after emails were released last week 
between him and a President Donald 
Trump reelection campaign ofﬁ  cial.
At the Student Senate meeting, 
Inspire Party Senator Ben Lima an-
nounced a resolution for Murphy’s im-
peachment during public comment. 
Students on both sides of the po-
litical aisle spoke for and against Mur-
phy’s resignation. 
The emails released showed cam-
paign ofﬁ  cial Caroline Wren asking 
Student Body President Michael Mur-
phy to continue a conversation they 
had on July 4 to bring Donald Trump 
Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle to speak at UF.
Murphy agreed to further coordi-
nate with her over the phone. Trump 
Jr. and Guilfoyle spoke at UF on Oct. 
10. They were paid $50,000 to speak 
from student activity fees.  
Anthony Rojas, a 24-year-old UF 
political science student who created a 
Facebook event demanding Murphy’s 
resignation, spoke ﬁ  rst when the ﬂ  oor 
opened for public comment. 
“I don’t care how nice the Fourth of 
July was,” Rojas said. “It must’ve been 
one hell of a barbecue to do favors for 
the national ﬁ  nancial consultant for 
the president.” 
Gator Party leader Gabriela Her-
nandez demanded more accountabil-
ity and transparency in SG but did not 
mention Murphy’s resignation. 
“It is extremely unjust that our SG 
leadership is engaging in actions that 
violate codes,” Hernandez said during 
the meeting. 
Hernandez said she and Senate 
President Emily Dunson, who is also 
VICTIMS LOST 
THOUSANDS, 
POSSIBL Y TO 
TREE SERVICE
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce is 
investigating claims 
that a local fence 
and tree service has 
scammed customers out 
of money or contracted 
work. 
Since January, 
scattered complaints 
have been made 
to ACSO by people 
claiming North Florida 
Fence and Tree Services, 
a High Springs based 
company, scammed 
them by not completing 
work they had paid 
for, said ACSO Public 
Information Ofﬁ  cer Art 
Forgey. 
“About six weeks ago, it became apparent 
to us that there was a 
pattern here,” he said. 
“Which changed it from 
being civil to it being 
fraud.” 
Forgey estimates the 
number of victims is 
in the “double digits,” 
between 10 and 20, he 
said. He said he believes 
the victims have lost 
thousands of dollars to 
the company. 
“Because there are so 
many victims, and each 
one of them has lost a 
signiﬁ  cant amount of 
money so the grand 
total, when it’s all said 
and done, is gonna be 
quite signiﬁ  cant,” he 
said. 
The Alligator 
reached out to the 
owner of the company, 
Jackson Thomas, for 
comment. He didn’t 
respond by publication 
Tuesday evening. On a public Facebook 
post from Sept. 26, 
Thomas apologized for 
“things that may have 
happened” and said 
he’s working to make 
amends for his past 
actions.
“Regardless what 
you have heard or seen 
I’m not a bad person 
just got myself in bad 
situations I apologize 
to everyone,” the post 
read. 
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce 
encourages anyone 
who has experienced a 
similar situation with 
North Florida Fence 
and Tree Service, LLC 
or Thomas to contact 
Detective J. Skelly at 
352-367-4108.
adeluca@alligator.org
@alexldelucaCHAIRPERSON SAYS EVENTS 
ARE BEING PLANNED 
AS SEMESTER ENDS
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Freshman Leadership Council, a UF 
Student Government agency that has existed for 
15 years, never commenced this semester. The 
person in charge says it is “intact.”
The council is meant to help about 50 
freshmen each year become acquainted with 
UF and the Gainesville community, according 
to SG’s website. However, no FLC events or 
interviews have taken place this year, according 
to former chair Devon Philip.
The last original post on FLC’s Facebook 
page was published Spring 2019. It’s last Twitter 
post is from a year ago. FLC does not appear on 
UF Student Activities and Involvement’s search 
website. 
Austin Carroll, FLC chair, told The Alligator 
the organization is “very much intact.” He said 
he and his staff are working to plan events for 
this semester, which has 17 days of classes left, 
not including weekends. 
Carroll ended the phone call with The 
Alligator abruptly and did not respond to 
further questions.Two students applied to be FLC chairperson 
in the Spring: Emily Hyden and Carroll. 
Hyden was the former FLC director of internal 
relations. Carroll didn’t have prior experience 
with FLC and submitted his application 38 
days late to Student Body President Michael 
Murphy’s email address instead of through the 
SG website, according to Alligator archives. 
After the Student Body president, vice 
president and treasurer conducted interviews, 
the executive branch and Student Senate 
selected Carroll, who was then conﬁ  rmed in 
Senate, Hyden said. 
Carroll hadn’t submitted his application 
when Hyden interviewed, but he was selected. 
“It was obviously a punch in the gut,” Hyden 
said. “But it wasn’t anything that I didn’t expect 
to happen.”
At the end of Spring, many FLC members 
didn’t know what direction FLC would go in, 
Hyden said. 
The Alligator emailed, called and texted 
Murphy since last week, but he did not respond  
to questions as of Tuesday evening. 
Florida Blue Key, a private organization 
focused on leadership and public service to UF, 
began a freshman program this semester called 
Florida’s Future Leadership Program, which 
Philip said is strikingly similar to FLC. UF students demand Student 
Body president’s resignation
ACSO warns of possible scam Where is Freshman Leadership Council?SEE SENATE,  PAGE 5
SEE FLC,  PAGE 5Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Blake Schwarzenbach, lead singer and guitarist for the band Jawbreaker, performs at 
FEST Sunday night, at Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Read the coverage in The Avenue.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  82° LOW  66°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 33
Pain removal at once.
40% off. Opening Promotion
(352)283-3637  |  oneacu.comBack, Neck, Shoulders, Knees, etc.
Q Acupuncture & Herb Clinic
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Vieo, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoWHAT'S HAPPENING
Humane Society of North Central 
Florida Hosts Fourth Annual 
Woofstock Benefit Event
When: Thursday, 6 to 10 p.m.
Where: Santa Fe River Ranch, 
Alachua, FL
What: The event will feature live 
music performed by local band
Whiskey Jones and decor remi-
niscent of the historic New York 
festival. The lineup features rock, 
blues, and oldies and popular fa-
vorites performed by Whiskey 
Jones. The event also features an 
extensive silent auction with over 
250 items including artwork, at-
traction tickets, gift certificates 
and, of course, pet-related items.
Opening Reception for "Tom 
Petty's Gainesville"
When: Friday, 6 to 9 p.m.
Where: Matheson History 
Museum, 513 E University Ave.
What: The Matheson History 
Museum is hosting a free exhibi-tion focusing on the early days 
of Tom Petty's 40-year history in 
rock and roll. The show will in-
clude never-before exhibited Petty 
memorabilia. Matheson members 
are invited to come at 6 p.m. and 
the general public at 7 p.m. to tour 
the exhibition. Hors d'oeuvres will 
be served. All attendees are asked 
to RSVP via Eventbrite https://
www.eventbrite.com/e/opening-
reception-for-tom-petty-exhibi-
tion-tickets-79201520881. 
UFSG Constitution Revision
When: Friday, 1 p.m.
Where: 229 Bruton-Geer, Student 
Center
What: The UF Student Government 
Constitution Revision Commission 
will be holding a public hearing 
for the purpose of receiving public 
comments regarding the current 
SG operating constitution and any 
recommendations to that docu-
ment.Observe Transit of Mercury
When: Nov. 11, 8 a.m. to 1:15 
p.m.
Where: UF Campus Teaching 
Observatory
What: The UF Department of 
Astronomy will have a special free 
public session on Veterans Day to 
observe the transit of Mercury.
Mercury will be passing in front of 
the Sun. Several telescopes will be 
set up with a safe solar filter to ob-
serve the event. Park in the park-
ing lot on Museum Road, south 
of the Welcome Center. For more 
information visit: https://www.
astro.ufl.edu/outreach/Public_
Nights.html
Hoedown Throwdown: A Disney 
Channel Rave
When: Nov. 15, 10 p.m. to 1:30 
a.m.
Where: The Range, 10 SE 2nd 
Ave.
What: Pure Nostalgia presents a 
dance event for all the ‘90s Disney 
kids. DJ Jandro and DJ Dopio will 
blast through the past as guests 
through the biggest 2000s Disney 
anthems and today’s current fes-
tival hits. There will be throw-
back hits from artists like Hannah 
Montana, Lizzie McGuire, Cheetah 
Girls, High School Musical, Demi 
Lovato, Selena Gomez and the 
Jonas Brothers. Doors open at 10 
p.m. and tickets costs $8 for those 
21 and older and $15 for those 18 
to 20. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
The Alligator  went head-to-head in a fundraising 
challenge with The Red & Black newspaper at the 
University of Georgia.   
The Competition ended at kickoff of the Florida vs. 
Georgia game on Saturday, November 2nd .  
Congratulations to The Red & Black on winning the 
challenge this year, and thank you to everyone who 
helped support independent student newsrooms!THANK YOU
FOR YOUR SUPPORT!
$13,849
$13,499
For more information, visit alligator.org/rivalry
For more information, visit
  alligator.org/rivalry
NOBODY WAS 
INJURED
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Mobile Outreach 
Clinic bus crashed into a 
ditch on Newell Drive at 3 
p.m. Monday.
The bus was driv-
ing up a steep hill by the 
McKnight Brain Institute 
when it lost power and the 
brakes stopped working, 
said Sherice Stewart, clin-
ic operations manager. It 
rolled backward into a pit 
about 50 yards away from 
the building. 
The bus was only oc-
cupied by its driver, Edwin 
Velez, Stewart said. No-
body was injured. 
The bus was serviced 
last Friday, and the cause 
of the power outage is un-
clear, she added. It will 
undergo a maintenance in-
spection to ﬁ  gure out what 
went wrong. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue 
District Chief Don Camp-
bell said the hazardous 
materials team was called 
to the scene at about 3:15 
p.m., where they patched a diesel leak that came from 
the bus engine as a result 
of the crash. 
Police ofﬁ  cers on scene 
declined to comment. 
Velez declined to com-
ment, but Stewart said he 
honked when he realized 
the bus was going back-
ward. 
Velez aimed the vehicle 
away from the street into 
the ditch so it wouldn’t hit 
any cars or pedestrians. 
“That was some super-
human strength to be able 
to do that,” Stewart said. 
“You can always replace 
a thing. We can’t replace 
life.”
The Mobile Outreach 
Clinic bus, which is outﬁ  t-
ted with two medical exam 
rooms and one laboratory, 
provides healthcare to un-
insured residents in Ala-
chua County. 
Students can volunteer 
to work on the bus for 
hands-on medical training, 
Stewart said. 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgUF Mobile Outreach Clinic bus crashes into ditch 
Margaret Dotson/ Alligator Staff
The Mobile Outreach Clinic Bus sits in a ditch about 50 yards from the McKnight Brain Institute. Gainesville 
Fire Rescue said the brakes for the bus went out as it was going up Newell Drive. The driver was the only 
person on the bus, and there were no injuries.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019ENGINEERING 
TEAM SUED UF FOR 
CLAIMING 
$2 MILLION PRIZE
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Graduate Assistants 
United released a press 
release Tuesday morning 
demanding UF revise its 
research and competition 
prize policy and give a UF 
engineering team the $2 
million prize it won. 
GatorWings, a UF en-
gineering team, won first 
place at the Spectrum Col-
laboration Challenge on 
Oct. 23 and were award-
ed $2 million. A 2018 UF 
policy change allowed the 
university to keep the prize 
money rather than the fac-
ulty and students. 
“UF must revisit its 
policy concerning research 
prizes, recognizing that victories such as Gator-
Wings increase the scholar-
ly stature of the university 
community,” the release 
stated. 
UF’s faculty union filed 
an Unfair Labor Practice 
charge for changing es-
tablished practice without 
consulting the union. UF 
spokesperson Steve Or-
lando said he could not 
comment because of active 
litigation.
Stephen Phillips, GAU 
communications chair and 
29-year-old UF political sci-
ence doctoral student, said 
UF should give GatorWings  
the $2 million and change 
the policy for future teams. 
“Participating in these 
types of competitions are 
really crucial to the career 
and education of gradu-
ate students and graduate 
assistants, not only here 
at UF but at universities 
across the state and across 
the country,” he said. David Greene, a 31-year-
old UF electrical engineer-
ing doctoral student, was 
one of the graduate stu-
dents who competed with 
GatorWings after joining 
the team in October 2015. 
He was disappointed when 
he found out UF would re-
ceive the money. 
When GatorWings won 
$750,000 in a preliminary 
event of the same compe-
tition, UF took the money, 
saying it to be for “continu-
ing development,” Greene 
said. After the first place 
win, however, the project 
is no longer ongoing. 
“It kills competition 
entirely,” he said. “Essen-
tially, you’re removing the 
prize part of a competition 
and that gives no future 
students or faculty motiva-
tion to compete.” 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.org
15-YEAR-OLD BOYS WERE 
TAKEN TO A JUVENILE 
DETENTION CENTER 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Buchholz High School sophomores 
were arrested after deputies say they sent 
death threats and images of guns to other 
students.
The two 15-year-old boys were taken to 
a juvenile detention center within hours of 
each other Monday morning, said Art For-gey, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office spokes-
person. They’re in the juvenile detention 
center on charges of intimidation by a writ-
ten threat to commit bodily injury and com-
munication to commit a felony.
The whole ordeal seemed “intricate and 
detailed,” Forgey said. The students dis-
cussed finding the best place to cause the 
most deaths and placing explosives to dis-
tract authorities.
Texts from the two students included, 
“Don’t make this any harder than it has to 
be,” “America must be cleansed,” and “Each 
and every one of you are little sh*ts who 
need to die.”Deputies learned about the messages Sun-
day night when a parent said their child was 
sent messages in a group chat, Forgey told 
The Alligator. 
After looking into the matter, deputies 
arrested the first student just after midnight 
Monday and the second one later that morn-
ing.
“They may have thought this was funny 
or a joke, but obviously it’s not funny or a 
joke,” Forgey said. “Any threat of violence is 
taken very seriously.”
A shooting threat against Eastside High 
School was investigated in May, and two mi-
nors, an 11-year-old and a 15-year-old, were arrested in September for making a fake post 
threatening to shoot up Westwood Middle 
School on Instagram.
No weapons have been found during the 
investigation as of Monday evening, Forgey 
said. Buchholz remained open throughout 
the day, but Forgey is unsure where the sec-
ond student was arrested.
Buchholz High School could not be 
reached for immediate comment. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org
DAVID ARREOLA CURRENTL Y 
HAS NO COMPETITORS 
RUNNING FOR HIS SEAT. 
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
City Commissioner David Arreola an-
nounced his reelection campaign with a video 
on social media Monday. 
Arreola said in an interview that he is run-
ning for a second two-and-a-half-year term 
to continue his “life’s work” of using govern-
ment to solve problems and improve the qual-
ity of life in Gainesville.
He plans to prioritize issues of transporta-
tion, public health and the environment.
“We have work to finish,” Arreola said. 
“We’re trying to create a concept — a concep-
tual framework — for what a new American 
city should look like.”
The District 3 incumbent and Gainesville 
native is currently serving his first term on the 
board, he said. As of Monday, there is no one 
else filed with the city to run for District 3.
At-large and District 2 seats are also in the 
running, according to the City of Gainesville 
website. 
The City Commission election is March 17, 
and only registered voters living in Arreola’s district can vote for him to 
stay in office. 
Arreola said he also 
hopes to correct the city’s, 
county’s and UF’s dark his-
tory. 
“There is a legacy of 
institutionalized socio-
economic segregation,” he 
said. “And for the first time, I think in a long 
time, we have begun to lay a new founda-
tion.”  
Arreola is hosting a campaign kickoff Fri-
day at 6 p.m. at Blackadder Brewing Compa-
ny, at 618 NW 60th St., he said. 
Gainesville resident Wallace Mazon, 25, 
plans to vote in the upcoming election. He 
said he is looking for candidates with a vision 
for growth and a focus on policies such as eco-
nomic development in East Gainesville.
Mazon worked on Arreola’s first-term 
campaign kand hopes the commissioner will 
continue to listen to constituents while enforc-
ing policies, he said. 
“I just hope he has the opportunity to do 
all the things that he wants to do by the end of 
his second term if he’s reelected,” Mazon said. 
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgHigh school students arrested after sending death threats
Grad assistants demand prize money City Commissoner running again
Arreola
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
affiliated with Gator Party, dis-
cussed how they’d ensure actions 
like Murphy’s wouldn’t occur 
again. 
Stephanie Beltran, who was af-
filiated with Impact Party in the 
past, also spoke out against Mur-
phy’s actions, and said he wasn’t 
leading with the students’ inter-
ests in mind. 
“Michael intended to use his 
position to bring Donald Trump 
Jr. to campus, but didn’t consider 
the impact on the students,” Bel-
tran said. “We must hold people 
accountable when certain bound-
aries are overstepped.” 
Jasmin Du Bois, a UF political 
science junior, listed other ways 
in which $50,000 could be used: 
1,219 people could receive flu 
vaccines, 56 students’ healthcare 
plans could be covered or 9,969 
hungry children in Alachua Coun-
ty could be fed.
While many demanded ac-tion against Murphy, others came 
ready to defend him. 
Jared Rossi, a former Accent 
Speakers Bureau staffer, called 
out partisan hits against Murphy 
throughout the meeting, and said 
that Accent brings speakers from 
both sides of the aisle. 
“I know that there are those 
in the minority party hell-bent on 
stuffing Ms. Wren’s words into 
Michael Murphy’s mouth,” Rossi 
said.
Dunson said she disagreed 
with Murphy’s actions and sup-
ported senators who felt disen-
franchised by him. 
“It truly breaks my heart to 
see… students and senators feel 
that they cannot trust our body 
of Student Government,” Dunson 
said. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org 
   The program “works to connect aspiring student leaders with Florida Blue Key 
members,” according to the application for the program. FBK announced the program’s 
inaugural cohort of 25 freshman students Oct. 21 on its Facebook page.
However, Katie Hernandez, the FBK divisions coordinator responsible for university-
wide programs, wrote in an email that FLC and FFLP are not connected, and she never 
worked with FLC. She pitched the program as part of her Florida Blue Key application 
last January. 
“I wanted to create a division to establish mentorship between the active chapter and freshman students in the hopes of educating freshmen and giving them the opportunity 
to network with student leaders on campus,” she wrote.
Students formerly involved in FLC want to bring it back in Fall 2020. They want to 
have the Bob Graham Center take over the program.
“As the center for public service and leadership, it most directly aligned with FLC’s 
mission and values,” he said.
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.orgSENATE,  from pg. 1
FLC,  from pg. 1Trump Jr., Guilfoyle paid $50k
FBK divisions coordinator said the two programs are unrelatedCaroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Ben Lima, a representative from Inspire Party, speaks during a student government meeting in the 
Reitz Union Chamber Room Tuesday evening. Lima drafted a resolution calling to impeach Student 
Body President Michael Murphy.
UF COLLEGE OF 
DESIGN AND 
PLANNING DID NOT 
CONSULT STUDENTS
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
After 12-hour work days 
for her architecture class, 
Grace Gallagher’s favorite 
thing to do during the late 
nights is go out and take a 
breath of fresh air — an op-
tion she may not have for 
much longer. 
The College of Design, 
Construction and Planning is 
proposing solutions to com-
bat water damage to the Ar-
chitecture Building Atrium, 
and one proposal is a roof. 
Some students aren’t so hap-
py, arguing the open space 
provides enormous benefits 
to their mental health.
Gallagher, a 19-year-old 
UF architecture sophomore, 
said students often spend all 
nighters in studio. They pull 
out hammocks and make the 
concrete walls of the archi-
tecture building their home.
“The open space and 
plants help to calm me 
down,” she said. 
Several building envelope specialists recommended re-
pairs, according to an email 
sent to students by Chimay 
Anumba, dean of the College 
of Design, Construction and 
Planning.
Anumba wrote in the 
email that no decisions had 
been made yet.
“Throughout the years, 
the Architecture Building has 
had ongoing water issues,” 
Anumba wrote. “Including 
flooding in studios and wa-
terfalls forming on the stairs 
during rain events.”
Gallagher isn’t the only 
student against the potential 
roof. 
Architecture masters 
student Nicolas DelCastillo 
began a petition to prevent 
construction of a roof. It has 
more than 380 signatures as 
of Tuesday night with a goal  
500.  
The petition, titled “Stop 
DCP from covering the Ar-
chitecture Building Atrium,” 
lists the reasons that DelCas-
tillo believes a roof is not the 
best solution to combat wa-
ter damage.
“Light, Air, Sound, and 
the open quality of the cir-
culation within the building 
are what makes our space 
unique,” he wrote in the pe-
tition.DelCastillo said the dis-
cussion between students 
and faculty over the pro-
posed roof is ongoing, al-
though positive. He declined 
to answer further questions, 
saying it is “premature” to 
do so. 
KMF Architects, based 
in Orlando, will handle the 
project, Anumba wrote. The 
firm held two town-hall style 
meetings last Monday to ad-
dress concerns about build-
ing the rain screen with stu-
dents and faculty.
The original plans of the 
architecture building called 
for a covered atrium, but the 
design was never built due to 
cost constraints, university 
architect Cydney McGlothlin 
wrote in an email. She said 
the proposed roof may cov-
er walkways and stairways 
during a downpour, provid-
ing a benefit to students.
“But before we would 
consider this option, the ar-
chitects would need to dem-
onstrate that covering the 
atrium would solve these 
issues better than a different 
option.”
aescalante@alligator.org
@Aescalante22Architecture students speak out against atrium roof plans
Sam Thomas/ Alligator Staff
Students are divided over building a roof as potential solution to combat water 
damage to the Architecture Atrium. Architecture masters student Nicolas DelCastillo 
created a petition with over 370 signatures to show administration that students 
aren’t in favor.
EditorialWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
Durham criminal probe is unnecessary and troubling
On Oct. 24, The New York Times reported 
that the Department of Justice raised U.S. 
Attorney General John Durham’s probe 
into the origins of the Mueller investiga-
tion to a criminal inquiry. What does all 
this mean? And why is this concerning for our de-
mocracy?
It all started in May, when Attorney General 
William Barr announced the District Attorney for 
Connecticut, John Durham, would be heading an 
investigation into the Trump-Russia probe. The 
move was quickly condemned by Democrats, who said the 
probe was being politically inﬂ  uenced by President Trump, 
according to NPR. While I’m all for investigators going where 
the evidence takes them and pursuing justice, there’s reason 
to suspect political pressure from Trump and Barr. In addi-
tion, the whole Durham investigation springs from conspira-
cy theories that have long been debunked.
Since the start of the Mueller investigation, Trump has 
been spreading conspiracy theories about it, claiming (among 
other things) that the Obama administration had spied on 
him. These comments were echoed by Barr, who said he be-
lieved spying occurred, according to USA Today. However, 
USA Today reported that the Trump-appointed FBI Director 
said he was unaware of any “spying.” This has not stopped 
Trump from upping the ante, claiming there’s a coup attempt 
against his presidency. But for all of Trump’s complaints on 
Twitter, Barr and his Department of Justice have admitted 
they could not come up with any evidence of spying. 
Another claim Trump has long spread and which will 
likely be a topic in the Durham investigation is that the Muel-
ler investigation was started based on the phony Steele Dos-
sier, according to The New York Times. The Steele Dossier 
is a document funded largely by the law ﬁ  rm of Democratic 
National Committee and former presidential nominee Hillary 
Clinton’s campaign, which presented Trump and many of 
those around him as aiding Russia. While the Steele Dos-
sier appears to be dubious, it’s irrelevant in this instance, as 
it was not the origin of the Mueller investigation. The real starting point was when Trump campaign aide 
George Papadopoulos claimed to an Australian 
diplomat he knew Russia had information that 
would embarrass the campaign of former Demo-
cratic nominee Hillary Clinton. However, right-
wing media and Trump have continued to spread 
this lie, and there was even an attempt to prove 
this point by former House Intelligence Chairman 
Devin Nunes. 
So, if we basically already know how the Muel-
ler investigation started, and the claims against it 
are factually questionable, why are we having another inves-
tigation? I especially question this because there is already 
an inspector general investigation about the origins of the 
Trump-Russia investigation covering many of the same top-
ics as the Durham probe. Department of Justice Inspector 
General Michael Horowitz says it is “nearing completion,” 
according to a letter obtained by CBS News.
 At ﬁ  rst, I thought the Durham inquiry was a mere for-
mality, an administrative review meant to calm the presi-
dent. However, the revelation that the Durham investigation 
is now a criminal investigation, with the power to empanel 
a grand jury and charge people with crimes, changes the 
stakes. Now it could turn into a tool used by a Department  
of Justice with a history of political decisions to go after 
Trump’s opponents. 
To be clear, I would fully support an investigation if there 
was actually something to investigate. If there is reason to 
suspect something criminal about how the Mueller investiga-
tion started, the Justice Department should say as much to 
the American people and then continue investigating. But 
without new evidence, this Durham probe has the potential 
to turn into exactly the kind of “witch hunt” against Demo-
crats that Trump claims has been perpetrated on him. Pay 
attention to the Durham probe; its ﬁ  ndings could be crucial 
to our democracy.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Stress should 
be used in 
moderation . 
Stress is hard to handle when you ﬁ  rst experience it. 
As college students, we are constantly thrown into 
situations that test our mental and physical capa-
bilities. But it turns out we might actually enjoy it. 
According to the American Psychological As-
sociation, almost a quarter of Americans regularly experi-
ence extreme stress, and that number is steadily increasing. 
Whether it’s caused by money, relationships or the future of 
our country, people always have something to stress about.
But stress can be addicting, and you’re most likely an ad-
dict. According to Talkspace, stress can create a heightened 
psychological state, basically making you high. It creates 
a response similar to drugs but with chemicals already in 
our bodies. Stress can motivate us to succeed, boost our 
productivity on a tight deadline and even give meaning to 
our lives.
Unfortunately, too much stress can end lives as well.
According to the American Stress Institute, 77 percent of 
people within the study reported to have physical problems 
caused by stress, while 73 percent reported physiological 
effects. Chronic stress is also linked to six leading causes 
of death, including cancer. It’s crazy to think such a com-
mon emotion can have such negative side effects, but it just 
shows how important it is to care about your mental health.
In October 2017, news outlets reported the death of Japa-
nese public broadcaster, Miwa Sado. Although Sida died in 
2013, her death wasn’t analyzed until a year later and then 
brought to mainstream attention three years after. Accord-
ing to the reports, labor ofﬁ  cials determined her cause of 
death to be overworking, as Sado was covering local and 
national elections and worked 159 hours of overtime in the 
month before she died.
Try to be aware of the times you are stressed. It’s easier 
to control once you know what’s happening, and there are 
actually some common symptoms associated with too much 
stress. Fatigue, anxiety, heartburn, decreased appetite, 
depression and chest pain are a handful of symptoms. Al-
though, these could also result from those all-nighters and 
coffee breaks, too. 
However, the most important sign of too much stress 
is your level of happiness. If you ﬁ  nd that you don’t have 
enough time to do things that you enjoy, maybe you’re tak-
ing on too much.
People with a high amount of stress tend to have tunnel 
vision on their stress. Things like hanging out with friends 
or getting a bite to eat tend to become meaningless. Al-
though it’s good to have a strong work ethic, becoming 
overwhelmed can be detrimental to you and your produc-
tivity in the long run.  
Try to take some time to enjoy yourself once in awhile.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators defeat T exas A&M in SEC T ourney
Florida’s soccer team upset the ranked Aggies in the 
quarterﬁ  nals of the conference tournament, pg. 123,000 TICKETS WERE SOLD 
FOR THE FESTIVAL
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
It was halfway through Slingshot 
Dakota’s set at FEST 18 when lead 
singer Carly Comando invited two 
fans to the stage.
The band let Frank Hill, who was 
joined by his girlfriend Leyla Ataye-
va, take the microphone. The elev-
en-year FEST veteran talked about 
meeting his “FEST love” at the punk 
rock festival a couple of years ear-
lier. He then successfully proposed 
to Atayeva in front of the crowded 
pit at :08.
Scenes like this are common at 
FEST, which turned 18 this year. 
The annual three-day festival takes 
place across downtown Gainesville 
during Florida-Georgia weekend and 
ﬁ  lls the city with punks for 72 hours.
People from all over the world 
come to Gainesville over the week-
end to sing, dance, mosh, skank, 
crowd surf and drink to their favorite 
punk, alternative, folk and ska bands 
in one place.
Even more integral than the 
music being played is the commu-
nity FEST fosters, both between 
the bands and the festival goers. It 
leads to situations like that of Hill 
and Atayeva, who met at FEST three 
years ago outside of High Dive.
“I asked [Atayeva] to go to FEST 
Wrestling with me, to which she de-
clined,” said Hill. “I thought I struck 
out, but we kept talking, and the 
next FEST we hung out the entire 
time.”
Atayeva said FEST brings people 
with similar passions together, al-
lowing deep and personal bonds to 
form.
“I think a big part of it is being 
around people who love what you 
love, so how is that not a recipe for 
wanting more?” Atayeva said. 
One reason FEST is able to create 
this unique community is because of 
their mantra of creating the best ex-
perience for their guests. 
Ticket sales are capped at 3,000 
to prevent overcrowding. People can 
hop from venue to venue, from an 
intimate show at the Civic Media 
Center or be in the pit listening to 
Stiff Little Fingers with 1,000 other 
people in Bo Diddley Community 
Plaza.
The cheap alcohol also probably 
contributed to the crowds, with a $3 
Pabst Blue Ribbon special all week-
end.
This year, FEST decided to bring 
in some of the biggest Gainesville 
bands to headline the festival: Against Me! and Less Than Jake.
Against Me! played four albums 
over two nights, marking their ﬁ  rst 
headlining show in Gainesville in 
nearly ﬁ  ve years.
Thousands of passionate fans 
gathered on the lawn of Bo Diddley 
Plaza Friday and Saturday night to 
see Laura Jane Grace and the rest of 
Against Me! perform the entirety of 
“Searching For A Former Clarity,” 
“New Wave”, “White Crosses” and 
“Transgender Dysphoria Blues.”
Gainesville ska-punk legend Less 
Than Jake played their ﬁ  nal show of 
the year Friday night, while encour-
aging their audience to create the 
biggest circle pit of the festival.
Roger Lima, the bassist and a vo-
calist for Less Than Jake, said FEST 
was the perfect opportunity to do 
their yearly Gainesville show.
“We had been doing some home-
town shows over the past few years 
in early September,” Lima said. “We 
weren’t going to do that this year, 
and the FEST is kind of the perfect 
makeup for that. It’s always a good 
time.” 
For many of the smaller bands, 
FEST is an opportunity to play to a 
larger crowd than usual. While the 
punk music scene isn’t small, it is 
spread out across the country. 
Erik Button, the singer and song-
writer of pop-punk band Dollar 
Signs, played his fourth FEST over 
the weekend. He said one of the best 
parts of the festival is seeing all 
his fans gathered in one place.
“It gives the opportunity for 
bands that are our size, where, 
when we go on tour, we’ll play 
in front of people that know our 
songs, but it’s never hundreds of 
people that all know our songs,” 
Button said. “At FEST, all of 
these people that like our band 
are in one place. So, it’s the one 
chance to reap the rewards of 
doing this where we get to see 
how much people care. It’s pret-
ty awe-inspiring.”
Stand-up comedian John-
Michael Bond traveled from Los 
Angeles to perform in the FEST 
comedy showcase. He said be-
ing a member of the punk rock 
community himself made his set 
extra special.
“Every comic writes jokes 
that are speciﬁ  c to who they are, 
but you don’t always get to do 
them onstage because you have 
to think about who is in the 
audience at the comedy club,” 
Bond said. “Here I’m like, ‘Oh 
I can make a joke about Less 
Than Jake,’ and I’ll know that it 
will work. I still talk about my 
relationships and stuff, but I like knowing I can be a little more hon-
est about who I am here, and I know 
the crowd’s like me and I can relate 
to them.” 
Bond also said he believes FEST’s 
practice of booking inclusive acts 
helps accurately show who makes 
up the punk community.
“FEST has worked really hard 
over the past couple of years to book 
inclusive lineups and make sure it’s 
not just a bunch of dudes that look 
like they’re in Hot Water Music,” 
he said. “I really love that. I think it 
makes the show exponentially stron-
ger because all of us have a unique 
point of view, and I feel like it better 
represents what the punk scene ac-
tually looks like.” 
Elery Ostertag, a 21-year-old UF 
political science senior, attended his 
third FEST this year. He said he was 
looking forward to seeing Dikembe, 
Skatune Network, Spanish Love 
Songs and AJJ.
“I think [FEST] reﬂ  ects the 
punk environment and culture as a 
whole,” said Ostertag. “It’s very wel-
coming and very friendly. I’ve met a 
lot of people here that I didn’t know 
last year or even last week, just 
walked up and said ‘hi’ and talked 
about bands.”
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.org
Zach Deputy to play at High Dive on Thursday
The multi-instrumentalist will be joined by Whale Feral and 
Sooza.  The show will begin at 9:30 p.m. and tickets cost $15.Nick Hudson  / Alligator Staff
Bobby Edge, vocalist and bass player for the band Jukebox 
Romantics, crowd surfs during the middle of his set at the 
Civic Media Center. 
“Honestly, my favorite thing is seeing all these faces 
I’ve seen from different countries come here and 
we all hang out,” Edge said. “Everyone’s in this one 
central location and it’s f***ing amazing.” FEST brings thousands of punk rockers to Gainesville
MUSIC
ITS LAST GAINESVILLE 
SHOW WAS IN AUGUST.
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
The Hails will be returning to 
Gainesville on Friday after spending 
several months touring. 
They will be sharing the stage of 
High Dive with local band Driveaway 
and Jacksonville-based Miles from 
London. Tickets for the 9:30 p.m. 
show are $10 to $12 and can be found 
through the High Dive’s website.
This show will be part of The 
Hails’ return home from a short run of 
shows across the east coast. 
“We went to the mountains of Vir-
ginia for like a week and just wrote 
some songs right before the show,” 
Robbie Kingsley, the indie-alternative 
band’s 24-year-old lead singer, said. 
Those songs, Kingsley said, have 
allowed the band to experiment with the direction they wants their music 
to take.
“[We’re] continually trying to 
mess with new sounds, create new 
sounds, and [We’re] not limiting our-
selves by genre,” he said. “[We’re] 
trying to give people something they 
haven’t heard yet.”
Kingsley said the ﬁ  ve-piece is also 
getting more focused on “what we 
want to talk about.” 
“I think just talking about life ex-
periences is important, even if they’re 
not grandiose or anything like that,” 
he said. “You can make eating a sand-
wich fun…. Even the most normal 
things can be sung in such an em-
phatic way.”
When it comes to songwriting, 
Kingsley said the band tries to be “de-
liberate with word choice and overall 
tone and all the things you learned in 
English class.” 
Kingsley said that, although the 
band isn’t sure if those songs will be 
released on an album, this weekend’s show will bring them back down to 
Miami, where the band currently lives 
and where they will begin to plan for 
the upcoming year. 
“We will deﬁ  nitely have a lot com-
ing out in 2020,” he said. 
Kingsley said the band tries to go 
into every show not knowing what to 
expect, and this rings true of its up-
coming Gainesville gig. 
“High Dive is like our home,” he 
said. “We’ve been playing there since 
the beginning of 2016. It’s where we 
basically grew up. We were little ba-
bies when we started out there.” 
Kingsley said the band is excited to 
return to its “home base.” 
“High Dive is deﬁ  nitely, probably 
our favorite venue, like ever,” he said. 
“So it’ll be fun to be back and it’ll 
be cool to see some familiar faces… 
We’re excited to see all the new faces, 
too.” 
mgoldwich@alligator.org
@morgangoldwichThe Hails to return to High Dive
MUSIC8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tick, tick, tick, went the sound of a sew-
ing machine in a small room ﬁ  lled with 
tables covered with scattered, patterned 
multicolored fabrics, pins, stencils and felt 
letters.  
Professors and students came together to 
create fabric messages for the world. 
These messages were in the form of pro-
test banners composed of felt letters on fab-
ric, courtesy of artist Aram Han Sifuentes’ 
political activism and inspiration. 
Sifuentes led a workshop for UF art stu-
dents and professors to make protest ban-
ners out of fabric on Tuesday at Norman 
Hall. 
This workshop emulates Sifuentes’ ar-
tistic activism. She started creating protest 
banners out of fabric with her friends, fam-
ily and neighbors who wanted to protest 
in the streets, but feared that their identity 
would put them in danger. 
“It felt so important for us to make them 
even though we can’t physically use them,” 
Sifuentes said. “I thought about turning the 
project into a lending library.”Sifuentes said as the 2016 U.S. presiden-
tial election approached, more people heard 
about her idea and asked to make or borrow 
banners, which inspired her to start a so-
called “library” from her home. 
Sifuentes’ inspiration stemmed from her 
time spent sewing with her parents, who 
run a dry-cleaning store in Central Valley, 
California, after they all immigrated from 
South Korea. 
“My parents came here without knowing 
what they’d do for work,” Sifuentes said. 
“Luckily someone in the small Korean com-
munity of Central Valley hired them to work 
at their dry-cleaning business.” 
Her father started working with the ma-
chines, cleaning and pressing clothes, while 
her mother hemmed and sewed. 
Sifuentes wants to create artwork that 
helps marginalized communities and immi-
grants, she said at an artist talk at UF on 
Monday. 
“Sewing became political for me and 
linked to my identity,” she said. 
Sifuentes’ work has consisted of pro-
test banners, curtains reading citizens their 
rights and sewn U.S. citizenship test sam-
plers, which show all 100 potential ques-tions and answers to the test. 
“When I started this, I wasn’t a citizen, 
so I had to learn the test material,” she said. 
“So I did that through sewing.” 
Sifuentes said she matched the cost of 
each sampler she sewed to the total cost 
of applying for U.S. citizenship: $725. She 
wasn’t going to apply for citizenship unless 
she sold a sampler. 
“I wasn’t going to sell it until I was done,” 
she said. “And then Trump happened.” 
Aml Altwayjri, a UF 26-year-old art edu-
cation graduate student, said that although 
the artist talk was a requirement for one of 
her classes, she would’ve attended anyway 
because, as someone who is from Saudi 
Arabia, she’s interested in the multicultural 
arts. 
“I see how life is different here,” Alt-
wayjri said. “I’m an immigrant, but I can 
feel what they feel. Not everyone is good at 
writing or saying what they feel,” she said. 
“By doing art, many people can express 
themselves.” 
The goal of the workshop, which Sifuen-
tes has led at other colleges, was to get peo-
ple to use art to make their voices heard in 
activism, she said. Students and professors created banners 
that read messages such as “Let people be,” 
“Impeach the f***er” and “Save art save the 
planet.” 
Marina Sachs, a UF 25-year-old Masters 
of Arts in Arts Education graduate student, 
said she attended the workshop because she 
wanted to make a banner for her and her 
partner, who is a noncitizen. 
“My initial thought is this would be used 
if we were to ever get our marriage license,” 
Sachs said. “Potentially, our queerness and 
her status as a noncitizen could affect the 
ability for us to get married or to get a green 
card for her.” 
Sachs sat on the ﬂ  oor of the hallway 
and arranged lime green felt letters across 
a glimmering orange sheet of fabric to read, 
“Our love is universal.” The letters symbol-
ize her partner one day getting a green card, 
she said. 
“It also speaks to her being a nonciti-
zen, but also for me and her having to hide 
to certain people that we’re together,” she 
said. “I never thought I’d be in this posi-
tion of having to stay silent on someone and 
something I love and care for so much.”
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.orgArtist helps UF students and professors make protest banners
ARTROBERT PATTINSON 
AND WILLEM DAFOE GO 
TOE-TO-TOE IN ROBERT 
EGGER’S NEW FILM
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
“The Lighthouse” is a shining ex-
ample of the visceral reaction a ﬁ  lm 
can have on a viewer; It is an art 
house thriller for the ages. 
Following his 2015 debut “The 
Witch,” a horror ﬁ  lm taking place 
in New England, Eggers is back with 
“The Lighthouse.” Set in the 1890s 
on a remote island and ﬁ  lmed in 
bleak black and white, “The Light-
house” is an even more challenging 
watch than its predecessor. 
The movie begins with light-
house workers, Wake, played by 
Willem Dafoe, and Winslow, played 
by Robert Pattinson, arriving on a 
small, desolate island. Over many 
solitary days and nights, they work, 
eat, drink and dig at each other, es-
tablishing a bristling antagonism 
born of temperament and boredom 
or maybe just narrative convenience.
Wake is the seasoned veteran 
looking to keep his control over 
the lighthouse and Winslow is the 
young man searching for refuge and 
purpose. In time, their minds and 
tongues are loosened by alcohol and 
perhaps the primal need for com-
panionship. The wind howls, the 
camera prowls, the sea roars and Eg-
gers ﬂ  exes his estimable ﬁ  lmmaking 
technique as the ﬁ  lm’s main mystery 
thickens.
Tension builds and is exacerbated 
by Wake’s hard drinking and Win-slow’s Lynchian and Lovecraftian 
visions of horrors on the shore. Are 
the terrifying images in his mind? Or 
is there some supernatural force at 
work? Needless to say, matters even-
tually come to a head in harrowing 
fashion.  
Eggers plunges the audience into 
the 1890s with very little friction 
due to a combination of the ﬁ  lm’s 
elements. The ﬁ  rst contributor is 
the ominous production design by 
Craig Lathrop, whose team built 
the 70-foot-tall lighthouse and light-
house keepers’ quarters in just six 
weeks. Then, the 1.19:1 aspect ratio 
which matches the slim and claus-
trophobic lighthouse. Third, the real-
istic dialogue written by Eggers and 
his brother and co-screenwriter Max 
Eggers, which uses author Sarah 
Orne Jewell’s work as a guide. Final-
ly, there is Mark Korven’s haunting 
musical score, which marries each 
individual frame of the ﬁ  lm. These 
elements are all maxed out and dan-
gerously close to distortion in “The 
Lighthouse,” but this matches the 
downward spiral of insanity that en-
gulfs the ﬁ  lm’s two characters.
The power struggle between 
Wake and Winslow is riveting, with 
the men wanting to punch each oth-
er one minute and kiss each other 
the next, in between their singing, 
arguing and dancing.
Both Dafoe and Pattinson deliver 
towering performances in what’s 
essentially a two-hander. You can’t 
take your eyes off Dafoe, cracking 
jokes one minute, threatening vio-
lence the next and breaking wind in 
the moments between. Seriously. 
Pattinson, meanwhile, is all pent-
up anger and simmering rage, biting his tongue until he can chew it no 
more, then exploding through a ter-
rifying tirade.
The cold, stark photography also 
helps set the scene, breeding a hor-
ribly oppressive atmosphere, and 
mirroring the harsh and unforgiving 
conditions the men face throughout 
the ﬁ  lm. In spite of the many hard-
ships presented on screen, however, 
Eggers and his cast ﬁ  nd humor in 
the misery through clever wordplay, 
a spot of slapstick and Winslow’s on-
going battle with a seagull.Knowledge of Greek mythology is 
not required to enjoy the ﬁ  lm, but it 
is a requirement for those who need 
concrete answers. This viewing ex-
perience of ”The Lighthouse” is simi-
lar to reading postmodern literature. 
There may be chapters or scenes 
that seem strange and unrelated, but 
don’t let them stop you from going 
on � the ﬁ  nal picture will ﬁ  ll in the 
blanks.
“The Lighthouse” is one of the 
most original ﬁ  lms released in re-
cent memory and it is sure to puzzle 
viewers after their ﬁ  rst viewing. But 
with each subsequent watch, “The 
Lighthouse” will justify its time com-
mitment with its questions of mas-culinity, purpose, sexuality, isolation 
and guilt. The ﬁ  lm also features a 
great mystery that has the potential 
to become cemented among movie 
history’s biggest discussion points, 
like the briefcase in “Pulp Fiction.”
If you’re willing to give yourself 
over to the dark imagery, taxing lan-
guage and terrifying themes, “The 
Lighthouse” will leave you hyp-
notized and in awe by the closing 
credits as you embark on this truly 
priceless ride.
Score: 9/10
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgRate and Review: “The Lighthouse”
MOVIES
 Courtesy of Eric Chakeen and A24
Willem Dafoe and  Robert Pattinson star in Robert Eggers “The Lighthouse. ”
Sifuentes showed students how to make art politicalSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
SEASONED FIREWOOD
DELIVERED
$120 - half cord. 386-292-5219
11-8-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      11-18-
19-6-2
Today in history — 1860: Abraham Lincoln elect-
ed president of the United States of America.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
Today in history — 1861: Jefferson Davis elected 
president of the Confederate States of America.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
HERE IS A PLEASANT LITTLE GAME that will give you a message every day. It's a numer -
ical puzzle designed to spell out your fortune. Count the letters in your first name. If the 
number of letters is 6 or more, subtract 4. If the number is less than 6, add 3. The result is 
your key number. Start at the upper left-hand corner and check one of your key numbers, 
left to right. Then read the message the letters under the checked figures give you.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
By Gary Larson
(c)2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/06/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/06/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, November 6, 2019
ACROSS
1 Zippo
5 State of irritation
9 Produce carrier
14 Historic British 
school
15 Plains native
16 Indy participant
17 Financial support 
at Kitty Hawk?
19 Skybox setting
20 Up to, casually
21 Sticky
23 Tie the knot
25 Runs like mad
29 Remove italics 
from text?
33 “All __ Jazz”
35 Zones
36 “The A-Team” 
actor
37 Bread served with 
tandoori chicken
38 Met highlights
39 Spelling contests
40 Some iTunes 
downloads, 
briefly
41 Cal. entries
42 Have an 
inclination
43 Siblings sharing 
a ceremony?
46 “... because you 
don’t want to 
cross me”
47 Up-to-the-minute
51 In seventh 
heaven
55 Women’s rights 
activist Nellie
56 Battleship 
barrage
59 Contact a 
fictional pirate?
61 Fuss over 
feathers
62 Stare at creepily
63 Balm ingredient
64 Change, as a will
65 They’re often 
loaded
66 Continuity 
problems
DOWN
1 Semiaquatic 
salamanders
2 Skylit courts
3 Lacy place mat
4 With 58-Down, 
“Life of Pi” 
director5 Ballpark treat
6 State that 
celebrates 
Pioneer Day
7 Pâté base
8 Govt. agents
9 Fancy scarves
10 Hardest to come 
by
11 Whiz
12 Notable 
Downing Street 
address
13 Important span
18 Seen enough
22 Think tank 
products
24 Tehran’s land
26 Dudes with fab 
abs
27 Slipped up
28 Fast Atl. 
crossers, once
30 Horn-honking 
Marx
31 Country singer 
Travis
32 Chow line?
33 Piglike forest 
dweller
34 Swiftness
37 Successor to 
Claudius38 __-ski
39 Second to none
41 Hurry off and 
hide
42 Hunt down the 
source of
44 Gridiron 
complement
45 High society 
types
48 Deadly African 
virus
49 Single-master50 Small fry
52 What Noah 
counted by
53 Constellation 
named for a 
mythological 
ship
54 List
56 Place for a 
retreat
57 Usher’s offering
58 See 4-Down
60 Folklore crone
By C.C. Burnikel
(c)2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/05/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/05/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 5, 2019
ACROSS
1 Works on a quilt
5 Team that won 
the Women’s 
World Cup in 
2019
8 Winter skating 
sites
13 Yawn-inducing
15 Melancholy
16 Love to pieces
17 Burr, to Hamilton
18 Black-and-yellow 
pollinator
20 Fodder for 
fantasy football
22 Cause for a 
handshake
23 Waited to be 
found, maybe
24 Tense tennis 
moment
26 Classroom staffer
27 Word after 
drinking or driving
28 Maple extract
29 Many an eBay 
user
31 Curtain holders
33 Jack of 
“Dragnet”
36 Honeycomb 
units
37 Volatile situation
40 Lion in “The 
Chronicles of 
Narnia”
43 Marquee name
44 24-hr. banking 
conveniences
48 Sits on the throne
50 Picture file suffix
52 Fish-to-be
53 Batting practice 
area
54 Body part that 
provides limited 
motion
58 Fire pit residue
59 “Soldier of Love” 
Grammy winner
60 Much paperwork
61 Mobile download 
for single people, 
and what the 
starts of 18-, 
24-, 37- and 
54-Across have 
in common
64 Takes a breather
66 Kagan on the 
bench
67 “Take that!”
68 Chuckleheads
69 Guitarist’s aid
70 Moth-eaten71 “Pretty Little 
Liars” series 
novelist Shepard
DOWN
1 Pronoun for a 
mom
2 Way, way back 
when
3 Sparked, as 
one’s appetite
4 “Poison” shrub
5 Flash drive port
6 Riyadh resident
7 Jingle-writing 
guys
8 Veil of gloom
9 Poem from an 
admirer
10 Ritzy San 
Francisco 
neighborhood
11 Hanukkah toy
12 Farm machines
14 Traditional stories
19 Dugout rack 
items
21 Produce offspring
24 Spoil
25 Opinion pages
26 Echo Dot 
assistant
30 Prefix with friendly
32 Place for a play
34 Wager35 North Carolina fort
38 Place for a stay
39 Court filing
40 Hangouts for 
video game 
players
41 Chef’s condiment
42 Not as heavy
45 Dietary 
supplement once 
pitched by Anna 
Nicole Smith
46 Centaur or 
chimera47 __ foot in: enter
49 Fluffy rug
51 Norwegian inlet
55 Twin Falls’ state
56 Mount Everest is 
on its border with 
China
57 Layered cookies
59 Piece of cake
62 Once __ while
63 Deg. of 
distinction
65 Retirees’ benefits 
org.
11/04/1910   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
Bilingual student wanted for part-time work 
as Latin America inside sales rep for local 
software company. Local software company 
in Gainesville (around the corner from SFCC) 
looking for energetic University of Florida or 
SFCC student to help with sales and market-
ing efforts focusing on Latin America in this 
part-time independent contractor position. 
Must be fluent in English and Spanish. We 
offer flexible hours. Earn hourly pay plus 
commission. Email resume and 3 references 
to: GvilleSoftwareCo@gmail.com.    11-20-
7-14
Today in history — 1913: Mahatma Gandhi arrested 
for leading Indian miners' march in South Africa.
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15DDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Today in history — 1939: Nazis arrest and deport 
184 professors from Krakow, Poland.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Today in history — 1939: WGY-TV (Schenectady, 
NY), 1st commercial TV station, begins service.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FINDLosing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Today in history — 1923: USSR adopts experi-
mental calendar with 5-day "weeks."
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
SNOWFLAKES SOLUTIONCAUTION:
spoilers ahead
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
EVEN 
EXCHANGE 
ANSWERS1.     Stack, Shack
2.     Wander, Wonder
3.     Otter, Utter
4.     Plank, Plant
5.     Stream, Streak
6.     Poster, Potter
7.     Scout, Shout
8.     Realty, Really
9.     Right, Tight
10.   Touch, Tough
solution below answers below
solutionFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Football guard Christopher 
Bleich entered the transfer 
portal Tuesday afternoon. He 
has started all nine of Florida's 
games so far this season. Florida names former receiver to Mr. Two Bits 
Ike Hilliard, who played for UF from 1994-96, will represent Mr. Two Bits 
this weekend as the Gators take on Vanderbilt. Hilliard won three SEC titles 
and a national championship, as well, under then-coach Steve Spurrier. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Silence spread throughout the 
O’Connell Center.
Up 14-10 with just under nine 
minutes to play in the ﬁ  rst half, the 
Gators needed a spark.
That much-needed energy came 
from a well-timed alley-oop be-
tween sophomore point guard 
Andrew Nembhard and freshman 
forward Omar Payne.
On the next possession, gradu-
ate transfer forward Kerry Blacks-
hear Jr. added a dunk of his own.
Both slams helped ignite a 14-0 
UF run that rejuvenated the of-
fense.
That momentum helped carry 
the sixth-ranked Florida men’s 
basketball team into the second 
half and beyond, winning its sea-
son opener 74-59 over the North 
Florida Ospreys on Tuesday night.Whether it was ﬁ  rst-game jit-
ters or the unkind rims, both 
teams struggled to put the ball in 
the basket early on. Florida (1-0) 
started just 3 of 16 from the ﬁ  eld 
before making 10 of its last 19 in 
the ﬁ  rst half, while the Ospreys (0-
1) shot just 28 percent (8 of 29).
In a half where UF saw nine 
different players score, the Gators 
were led by freshman guard Tre 
Mann (seven points, three re-
bounds), sophomore guard Noah 
Locke (seven points, one rebound) 
and Blackshear Jr. (11 points, four 
rebounds).
Despite the slow start, UF held 
a comfortable 39-22 lead at half-
time.
Florida continued to shoot from 
a high level early on in the second 
half, going on a quick 6-0 run, 
watching its lead balloon to 23 
points.
Things cooled down after that, though.
The Ospreys shrank the lead to 
as few as 13 points behind a three-
point attack from a group of UNF 
guards.
Senior guards J.T. Escobar, Ivan 
Gandia-Rosa and Garrett Sams all 
drained a pair of threes as North 
Florida made seven treys in the 
second half.
“We lost the intensity level 
about four minutes into the sec-
ond half,” coach Mike White said. 
“We’ve been outscored by Lynn 
and North Florida in the second 
half, and we might not be able to 
play 10, 11 or even nine guys, if 
there’s going to be a drop off.”
For Florida, a team that made 
27 of 53 from beyond the arc com-
bined in the closed scrimmage 
against USF and the exhibition last 
week against Lynn, shot just 20 
percent (3 of 15) on Tuesday.
While the long ball wasn’t fall-ing for UF, the points in the paint 
were, and it was enough to keep 
some distance between the Gators 
and the Ospreys.
Blackshear Jr. led all scorers for 
UF with 20 points, 10 rebounds 
and three assists as he continues 
to show why Florida brought him 
to Gainesville.
“I think I did pretty well, but 
there’s deﬁ  nitely some things I 
need to work on and get better at,” 
Blackshear Jr. said. “I had some 
miscues that I’ll have to clean up 
before Sunday.”
The other Gators who scored 
in double ﬁ  gures were Mann and 
sophomore guard Noah Locke 
with 11 and 14, respectively.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgGators outlast Ospreys on opening night
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Forward Kerry Blackshear Jr. logged 20 
points and 10 rebounds in the UF win.
There’s a hat rack just outside of the dark wooden doors that open up 
to the College Football Playoff selection room at the Gaylord Texan 
Resort.
About 15 white Nike baseball caps sit on each peg of the football-
themed rack.
It’s a simple reminder to all persons on the selection committee to check 
their hats at the door. In other words, leave all personal bias outside. There’s 
no room for it inside.
So, for all college football fans reading this: Check your hats at the door 
before you continue reading this.
The CFP released its ﬁ  rst poll of the 2019 season Tuesday night, and as expected, 
many fandoms responded in outrage that their program wasn’t where they thought it 
should be.
I was one of 16 students invited to the CFP Mock Selection Exercise back in Septem-
ber. Like others, I ﬁ  nd the whole idea of the CFP intriguing. It’s an interesting process 
that’s an enigma to so many in the realm of college football, including several sports 
reporters, too. 
I’m no expert on what goes on inside that room six times a year when the committee 
gathers around to vote on its top-25 teams. But after spending a few hours in its mem-
bers' seats, I feel like I have a better idea than when I ﬁ  rst walked in.
One of the ﬁ  rst things CFP Executive Director Bill Hancock said when the mock com-
mittee and I started evaluating the 2014 season was: “Everything that affects the game, 
the committee considers.”
And he means everything.
Every seat comes with a computer where the committee members vote and analyze 
the statistics displayed on 10 television screens around the room. Everyone’s laptop is 
locked, and each television monitor displays the same information so that all of the com-
mittee members are focused on the same details.
Shades of green, asterisks, carrots, highlights, bolded fonts — all of this helps point 
out different factors the committee takes into consideration (strength of schedule, confer-
ence title, top-25 wins, injuries, head-to-head matchups, the best or worst in a certain 
category, etc.).
When it comes time to vote, screen protectors on each laptop prohibit wandering eyes, 
so everyone’s vote is truly their own.
I assumed the role of Florida Athletic Director Scott Stricklin while sitting on the mock 
committee. Because of his ties to Mississippi State — one of his daughters is a student 
worker in its athletic department — and his role at UF, he is recused from voting when 
either party is in the conversation. In fact, he has to leave the room.
“Candidly, when I have to leave the room for the Gators, that’s a good thing,” Stricklin said. “It means we’re being considered.”
The Florida AD added it’s a running joke among some of the other com-
mittee members that they never have to leave the room, and when the rare 
occasion comes along, they’re happy about it.
Initially, each committee member votes on its own top-30 rankings. From 
there the committee votes individually, again, to get teams into the “pool” by 
voting for their top six teams in no particular order. After that, the committee 
discusses the teams in the “pool,” and each member votes on its top six for 
three teams to then make it into the actual top 25.
We found out quickly enough how easy it is for one team to get stuck in 
the pool for a few rounds before it ﬁ  nally makes it into the rankings. This 
situation inevitably causes a revote, which Hancock said can happen any-
where from a few to 20 times per session.
To help keep the members motivated, the CFP provides some snacks for the members. 
There’s a small freezer outside of the room with NESTLÉ TOLL HOUSE Chocolate Chip 
Cookie Ice Cream sandwiches and Häagen Dazs ice cream bars. Oh, and there’s usually 
some crispy bacon around the morning of the vote, too.
The committee members try to keep things fun because their job is fun in their eyes. 
The hard work, harassment on the national scale and countless hours dedicated to this 
job is worth the tradeoff.
And being a committee member isn’t as easy as watching some football and ﬂ  ying out 
to a ﬁ  ve-star resort in Texas a few times every year, either.
Stricklin — on top of his AD duties — watches around 20 games every weekend, 
streaming cut-down versions of the games, which are condensed from four hours to just 
60 minutes, on his smart tablet.
“You want to know what’s going on, because everybody else has done their home-
work,” Stricklin said. “You don’t want to be the guy who didn’t come prepared.”
The Florida AD will often spend his Sundays catching up on games he missed from the 
weekend and looking at stat sheets. But as the season goes on, there are fewer teams he 
has to pay close attention to because they start eliminating themselves from contention, 
he said.
Inevitably, fans will still be in an uproar for the days to come, or at least until the next 
poll is released on Tuesday. People will start calling for the committee members' heads 
and others will scream and shout about an eight-team playoff format, which is a discus-
sion for another time.
The mock selection exercise altered my naïve perspective on what happens inside 
that room. The struggles each committee goes through battling over whether x-team is 
a sixth or seventh seed. The extended debates over the slightest details. The amount of 
time spent keeping up with every team throughout the year, and more importantly, the 
amount of time spent trying to get things right.
You shouldn’t panic. And you certainly shouldn’t be up in arms after this poll.
Put your bias in perspective. And check your hat at the door.Check your hat at the doorThe More the Mari-er
Mari Faiello
Twitter: @faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s women’s basketball 
team was engaged in a back-and-
forth battle with Grambling State on 
Tuesday night.
After 18 lead changes and six ties, 
UF forward Zada Williams knocked 
down a jumper with 9:06 left in the 
fourth quarter to spark a 13-2 run.
That dominant stretch propelled 
the Gators to a 72-65 victory over 
Grambling State in the season open-
er at the Hobdy Assembly Center in Grambling, Louisiana. 
“We knew this would be a tough 
game in a road environment with 
a team that scraps and really com-
petes with you,” coach Cam New-
bauer said in a release after the win. 
“That’s one reason why we really 
wanted to play a game like this, is to 
get tested.” 
Florida (1-0) started off cold, 
shooting a measly 24 percent from 
the ﬁ  eld in the ﬁ  rst quarter. The 
Gators were getting open looks, with 
the Tigers (0-1) daring them to shoot 
from outside, but UF had trouble converting those into points.
The orange and blue adjusted its 
gameplan after falling behind 13-10 
after the ﬁ  rst 10 minutes of action.
Instead of settling for jumpers, 
Florida fed center Emer Nichols in-
side the paint. Her back-to-the-bas-
ket style of play worked in her favor 
against the smaller Grambling State 
defenders tasked with keeping the 
6-foot-5 center in check.
The redshirt sophomore, who 
played in her ﬁ  rst regular season 
game for the Gators after sitting out 
the entire 2018-19 season following her transfer from Texas A&M, ﬁ  n-
ished the contest with six points and 
ﬁ  ve rebounds.
UF guard Kiara Smith tied for a 
team-high 16 points, but she also 
played a crucial role in the rebound-
ing department. The 5-foot-10 red-
shirt junior made up for her lack of 
size with intuition. She stayed out-
side of the paint, predicting where 
the ball was going to bounce, and 
put herself in position to snag nine 
boards.
Grambling State held on to a 31-
30 lead heading into halftime and maintained that one-point advantage 
at the end of the third quarter (52-
51).
But UF outscored the Tigers 21-13 
in the fourth to put the game out of 
reach and clinch its ﬁ  rst win of the 
season.
“We had a lot of people miss shots 
uncharacteristically early on,” New-
bauer said. “But we kept our eyes 
on the rim, kept shooting, stayed the 
course and got the job done.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida takes down Grambling State in season openerSOCCER
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Coach Becky Burleigh looked intense as 
ever in her classic black Gators jacket. Her eyes 
had a slight squint as she watched her team 
barely hang on to a one-goal lead. 
It felt that Texas A&M had a comeback 
brewing. The ﬁ  nal minutes were shaky, but 
her squad was victorious for the ﬁ  rst time 
since Oct. 18.
Florida  (11-7-1) won 2-0 over No. 17 Tex-
as A&M on Tuesday night in Orange Beach, 
Alabama. The match was the quarterﬁ  nal of 
the SEC Tournament. On a beautiful 63 degree 
night on the shore of the Gulf of Mexico, UF 
earned a massive victory to continue in its 
hopes for the SEC crown as the ﬁ  fth seed. 
The ﬁ  rst scoring threat of the match came 
off the left foot of forward Vanessa Kara, who 
was one-on-one with Texas A&M’s ﬁ  nal de-
fender. Kara was just outside of the 18-yard 
box, and struck. Her attempt was futile, as the 
shot rolled on the ground straight to TAMU 
(13-4-3) goalie Shantel Hutton. 
Early in the match, the possession stayed 
mostly in the Aggies half of the ﬁ  eld. Outside of one cross into the box that was headed away 
from harm by UF midﬁ  elder Carina Baltrip-
Reyes, TAMU wasn’t threatening goalie Susi 
Espinoza at all in the ﬁ  rst 15 minutes. With 
just over 30 minutes to play in the ﬁ  rst half, the 
Gators got another chance. 
UF earned a corner kick off of an attack 
from midﬁ  elder Kit Loferski that TAMU’s back-
line deﬂ  ected away. Fellow midﬁ  elder Sammie 
Betters placed a ball into the 18-yard box and 
it made it near the feet of Kara and midﬁ  elder 
Parker Roberts. 
However, Hutton was able to get just 
enough cleat on it to push the ball out of 
harm’s way. The Aggies cleared the ball back 
to the middle of the ﬁ  eld. The stalemate con-
tinued. 
The Aggies ﬁ  nally caved 40 minutes in. 
After a ball nailed the post back into TAMU’s 
18-yard box, Roberts got a head on it to pop it 
multiple feet into the air. When it came back 
down, she let it fall to her feet and rolled it past 
Hutton. Advantage Gators, 1-0. 
That goal was an enormous conclusion to 
the half that showed both teams struggling to 
create chances. That struggle continued into 
the second half, as the game went another 23 minutes with no score. 
Then, with 27 minutes left, Betters placed 
a through ball to Kara inside the right side of 
the 18-yard box. Kara zoomed past the entire 
Aggie backline and shot a baseline strike. It 
squeezed through just past Hutton inside the 
right post. Advantage two. 
The rest of the match went mostly UF’s 
way. It controlled the midﬁ  eld with relative 
ease as the Aggies were pressing to score and 
making mistakes. There was one more free 
kick opportunity with 17 minutes to go, where 
Betters played a perfect ball in the 18-yard box 
to Loferski. Loferski took a chance, but Hutton 
made her best save of the night, getting a left 
foot on it out of threatening territory. 
Then, with nine minutes left, TAMU made 
it interesting. Aggies forward Ally Watt took 
a free kick just outside the 18-yard box. She 
curled the ball with her right foot and hit the 
bottom of the crossbar past Espinoza and in. 
There was only a one-goal difference now. 
It was 2-1 Gators, but the Aggies suddenly had 
an energy they hadn’t had all game. The ﬁ  nal 
nine minutes were a ﬁ  ght that was certainly 
not a ﬁ  nished product. 
Even still, the Gators fought through the ﬁ  nal stretch and squeezed a 2-1 victory over 
the Aggies. 
Florida earned a chance to play No. 1 Ar-
kansas in the semiﬁ  nals. This will be the ﬁ  rst 
contest between the Gators and the Razor-
backs this season, and it comes with a chance 
to play in the SEC Championship. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgGators top Aggies 2-1 in SEC Quarterﬁ  nals
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Midﬁ  elder Sammie Betters notched the 
sole assist in Florida’s 2-1 win over T exas 
A&M on Tuesday night. 
