We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Florida makes it rain on Texas A&M
KeVaughn Allen and the Gators made 18 three 
pointers in win over the Aggies, pg. 14.A taste of Puerto Rico
A father and son food truck that offers Puerto Rican favorites 
just opened, pg. 3
A boost for UF neurology institute
A man donated $20 million to help fund the institute, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 49
Bryan Pepper / Alligator Contributor 
Honoring the King
Treyvon Jenkins, a member of the Florida Youth Challenge Academy, looks at the crowd Monday during the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Day March starting on Bo Diddley Community Plaza and ending at the Martin Luther King 
Jr. Multipurpose Center. The march lasted about an hour, and hundreds of people participated in the celebration.
THE WEEKL Y SENATE 
MEETING WAS 
CANCELED
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Senate may have missed its chance to 
make changes to the upcoming election ballot because its 
meeting was accidentally canceled.
Senate meetings are held at 7:30 p.m. Tuesdays in the 
Reitz Union Chamber. This week, however, the Christian 
fraternity Beta Upsilon Chi booked the room to hold its 
new member induction. The Senate had planned on vot-
ing to add an amendment to the ballot that would change 
the Spring election dates. 
The meeting was the last opportunity to make changes 
to the ballot because referendums and amendments must 
be passed 28 days before the Spring general election, 
which starts Feb. 19, according to Student Body Statutes.
Senate Minority Leader Felipe Gatos said Tuesday was 
a blow. Inspire Party senators were going to propose ref-
erendums on the Senate ﬂ  oor. 
“There’s nothing that can be done. We went through 
the codes,” Gatos said.
UF’s SG adviser James Tyger, who handles the room 
reservations, said the chambers were supposed to be re-
served for a Spring elections information meeting and 
then the Senate meeting would follow. 
Tyger said an overlap in bookings has never happened 
before. 
“We did reach out to the [Reitz] Union to see if there 
were any other spaces available and unfortunately and 
apparently there are not,” he said. 
@hannahbeatty_Scheduling error 
aﬀ  ects Spring 
election ballot  
MARLON BRUCE IS THE FOURTH 
CANDIDATE RUNNING 
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
A 20-year-old Santa Fe College student joined 
the Gainesville mayoral race Thursday.Marlon Bruce moved to Gainesville from Ocala 
two years ago to attend Santa Fe College and said 
he loves the city so much he decided to run for 
mayor. 
“Gainesville is a great place to be, but the issue 
is that there are problems,” Bruce said. “The issues 
were bigger than I realized. If I don’t run for mayor 
then I won’t be doing my duty to everyone else.” Santa Fe student is running for mayor
SEE BRUCE,  PAGE 4By Karina Elwood
and T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writers
The Alachua County Commission voted 
Tuesday night to raise the minimum age to 
buy tobacco products and voted to end us-
ing prisoners for county labor. 
Alachua County became the ﬁ  rst county 
in Florida to raise the minimum age to buy 
tobacco from 18 to 21 after the commission 
unanimously voted to pass the ordinance. 
Tobacco products include cigarettes, e-ciga-
rettes, chewing tobacco and vapes. Alachua County joins six states and 
about 450 cities and municipalities to adopt 
Tobacco 21, the national movement to in-
crease the minimum tobacco age, said Wen-
dy Resnick, the Tobacco Free Alachua vice 
chair.
The ordinance will be implemented 
county-wide in about nine months, allowing 
time to inform retailers about the change, 
according to a presentation shown at the 
meeting. Cities have the option to opt-out. 
Businesses will need to get an annual li-
cense from the county to sell tobacco and 
could face suspensions if they continue to sell to those under 21. 
Alvi Showkat, a 19-year-old UF material 
science freshman, said raising the age will 
make no difference in teenagers’ smoking.
“I think it’s kind of pointless because 
even if they raise the age, people will have 
other means to get it via asking other peo-
ple, like friends who are 21 to get it for 
them,” he said.
Before the meeting, about 40 residents 
carried signs, some saying “Solidarity” and 
“End Prison Slavery at UF,” and banged 
drums as they marched their way to the 
Alachua County Administration Building 
from the Civic Media Center in protest of 
the county’s use of prison workers with the 
Department of Corrections.The commission voted 4-1 to end its road 
and bridge labor contract with the correc-
tions department and use full-time employ-
ees instead. County Commissioner Mike 
Byerly voted against the ordinance.
“If those positive reforms don’t come, 
then we’ve made a really bad mistake,” he 
said.
The county uses prisoners from depart-
ment work camps for road and bridge work, 
but the county does not pay the prisoners, 
said Ramon Gavarrete, the county public 
works engineer, during the meeting. In-
stead, the county pays for maintenance su-
pervisors. The county has not yet decided 
on a date to end prisoner labor work. Alachua County Commission raises age to buy tobacco
Bruce
It also voted to end prisoner labor
SEE PRISON,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
WEDNESDAY
Student Government Elections
From 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Jan. 
25, students can register their 
Student Government parties 
in the SG office in the Reitz 
Union. An informational meet-
ing about SG elections will be 
held at 6:30 p.m. in the Reitz 
Chamber.  
Accent Speaker’s Bureau 
Presents: John Kasich
Ohio’s 69th governor will speak 
at UF’s University Auditorium 
beginning at 7:30 p.m. Doors 
will open at 6:30 p.m. Students 
can pick up a free ticket with 
their Gator 1 Card. Remaining 
tickets will be distributed from 
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Student 
Government suite in the Reitz 
Union. After that, any remain-
ing tickets will be given out 
at 6:30 p.m. in the University 
Auditorium box office. The key-
note presentation will be fol-
lowed by a 30-minute student 
Q&A session. Kasich served as 
a member of Congress from 
Ohio for 18 years and is a for-
mer 2016 Republican presiden-
tial candidate.THURSDAY
An Evening with Pam & Doug 
Soltis: Building, Using and 
Teaching the Tree of Life
Pamela Soltis and Doug Soltis, 
two professors at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History, 
will hold a free lecture and 
book signing at 6 p.m. Jan. 24 
in the Harn Museum of Art, at 
3259 Hull Road. Pamela and 
Doug Soltis are investigators in 
the UF Laboratory of Molecular 
Systematics and Evolutionary 
Genetics and contributing 
authors for the Angiosperm 
Phylogeny Group. They are 
also contributors to the devel-
opment of the Tree of Life Web 
Project, an online phylogenetic 
taxonomy project that includes 
2.3 million species. The proj-
ect can help researchers cure 
diseases, develop medicines, 
improve agricultural crops and 
predict how plants and animals 
are going to move in response 
to climate change.
MORE
Inspired by Cuba! 
This exhibit explores the ways 
in which Cuba has been im-
mortalized in ceramic pieces. 
The pieces start from the mid-18th century. The exhibition 
will run until April 5 in Room 
100 in Smathers Library. Some 
of the pieces in the exhibit are 
fine china, tobacco jars and 
baseball memorabilia. Some 
of the pieces have images and 
symbols of Cuba and its people 
or have references to places, 
official institutions or commer-
cial establishments. The exhibit 
also features items that use the 
name of Cuba and its varia-
tions or Havana. The exhibit 
can be viewed by appointment 
by emailing exhibits@uflib.
ufl.edu.
Words on Canvas: the Harn 
Museum’s Spring 2019 writ-
ing competition
The Words on Canvas annual 
writing competition is open 
to all UF and Santa Fe College 
students who find inspiration 
in art. Writers will choose one 
of 28 pieces of art and sub-
mit a poem or prose piece in-
spired by it. Winners will be 
featured in the Harn Museum’s 
Words on Canvas booklet and 
get prizes from the Harn’s gift 
shop. All works must be sub-
mitted by 11:59 p.m. Feb. 24. 
Winning submissions will be 
announced by email on March 
27. Further details on the com-
petition including rules, guide-
lines and the featured artworks 
can be found here: http://
harn.ufl.edu/woc-submission. 
Questions or concerns can be 
emailed to: wordsoncanvas@
harn.ufl.edu.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  64°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Lourdes Hernandez, Blake Trauschke,
Graham Marsh, Hope Hathcock,
Marianna ColonMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 49WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
WANTEDAdvertising 
Interns
Must be currently enrolled at the  
University of Florida or Santa Fe College5. Hands On Training1. Internship Credit Hours Earn credit hours while interning
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative2. Valuable Skills T eam work and client relations 
4. Build Your Resume
Contact the intern coordinator 
at intern@alligator.org
Fun &  Fitness
2019
Contact Your Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline
Wed. Jan.  30 
Run Date
Wed., Feb. 6Help students gain a healthy perspective by advertising in 
The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is dedicated to 
giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.HE TOLD OFFICERS HE 
HAD A BEER AND TWO 
MIXED DRINKS
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Ofﬁ  cials arrested the High 
Springs ﬁ  re chief Friday after he was accused of 
drunk driving.
Fire Chief 
Bruce Raymond 
Gillingham was 
arrested after 
Florida Highway 
Patrol respond-
ed to a crash at 
about 5:20 p.m. on US Route 27 in 
High Springs, according to an FHP arrest report. 
The driver of a Cadillac SUV 
told ofﬁ  cers that Gillingham, 41, 
crashed into the back of his vehi-
cle with his Toyota Camry during a 
stop, the report said. Gillingham’s 
car had front-end damage and the 
SUV had rear-end damage.
The SUV driver and an ofﬁ  cer 
said Gillingham smelled like al-
cohol, the report said. The ofﬁ  -cer also said Gillingham had “red 
bloodshot eyes.” 
Gillingham told the ofﬁ  cer he 
had a beer and two mixed drinks 
at the Great Outdoors Restaurant, 
at 65 N. Main St., before the crash, 
the report said. 
Ofﬁ  cials took Gillingham to the 
Alachua County Jail, where he 
took two breath tests that showed 
he was about two times over the legal limit, the report said.
Gillingham was charged with 
DUI and damage to property. He 
declined to comment. 
He was released from jail at 
11:30 a.m. Saturday on his own 
recognizance. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgFHP: High Springs fire chief accused of drunk driving
Gillingham
By Kaelyn Cassidy 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A welcoming atmosphere, a family busi-
ness and the tastes of San Juan can all be 
found in one of Gainesville’s newest food 
trucks, El Punto. 
The creation of Guillermo Gonzalez Sr., 
a 52-year-old army veteran, El Punto started 
about three months ago and has been serving 
food across from a CVS parking lot, at 1621 
SW 13th St., from Friday to Sunday since the 
ﬁ  rst week of January. 
The menu was inspired by traditional dish-
es served on the beach fronts of Puerto Rico 
and includes empanadas, pinchos, alcapur-
rias and more, Gonzalez said.
Gonzalez, who works for the Malcom Ran-
dall VA Medical Center, said he was inspired 
by his mother, Maria Virginia Ramos, 73, who 
sold spices in Puerto Rico. He decided that he 
wanted to start a business doing something 
he loved. 
He said he noticed that no one else in 
Gainesville was making authentic Puerto Ri-
can food and felt that El Punto could ﬁ  ll that 
void. 
“I wanted to bring something that is not 
around here,” he said. “Things that make you 
homesick. This is very cultural food.”
His son, Guillermo Gonzalez Jr., 22, start-
ed helping him run the truck this month. He said that lots of their customers try their food 
and tell them how much it reminds them of 
home. 
“They get tired of chain restaurants, Mc-Donald’s and stuff, and as soon as they see a 
food truck they get pretty excited,” Gonzalez 
Jr. said.
With the aftermath of Hurricane Maria heavily affecting Puerto Rico, Gonzalez Jr. 
believes that El Punto will have a positive im-
pact on the community.
“We’re trying to bring stuff up and get 
people to know about Puerto Rico,” he said.
While the Gonzalez family does have 
plans to eventually expand to a storefront, 
right now they’re focused on building their 
presence. 
“We are going to different festivals and 
stuff,” Gonzalez Jr. said. “Getting our name 
out there.”
They were recently invited to participate in 
Newberry’s First Food Truck Festival on Jan. 
6, he said. 
Along with their culinary skills, the Gon-
zalez family have another talent. Gonzalez Sr. 
taught his family to play plena drums, round-
hand drums used in traditional Puerto Rican 
music, he said. 
For customers that eat at El Punto on their 
birthdays, the Gonzalez family will bring 
out their drums and sing “Happy Birthday.” 
They’ve done this twice since opening, Gon-
zalez Sr. said.
Gonzalez Sr. believes that a family atmo-
sphere is a very important part of his business 
and strives to include his customers in that. 
“That’s one thing you see when the cus-
tomers come. We just have a good time as a 
family,” he said. A taste of Puerto Rico comes to Gainesville in a truck
Courtesy to The Alligator
Guillermo Gonzalez Sr., 52, gives a thumbs up in front of his food truck, El Punto, 
at Newberry’s First Food Truck Festival.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
CRIME ROUNDUP 
HE BROKE INTO THE SANTA FE WORK 
RELEASE CENTER 
A man accused of breaking into a building was ar-
rested Sunday after allegedly swinging a backpack at 
two employees and calling one “fat boy.”
Ronald Nathan Marr, 53, of Gainesville, cut the 
locks off of two doors at the Santa Fe Work Release 
Center, at 2901 NE 39th Ave., at about 11 p.m., ac-
cording to a Gainesville Police arrest report.
Inside the building, Marr put trash bags, zip ties, deck nails, two bottles of oil and two paint brushes in 
his backpack, the report said. 
An employee was checking doors when he saw the 
cut locks and heard Marr on the second ﬂ  oor, the re-
port said. The man and another employee opened the 
door and saw Marr holding bolt cutters.
He raised the bolt cutters above his head, stepped 
toward one of the men and said, “Come on, let’s do 
this, fat boy,” the report said.
Marr then swung his backpack at them and ran 
outside toward the woods next to Northeast 28th Drive, the report said. 
Police found Marr walking on Northeast Waldo 
Road, the report said. Marr admitted to stealing nails 
and trash bags.
He told police he “may have” raised the bolt cut-
ters and did swing the backpack at the men, the report 
said. 
He was charged with aggravated assault, armed 
burglary of a dwelling or structure and petit theft. 
Marr remained in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a 
$310,000 bond.‘Let’s do this, fat boy’: Man accused of ﬁ  ghting building staﬀ  By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgCHILDREN’S BOOKS WERE 
WRITTEN IN THE LANGUAGE
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Hilaria Cruz couldn’t read books in her lan-
guage growing up.
Nothing had been written in her native 
tongue, so she decided to change that.
Cruz, a University of Louisville linguistics 
and Native American religion professor, pre-
sented “Developing Readers and Writers in In-
digenous Languages: A Chatino Perspective,” a 
discussion about her experience developing an 
alphabet for the indigenous Chatino language, 
to about 40 people on Monday in the Reitz 
Union.“Languages and the way in which they are 
very particular give us a window into humans 
and the human creative capacity,” Cruz said.
Growing up in an indigenous community in 
Oaxaca, Mexico, Cruz spoke Chatino, a Meso-
american language spoken by the Chatino peo-
ple, but learned to read and write in Spanish.
Inspired by the lack of books in her native 
language and her inability to read children’s 
books to her kids, Cruz and her sister worked 
to develop a Chatino alaphabet with linguists 
and anthropologists at The University of Texas 
at Austin. Dartmouth College students used the 
language to write eight children’s books.
The books were published in in Chatino, 
which uses the Roman alphabet and has 12 
tones. The 150 books printed will be given to 
Chatino families for free. 
Due to Mexican policies encouraging Span-ish education and the high emigration of Cha-
tino youth, the language has been lost over the 
years, Cruz said.
“It is very important for people to learn 
about different languages,” Cruz said. “Each 
language is a storage of wonderful informa-
tion.”
The United Nations Educational, Scientiﬁ  c 
and Cultural Organization, which promotes 
international peace through education, science 
and culture, declared 2019 the International 
Year of Indigenous Languages. Cruz thinks it’s 
a great time for students to learn about world 
indigenous languages. 
Cruz’s presentation helped Olivia Lafuente, 
an 18-year-old UF anthropology freshman, 
learn more about how language inﬂ  uences hu-
manity and its importance with the next gen-
eration.“If there is a certain aspect of culture that 
you want to study, all the factors tie into each 
other,” Lafuente said.
It is vital to document native tongues, as 
content could potentially be lost in translation, 
said George Broadwell, a UF linguistic anthro-
pology professor, who helped Cruz develop the 
Chatino dictionary.
Broadwell hopes to create a course at UF 
about multilingualism, and Cruz hopes to cre-
ate videos to teach the Chatino alphabet and 
support reading. 
“People all over the world have knowledge 
of their history, environment and culture,” 
Broadwell said. “A lot of that knowledge comes 
from the language they speak.”
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.org Linguistics professor creates indigenous alphabet
A student hasn’t run for mayor since 
2010, when then 29-year-old Santa Fe 
student Ozzy Angulo ran, according 
to the elections ofﬁ  ce website.  Bruce 
said he isn’t worried about running for 
mayor at such a young age.  
“I know I am young,” Bruce said. 
“But really and truly, it’s because I 
am young that everyone should want 
me. The fresh set of eyes, the creative 
ideas, I mean it is really able to shape 
the view of the entire city for years to 
come.”
Bruce said the biggest issues he 
wants to address are providing afford-
able housing, strengthening public 
safety and repairing roads.
He will be running against three 
other candidates in the upcoming regu-lar election March 19. Incumbent May-
or Lauren Poe announced his run for a 
second term in November, Jenn Powell 
announced her campaign in December 
and Jennifer Reid joined the race ear-
lier this month.
Residents will be voting for mayor 
and the District 4 commissioner in the 
election. Voter registration closes Feb. 
19. 
Bruce, who was born in Brooklyn, 
New York, moved to Ocala in the sev-
enth grade. He is now a sophomore 
studying political science at Santa Fe 
College and said he hopes to transfer to 
UF later this year. 
In 2017, he said he became a sena-
tor and attorney general for Santa Fe 
Student Government but stopped last 
Fall so he could dedicate more time to 
his mayoral campaign. 
In 2018, he ﬁ  rst got involved with local government by attending 
Gainesville City Commission meetings 
and community events.
Bruce said his decision to run for 
mayor was fueled by his passion for 
the city.  
“[Gainesville] gives me this sort 
of ﬁ  re that never dies,” Bruce said. “I 
never plan on leaving.” 
Powell met Bruce through his lo-
cal government involvement and wel-
comes him to the race. She said she be-
lieves that people will continue to take 
action as long as they are not pleased 
with the status quo. 
“The more candidates, the more 
doors that get knocked on and more 
we can educate people about local elec-
tions,” Powell said.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgBRUCE,  from pg. 1
On average, about 10 inmates per day worked for the 
county in 2018, Gavarrete said.
The reform may cost the county $1.24 million, Gavarrete 
said. This includes the hiring of 20 full-time employees for 
about $500,000.
The meeting was ﬁ  lled with responses from the com-
munity and members of the local Incarcerated Workers 
Organizing Committee chapter, who marched before the 
meeting.  
Ryan Thomson, a 29-year-old UF sociology doctoral stu-
dent, said this decision has been a long time coming. 
“This barbaric practice has no place here, whether it’s in 
the county, city or university levels,” Thomson said. 
kelwood@alligator.org
tgirtman@alligator.orgPRISON,  from pg. 1Protestors came to the meeting
IT TOOK THREE DEPUTIES TO 
ARREST SAMUEL COX 
Deputies arrested a man wanted for a car-
jacking after he was accused of kicking a law 
enforcement dog Friday.
This is the second time Samuel Ruben 
Cox, 30, of Gainesville, has been accused of 
harming police dogs. He was arrested for a 
warrant, which was issued about a month 
ago, for failing to appear on charges of car-jacking and battery on an 
ofﬁ  cer and a K-9, accord-
ing to an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest re-
port. 
At about 11 a.m., dep-
uties were told Cox was 
near East Newport Baptist 
Church, at 4010 SW 24th 
Ave., the report said. 
After Cox was told multiple times to come 
out, he locked himself in a bathroom, the re-port said. Deputies removed the door, and 
when the sheriff’s dog ran in Cox kicked it 
and pushed a deputy. It took three deputies 
to arrest him. 
The warrant was for a carjacking incident 
on Aug. 7, the report said. Cox opened a car 
door while the driver was inside and fought 
for control of the door.
The driver closed the door on Cox’s hand 
and drove away, the report said. 
Cox ran toward S.R. 45 and went inside a 
nearby house, the report said. He then went through the back door into the woods, the 
report said. 
When deputies found and tried to arrest 
him, he was bitten by K-9 Knight, the report 
said. Cox bit one deputy in the elbow, hit an-
other and Knight. It took six deputies put him 
in handcuffs.
For Friday’s incident, he was charged with 
resisting an ofﬁ  cer with violence, battery on 
an ofﬁ  cer and harming a police animal. 
Cox remained in jail on Monday in lieu of 
a $91,000 bond. Man arrested after accused of kicking ACSO dog, again
Cox
Marr
ABOUT 150 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE 
ANNOUNCEMENT
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
Edward Jimenez decided to pur-
sue a career in health care manage-
ment to help find a cure for his fa-
ther’s Parkinson’s disease.
What once seemed like a nearly 
impossible goal is now becoming a 
reality, Jimenez said. 
On Friday, Jimenez, the CEO 
of UF Health Shands Hospital, an-
nounced Shands will receive $40 
million to start the Norman Fixel In-
stitute for Neurological Diseases, at 
3007 SW Wilson Road. The new cen-
ter will treat patients and find cures 
for neurologic disorders.
The center will open in July, 
Jimenez said.
About 150 medical researchers, 
professors and students gathered 
Friday in front of what will soon be-
come the institute. Jimenez said Lee 
Fixel, a partner with the investment firm Tiger Global Management, do-
nated $20 million to the creation of 
the project. UF will match the dona-
tion, which will make the total con-
tribution $40 million. 
Lee, Jimenez and Shands doctors 
have been planning the project for 
more than 20 years, Jimenez said. 
Lee said he donated to the project to 
give it the financial boost it needs to 
succeed.  
Fixel previously invested in 
Facebook, LinkedIn, Eventbrite and 
Souq, an e-commerce marketplace 
run by Amazon. 
“Lee is helping what is already 
great become greater,” Jimenez said. 
“He has a family and a job, but he 
still puts helping others first as well.”
The project hopes to raise an-
other $60 million to continue hiring 
well-known researchers and their 
teams, Jimenez said. The current 
$40 million will help continue the 
building’s construction, which be-
gan in November, and allow the in-
stitute to recruit five top researchers 
across the country to begin seeking 
treatments.
After meeting Fixel two decades ago, Jimenez said the two came up 
with the idea to start an institute at 
UF to search for treatments for Par-
kinson’s, Alzheimer’s disease, Lou 
Gehrig’s disease, also known as ALS, 
and other neurological conditions. 
“The ability to bring together 
some of the best minds in medicine 
can make an exponential impact,” 
Fixel said.
Florida is arguably hit the hardest 
by cognitive disorders due to it being 
the third most populous state with 
an aging demographic, said Kelly 
Foote, a UF neurology professor and 
co-director of the Norman Fixel Insti-
tute for Neurological Diseases.
The Normal Fixel Institute for 
Neurological Diseases will be able to 
find a cure for the millions who are 
diagnosed, Foote said.
“We are looking for the smart-
est and are trying to identify five re-
searchers that are willing to come,” 
Foote said. “But most importantly, 
willing to make a lasting impact in 
the lives of others.” 
@Taylor__Roth
troth@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The Boy Scouts and Gainesville residents 
teamed up to protect the city’s biodiversity.
On Saturday morning, Gainesville held its 
fifth annual Great Invader Raider Rally, an 
event that helps stop the spread of Ardisia 
crenata, a non-native flowering plant, into 
the areas surrounding the city.
The event took place in 26 different wild-
life and nature spots around Alachua County 
and had more than 600 registered individuals 
and groups removing the plant, said Florida 
Master Gardener Greg McGann.
The Boy Scouts of America North Florida 
Council, took part in efforts around the city. 
One of the locations, at 6421 SW 13th St., is where pack 127 met to remove Ardisia cre-
nata berries from surrounding woodlands 
and creek areas. 
Mike Ryan-Simonovich, a cubmaster for 
the Boy Scouts of America said his pack par-
ticipates in the rally every year as a service 
project to give back to the local environment. 
“At this point, the entire Earth is a gar-
den,” Ryan-Simonovich said. “Either it’s go-
ing to be a garden that is full of weeds or a 
well-tended garden. I want to help make it 
the best world I can.”
City employees came out to the cleared 
areas and sprayed the plants with pesticides 
to prevent them spreading, McGann said.
“The Ardisia will end up going in the 
trash,” McGann said. “If they go to a landfill, 
they will just end up resprouting there.”The rally also included clean-up spots on 
UF’s campus such as the woods near the UF 
Levin College of Law School, the Harmonic 
Woods north of Lake Alice and the Bivens 
Rim Forest, which is south of Archer Road, 
said Nicole Barbieri, a habitat naturalist for 
the city and an organizer for the Great In-
vader Raider Rally.
“The great thing about our event is that 
it introduces people into natural areas that 
they normally wouldn’t necessarily go into,” 
Barbieri said. “Getting people outside in na-
ture and fresh air is invaluable.” 
After cleaning the Ardisia, volunteers 
gathered at the Morningside Nature Center, 
at 3540 E. University Ave., to take part in 
a small, post-cleanup festival. Food trucks, 
crafts, environmental teaching booths, do-
nated prizes, and a live performance by band 
Boiling Oil all helped volunteers celebrate 
the day’s efforts. The event focused on controlling Christ-
mas Berries five years ago when the Di-
oscorea bulbifera, known as the air potato 
plant, became controlled. Exotic species are 
becoming an increasing threat to Gaines-
ville’s biodiversity, said Sally Wazny, the 
Nature Center Education supervisor for 
Gainesville’s’ Parks, Recreation, and Cultur-
al Affairs Department.
“We have a great community in 
Gainesville, and it just felt like the best way 
to get the community involved in helping 
solve this problem,” Wazny said.
Thomas Wendling, a 10-year-old Cub 
Scout from pack 127, emphasized that while 
he was having fun, he also felt this was the 
first step to the solution.
“The cleanup needs to be done,” Wendling 
said. “Ardisia can be killing other plants and 
is very harmful to the environment.”City of Gainesville hosts rally to remove local invasive species
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Dr. Kelly Foote and Dr. Michael Okun, the directors of the Norman 
Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, thank Norman Fixel and 
the Fixel family for their donation of $20 million. The funds will 
be used to build a new facility for the Norman Fixel Institute for 
Neurological Diseases at UF Health. “We accept your challenge 
to impact as many people as we can, ” Okun said. Norman Fixel 
earned a bachelor’s degree in business from UF in 1975. 
UF Health neurology institute development gets $20 million boostAbout 600 people helped outThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnControversies of the 
Women ’s March
Paying attention is more important than you think 
Simone Weil, the great 20th century 
thinker and writer, wrote an essay en-
titled “Reﬂ  ections on the Right Use of 
School Studies with View to the Love 
of God,” that upon reading made me 
uneasy. She argues that the ultimate purpose 
of being a student is developing the capacity 
for paying attention.
As students, we spend the bulk of our time 
learning. In order to truly learn anything, Weil 
thinks, you must ﬁ  rst open yourself up to the 
subject at hand, focus on it and wait to receive its con-
tent. Learning is not a process of memorizing facts or 
formulas, but of patient reception.
To Weil, attention is a sacred channel of human re-
ceptivity and connection. It is our primary way of relat-
ing to the world around us. It naturally follows that what 
we pay attention, and how we do so, greatly shapes and 
reﬂ  ects the state of our inner selves.
An attentive person can share a lengthy conversa-
tion without checking his or her phone or read a book 
for hours. They are attentive to the world around them 
because the world inside of them is not the most impor-
tant thing. They can focus because he or she is not self-
obsessed, and that is because you must ﬁ  rst put yourself 
aside to pay close attention to anything.
To put it another way, true attention is an act of self-
denial. When we pay attention, we stop thinking exclu-
sively about ourselves and what we want in life, and in-
stead, we focus on something else.
The main point of Weil’s essay is to imagine attentive-
ness as a sacred way of life, which is what unsettled me. 
I’ve read many articles and some books on the subject of 
distraction and never felt included in the conversation. I 
hardly check my Facebook, and I don’t have any other 
social media, so whenever I read or talk about the reality 
of our distracted age, I can stand above it all, an observer 
rather than a participant.
It’s true that our age — not just our generation, but 
even our parents — is distracted. I could cite Pew Re-
search Center polling data to make my point, but a per-sonal challenge will sufﬁ  ce instead: Sit on a 
bench on the Plaza of the Americas or Turl-
ington Plaza and watch people who walk by. 
Count the bent heads and the headphones. 
Better yet, when you have some free time in 
your schedule, or you’re bored, try to resist 
spending it on a device. Resist answering texts 
or emails while you’re talking to another per-
son. If you are eating lunch alone, resist Twit-
ter or YouTube; just sit there.
None of these tasks would be easy for any 
of us. Even for those who are not that present online, dis-
traction abounds — text messages, emails, phone calls 
and articles. It is universally difﬁ  cult to give good atten-
tion. Weil unsettled me because she was right when she 
wrote, “That is why every time we really concentrate our 
attention, we destroy the evil in ourselves.” It’s not that 
we can’t focus because of our phones, but that we don’t 
want to focus, so we use our phones. In other words, 
our ﬁ  ght is not against technology, but against ourselves.
We don’t want to focus because we naturally ﬁ  nd 
ourselves to be more interesting than anything or anyone 
around us. Rather than open ourselves to the world in 
order to receive its content, we impose our wants and de-
sires, onto it. We think of life as our personal documenta-
ries. It’s a chance for the world to know our story, rather 
than a space to let others ﬂ  ourish. If attention is the fruit 
of selﬂ  essness, inattention and boredom are the fruits of 
selﬁ  shness, the inability to care for anything but the self.
Weil was right to call this evil, yet it resides in all 
of us, this self-possession. What should we do about it? 
Admitting that we, not our devices, are the problem is a 
great start, but it is just that: a start. It’s the ﬁ  rst step in 
a journey of many more necessary steps. It is tempting 
to solve the issue of distraction with speciﬁ  cs like better 
time-management or self-help; perhaps instead what is 
needed here is not so much a program of self-improve-
ment, but a path of self-forgetfulness. Perhaps we need 
to lose, not help, our selﬁ  sh selves.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His column 
appears Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgAfter the original organizers of the march had a falling out in 2017, 
the Women’s March has seen a wave of controversy over how 
it should be led. In 2017, during and after the ﬁ  rst Women’s 
March, a struggle about the argument of privilege began in re-
gards to women’s rights. 
According to The New York Times, Vanessa Wruble, a white New 
York-based activist of Jewish heritage, invited Tamika Mallory, a black 
gun control advocate and Carmen Perez, a Latina civil rights activist, to 
become partners in the planning of the Women’s March. Wruble began 
to believe her planning was being pushed to the side due to her Jewish 
background. She claims anti-semitic comments were directed toward her 
from Perez and Mallory. Wruble points out that Mallory also has ties to 
Louis Farrakhan, the head of the Nation of Islam, who says that Jewish 
people have proﬁ  ted off black men and women. 
However, Mallory and Perez deny that Wruble was ever sidelined due 
to her heritage. Both women of color, Perez and Mallory wanted to be 
leaders in the march, not just background players. The pair wanted wom-
en of color to be at the forefront of the march, highlighting all women’s 
struggles. Mallory and Perez say they were ﬁ  ghting for women of color 
to be the leaders of the march, while Wruble says she was discriminated 
against. 
Wruble was asked to leave the Women’s March, but Mallory and Perez 
both say it had nothing to do with her heritage. Wruble went on to create 
March On, another activism group that planned a march for Jan. 19, the 
same day as the Women’s March this year. 
According to The Associated Press, an estimated 100,000 people at-
tended this year’s Women’s March, a big difference between 2017, where 
the amount of attendees is contested, but generally understood to be the 
biggest march in Washington, D.C. since the Vietnam War. 
We can’t speak to other people’s opinions on the Women’s March; 
however, it should be said that it’s a shame the Women’s March has seen 
so much controversy in regards to race, class and religion. If we look 
at the bigger picture, the women’s rights movement should include all 
women. The message of the Women’s March and other organizations are 
important and shouldn’t be watered down by outside politics.
We remember the ﬁ  rst Women’s March as being a day of unity for 
women, but we can’t denounce the women who felt excluded. All wom-
en should feel included in this movement, despite race, religion or politi-
cal afﬁ  liation.
If the Women’s March is going to continue to draw crowds and pro-
mote change, it has to create an atmosphere that is inclusive for all wom-
en. The Women’s March was created when women felt that their voices 
were not heard and they decided to take to the streets. It was historic and 
powerful.
This year’s march doesn’t quite hold that strength. It’s been muddied 
down by controversy that has caused a stray from the main goal of the 
marches, which is the equality of all women. It may leave some women 
feeling like participating in the march is wrong or unjustiﬁ  ed. There are 
inherent ﬂ  aws within any system, even ones meant to promote equality.
The Women’s March doesn’t have to be the only organization that 
gathers women together. It’s not the organization itself that matters, it’s 
the message. We have to remember that expressing and promoting our 
beliefs doesn’t have to be facilitated by one organization. It can be done 
for yourself.
If women attending the march felt that the message was powerful 
enough for assembly, then that’s their prerogative. They have a right to 
share their beliefs and to ﬁ  ght any injustice they feel is being done to 
themselves or others. Anyone who attends a march doesn’t necessarily 
agree with a certain companies afﬁ  liation, they believe in the bigger pic-
ture of the movement.
The Women’s March isn’t what it was in 2016, and maybe it never 
will be again. But, it can still be powerful. It just needs voices willing to 
speak out. This can be done through donations to women’s shelters or to 
Planned Parenthood. If you feel that something is important to you, don’t 
let the politics of an organization stray you away from your goal of equal-
ity. Find a way to make a change on your own.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
On Jan. 18, Ariana Grande 
released “7 Rings,” a 
song that had a lot of 
artists calling the pony-
tailed pop princess a 
copycat. Part meme, part per-
sonal attack, music fans accused 
the artist of drawing a little too 
much inspiration from artists like 
Soulja Boy, Princess Nokia and 2 
Chainz.
If you listen to the songs that 
allegedly have been used for ref-
erence, it is not a clear case of 
copycatting. The beat in Grande’s 
song is generic enough for it to be 
unfair to claim that the song is a 
copy of Soulja Boy’s “Pretty Boy 
Swag.” On the other hand, I do 
see where Princess Nokia is com-
ing from when she asks, “Does 
that sound familiar to you?” when 
comparing Grande’s “7 Rings” to 
her song “Mine.” Either way, the 
only obvious sign of duplication is Grande’s use of The Sound of 
Music’s “My Favorite Things”-
esque beat throughout the song.
Originality in music is a tricky 
thing. In a constant state of ab-
sorption, artists create music 
from a myriad of inﬂ  uences. Al-
most every song we have listened 
to is a version or extension of 
some other song that we have 
probably never heard. And say 
a song is neither a version nor 
extension; tracks use samples 
of other (often older) songs and 
similar instruments and beats to 
ﬁ  t what is popular.
To me, innovative music hap-
pens when multiple, pre-existing 
musical elements come together 
in a way that has yet to be heard 
before. It doesn’t require inven-
tion of an entirely new instru-
ment. But new music is hard to 
come by and is by no means easy 
to make, especially when a math-ematical equation could be work-
ing against new music.
Similar to a social media web-
site, Spotify utilizes an algorithm 
to curate content for its users. 
This algorithm makes it easier 
to listen to songs without doing 
the searching yourself, but the 
process also makes it harder for 
songs to break into your reper-
toire. It could be the case that the 
same band makes it to your daily 
playlist week in and week out. 
Or you may hear an older, popu-
lar song and wonder why you’ve never heard it before. Essentially, 
the algorithm creates a music 
bubble that makes it hard for 
people to listen outside of their 
comfort zone, and it can feel like 
you're listening to the same song.
Some artists choose to play 
into the algorithm of their re-
spected genre. If a new release 
is similar enough to historically 
popular singles, yet at the same 
time done well enough to disguise 
old elements, you might just have 
the hit of the week in your mix. 
Artists who do this are by no 
means sell-outs, but they keep 
those who pay the bills (aka fans) 
happy. At the end of the day, it's 
fans who are promoting similar 
songs. 
Music creators who are daring 
enough might attempt to expand 
their bubble outside their genre. 
This risky move might require 
borrowing fundamentals from art-ists who are known for the genre. 
When trying something new, art-
ists might look to a theme that 
has already shown some success. 
Ariana Grande and her pro-
ducers probably did not intend to 
copy any one artist but just cash 
out on a general appealing aes-
thetic of airy vocals, millennial 
pink and catchy rap that reminds 
us of our younger days singing 
along to Maria von Trapp.
With so much content and the 
algorithm only picking a small ra-
tio to reach the ears of the mass-
es, popular songs start to sound 
the same. Creating hit-worthy 
tunes sometimes leads to produc-
ing songs that make us ask each 
other “Does that sound similar to 
you?”
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF jour-
nalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.
I’ve been coming to 
Gainesville since be-
fore I can remember. 
My parents are both 
UF alumni. They love 
coming back for football 
games and to visit their fa-
vorite bars and restaurants 
that are still in Gainesville. 
However, in all the times 
I visited, we never strayed 
far from campus. So, when 
I arrived the week before my freshman 
year began, I didn’t even know that 
Gainesville had anything else to offer.
That October, one of my professors 
invited us to join her for a showing 
of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” 
at the Hippodrome State Theatre, be-
cause it’s referenced in the book we 
were reading (“The Perks of Being a 
Wallﬂ  ower”). I had already seen it, 
but never like this. Actors came out 
dressed in full costume to sing along 
with the ﬁ  lm, and moviegoers joined 
in for songs and to scream lines that 
aren’t actually in the ﬁ  lm.
It became clear to me that night that 
I’d stumbled upon a part of Gainesville 
that is hidden from most students. 
While not intentional on either side, 
most students don’t come in contact 
with this side of Gainesville during 
their time here. We go to Butler Plaza 
to see a movie, we go to Midtown for 
a night out with friends and we spend 
a lot of time complaining that there is 
nothing to do in Gainesville. Mean-
while, the Hippodrome is showing 
independent ﬁ  lms from all over the 
world nearly every week, local dive 
bars are featuring bands that have 
gained a huge following here and the 
city is overﬂ  owing with interesting op-
portunities to ﬁ  nd something new to 
do.
Some of us (myself included at one point) like to think that 
Gainesville greats like Tom 
Petty and Maya Rudolph 
are some kind of anomaly. 
Despite the boring town 
they grew up in, they man-
aged to make something of 
themselves. That’s just not 
true. Gainesville is full of 
talented artists, musicians, 
actors, etc. who are pas-
sionate about the arts. It’s 
home to FEST, an annual punk rock 
music festival that people travel from 
all over to attend. Gainesville is also 
home to artists who sell their work 
in galleries around town and thespi-
ans who leave their heart on the stage 
with each performance.
It might require stepping out of 
your comfort zone every once in a 
while, but it’s worth it. You never 
know where it will lead. Your next fa-
vorite band could ﬁ  nd its start right 
here in Gainesville, and the only way 
to ﬁ  nd out is to check out some local 
shows for yourself. Your next favorite 
ﬁ  lm could be an independent German 
ﬁ  lm you would otherwise not have an 
opportunity to see unless you check it 
out at the Hippodrome. Not only are 
the local arts full of talent, they are the 
foundation of all arts. They thrive on 
word of mouth, and they cultivate the 
artists who become world renowned. 
Without the local arts, we would have 
no arts at all.
You have nothing to lose. Take 
some time to experience a different 
part of Gainesville, and you might just 
realize what makes this city such a 
beautiful and interesting place to live. 
Midtown will be there for another 
night.
Katherine Campione is a UF jour-
nalism senior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays. The 2019 U.S. News & World Re-
port list of best online programs 
was released recently, and UF’s 
online bachelor’s program tied 
with Penn State University World 
Campus and the University of Illinois at 
Chicago for the No. 5 spot.
This is quite an accomplishment for 
UF because it has a couple programs 
based in online schooling, like PaCE. This 
program admits freshmen to the univer-
sity on the condition that they complete 
a minimum of 15 credit hours and two semesters 
of UF Online. Students can request to transition 
to campus once they have completed a total of 
60 credits while also completing all prerequisite 
courses for their major.
Special programs aside, some of UF’s bach-
elor’s degrees are impossible to receive without 
taking some online classes. UF’s class registration 
process is competitive, with limited seats open 
in each class. Even if an in-person version of a 
class is available, it can be very difﬁ  cult to get 
into, making an online class the only option. This 
creates an unfortunate situation for students who 
prefer to be engaged in a classroom setting.
UF’s business school is one that relies heav-
ily on an online education to accommodate all of 
the students pursuing degrees within the college. 
Most of the business classes are available as hy-
brid classes, which have a mix of online and in-
person elements. Typically, the lectures are given 
at a certain time and the students can choose to 
physically attend them or watch the recorded lec-
ture at a later time. The exams for that class may 
be in person or online as well. The problem with 
hybrid classes is that more people take the class 
than the amount that can ﬁ  t inside the lecture 
hall. Hybrid classes create an illusion of free will, 
when oftentimes students are unable to ﬁ  nd a 
seat when they do show up.
Therein lies a chief problem with online 
schooling. It takes a great amount of self-disci-
pline to do online assignments and watch lectures 
in a timely manner. College is a time for people 
to learn organization and time management, but 
loading underclassmen with online classes is like throwing someone into the deep 
end of a pool.
The lack of face-to-face interac-
tion may also be tough for people 
who don’t have the strongest writ-
ten communication skills. It’s easi-
er for a message to be lost in trans-
lation when it is typed out through 
email rather than verbalized. The 
majority of online professors and 
teaching assistants make good on 
their promises to respond within 
24 hours, but when a deadline is nearing, waiting 
a whole day for an answer may be a detrimental 
loss of the time needed to produce quality work.
UF Online states, “There is no difference in 
content and rigor between UF Online courses 
and other courses offered by the University of 
Florida.” Personal experience has shown, how-
ever, that this isn’t always true. There are cases 
in which the online section is much easier than 
the in-person section or vice versa. This is due to 
different professors’ teaching styles and the ways 
they are implemented differently depending on if 
the class is online or in-person.
There is a higher degree of freedom when 
you work from home, with the internet and any 
books available to help ensure success on assign-
ments. Online classes use web cameras and proc-
toring programs like ProctorU to ensure students 
do not receive extra help on their assignments 
and exams, but technology cannot fully replace 
the effectiveness of being monitored in person.
There are undoubtedly many advantages to 
online education as well, but they are aimed 
mainly at students who have priorities more im-
portant than school: students with jobs, students 
who take care of family members or students 
who live far from campus. For the full-time stu-
dent, taking online classes is not the best way to 
learn important material. As technology becomes 
more advanced, issues with online education will 
continue to diminish, but for now, most students 
should stick to plain old school.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sophomore. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.The downside of online education at UFColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.orgGainesville is a home for artistsAriana Grande's song "7 Rings" isn't stolen, it's part of a bigger pictureColumn
Column
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.org
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Fashion Fanatic
Check out our current fashion icon, pg 9‘Into The Spiderverse’ is a cinematic masterpiece
Read our raving review of the ultimate Spider-Man ﬁ  lm, pg 9THANKS TO CRAIGSLIST, 
GAINESVILLE’S LEGENDARY MUSIC 
SCENE WELCOMES A NEW BAND 
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
It began three years ago in a corner of the 
internet ﬁ  lled with odd requests and sketchy 
characters—in the Craigslist ads.
The Forum is the indie-alternative band 
opening for The Hails and Flipturn Friday night 
at The Wooly. 
The band began recording demos in 2015, 
with the enthralling combination of 23-year-old 
Michael Higgins’ husky vocals, Jacob “Jake” 
Farrell, 22, on bass and Nick Wheeler, 26, on 
guitar. Ethan Klohr, 21, joined the trio this 
year, adding killer drums to their new music.
Friday’s crowd can look forward to being 
the ﬁ  rst to hear The Forum’s unreleased music.
Last weekend, I talked to Higgins and Far-
rell about the band’s inception, process and 
inspirations.  
Jackie DeFreitas: Was there anything that 
inspired you to start a band? Did you have 
some sort of childhood dream to do so or did 
this whole thing happen sort of willy-nilly?
Jake Farrell: I think we were all kind of in 
the same head space. For me, when I reached 
out to other people on Craigslist, it was one 
part boredom, one part always wanting to 
form a group and write music and be able to 
play for other people and another part just 
missing playing music in general. 
Michael Higgins: I was just looking for 
other people to play with. I didn’t really realize 
that I would meet people who wrote the same 
way and liked the same style. So, I didn’t really 
go into it with a goal. 
JD: Who writes the songs?MH: Well, I write all the lyrics. We pretty 
much piece-by-piece write songs together in-
strumentally. Someone will come in with one 
riff or musical line and then we’ll kind of all 
get together and build based on that and once 
we know … the ﬂ  ow of the song that’s when 
I’ll just start adding melodies and then later I’ll 
add lyrics.
JD: What do you like to write about?
JF: (faintly and in the background) Sad-
ness.
MH: Lyrically, I’ve always liked small, min-
ute moments. My biggest inspiration is Death 
Cab for Cutie, and they’re all about writing 
about these really small, interpersonal mo-
ments. I like to see a larger story in something 
really small, whether it’s something emotional, 
whether it’s a realization — things like that. 
And I’ll kind of craft it from half real life and 
half making up a story alongside that. If I have 
a small, scary thought or idea, it’s like ‘Oh, I 
should expound on that.’
JD: Was there any song in particular that 
was hardest to write?
MF: Maybe this is just recency bias, but I 
think our single “Dive.” The lyrics to that are 
very reﬂ  ective. I was kind of just reﬂ  ecting on 
what I had experienced in the last year. “Dive” 
is just about not embracing failure, but em-
bracing putting effort into something, even if it 
doesn’t work out. And I had realized that had 
happened a couple times in the previous year, 
and I was trying to put a positive spin on that. 
JD: And going off of talking about songs, 
“Father Hunger,” the ﬁ  rst song on your recent 
EP, is it based off something personal or like 
you said before where it’s half made-up, half 
you just expounding on a thought?
MH: Actually, that one is very real. I was in 
a psychology class around the time I wrote that 
and learned about the term ‘father hunger.’ 
Basically, it’s centered around an adolescent girl growing up 
without a male 
ﬁ  gure in her life 
and seeking that 
kind of approval 
from a father 
ﬁ  gure or some-
thing like that.  
And I work at a 
summer camp 
(Orange County 
in Orlando) and 
I work with kids. 
There’s these 
two kids in this 
family, these 
two girls that 
I found out at one point that their dad is in 
prison for a really long time. I’ve seen how it 
ends up affecting them and that was always 
an emotional thing for me because those kids 
became a really big part of my life, so I wrote 
it based on that.
JD: How would you describe your musical 
style?
JF: I think we have always said our genre is 
alternative indie, which is really broad.
MH: We kind of changed our sound a little 
bit. It’s always morphing. Lately it has been, 
indie with a lean towards pop. There’s like pop 
rock undertones.
JF: When you don’t go into it saying ‘Oh 
I’m gonna make a rock band,’ or ‘Oh I’m gon-
na make a pop band.’ It’s hard to limit yourself 
by describing your songs in that way. And we 
go into writing music without that kind of cat-
egorical idea of ‘Is this an indie song?’ ‘Is this a 
rock song?’ ‘What genre is this?’ Just because 
I feel like it is more creatively freeing for us 
writing music.
JD: Are you guys working on any new mu-
sic now?MH: Yeah we have a ton of new music. We 
just welcomed a new drummer to the band, 
and we have been working with a ton of new 
ideas. On the show on Friday, we are actually 
only playing two old songs and the rest of the 
set is entirely new.
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.orgQ&A with The Forum
MUSIC
RAPID FIRE SECTION:
JD: Cats or dogs?
MH: Cats. 
JF: Dogs.
JD: Drink of choice?
MH: Don’t judge me… Long Island. It’s the most 
efﬁ  cient.
JF: Vodka tonic
JD: If you could jam with any band who would it be?
MH: Bad Suns
JF: Young the Giant
JD: Favorite venue?
MH: 1904 Music Hall in Jacksonville for me. I feel 
like a real musician there.
JF: Will’s Pub in Orlando just because of the histo-
ry of it. It’s like a dive bar, but it has such a historic 
reputation of a ton of great bands going through 
and playing there.Courtesy to The  Alligator
Ethan Klohr just joined the band this month. Friday’s audience will be the 
ﬁ  rst to hear this newly completed quartet’s never-before-released music.
A PLAY ON THE REAL-LIFE 
TRAGEDY IN AN AMISH 
SCHOOLHOUSE.  
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
The black box stage is bare. Ac-
tors walk in dark simple clothing, 
forming a statue-like formation in 
dim lighting. A young girl with pig-
tail braids and a long black dress 
emerges from the group and tells the 
story of “The Amish Project”: a ﬁ  c-
tionalized version of the Oct. 2, 2006 
shooting at an Amish schoolhouse in 
Nickel Mines, Pennsylvania. 
The Star Center Theatre presents 
a fresh, intense production of “The 
Amish Project.” The actors move the plot along through compelling story-
telling, clever blocking choices and 
truthful acting. 
Playwright Jessica Dickey’s con-
temporary portrayal of the tragedy 
at West Nickel Mines School is a 
stunning example of documentary 
theatre.
“The Amish Project” shows the 
audience the thought process of a 
schoolhouse murderer, his wife, 
community members and two of the 
slain girls.  
“It’s as if the playwright had in-
terviews with each character,” the 
director Jesse Desrosiers said. “And 
it’s unique in this situation because 
some of the characters are dead, but 
it’s as if you could hear their per-
spectives. It’s a very interesting story with lots of interweaving moments 
despite them only being related 
through the shooting.” 
The plot’s intensity and velocity 
can be overwhelming. However, this 
cast portrays the story with maturity 
and depth well beyond their years. 
The actors work as an ensemble to 
move the show cohesively by staging 
original choreography in groups and 
in pairs to display speciﬁ  c scenes. 
“We ended basing a lot of the 
concept on community, and so en-
semble really lends itself to that,”  
Desrosiers said.  
Kara Gordon, a 19-year-old UF 
theatre freshman, and Aaron Kien-
stra, a 19-year-old UF acting sopho-
more, portray the scene of how the 
shooter and his wife met with intri-cate movements and speciﬁ  city.  
There is no set, no elaborate cos-
tumes only actors communicating a 
complex story using only their bod-
ies and voices. That is theater. 
“One of the ﬁ  rst things we want-
ed was to not do it representational,” 
Noah Seppanen, the associate direc-
tor, said.  “We did not want to show 
the shooting, but go based more on 
the emotion and the text of the piece 
instead of just having props and 
sets.”  
This story leaves audiences beg-
ging the question: How much can 
one forgive? 
Desrosiers and Seppanen’s goal is 
to make audiences ask questions and 
think about what forgiveness really 
means.   “It’s something that everyone 
grapples with in the show, one way 
or another,” Desrosiers said. “It’s be-
ing able to look at this culture and 
see how forgiving and selﬂ  ess they 
are, turning that and looking in the 
mirror and saying ‘Could I be more? 
Do I forgive enough? Am I kind 
enough?’ These people are superhu-
mans at being kind. It’s interesting 
to imagine their response to such a 
tragic event.”  
“The Amish Project” runs at 7:30 
p.m. Thursday through Saturday 
and at 3 p.m. Sundays from Jan. 24 
until Feb. 3 at Star Center Theatre. 
emcavoy@alligator.org
Twitter: @emmamcavoy1‘The Amish Project’: How tragedy breeds forgiveness    
THEATERWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
WHICH DOCUMENTARY REALL Y 
IGNITED THE FLAME IN VIEWERS?
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer 
Just days before Netﬂ  ix’s highly-anticipated Fyre 
Festival documentary was set to premiere, Hulu re-
leased their own documentary. Both ﬁ  lms analyze 
the failure of the popular luxury music festival on 
the Bahamian island Great Exuma in 2017.
Hulu premiered “Fyre Fraud” on Monday, Jan. 
14 and Netﬂ  ix’s “Fyre” was released just four days 
later. 
However, the two documentaries portray the 
festival in two completely different lights. 
I think the question shouldn’t be which one is 
better, but rather “What do you want to get out of 
watching the documentary?” because they provide 
completely different information:
Hulu’s “Fyre Fraud”
The Hulu documentary starts with the childhood 
and background of William “Billy” McFarland, the 
director, creator and head behind the infamous Fyre 
Festival. 
There is a statement from his mother read aloud 
through an audio translator, which is an odd pro-
duction choice, especially because they didn’t pro-
vide any reason for doing so. The statement human-
izes McFarland and paints him as business-minded 
and smart from a young age to frame the event in 
the context of his mind. 
Through the rest of the documentary, we watch 
the creation of Magnises, McFarland’s ﬁ  rst fraudu-
lent business venture, and the formulation of Fyre 
Festival based on the app. 
The entire ﬁ  lm is narrated by a host of journal-
ists, lawyers and attendees. 
Netﬂ  ix’s “Fyre”
Netﬂ  ix’s project takes a different approach. Rath-
er than trying to delve into the mind and workings 
of the project in an analytical way,  this produc-
tion takes almost a vlog-style approach by show-
ing footage from the production team. The Netﬂ  ix 
ﬁ  lm gives an inside look into the planning, or lack 
thereof, execution and demise of Fyre Festival. 
The entire ﬁ  lm is narrated by previous employ-
ees who describe their duties and reactions to the 
hurdles and hoops they were forced to continually 
jump through to attempt to put the event on. 
Hulu Criticism: The Hulu documentary ana-
lyzed not only McFarland, but harsh generalizations 
of all millennials. It tried to explain why people 
bought into Billy’s ideas time and time again, rather 
than why the festival utterly failed.
Hulu Positives: If you had more questions re-
garding McFarland’s charges after the festival and 
the fraudulent money laundering during the plan-
ning, then this is deﬁ  nitely for you. The ample 
documenation gives more of a background synopsis 
than a traditional documentary. 
Netﬂ  ix Criticism: While the personal accounts 
were more entertaining, the lack of documentation 
to support the former employees’ claims make the 
story less credible. Also, it seemed to take the focus 
off of McFarland and Ja-Rule and shift the blame to 
the employees.
Netﬂ  ix Positives: The Netﬂ  ix ﬁ  lm feels like you 
are truly in the action of the planning process. The 
ﬁ  lm crew followed the employees the entire time, 
which produced visuals to supplement the narra-
tion. 
If you’re someone who wanted to know more 
about the fruition of the festival and what both 
workers and attendees faced, then I would recom-
mend watching this ﬁ  lm. 
Overall, I wouldn’t say one is superior to the 
other, but I would recommend watching the Netﬂ  ix 
ﬁ  lm ﬁ  rst, then the Hulu ﬁ  lm. One gives the over-
view of the event itself, while the other gives details 
into McFarland’s decision making before, during 
and, surprisingly, after the festival. 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgFyre Fest vs. 
Fyre Fraud  
FASHION
Stephanie Strickland / Avenue Staff
Fashion Fanatic
Chad Clarke, Senior, Economics, 21 
Style: Avant-Garde 
Fashion Icon(s): Frank Ocean, Jaden Smith (Twitter: @ofﬁ  -
cialjaden), Tyler The Creator (Twitter: @tylerthecreator)
Biggest Fashion Tip: Don’t just buy expensive things to keep 
up with fashion trends, create your own style. 
“If it’s your style, own it, ” he said. 
Where His Style Came From:  Having a close relationship 
with his brother, who taught him fashion sense, is where his 
roots in fashion came from. When his brother started dating 
a renowned fashion designer, who happened to be behind 
the looks in Ariana Grande’s “thank u, next” video, he began 
branching out with his looks. He idolizes his brother’s girl-
friend for her ability to look past the gender on the label of 
clothes.
Go-to Winter Outﬁ  t: Turtleneck sweater with a marble knit 
scarf turned circle scarf, loafers and navy blue, tapered pants. 
@_sstrickland_
sstrickland@alligator.org
THIS WEEKEND, ARTISTS AND CODERS 
WILL WORK TOGETHER TO CREATE VIDEO 
GAMES IN 48 HOURS
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
Anyone interested in video games should go to the UF 
Digital Wolds Institute Friday night at 6 p.m.
This is UF’s ﬁ  rst year hosting Global Game Jam (GGJ), an 
international hackathon where multi-disciplinary participants 
collaborate to create stand-alone games in just 48 hours.
Registration is still open and the event welcomes students 
of any and all skill levels.
A theme will be announced on the ﬁ  rst day of the event. 
Students are challenged to create games based on the theme. 
The creations must be ﬁ  nished by Sunday afternoon.
According the GGJ website, in one weekend in 2018, 
8,606 games were created at 803 locations in 108 countries. 
Nick Heitzman, a UF digital arts and sciences lecturer and 
co-organizer for GGJ, said that the event will stimulate col-
laboration and is not a competition. 
“The main goal of Global Game Jam is to bring together 
people from different disciplines related to game develop-
ment, including artists, engineers and designers, and giving 
them the opportunity to develop something together as a 
community,” said Jeremiah Blanchard, co-organizer for GGJ 
and a UF computer & information science and engineering 
assistant lecturer. “It’s a global community effort.”
Last year, the institute held a similar event, the Gator 
Game Jam. It was a 40-hour team-based video game develop-
ment competition.
Some of the games created there were isometric puzzle 
games, a multiplayer game with cat wizards battling by 
shooting spells out of their paws and a survival space experi-
ence game in which the user collects oxygen tanks while try-
ing to avoid ﬂ  oating rock debris.
On Sunday, the event will be open to the public, and all 
are encouraged to play the games created.
“Going into Gator Game Jam was my ﬁ  rst time attend-
ing any sort of hackathon event. I went in nervous and self-
conscious about what to do, but I got a lot out of it,” said 
Yong Qi Zheng, a 21-year-old UF digital arts and sciences and 
economics senior. “If it’s something new, consider giving it a 
try. You might be surprised by the outcome and what you are 
capable of making.”
@sarahan921
sarahan@alligator.orgGlobal Game Jam 
comes to UF 
GAMES
By River Wells
Alligator Staff Writer
There are so many things I could 
say about “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-
Verse.”
I could talk about its exquisite anima-
tion that makes you feel as though you’re 
in the pages of a comic book. I could 
talk about the ﬁ  lm’s wonderfully weaved 
plotline and motivations for its heroes 
and villains. I could talk about the ﬁ  lm’s 
soundtrack, which ﬁ  t the ﬁ  lm’s urban and 
youthful theme perfectly.
I’m not going to talk about any of that. 
I’m going to talk about what this movie 
does for Spider-Man.
I’m a pretty big comic guy, and I’ve 
been pretty happy with the way Holly-
wood has brought the friendly neighbor-
hood of Spider-Man to life. Spider-Man 
2 is a wonderful Spidey narrative, and I 
don’t think any actor has a better live por-trayal of Peter Parker than Tom Holland.  
Including the recent “The Amazing Spi-
der-Man” ﬁ  lms, of which I’m personally 
not a huge fan, it’s safe to say that we’ve 
seen a lot of Spider-Man on the big screen.
But none of those movies, in my opin-
ion, are as good as “Into the Spider-Verse” 
because none of those other movies en-
capsulates the character like this one.
We’ve seen Peter Parker on the screen 
for ages, but this movie doesn’t focus on 
the tired hero. It shifts the spotlight in-
stead to Marvel’s Ultimate Universe ver-
sion of the character, Miles Morales. 
Throughout the ﬁ  lm, we see Miles’ 
journey to mastering his newfound pow-
ers after a spider bite. We watch him con-
quer his doubts and fears and ascend into 
the Spider-Man his New York needs after 
the death of Peter Parker in his universe.
It isn’t just him, though.
We see ﬁ  ve distinct iterations of the 
character from various alternate uni-verses. They all exhibit the fun-loving, 
action-packed and wise-cracking charac-
teristics that make Spider-Man (in addi-
tion to Gwen Stacy’s Spider-Woman and 
Peni Parker) so iconic, but they all do it in 
their own unique way. The movie’s star-
studded voice cast, with everyone from 
Nicholas Cage to John Mulaney, ﬂ  esh out 
their characters so vividly that each of the 
ﬁ  lm’s seven iterations of the web-slinger 
manage to stand out. The viewer will 
watch multiple spider-people ﬂ  y across 
the screen at once, but every single one of 
them showcases the spirit of the character 
in a way that live-action ﬁ  lms simply can-
not replicate.
As it stands, “Spider-Man: Into the 
Spider-Verse” is the ultimate Spider-
Man movie — in this universe and the 
next one.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org‘Into The Spider-Verse’ is a cinematic masterpiece
FILM10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any 
day of the week. Come in and check out one of the 
best wine lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you 
wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness from 
the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties 
for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-
9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years as an 
alternative to alcohol used for ceremonial, 
political, medicinal, and social purposes. Come 
try our Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas in 
Downtown Gainesville. Open weekdays 12pm-
12am, weekends 12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-
5pm.  17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comINDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven 
tandoor cooking for succulent Halal beef, 
chicken, lamb, and goat made fresh daily 
for tikka masalas, vindaloos,  kormas, and 
paneers. Vegetarian and vegan available 
too! M-F lunch specials include rice, naan, 
appetizers, salad, desserts. Open Mon, 
Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. Delivery 
through Bite Squad. Order ahead www.
kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 13th 
St. 352-792-6474.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer 
It can be pretty difﬁ  cult to know what music you’re 
missing or what artists to check out. Fear not, because 
the Avenue is here to give you a look into what music 
our staff is currently listening to on repeat. FRED WILSON 
RECONTEXTUALIZES 
HISTORY THROUGH ART
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
A Klu Klux Klan hood in a 
baby carriage; a whipping post 
that resembles a cruciﬁ  x encircled 
by exquisite salon chairs; a jet-
black Venetian chandelier named 
“Othello’s Light.” Can you guess 
what all of these things have in 
common? 
These are just a few of the 
most recognized artworks by Fred 
Wilson. 
Fred Wilson, a New York-
based conceptual artist, brings 
representation and visibility of 
racial minority subjects by recon-
textualizing mainstream spaces 
in museums and cultural institu-
tions. 
Wilson presented a lecture to 
about 80 students and art enthu-
siasts Jan. 15 at Little Hall. The UF 
School of Art + Art History host-ed Wilson as part of the Spring 
2019 Wiesenfeld Visiting Artist 
Lecture Series. 
Wilson’s bold, deliberate 
method of exploring dynamics of 
power and privilege is shocking.
For instance, at the entrance of 
his exhibition “Mining the Muse-
um” (1992-1993) at the Maryland 
Historical Society, an installation piece of three pedestals on one 
side of the room displayed busts 
of Napoleon, George Washington 
and Benjamin Franklin, while on 
the other side there are empty 
pedestals with the names of fa-
mous African Americans like Har-
riet Tubman, Benjamin Banneker 
and Frederick Douglass. Between 
these two rows sits a golden tro-phy engraved with “truth.”
Wilson said he hopes viewers 
contemplate whose truth is pre-
sented inside a museum. 
“I want people to come to a 
museum and know that every-
thing is controlled and has mean-
ing,” he said.
Often, Wilson discovers the 
heart of his work by digging 
through the storage of museums.
While sifting through the stor-
age shelves of the Dartmouth Col-
lege Hood Museum of Art, Wilson 
found and inspected a head sculp-
ture that he recognized from his 
readings. It was of Ota Benga, a 
black man who was kidnapped 
from the Congo and taken for dis-
play at the St. Louis World Fair in 
1904 in a cage with apes.
The artist paid respect to the 
original sculpture and modiﬁ  ed 
it to wear a white scarf and en-
graved words at the mantle read-
ing, “I’m the one who left and 
didn’t come back.”
@sarahan921 
sarahan@alligator.orgShining light on power and privilege 
ART
Courtesy to The Alligator
Fred Wilson was this month’s visiting artist lecturer.
Avenue Weekly Playlist
LINDSEY’S LISTENS:
“Goon Squad”
 Ripe
“Truth Hurts”
 Lizzo
“ Always Been You”
 Quinn XCII
EMMA’S ANTHEMS:
“Sucker Punch”
Sigrid 
“SICKO MODE”
 Travis Scott
(Skrillex Remix) 
STEPH’S SONGS:
“The Greatest”
 Sia 
“What’s Up Danger”
 Blackway & 
Black Caviar
SARA’S SONGS: 
“Sunny Duet”
 Noname 
ft. theMIND
“Tribe”
 Bas & J.ColeJACKIE’S JAMS:
“Underwater”
RÜFÜS DU SOL
“Hippies”
Flipturn
“Dive” 
The Forum
TRANELLE’S TUNES:
“More Than That”
 Lauren Jauregui 
“ Almost 
(Sweet Music)”
 Hozier
“Stuck in the Middle”
Mike Posner
“Baby”
Clean Bandit ft. 
Marina & Louis Fonsi 
VANESSA’S
VOLUMES:
“7 Rings”
 Ariana Grande 
“Where This Flower 
Blooms”
 Tyler, The Creator & 
Frank OceanBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Designated drivers are the greatestSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
Biologist Wanted for Part-Time Employment: 
Run a 3D Digital PCR
Biologist with extensive digital PCR experi -
ence wanted. Envision one to two days a 
week running non-diagnostic blood samples 
for local non-profit research organization. 
Co-authorship on papers possible. Contact 
jclement@betterhumans.org      1-23-19-5-
14
EARN $400 Or More A Week!
 Start Now At:
Collegeincomes.com      1-25-19-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the num-
ber of the U.S. highway that runs along 
the West Coast?
2. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the fastest bird in the world?
3. LITERATURE: What is the name 
of the wood carver in “The Adventures 
of Pinocchio”?
4. MOVIES: Which 1980s movie 
featured the tagline, “One man’s strug-
gle to take it easy”?
5. ASTRONOMY: How long is a 
year on the planet Mercury?
6. BUSINESS: Which automaker 
sold a line of cars called the Fairlane?
7. ANATOMY: How many times 
does the average human heart beat 
each day?
8. TELEVISION: Which 1960s tele-
vision drama featured the catchphrase, 
“Book ‘em, Danno!”?
9. ARCHITECTURE: Who designed 
the famous home called “Fallingwater”?
10. COMICS: What is the name of 
the dog in the “Dennis the Menace” 
comic strip?
Answers
1. U.S. Route 101
2. The peregrine falcon, which can 
exceed 200 mph in a dive.
3. Geppetto 
4. “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off”
5. 88 days
6. Ford Motor Co.
7. More than 100,000 times
8. “Hawaii 5-0”
9. Frank Lloyd Wright
10. Ruff
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 21, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
Come hear about “Fear and Flourishing
in the Age of Robots,” a discussion with
expert and author Nigel Cameron at the
Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, 
Monday, January 28 at 6 p.m. 
Tickets at cademuseum.org
1-28-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Soft ball
5 Berkshire 
Hathaway 
headquarters city
10 Greenish-yellow 
pear
14 Mine, in Montréal
15 Chicano rock 
band Los __
16 “Enchanted” girl 
in a 2004 film
17 Hors d’oeuvre 
cracker
18 Lose tautness
19 Logician’s error, 
maybe
20 2011 Steve Carell 
romcom
23 Slangy affirmative
24 Light beam
25 Poseidon’s realm
28 Lav, in Bath
30 Zero in
31 Federal bldgs. 
with mailboxes
34 Rickety abode
38 Diva’s time to 
shine
39 Savings plan inits.
40 Fair-haired sci-fi 
race
41 “Stop whining!”
46 Chinese menu 
surname
47 Put away
48 Pine-__: cleaning 
brand
49 Old Nintendo 
game console: 
Abbr.
50 UFO pilots, 
supposedly
51 Nintendo game 
console
53 Neither 20-, 34- 
nor 41-Across 
has any
62 Similar in nature
63 Online biz
64 Compete for the 
America’s Cup
65 Fish catchers
66 Art class subjects
67 Stubborn sort
68 Aussie greeting
69 Part of LED
70 Marked for 
deletion
DOWN
1 DEA operative
2 House of Saud 
bigwig3 Duty roster
4 Like soda pop
5 Part of a comfort 
simile
6 Mad Magazine 
cartoonist 
Drucker
7 Leigh Hunt’s “__ 
Ben Adhem”
8 Earring style
9 “Take two __ and 
call me ... ”
10 Kind of dancer
11 Breakfast spread
12 Balkan native
13 Superman 
accessory
21 Holler
22 Beaver creations
25 Town, in 
Germany
26 Irish banknotes
27 Protein-building 
acid
29 Poet with 
dedication?
30 Military plane 
acronym
31 McCain’s running 
mate
32 “__, all ye 
faithful ... ”
33 Decides not to 
attend35 Baseball club
36 Tulsa sch. 
named for an 
evangelist
37 Use an axe on
42 Test version
43 London area that 
includes Canary 
Wharf
44 “Is there another 
way?”
45 Landed
50 Itty52 Answer at the 
door
53 Pealed
54 Scratched (out)
55 Pocket bread
56 Small decorative 
case
57 Carpentry groove
58 Wasn’t honest
59 French waters
60 Stir up
61 Malamute’s 
burden
1234567891 01 11 21 31 4
15 16
17 18
19 20 21
22 23
24 25
26 27
28 29 30 31 32
33 34
35 36 37 38
39 40
41 42
43 44 45
46 47
48 49
By Ryan McCarty
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, January 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Barber’s “Adagio 
for Strings” is 
in it
11 Hits with a 
charge
15 Kerry 
Washington’s 
“Scandal” role
16 Jukebox opening
17 Sang
18 Villa-studded 
Italian lake
19 Salon boards
20 One taking 
things literally?
22 Angry
23 Part of a football 
game-ending 
tradition
24 Rear attachment
25 Worked together
26 Nailed,  
test-wise
27 “Rabbit ears” 
antennae, e.g.
28 Pixie and flip
29 Wheat whackers
30 Poor
33 Washington 
team
34 Goat-man of 
myth
35 Rocks below 
bridges?
38 Cabinet member 
under Dubya
39 See 43-Across
40 “Clown Prince of 
Hip-hop” Biz __
41 Boards around 
the house
42 Rocky Mountain 
rodents
43 With 39-Across, 
“Listen up, lads”
44 Ones sniffing out 
trouble
46 Reactor 
meltdown site
47 Old cooking 
show with a 
Creole theme
48 Outcomes
49 “Gotta split!”DOWN
1 Unthinking, as a 
mistake
2 Spanish  
steps?
3 Fruity 
refreshments
4 Staved off
5 Larger, as a 
sum
6 Like gnus
7 Draft choices
8 __ de guerre
9 Macbeth and 
Otello
10 Puts down new 
roots
11 Standard 
deviation 
measures
12 Baseball family 
name
13 Salon stuff
14 Hopped-up
21 Johnnycakes
23 Retailer 
specializing in 
youth fashion
25 Impromptu 
competition27 Golfer’s yardage 
book data
29 Bar food
30 “There’s no 
doubt about  
this”
31 Hearing-related
32 River to the 
Black Sea
33 “Why, sure!”
34 Conventional 
writing method35 “Uh-uh”
36 “Little House” 
antagonist  
Nellie __
37 Digital camera 
insert, briefly
38 Steve of 
“Foxcatcher”
40 Craze
42 Like wetlands
45 Alumni 
newsletter word
1.  In poor shape
1.  Ancient Greek city5.  Smoke ____
2.  ____ Sea6.  ____ setter
3.  Young child7.  Tell
4.  Understand BAYSBH
PRSATARAAML
IHSIR
ANIABAR
BNBAOIMOMFNIR
AOFMHTANSWERS: 1A-Shabby  5A-Alarm  6A-Irish  7A-Inform
1D-Sparta  2D-Arabian  3D-Bambino  4D-Fathom  B-Amphibians1-23-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are about 7,000 species of ____.
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators hire new cornerbacks coach
Dan Mullen announced on Monday the hiring of T orrian Gray as his new cor-
nerbacks coach, replacing the now-Georgia defensive backs coach Charlton 
Warren. Gray was with the Washington Redskins for the past two seasons. 
He served a one-year stint with the Gators in 2016.UF gymnast junior Rachel Gowey 
(pictured) earned SEC Specialist 
Gymnast of the Week, while Trinity 
Thomas earned SEC Freshman of the 
Week.Mark My Words / Opinion
The University of Con-
necticut athletic depart-
ment is in debt. A huge, 
heaping pile of debt.
UConn released its an-
nual athletics ﬁ  nancial 
statement on Thursday, 
and it’s over $40 million in 
the hole. 
The UConn athletic de-
partment had over $80.9 
million of expenditures in 2018, and it 
brought in just over $40.4 million. The 
UF athletics department spent $155.8 
million in 2017-18 and reported $149.2 
in revenue for comparison. Florida’s 
debt is healthy. UConn’s needs triple-
bypass surgery. 
Huskies athletic director David Bene-
dict is in a big dilemma as a result. He 
has to decrease the deﬁ  cit somehow, 
and cutting sports — the obvious way of solving the issue — is a 
brutal and tricky tactic. If 
he cuts one men’s or wom-
en’s sport, he will have to 
cut a sport for the oppo-
site gender with nearly the 
same amount of scholar-
ships in order to comply 
with Title IX. 
Before this, Benedict 
needs to examine other op-
tions. 
First, take an inventory of all expens-
es. Look at every single expenditure 
each sport is making, which I’m sure 
Benedict is already doing. 
However, there’s already a glaring 
expense, although small, UConn needs 
to cut: uniforms.
The football team went 1-11 last sea-
son, and it hasn’t had a winning season UConn has a lot to fix. 
Here’s some suggestions.
Mark Stine
twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
It rained all night long.
The weather outside the 
O’Connell Center couldn’t have 
been drier, but the inside was 
drenched with three-pointers as 
Florida made 18 of them to take 
down Texas A&M 81-72.
Both the Gators and the Aggies 
took a minute to settle into Tues-
day night’s game, but once they 
did, the deep shots started falling 
from both ends of the ﬂ  oor.
Senior KeVaughn Allen initi-
ated the myriad with his ﬁ  rst 
three-pointer just three minutes 
into the game. And it started a 
ripple on the next three posses-
sions with makes from freshman 
Andrew Nembhard, Allen, again, 
and freshman Noah Locke. 
Before Tuesday, Florida (11-7, 
3-3 SEC) was the only team in the 
nation without a 20-point scorer 
this season. That changed with 
Allen’s 31-point performance and 
Locke’s 27-point night.
Locke and Nembhard were 
two of three freshmen in coach 
Mike White’s starting lineup for 
the second-straight contest. Forward Keyontae Johnson 
made his second career start in 
the place of forward Keith Stone, 
who suffered a season-ending 
ACL injury against Georgia.
Johnson ﬁ  nished with just 
two points but grabbed nine re-
bounds.
But after draining the four con-
secutive shots early on, Florida 
cooled off. 
The Aggies didn’t.
Texas A&M (7-10, 1-5 SEC) 
had an answer to every one of 
Florida’s three-point shots and 
continued to shoot well from deep 
when the Gators started to miss.
UF took 22 shots from beyond 
the arc in the ﬁ  rst half and made 
just seven of them. The Aggies 
also made seven threes during 
that span, but it only took them 
11 shots to do so. 
But Allen kept the Gators aﬂ  oat 
when the others’ shots weren’t 
falling in the ﬁ  rst half, going 4 
for 5 from deep with 14 ﬁ  rst-half 
points. 
With the Aggies shooting 55 
percent, Florida trailed by 13 at 
the half.Hot shooting from Allen, Locke lifts UF over Aggies
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen became the ﬁ  rst Gator this season to eclipse 20 points. He was 10 of 
16 on the night, which included 8 of 10 from three, to drop a game-high 31 points against T exas A&M.
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
There’s plenty to be excited about if you are 
coach Jenny Rowland.
The No. 3 Florida gymnastics squad walked 
into a Pete Maravich Assembly Center that held 
12,093 people and walked out with a win. It 
ended LSU’s 35-meet win streak at home and the 
Gators’ four-year losing streak to the Tigers. 
Rowland’s team in completing its revenge 
showed that its aspirations of returning to the na-
tional championship aren’t so far-fetched.
“After the ﬁ  rst event, they just starting build-
ing on their success,” Rowland said. “By the end, 
they were not gonna let anybody take it away 
from them, so that was really exciting to see.”
To begin, sophomore Alyssa Baumann settled 
nicely in the lineup after being absent from the 
team’s ﬁ  rst meet against Missouri due to injury. 
Baumann’s ﬂ  oor routine earned one of the higher 
scores among the Gators with a 9.875, but her 
most impactful score was her 9.900 on the bal-
ance beam. Baumann was the last gymnast to perform for UF that night, and her score helped 
set the bar for LSU’s McKenna Kelley just a little 
bit higher for her ﬁ  nal ﬂ  oor routine, a bar that 
proved to be too high for the Tigers.
“It was deﬁ  nitely a stressful situation,” Bau-
mann said. “But all last year, I was in pressure 
situations, and I knew that I could do it.”
The true standout for the Gators, however, 
was its freshman all-arounder, Trinity Thomas. 
Thomas ended the night with a 39.650 and was 
the highest scorer on every UF event besides 
the balance beam. Thomas’s ﬂ  oor routine stood 
out in particular, scoring a 9.950. The score is 
an improvement over her ﬂ  oor routine against 
Missouri, a 9.900, and she also improved on her 
vault score and her beam score from the previous 
week.
With Thomas’ improving scores and dominat-
ing presence in the lineup, she’s expected to be 
an invaluable asset as the team moves along the 
road to the NCAA championship.
It should be mentioned amongst the posi-
tives, however, that the Tigers weren’t exactly at Gators riding high after LSU victory
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
It took just three days for freshman Mar-
lee Zein to make an immediate impact for the 
Florida Gators tennis team. 
Zein and company opened their 2019 
spring campaign in the Freeman Memo-
rial Women’s Tennis Championships in Las 
Vegas, Nevada. They found success on the 
singles court notching nine match victories, 
with Zein responsible for three of those. 
Zein started the three-day tournament 
on a high note after defeating Pepperdine’s 
Ashley Lahey, who finished the 2018 NCAA 
Singles Championship as runner-up, in three 
sets. She coasted in the next two rounds, de-
feating UCLA’s Taylor Johnson and UNLV’s 
Aiwen Zhu in straight sets before retiring 
in the main draw semifinals to focus on 
Wednesday’s home opener.
“I’m pleased with the way (Zein) com-
peted out there today, and it says a lot about 
how she has been preparing in practice and 
in workouts,” coach Roland Thornqvist said 
in a release. “She played really well from 
both a physical and mental perspective.”
Though Florida performed well in singles 
led by Zein and sophomore McCartney Kes-
sler, who won both of her singles matches 
in straight sets, it struggled to find similar 
success in doubles play. 
The Gators doubles tandems of Sydney Berlin/Kessler, Anastasia Kharitonova/Zein 
and Tsveta Dimitrova/Ida Jarlskog finished 
the weekend 2-7. After ending the fall ranked 
No. 41 in ITA doubles, Dimitrova and Jarl-skog opened the tournament with an im-
pressive 6-1 win over UCLA’s Alaina Miller/
Johnson but quickly faltered and lost both of 
their remaining matches. The only other doubles win came from 
Anastasia Kharitonova and Zein in their 6-2 
victory over UNLV’s Connie Li/Izumi Asano. 
Though these freshman accounted for 
half of Florida’s doubles wins, the inexpe-
rience showed in the tandem’s two losses, 
where it won just one game combined. Flor-
ida was also outscored on the doubles court, 
winning 15 fewer games than its opponents 
in the nine duos matches. 
It wasn’t an ideal start for the Gators, but 
Thornqvist was content with the positive 
takeaways from the weekend tournament. 
“Our chemistry continues to get bet-
ter along with our offensive play calling,” 
Thornqvist said. “These aspects of the game 
are important, and I think we will continue 
to see improvement as we get more reps out 
on the court.” 
Florida is back in action for their home-
opener today at 3:30 p.m., as they take on 
the California Golden Bears at the Ring Ten-
nis Complex. Looking back at the takeaways 
from the fall campaign and this past tourna-
ment, Thornqvist is confident in the direc-
tion his young team is headed as dual-match 
play begins.
“Overall we are getting much needed 
competition,” Thornqvist said, “and al-
though some are struggling, this will defi-
nitely be a positive in the long run.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgZein impresses during Florida’s spring debut in Vegas
Alligator File Photo
UF coach Roland Thornqvist was pleased with how freshman Marlee Zein played in Las 
Vegas. “She played really well from both a physical and a mental perspective, ” he said.
TRACK AND FIELD
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
It was a successful season-
opening weekend for the Florida track and field teams.
Throwers and horizontal-
jumpers competed at Virginia 
Tech’s Hokie Invitational, while 
high-jumpers and runners com-peted at the Clemson Invitational. 
Twelve Florida athletes set NCAA 
top-10 times.
Leading the way for the wom-
en was senior jumper Yanis Da-vid. She was named the SEC 
Women’s Field Athlete of the 
Week. Her mark of 6.45 meters 
in the long jump, which she set 
on her fifth attempt Saturday, tied 
the national lead.
Junior jumper Kala Penn 
wasn’t far behind David with 
a distance of 6.22 meters. That 
mark was good for third place at 
the Hokie Invitational and is tied 
for ninth in the national rankings.
Grant Holloway was the star 
performer for the men’s team. 
The junior, who is a four-time 
NCAA and SEC champion, took 
home first place — and the fastest 
time nationally — with a time of 
7.49 in the 60-meter hurdles.
Holloway wasn’t done there. 
He also took home first place in the 200 meters with a time of 
20.69, good for second nation-
ally. Holloway’s performances 
earned him SEC Co-Runner of the 
Week along with South Carolina’s 
Arinze Chance and USTFCCCA 
Men’s National Athlete of the 
Week honors.
Elsewhere, the men were vic-
torious in the 4x400 relay. Hol-
loway, Benjamin Lobo Vedel, 
Chantz Sawyers and Ryan Clark 
combined to set the nation’s sec-
ond-fastest time at 3:04.74.
Both teams will be back in ac-
tion on Friday and Saturday when 
they travel to Fayetteville for the 
Razorback Invitational.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgDavid, Holloway shine for UF at weekend Invitationals
INFOBOX:
Hakim Sani Brown and Ryan Clark — 6.62 seconds in the 
60-meter sprint. Tied for fifth all-time at UF.
Grant Holloway — 7.49 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles. Tied 
for fifth-fastest time in collegiate history.
Grant Holloway — 20.69 seconds in the 200-meter sprint. 
Ninth-ranked time in UF’s Indoor top 10.
AJ McFarland — 22.32 meters in the weight throw. UF record.
Asa Garcia — 13.18 meters in the triple jump. Sixth-ranked 
time in UF’s Indoor top 10.
Yanis David — 6.45 meters in the long jump. Tied NCAA lead. The Associated Press
Florida sprinter, jumper and hurdler Grant Holloway finished first in both the 60-meter hurdles and 
the 200-meter sprint. His time of 7.49 seconds in the hurdles was the fifth fastest in collegiate history.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYStheir best in LSU’s meet against the 
Gators. LSU had two 9.300 scores 
on the night — one from Sarah Ed-
wards’ vault routine and one from 
Lexie Priessman on the ﬂ  oor — 
which is .150 lower than the lowest 
score in UF’s meet against Missouri, 
freshman Savannah Schoenherr’s 
9.450 on the vault. While the low-
est score in every routine is dropped, 
the Tigers would have beneﬁ  tted 
from a higher overall score had the 
two LSU gymnasts performed better.
While there is an argument that 
LSU did more damage to itself than 
UF put in the effort to win, the im-
provements from an already impres-
sive freshman in Thomas and a re-
turn to form for one of the team’s 
stars last season in Baumann proved 
that the victory in Baton Rouge, Lou-
isiana, was far from a mere ﬂ  uke.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14UF snapped LSU's 35-meet home win streak
since 2010 or a bowl appearance since 2015. No 
wonder Huskies football saw 28-percent decline in 
ticket sales last season. 
Despite this, the team is getting new uniforms 
next season. That’s an issue because football deﬁ  -
nitely hasn’t earned new duds. This cut and oth-
ers like it should be extra points of emphasis since 
the football program lost the athletics department 
$8.7 million last year, more money than any other 
sport. 
Shifting to basketball, the Huskies’ men’s team 
lost about $5 million while the women’s team lost 
about $2.3 million. The men have struggled the last 
few seasons, but these two programs are by far the 
school’s most storied. The problem is that they’re 
playing in the American Athletic Conference. 
Playing in the AAC means playing against lesser 
competition, especially if you compare that to the 
teams UConn used to face when it was a member 
of the Big East. But let’s view this from a purely 
monetary standpoint.
Currently, UConn athletics receives a little less 
than $2 million per year as part of the AAC’s seven-
year, $126 million television rights deal with ESPN 
that started in 2013. And this deal includes football. 
The Big East, which doesn’t have football, also 
struck up a television rights deal in 2013 but with 
Fox. The Big East’s deal is worth $500 million over 
12 years, which shakes out to a little over $4.1 mil-
lion for each of the 10 teams. However, there’s a 
catch. If the Big East expands to 12 teams, the deal 
would increase in worth to $600 million. 
It has to be a no-brainer for Benedict to want to 
return to the Big East, especially basketball. 
If UConn were to join the Big East it’d more 
than double its revenue from television rights im-
mediately. That makes a little cut into the deﬁ  cit. 
Also, UConn will play against better competition 
than it is in the AAC. 
Just playing better teams will bring more fans 
into the stands, and it’ll deﬁ  nitely bring better play-
ers to UConn (at least in case of the men’s team). 
In turn, the men will increase their chances of 
making the NCAA Tournament with better players 
and a tougher schedule, which is where the real 
money is made in college basketball. 
Switching conferences is just an unlikely sug-
gestion, but it’s deﬁ  nitely a way for Benedict and 
UConn athletics to slash its deﬁ  cit. 
Mark Stine is assistant sports editor at the Al-
ligator. Follow him on Twitter @mstinejr or contact 
him at mstine@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Trinity Thomas earned her second-straight SEC Freshman of the Week 
honors following her performance at LSU. She recorded an all-around score of 
39.650, including  a 9.950 on her ﬂ  oor routine.
But the Gators dominated the three-
point line from there.
Locke got it started, draining three 
straight from downtown to open the 
half, cutting the deﬁ  cit to seven. Allen 
came up with a steal and another triple 
to cut it to four. And the Gators used 
momentum to swipe their ﬁ  rst lead since 
early in the ﬁ  rst half, a slim 54-53 ad-
vantage midway through the period.
But neither Locke nor Allen was ﬁ  n-
ished.The two combined for 10 triples in 
the second half, accounting for 37 of 
Florida’s 48 points.
Allen ﬁ  nished with eight threes on 
the night, Locke with seven.
“I was just shooting with conﬁ  dence, 
just shooting with conﬁ  dence,” Locke 
said of his career-high night. “Shooting 
the way I shoot, and everything was fall-
ing for me.”
Suddenly, it was Texas A&M that 
struggled with the deep ball, going 2-for-
11 in the second half.
Florida stormed back from its double-
digit deﬁ  cit and shot as well as it has all season. The Gators accomplished some-
thing they’ve rarely done so far: They 
held onto their lead and closed out the 
game.
Much of White’s focus following 
the victory was on what still needs to 
improve, and he noted he’d like to see 
much more consistency moving forward.
“Made lots of jump shots,” White 
said. “I wish we would every night.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Locke, Allen combined for 15 of 23 from three