We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators look to rebound 
against Arkansas
Trinity Thomas and the UF gymnastics team will 
go for the SEC title, pg. 14Gainesville’s mayoral race is coming up
See our candidate proﬁ  les and when to vote, pg. 8
Diﬀ  erent ways to get into UF
Not everyone starts at UF as an on-campus  freshman , pg. 4FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 65
FEATURE FRIDAY
By Angie DiMichele and 
Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writers 
Armed with knives, scalpels, micro-
scopes and programming languages, wom-
en break through gender and scientiﬁ  c bar-
riers. 
Women account for over 50 percent of 
the population. Yet as the overall female 
population grows, female students and fac-ulty in science ﬁ  elds are under-represented. 
Despite being in the minority, these 
female professors and students don’t see 
themselves solely as statistics. They view 
themselves as valued contributors on equal 
footing with their counterparts. 
These are their stories.
Katerina Aifantis considered the halls 
of Michigan Technological University her 
playground. While her father scribbled en-gineering theories in his ofﬁ  ce, Aifantis and 
her brother, Elias Jr., ran around the hall-
ways and slapped notes on the professors’ 
doors of the nine-story building. 
Aifantis is now a 35-year-old associate 
professor and faculty fellow of mechanical 
and materials engineering at UF. She is one 
of eight women of 62 mechanical engineer-
ing faculty. 
Aifantis studies how materials like sili-UF women in science share stories 
of resilience and discrimination  
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Morgan Gravely, a 23-year-old UF animal sciences senior, works at the UF Meat Processing Center. Gravely is 
currently the only female employee at the center.
SHE WAS 14 WHEN IT BEGAN
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff writer
An Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce deputy was arrested Thurs-
day after he was accused of hav-
ing a relationship with a 17-year-
old girl for about three years.
William Arnold Jr., 49, is a K-9 
deputy and has served for about 
13 years, according to the sheriff’s 
ofﬁ  ce.
The girl told deputies that she 
and Arnold have been in a sexual relationship since 
she was 14 in eighth grade, according to a sheriff’s 
ofﬁ  ce arrest report.
She spent time at his home over summer vaca-
tions. He made her feel that if they did not have sex 
she would not be allowed inside, the report said. 
There have been about 10 incidents during their re-
lationship, most recently in January.
In January, Arnold told her he wanted to kill him-
self, the report said. He asked to meet at a church 
in Alachua because he did not want his neighbors 
to see her car. They went to his house and had sex.
She recently emailed Arnold saying she didn’t 
want to be in contact with him, the report said.
Arnold told deputies he knew her for about three 
years and considered her a family friend but denied 
sexual activity, the report said. He said they would 
“horseplay” and sometimes get into arguments.
Arnold was placed on administrative suspension, 
the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce said.
He was charged with lewd and lascivious battery 
and sexual assault, the report said.
Arnold remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Thursday and will receive bail today.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.org
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
The U.S. District Court for the 
Northern District of Florida ruled 
in favor of the The New York 
Times Wednesday in a defama-
tion suit ﬁ  led by a UF professor. 
Kevin Folta, former associate 
professor for UF horticultural sci-ences department, ﬁ  led the defa-
mation suit for an article he ap-
peared in from 2015, according to 
court records. 
The article by Eric Lipton, later 
a defendant in the case, focused 
on the impact and the relation-
ships of biotechnology and organ-
ics companies with public univer-
sity academics, according to court records. 
In the article, Lipton uses Fol-
ta’s emails from his UF account, 
which are public records. The 
emails showed communication 
between Folta and representa-
tives from Monsanto, the world’s 
largest corporate seed company. 
They detail agreements to pro-
mote Monsanto’s products. Folta contested his emails’ use 
in the case, but the court ruled 
they could be used, according to 
the record. 
Folta was previously the de-
partment chairman, but he re-
signed from his position in May 
2018 after receiving death threats 
from activist groups, according to 
a report from The Alligator. 
Folta denied comment at this 
time. 
Mark Caramanica, a lawyer for The New York Times, wrote in an 
email the Times was pleased with 
the court’s decision.
“This is a case that should 
have never been brought over 
an important story based on Dr. 
Folta’s own communications that 
shed light on public academics’ 
relationships with the food indus-
try,” he said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgACSO deputy 
accused of sexually 
assaulting girl
Former UF professor loses defamation case against The New York TimesArnold
The case is based on an article published in 2015SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 3•   •   •
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
FRIDAY
Costa Fridays: Latin Throwback
When: 9:30 p.m.- 2 a.m.
Where: Gold Room Nightclub, 
at 11 SW First St. 
What: DJ Am and DJ Jobo 
will place the best Hora Loca 
hits from the past and present. 
Doors open at 9:30 p.m. Cover 
is free before 10 p.m. with a 
VIP text message. Attendees 
can request that by texting their 
full name to 352-301-2269. 
Reduced cover will still be of-
fered with the VIP text mes-
sage if arrival is before 11:30 
p.m. Drink specials include: $1 
drinks until 11:11 p.m., a $99 
Aguardiente Bottle special and 
free Patrón Tequila shots un-
til midnight. A complimentary 
champagne bottle is given to 
birthday groups with a reserva-
tion. For more information, call 
352-660-5454. 
SATURDAY
2019 Florida Lineman 
Competition
When: 8 a.m.-1 p.m.
Where: 4747 N. Main St.
What: Utilities from around the 
state will compete in the line-
man competition, which will 
showcase Gainesville Regional 
Utilities workers in action. The 
event is free and family friend-
ly. There will be face painting, a 
bounce house, a dress-up-like-
a-lineworker competition and a 
kids zone from O2B Kids. Food 
trucks include: Soup to Nuts, 
Two Cuban Guy’s, PawPaw’s 
Kitchen & Catering, Charlie’s 
Snow Shack and Strega Nona’s 
Oven Eddie Q Classic Southern 
BBQ.
Elio’s Latin Night
When: 10 p.m.-2 a.m.
Where: Felipe’s Taqueria, at 
1209 W. University Ave. 
What: The restaurant will open 
for attendees to dance to Latin 
DJ Elio’s music. There will be a 
$10 cover for people under 21 
and a $5 cover for 21 and up. 
2019 Champagne Gala
When: 7-11 p.m. 
Where: Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom
What: There will be dining, a 
silent auction and a “Dancing with the Stars” featuring lo-
cal celebrities and Dance Alive 
National Ballet professionals. 
Live music will be by Gosia 
and Ali. Catering will be pro-
vided by Classic Fare Catering 
and desserts by Thornebrook 
Chocolates. Valet services will 
be provided by Premier Valet. 
The event will be hosted by 
WCJB TV20’s Dave Snyder and 
is co-chaired by Kim Bosshardt 
and Autumn Doughton. The 
event is sponsored by Parris 
Dance. Tickets are $175 a per-
son, and $125 of the ticket is 
tax deductible. Only eight seats 
are left.
MORE
Lessons on the Cost of War
When: Friday from 11 a.m. to 
9 p.m., Saturday and Sunday 
from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Where: Matheson History 
Museum, at 513 E. University 
Ave.
What: In this free event, attend-
ees can understand the impact 
of political and military actions 
of Vietnam through panels on 
the My Lai Massacre and the 
Vietnam War. Paul Ortiz, the 
director of the Samuel Proctor 
Oral History Program, will 
moderate the panel on the mas-
sacre Saturday. Attendees can 
learn about how governmental 
and military policies and prac-
tices were implemented and 
covered up. They can explore 
opportunities to make amends 
with Vietnamese people and 
support organizations working 
for peace and justice. There 
will also be a screening of the 
film “Winter Soldier” at 7 p.m. 
Friday.  
Check out the Florida 
Museum’s ‘water’ pop-up 
outreach at SpringsFest
When: Saturday and Sunday 
from 10 a.m.-4 p.m.
Where: SpringsFest at Silver 
Springs State Park, at 5656 E. 
Silver Springs Blvd.
What: The event will have 
hands-on activities and a natu-
ral science exploration. Visitors 
can learn about Florida waters 
and interact with a pop-up mu-
seum. Admission to the park is 
$2.For more information, visit 
the museum’s website or call 
352-273-2048.The Art of Pedro Pablo Oliva
When: 11 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Saturday-May 2. 
Where: Harn Museum of Art
What: This exhibition will high-
light five works representing 
Cuban artist Pedro Pablo Oliva. 
One is on Fidel Castro and the 
other is on Cuban immigration 
to the U.S. Pedro Pablo Oliva 
is known for his fantastical 
and provocative paintings and 
sculptures that reflect Cuba’s 
social and cultural life. 
Carbon Fee, dividend legisla-
tion to be discussed
When: March 11 at 6 p.m.
Where: Marion County Public 
Library, at 2720 E. Silver 
Springs Blvd.
What: Citizens’ Climate Lobby, 
which motivates citizens to ad-
dress climate change, will have 
representatives speak for free 
on the movement to halt and 
reverse climate change. The 
Grassroots Organization lob-
bies to pass the “Carbon Fee 
and Dividend” legislation and 
works closely with the House 
Climate Solutions Caucus, a 
bipartisan group in the U.S. 
House of Representatives, 
founded in 2016 by Florida 
representatives Ted Deutch, 
Democrat, and Carlos Curbelo, 
Republican. The library has 
free parking and is wheelchair-
accessible. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  79° LOW  60°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Griton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones,  Shelby Smith,
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 65FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Reach 50,000+ sports fans by featuring 
your ad on the NCAA T ournament  
Bracket! This special bracket will be a 
pull out section that Gator fans can use 
for the whole three weeks of March 
Madness to track their favorite teams.
RUN DATE
Mon, March 18DEADLINE
Thurs March 14T ake the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Starting at
$241.79
includes full color
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Contact Alligator Advertising
Reserve your space today!
376.4482 
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
con and tin can be applied to making 
longer-lasting batteries or improving 
brain stimulation in patients with de-
mentia.
She started her undergraduate 
degree at 16 at the school she once 
played in. She ﬁ  nished her masters 
and Ph.D. at 21 from the University 
of Cambridge and the University of 
Groningen.
Aifantis didn’t have any female 
professors in undergrad, but she had 
female friends in her program.
“I started feeling alone after I got 
into the workplace and also during 
my Ph.D. since I was the only girl 
in my group and also several years 
younger than the other male stu-
dents,” Aifantis said.
In her ﬁ  rst job interview at 22, 
a Cornell professor told her the last thing he wanted was another “di-
verse person on his campus.” Aifan-
tis didn’t want to start an argument. 
She gave no response. 
She decided to stay away from 
academia for a while and applied for 
a million dollar European research 
grant with a 3 percent acceptance 
rate. She got it. 
Aifantis attributes her rapid suc-
cess to resiliency from encounters 
like these.
“When I compare myself, I never 
compare myself to other women,” 
Aifantis said. “I just try to be on top.”
A pink hard hat appears among 
the dried blood, metal hooks and 
knives in the UF Meat Processing 
Center.
A swipe of Morgan Gravely’s 
knife transforms a thick, pink side of 
swine into ham, loin, belly and ribs in 20 minutes. The 23-year-old ani-
mal sciences senior cuts meat sold to 
local grocery stores, restaurants and 
customers. 
A side of beef takes longer, but 
with her six teammates, they get the 
job done in an hour. 
There are only 28,000 women in 
the country who work in meat pro-
cessing in the U.S., according to the 
2019 Bureau of Labor Statistics data.
Gravely intended to be a veteri-
narian, but an animal science class 
introduced her to the meat pro-
cessing lab. On her ﬁ  rst visit, she 
watched the kill of an animal. This 
caused her to specialize in meat sci-
ence. 
The anatomy she learned in her 
textbooks was suddenly in front of 
her in a way she hadn’t experienced 
before. 
She started working in the cen-
ter that summer. There were other 
women on the team then, but they 
have since graduated.
She doesn’t mind being the only 
woman. The small group is like a 
family who bonds over jokes and the 
many hours spent cleaning.
In the center, Gravely works 
in killing, cutting and selling. The 
physical component and the gore of 
the job may contribute to the small 
percentage of women in this profes-
sion, but that’s changing, she said.
“The industry is moving in a di-
rection that is more accepting of fe-
males. I’m not too worried about it,” 
Gravely said.
It wasn’t hardships at IBM or 
NASA that led Carol Demas to leave 
the engineering ﬁ  eld. 
It wasn’t the mundane work of 
sitting in a cubicle in Palatka, Flor-
ida, 26 years ago.
It was six months of repeated in-
appropriate comments and the hos-
tile environment at the South Florida 
Water Management District that led 
to the end of her career.
It was the ‘90s. She was equipped 
with two degrees in engineering sci-
ence and math from UF, and a re-sume that boasted IBM as her ﬁ  rst 
employer out of college.
Despite her accomplishments, 
Demas remembers feeling like an 
outsider during her schooling and 
in her work in water resources man-
agement.
In the decades since, Demas 
recalls a former male co-worker 
mocking her voice, taunting her for 
wearing skirts and heels and rolling 
his eyes when she spoke up during 
meetings.
Every day was like this for six 
months until she left her cubicle. 
The sexism didn’t add fuel to her 
ﬁ  re. It didn’t encourage her to stay in 
the ﬁ  eld. It made her feel depressed. 
It marked the end of her engineering 
career. 
Though she works as an adjunct 
instructor at UF, she doesn’t have a 
permanent position. Demas said it is 
her fourth time applying for a perma-
nent position. 
“I found no opportunity at all in 
engineering,” Demas said. “I mean 
none. After NASA and IBM, nobody 
would hire me. I couldn’t even get 
interviews.”
Demas, now an adjunct lecturer 
of differential equations courses and 
a teaching assistant for calculus one 
and two, thinks about her experi-
ence as a woman engineer every day 
when she takes attendance.
Out of 70 engineering students in 
the class, 15 are women. She ﬁ  nds 
the women have higher grades on 
average and attend class more regu-
larly than her male students.
“I love the guys, too. They’re 
young. They’re innocent,” she said, 
laughing. “But I especially want to 
be supportive for the girls.” 
When she was sitting in UF class-
rooms, she was often the only girl. 
She didn’t have any female profes-
sors for guidance.
She felt insulted, dismissed, in-
timidated and scared. 
One professor asked her: “Why 
don’t you just get married?”
These experiences led her to 
teach engineering students. 
The fact that women comprise 23 percent of the faculty in the Herbert 
Wertheim College of Engineering is 
a leap forward from the zero pro-
fessors she had to turn to when she 
studied here, Demas said.
“I didn’t want to be a pioneer,” 
Demas said. “I just wanted to be 
happy.” 
It wasn’t until Andrea Zapata-
Volkmar moved to Gainesville from 
Miami that she considered herself a 
triple threat. 
Female, Hispanic and engineer 
are three words she uses to describe 
her advantages. She considers both 
her identities in industrial and sys-
tems engineering as a way to stand 
out to employers in the male-domi-
nated ﬁ  eld.
She has become more culturally 
aware of herself as the daughter of 
Colombian immigrants. At UF, the 
21-year-old industrial and systems 
engineering junior is the only His-
panic girl among her friends. 
“I’m a person who has big 
dreams. I have earned my way,” 
she said. “It sucks that those have 
been the labels that have given me 
attention, but at the same time, they 
are part of my story.”  
Math is more than numbers to 
Zapata-Volkmar. She realized math 
fascinated her in eighth grade. She 
has always been taught to work out 
the problem in front of her. 
Zapata-Volkmar said women 
and minorities are still in the pro-
cess of making history. Breaking 
social norms in her ﬁ  eld is the prob-
lem in front of her.  
“I’m the ﬁ  rst female in many 
things in my family,” she said. “It 
just sucks that when I came to UF, 
I have learned that what I am is 
rare.” 
adimichele@alligator.org
hbeatty@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1‘I didn’t want to be a pioneer’
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Katerina Aifantis, a 35-year-old UF associate professor and faculty 
fellow of mechanical and aerospace engineering, smiles for a 
portrait in her lab at the New Engineering Building. Aifantis is one 
of eight women in the 62-person faculty of mechanical engineering.
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019UF ONLINE AND INNOVATION 
ACADEMY BRING IN MORE 
TRANSITIONS EACH YEAR
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer 
There’s always the traditional route: get-
ting accepted into UF and spending four 
years in Gainesville as an undergraduate stu-
dent.
But this isn’t always an option for those 
denied admission, financially struggling or 
working full-time.
Nowadays, students are looking to more 
non-traditional routes to earn a UF degree.
The number of transfer students increased 
in past years. The latest records show that 
548 transfer students from Sante Fe College 
were accepted in Fall 2017 as opposed to 431 
in Fall 2016, according to public records.
Jeffrey Goldman, a 20-year-old UF busi-
ness administration junior, transferred to 
campus after just a year and a half at Santa 
Fe, he said. 
Goldman said his route was the perfect 
way to transition into UF.“All the teachers at Santa Fe are well 
aware that you’re there to go to UF,” Gold-
man said. “It sets you up for what you’re go-
ing to get yourself into at UF later on.”
However, another increasingly popular 
path to transitioning to UF residentially is 
through UF Online. 
The program will celebrate its fifth birth-
day this year, said Evangeline Cummings, 
the director of UF Online. The program cur-
rently has more than 3,000 students and has 
graduated more than 1,700 students. PaCE, 
a division of UF Online that allows students 
to transition to classes on campus after com-
pleting 60 credits, accepted its first class in 
2015.
“There are so many different pathways 
for students nowadays,” Cummings said. 
“UF Online in particular gives people a great 
option to complete their studies with us and 
have more flexibility.”
Cummings said more than 100 students 
transfer from residential studies to UF Online 
every term.
Tiffany Silva is one student who utilized 
the PaCE program to her advantage. 
The 20-year-old UF English and interna-
tional studies junior was one of only two stu-dents from her high school to get accepted 
into the PaCE program. 
Silva initially wanted to take a gap year 
before attending a university, so PaCE was a 
blessing in disguise, she said.
“As long as you meet the requirements, 
you already go to UF, in a sense,” Silva said. 
“It’s much easier to transition to campus 
when you’re already a UF student.”
Because PaCE guarantees its students to 
be able to take classes residentially at the 
upper division, this has potentially taken 
away a few spots that students who normal-
ly transfer from community colleges, Cum-
mings said. 
Although the admission standards are the 
same for traditional and PaCE, there is more 
capacity for students in the PaCE-specific 
majors, such as business administration or 
history, and the application process is roll-
ing, she said.
“The university overall is expanding op-
portunities for transfer students to ensure 
there’s room for everyone,” Cummings said. 
In 2013, the state provided $15 million up 
front and $5 million annually for five years 
to offer UF Online at a lower tuition and fees 
cost, Cummings said. This year, the state has approved the next UF Online five-year plan 
to receive the same subsidy for the next five 
years as well.
In 2018, UF Online enrollments grew by 
28 percent. In the 2019-2024 business model, 
enrollments are predicted to increase from 
27,122 to 41,905 by 2024.
The Innovation Academy is another path 
to residency at UF, allowing students to at-
tend in the Spring and Summer to encourage 
students to pursue job experience or travel in 
the Fall, said Jeff Citty, the Innovation Acad-
emy Director. 
The program accepts transfer students in 
the Spring, he said.
Students already enrolled at UF may not 
enter the program, Citty said. Students may 
only apply as a freshman, or as a transfer 
with their AA degree from a Florida college.
Citty said an average of two or three stu-
dents transfer into the program every Spring, 
but sometimes as many as five or six. 
“We are a signature program at UF, in 
that we deliver a unique experience to stu-
dents,” Citty said. 
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgOptions continue to expand for students transitioning to UF15-FOOT-SKELETON IS 
CENTRAL AMERICA’S 
OLDEST MARINE 
MAMMAL
By Sarina Nunes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Steven Manchester had no clue 
a discovery seven years ago would 
be the oldest and first of its kind.
Manchester, 62, a curator and 
professor of paleobotany at the 
Florida Museum of Natural Histo-
ry, was searching for fossil plants 
along the Panama Canal when 
he came across a bone of a sea-
tusked cow.
It wasn’t until Feb. 18 of this 
year that he learned it was a 
20-million-year-old fossil of Cen-
tral America’s oldest marine mam-
mal, Culberatherium alemani, a 
tusked seagrass-grazing relative of 
modern dugongs. 
Manchester was shocked to 
learn the significance of the fossil, 
but said it’s always thrilling to dis-
cover new history.
“I once found the world’s old-
est banana in the 1980s in Or-
egon,” Manchester said. “Every 
year I’m collecting more fossils.”
In 2012, Manchester decided 
to stray away from his group to 
explore on his own. The waves 
crashing along the canal were dan-
gerous enough to sweep a person 
offshore, he said.
 “Fortunately, I didn’t fall into 
the canal waters and drown,” 
Manchester said. “By being so 
close to the water’s edge, I had 
trespassed into a forbidden area 
due to safety concerns.”
After an hour of searching on 
the shore, Manchester spotted a 
skeleton sticking out of a rock ex-
posure.
He immediately took note of 
the location and rushed back to find his group so he could alert the 
specialists in vertebrate paleontol-
ogy, those who study fossilized 
vertebrae or skeleton rods.
 “I guessed it might be some-
thing commonly found before,” 
Manchester said. “But I wanted to 
have the bone experts decide for 
themselves.”
There were two or three verte-
brae, slightly orange in color, dip-
ping into the black rock on the side 
of the canal with a couple of ribs 
around them, said Aaron Wood, a 
lecturer and director of the Iowa 
State University Geology Field Sta-
tion who was on the expedition.
The team guessed that there 
would be more embedded under 
the rock, Wood said. They imme-
diately called for an emergency 
fossil excavation, which is the 
digging up of a fossil because of 
rising water levels. The entire pro-
cess took a few days.
“I didn’t realize the signifi-
cance, nor the amount of effort 
that would be required for the 
crew to expose and extract the 
bones,” Manchester said. 
It wasn’t until Manchester re-
turned to Gainesville a few days 
later that he heard that when peo-
ple continued to dig the fossil up 
back in Panama, there was a skull 
attached to the initially exposed 
ribs.
“Only then did I realize that the 
discovery could be significant,” 
Manchester said.
The 15-foot-skeleton of an an-
cient sea cow is believed to be the 
first evidence of a marine mammal 
from the Pacific side of the canal, 
Manchester said.
Luck was on Manchester’s side, 
Wood said. 
“Discovering new fossil species 
is, in many ways, like winning the 
lottery,” Wood said. “You have to 
play for a very long time before 
you win, and when you do, it’s amazing.”
Manchester’s findings are now 
being stored in the Florida Muse-
um but not on public display, said 
Richard Hulbert Jr., Vertebrate 
Paleontology Collections manager 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. 
Some fossil specimens are 
stored away from public viewing 
because they have greater scien-
tific value and can be used for re-
search, Hulbert said. 
“This is so they will always be 
available for study by future re-
searchers,” Hulbert said.
The fossil is an addition to 
the Florida Museum’s collection 
of scientific findings, said Jorge 
Velez-Juarbe, an assistant curator 
of marine mammals at the Natural 
History Museum of Los Angeles 
County. “When I first saw the speci-
men, I immediately knew it was 
something new and would change 
what we knew about the fossil re-cord of the group,” Velez-Juarbe 
said. “This new specimen adds a 
whole new perspective of the an-
cient diversity of that country.” Dig it: UF researcher discovers historic marine mammal fossil
Courtesy to The Alligator
A team worked quickly to excavate as much of the dugong’s skeleton from the rock as possible. Just 
feet from the Panama Canal, the site flooded within a week. 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Some molars show signs of heavy wear while the newest molars 
had only recently emerged in the young dugong. Unlike manatees, 
dugongs do not continuously develop new teeth through adulthood. FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THE  TEAM COULD 
COMPETE FOR $10,000 
IN APRIL
By Abraham Hunt
Alligator Contributing Writer
College-level basketball play-
ers will be competing nationally 
in April.
But some of them won’t be hu-
man.
UF’s engineering organization 
Gator Robotics is one of seven teams vying to compete at the 
ﬁ  rst Land O’Lakes Bot Shot Ro-
botics Competition April 4-8 for 
a $10,000 prize. The team has a 
chance to play basketball with 
famous  retired baskeball player 
David Robinson in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, said Taylor Roelofs, a 
representative from competition’s 
sponsor Weber Shandwick.
“Each team should bring their 
best game,” Roelofs said. “We are 
hoping for a great competition 
and for everyone to learn from the experience.”
The competition will take place 
at the same time and in the same 
city as the men’s NCAA Final 
Four, the national college-level 
basketball collegiate tournament, 
Roelofs said. 
Gator Robotics will put their ro-
bot to the test in the virtual quali-
fying round on March 11 against 
six other universities, including 
Purdue University and South Da-
kota State University, Roelof said. 
The top four teams will be awarded with a trip to Minneapo-
lis and be eligible to compete in 
the ﬁ  nal competition.
The contest will have seven 
teams compete at the event, Ro-
elofs said.
Each team will construct a ro-
bot with the goal of hitting differ-
ent shots such as a free-throw or 
three-pointer in a game of H-O-R-
S-E, she said. 
Each robot needs to make the 
same distance and technical shot 
into the basket as the others, with 
each shot getting progressively 
more difﬁ  cult as the game goes 
on.
If a robot misses the shot, it 
gains a letter in the word “horse,” 
Roelof said. If the word is spelled 
out, the robot loses the game.
The main criteria the teams 
must follow is that they can only 
use designated materials, such as 
motors and gears, and a basket-
ball during the competition, Ro-
elof said. The robots need to mea-
sure less than 150 pounds and no 
larger than a meter high, wide or 
long.
Gator Robotics spent $2,000 on 
the project and has been working since the end of January to ﬁ  n-
ish the robot, said Daniel Ribeiro, 
team member and 22-year-old UF 
aerospace engineering senior.
Currently, the team has four 
motors that are set up to shoot a 
ball and are working to be able to 
do other types of trick shots, such 
as making a basket farther than 
halfway across the court to beat 
out the competition, Ribeiro said.
The team is still working on 
the robot but is projected to ﬁ  nish 
the machine by the end of Spring 
Break, Ribeiro said.
“The judges are saying we are 
on par with other schools so far,” 
Ribeiro said. “I feel conﬁ  dent we 
can make it into the ﬁ  nal four as 
long as the robot is ﬁ  nished in 
time.”
Gator Robotics has a great 
chance of winning H-O-R-S-E and 
moving onto the ﬁ  nal round, said 
Robert Herring, team captain and 
19-year-old UF electrical engineer 
sophomore.
“We can win for sure,” said Her-
ring. “And we can teach the other 
bots how we play G-A-T-O-R.”UF robotics team will soon compete in basketball competition
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gator Robotics working on technology at a robotics workshop.
How to play H-O-R-S-E:
Directions from Junior NBA
DISCLAIMER: Humans, robots and any machine or creature able to throw a basketball into a 
hoop is eligible to play.
Pick a player to go first. The player makes a shot of their choice 
into the basket. Players must repeat the same shot. If a player 
does not make the shot, they  gain a letter in the word “HORSE.” 
Everybody keeps playing until a player misses enough times to 
spell out the entire word “HORSE.” The winner does not get 
enough letters to spell out “HORSE.”
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Darts & Laurels
Since it’s Spring Break and we’re in a good mood, 
we’ll start out with some good Florida news. A lau-
rel goes out the two newborn, endangered clouded 
leopard kittens. The two female kittens were born 
at the Naples Zoo weighing in at 240 grams each, 
according to The News-Press of Fort Myers. The leopard 
kittens will be raised by zoologists, as it’s the best practice 
in ensuring their survival. It’s unknown how many clouded 
leopards are left in the forests of Southeast Asia where they 
naturally live, but they continue to face endangerment from 
habitat destruction and poaching. Making sure they are at 
least able to be monitored and cared for in Florida is impor-
tant in aiding in their survival.
Moving to Florida marine life, Michael Wenzel accepted 
a plea deal in Hillsborough County court after he was ac-
cused of being a part of a video that shows a shark being 
dragged at a high speed behind a boat. The video, which 
has gone viral, was uploaded in the summer of 2017 caus-
ing, rightly so, an outcry for the people responsible to be 
brought to justice. A dart goes to Wenzel and anyone else 
involved in the actions of that disturbing video. Wenzel will 
have his ﬁ  shing license suspended for ﬁ  ve years, have to 
spend 10 days in jail and have to complete 100 hours of 
community service in an addition to 11 months of proba-
tion. Honestly, Wenzel’s punishment seems a bit lenient for 
a man that has shown so much cruelty to our fragile Florida 
marine life.
On Capitol Hill Thursday, the House approved a piece of 
legislation that would call for the expansion of federal gun-
control legislation. The bill will allow the FBI to have more 
time to do background checks on those who are trying to 
buy a gun. This bill comes only a day after another bill was 
passed by the House that would extend background checks 
to the selling of private ﬁ  rearms. The bill, unfortunately, 
has a long way to go before it can be made into a law, but 
it’s important to have a legislature that realizes gun control 
and gun safety are major issues in our country. A laurel  
goes out to the lawmakers who are trying to make neces-
sary changes in government. But the issue is far from being 
resolved. If anything, they’re just scratching the surface.The end of the week is ﬁ  nally in sight, which means 
Spring Break is mere hours away. As you’ve dealt with 
midterms, presentations and essays, you’ve been planning 
for break and all of the adventures you’re going to have. 
You ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nished your last exam, and you’re ready to 
start packing. Visions of blue waves and sugary sand dance 
through your brain. With a wistful sigh, you grab your suit-
case and start thinking about everything you’re going to 
need for a spring break spent on the shore. 
You start throwing in anything and everything. Beach 
towels? Check. Swimsuits? Check. Frisbees? Check. You end 
up having to sit on your suitcase, struggling for a few min-
utes with zipper, until the sweet “zzzp” sounds signals its 
close. With all of the essentials packed, you move on to rac-
ing around your apartment grabbing all of the best road trip 
snacks, snatching up anything remotely crunchy and salty. 
You’re raiding your pantry when you see an overturned box 
with small snack packages spilling out. You reach for one 
and turn it over in your hands. It’s the perfect snack for 
your Spring Break road trip, truly the perfect mix of sweet 
and salty. It’s a nice little bag of…
We’ve all heard of them. We’ve all en-
countered them. Is it the way they 
smile, or is it their overall presence? 
Some people love the passion they 
bring to the relationship, while oth-
ers enjoy the thrill of a real-life DIY project. Either 
way, everyone knows or has met a bad boy. It’s 
all in the name. Bad boys are known for doing bad 
things. So why is our society obsessed with them?
From movies like “A Walk to Remember” to 
“Keith,” it’s clear our society loves the idea of a good girl 
falling in love with a bad boy, winning him over and living a 
sort of happily ever after. But why is that the case? Well, we 
all root for the underdog, and bad boys are known to be un-
derdogs. Due to their reputation, people don’t expect much 
from them. However, a tiny piece of us wants to see them 
succeed. Our society wants to see a bad boy reach his full po-
tential and clean up his act. Often, we want this so much that 
we begin to subconsciously tell ourselves, “I can ﬁ  x him.”
We all have a nurturing instinct within us. A friend of 
mine acknowledges the major character ﬂ  aws in her boy-
friend. He’s a liar, a cheater and is jobless, but she genuinely 
believes she can help him overcome his demons. Sadly, that’s 
not going to happen. News ﬂ  ash: you can’t ﬁ  x someone. It’s 
unreasonable to think you can. People can only change if 
they want to change. If they say they want to change but 
their actions don’t match up, stop believing them and move 
one. If not, it will start to affect you.
You may think a bad boy’s ﬂ  aws won’t affect you. If you 
do, you seriously need to stop lying to yourself. There’s a 
known saying that goes “birds of a feather ﬂ  ock together.” 
You are the company you keep and if you’re around some-
one who does wrong unto him or herself and unto others, 
you will slowly do the same. For this argument, let’s say you 
are strong in your character, and you know who you are and 
want you stand for. Okay, ﬁ  ne. You may not become a bad person. 
However, at some point, you’re going to have 
to deal with all of the consequences of your bad 
boy’s actions. At the end of the day, you’re the 
one who’s going to wind up getting hurt and suf-
fering the most.
If you’re not looking to get involved with bad 
boy and you want to know how to avoid them, 
there are a few ways to spot them. Bad boys do 
hurtful things. It doesn’t matter if it’s intentional or 
not. One way to spot them is to see how far they take things. 
Bad boys tend to be extreme. Extreme meaning that they 
take one thing and exaggerate it to the max. For example, 
a friend of mine’s boyfriend is extremely tidy. This sounds 
great. However, he started cleaning her apartment and if he 
ever visited her, he expected the place to be the way he left it. 
If not, an argument would begin. It turns out, his tidiness is 
actually a control issue. He has to be in control of everything 
around him. If not, he gets upset. This is a simple example 
and does not apply to everyone or in every situation. But this 
illustrates how extremes are not good. Everything should be 
done in moderation, and bad boys certainly lost that memo. 
So, if you come across a boy who has questionable character 
ﬂ  aws and takes things to the extreme, then you might have a 
bad boy on your hands.
So, you’re dealing with a bad boy and don’t know what to 
do? One word: run. Run as fast as you can. Don’t waste your 
time getting into a relationship or trying to ﬁ  x him. Chances 
are he’s not changing anytime soon. There’s nothing more 
regretful than wasted time. Especially, wasted time on some-
one who doesn’t deserve it. Sometimes leaving a bad boy is 
the wakeup call he needs to do better. With that being said, 
run like the wind. Trust me. You’ll thank me later.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. Her columns ap-
pear on Fridays. Bad boys: What will you do when they come for you?  
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORAnede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
The best decision I’ve made in my college 
career was going on a Birthright Israel trip over 
Winter Break. You may wonder, what exactly 
is Birthright? Why do I hear about it all the 
time? Can I go? Birthright is an organization 
that provides any person of Jewish lineage the 
opportunity to go on a free trip to Israel over 
Summer or Winter Break for 10 days. This is 
an incredible opportunity to travel, discover 
more about where you came from and form 
invaluable friendships that will last a lifetime. 
Every student who is eligible to go on Birth-
right should go.
I applied to go on Birthright at the begin-
ning of Fall 2018. I had been in Gainesville for 
a year already and needed an escape. I was 
having a difﬁ  cult time with my emotional and 
mental health and felt a real need for human 
connection and perspective. I would like to 
clarify something: I do not actively practice 
Judaism. My mother and grandmother were 
both raised Jewish, but even my grandmother 
did not have her children “actively” practice. 
My family and I had practiced certain holidays over the years, but I’d never gone to temple 
other than observing friends’ Bar and Bat Mitz-
vahs. 
What you actively practice doesn’t matter 
as much as what you make of the trip. UF Hil-
lel provided an incredible Birthright experience 
for me because I was able to learn about where 
I came from while traveling and connecting 
with the great majesty Israel has to offer. I felt 
so welcome and inspired the entire time; I nev-
er wanted to leave.
One of my favorite parts of the trip — be-
sides hiking Mt. Masada and ﬂ  oating in the 
Dead Sea — was making new friends. Our 
group bonded quickly and shared many sto-
ries and inside jokes, from screaming the lyrics 
to “Lovely Day” on the bus every morning to 
pranking our tour guide (whose name hap-
pened to be Shabbat, I’m not kidding). You’ll 
meet people who you never thought you could 
connect with. You may even fall in love... I 
didn’t, but that’s not the point of the trip en-
tirely. The point is to make you feel more con-
nected with your ancestors and the history of a country that has survived through so many 
trials and tribulations.
Birthright provided me with so much more 
insight into who I am and how I can help make 
a change in the world. Israel is such a small 
country that has surmounted so many obsta-
cles time and time again, and it still is so proud 
and strong. It’s truly inspiring as you walk the 
streets of Jerusalem and feel the history all 
around you or see the sunrise at the peak of 
Mt. Masada at 6 a.m. You’ll trek through the 
streets of Tel Aviv, meet interesting people, 
stuff your face with endless amounts of sha-
warma and rugala and connect with the world 
around you. Birthright taught me to open my 
eyes and my heart, to look around and appre-
ciate moments because life is short; you never 
know what can happen. 
One of the best moments I had on the trip 
was when I touched the Western Wall after 
placing my written wish in the old stone crev-
ices. I had never felt more connected to my 
grandmother and mom, who I know would 
be so proud that I was there. You’ll remember to appreciate your loved ones and learn to not 
take anyone for granted. A good friend of mine 
said to me one day, “Life is not about what 
should happen, just about what happens. You 
need to live in the moment and love what you 
have.” I have lived by that statement every day 
since then. Birthright truly changed my life for-
ever, and I can’t thank my staffers Iara Dircie 
and Steven Breiter enough for providing such 
an incredible experience. 
I arrived home from Birthright in the best 
mental and emotional state I’ve ever been in, 
ready to take on new experiences and love ev-
ery day I have on this planet. It has offered me 
a new outlook on life. 
This summer, UF Hillel is offering ﬁ  ve in-
credible Birthright Israel trips leaving out of 
Miami, which I highly recommend checking 
out. For more information, check out UFtoIs-
rael.org or reach out to Lara Dircie at (305) 
778-4465.
Emma McAvoy is a UF sophomore journal-
ism major. Birthright Israel: An experience that changed my life and could change yours  
Last week, Jordyn Woods, aka Kylie 
Jenner’s best friend, was allegedly 
caught making out with 
Khloe Kardashian’s boy-
friend and baby daddy, 
Tristan Thompson. The scandal 
has many people calling Woods 
out for being a bad friend to 
both Jenner and Kardashian. 
If the scandal rings true, she 
might be up for the "worst best 
friend award", but it seems to 
me that in these types of situa-
tions, the mistress always gets 
more bad publicity.  A boys-will-be-boys 
mentality normalizes cheating for men in 
committed relationships. This puts a lot of 
the blame on the female “homewrecker,” a 
derogatory term used to describe a woman 
as being the cause for breaking up a fam-
ily.  Also, the stereotype of women as car-
ing, family-oriented individuals creates this 
idea they are worse than their cheating 
counterpart because they are supposed to 
be keeping families together. Both parties 
are to blame, but it seems that the woman 
gets more misgivings than the one who let 
the woman in.
 In the case of the Thompson-Woods 
scandal, Woods has been receiving most 
of the heat. The majority of the narrative 
has questioned how Woods could have 
done such a betrayal. The sense of pub-
lic anger comes from the existence of her 
close friendship with Jenner, who is Kar-
dashian’s half-sister. Some think Woods is 
more in the wrong because she is a family 
friend and knows how much Kardashian 
struggled to date Thompson. 
Of course, no one wants their best friend 
to make out with their half-sister’s daugh-
ter’s father. I am not here to label who is 
in the wrong but rather here to analyze this 
sticky situation as it brings to light the dif-
ference in attitude we have for who is doing 
the cheating.  
Not as many jokes, tweets and backlash 
have been targeted toward the basketball 
player and father of True Thompson, Kar-
dashian and Thompson’s 10-month-old 
child. Woods has seen an onslaught from 
social media criticizing her actions. Tweets have expressed that this outcome seems 
obvious to the outsider looking in. Because 
Thompson has been caught in 
a cheating scandal before, it 
seems we are left to ask: “What 
else could we expect? He’s a 
cheater, so we shouldn’t really 
be surprised.” But this thinking 
is troublesome to those who 
value monogamy in relation-
ships.
Not only is it unfair to put 
more blame on one party than 
another, but if we normalize 
cheating, we set the bar low for relation-
ships. Apparently, Thompson doesn’t care 
too much about the scandal. He can’t even 
bother to come up with an explanation for 
it. Thompson has allegedly gotten away 
with cheating throughout his and Kardashi-
an’s relationship. Because he isn’t getting as 
much backlash for it, it must not mean as 
much. This is not the same case for Woods. 
Although they both did the same wrongful 
act, Woods gets the heat. She has been cut 
off from her best friend and Jenner’s family. 
But when Thompson cheated the ﬁ  rst time, 
Kardashian forgave him and tried to move 
on for the sake of their daughter. 
It seems unfair that Woods right off the 
bat gets cut out of the family picture. What 
happened to “you may forgive but never 
forgetting is impossible,” Kardashian? 
What makes Woods so much worse than 
Thompson that she shouldn’t get the same 
chance at forgiveness that Kardashian gave 
Thompson?
Rumor has it Jenner kicked Woods out 
of her house. How do you choose your best 
friend over your sister? Answer: You don’t. 
I hope Kardashian, Jenner and Woods 
ﬁ  gure a way to reconcile because they've 
been friends for so long. If Kardashian gave 
Thompson a second chance after he was 
ﬁ  rst caught cheating with multiple wom-
en while Kardashian was in the last few 
weeks of her pregnancy with his baby, then 
Woods deserves a second chance as well. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column normally appears on 
Wednesdays.Jordyn Woods shouldn't be treated 
diﬀ  erently than Tristan ThompsonColumn
I can get on board with a lot 
of weird stuff. I appreciate 
a good soap cutting video. 
I adore beauty gurus. Don’t 
get me started on my Taylor 
Swift fandom. I’m pretty trendy 
and hip with the things “the 
youngins" like. But, seriously, I 
cannot get behind ASMR.
ASMR stands for autonomous 
sensory meridian response. It’s a gentle and 
enjoyable response many people experi-
ence in the back of their head from listen-
ing to speciﬁ  c sounds that spread down their 
spine, according to dictionary.com. The ex-
perience ASMR creates can even help relieve 
anxiety, insomnia and depression, accord-
ing to a U.S. News & World Report article. 
Some people really beneﬁ  t from ASMR. Oth-
ers don’t use ASMR as a treatment or coping 
mechanism, instead, they enjoy the internet 
craze as a fun pastime.
ASMR does not work for me, though. 
I don’t relate to any of the beneﬁ  ts and, 
frankly, I don’t get the appeal. The sound of 
people talking super close to a microphone 
is uncomfortable, and that’s nothing new. 
The saying “breathing down my neck” has a 
negative connotation because it’s awkward 
when someone is that close to you. I like my 
personal-space bubble, and I don’t tolerate 
people disrespecting it. I don’t understand 
why, all of a sudden, people enjoy the sensa-
tion of someone speaking to you so weirdly 
and closely. I know they’re not really there, 
but isn’t the whole point to sound like they 
are very close?
The whisper videos category is a beast 
in-and-of-itself, but let’s switch to the true 
horrors of ASMR: food-eating videos. Why? 
Why would you want to listen to that? It has 
been culturally unacceptable since the start 
of time to chew noisily and with your mouth 
open. I’m pretty sure we have all experi-enced a moment where we were 
trying to snack during class and 
realized we were chewing loudly 
and you stopped chewing. Why? 
Because hearing the sounds of 
food and saliva smooshing and 
sloshing around in someone 
else’s mouth is not appealing. 
If you’re an ASMR fan, would 
you be more attracted to a date 
if they chewed loudly? What if they leaned 
into your face to talk to you? What is the 
difference between these normally awkward 
encounters and ASMR?
I know people might tell me, “Well, if you 
don’t like ASMR, don’t watch it.” I under-
stand something I dislike might appeal to 
someone else. That’s what creates variety 
and keeps the world interesting. However, 
my issue is that I purposely choose not to 
watch ASMR videos. I can’t escape them. 
ASMR is growing quickly and I can’t avoid 
it any longer. It is creeping into my makeup 
videos, plaguing my Instagram and clutter-
ing my Facebook feed. It’s invading my per-
sonal life.
Listen, you bizarre ASMR enthusiasts, 
while I don’t understand it, I’m glad you’ve 
found your niche. I’m not a fan of ASMR, 
but that’s okay. I’m sure a lot of you don’t 
enjoy my interests. Diversity is a good thing, 
and I encourage you to pursue your recre-
ations and what makes you happy. How-
ever, I beg you, to not encroach on my free 
time with your ASMR videos. Can I please 
browse the internet without the discomfort 
of an ASMR encounter or reference during 
my leisurely activities? If I whisper my re-
quest into a microphone really gently, will 
you hear me out?
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism 
freshman. Her column appears on Fridays.ASMR is freaky and shouldn’t be on my feedColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.org
"It has been culturally 
unacceptable since the start of 
time to chew noisily and with 
your mouth open." 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
Superheros are important in Jennifer 
Reid’s house. 
There’s a good chance that on 
a Friday night her family is eating 
homemade pizza watching a Marvel 
movie. 
A big reason why Reid, 33, is running for 
mayor in March is to show her kids how to be 
strong – just like the Avengers. 
“Because [their dad] is a police officer, and 
my kids are infatuated with superheroes, we 
really try to protect everybody, and that’s just 
really what I want my role to be as mayor,” 
Reid said. 
Reid has no experience in local govern-
ment. She is getting involved because she said 
she could only complain for so long before de-
ciding to take action. 
She is a part-time legal assistant, mother 
of two and a Guardian ad Litem volunteer, 
where she visits children who’ve been sepa-
rated from their families and represents them in the court system.
In the program, she’s a protector for three 
children: a sister and two brothers. She meets 
with them at least once a month and tries to 
be someone who is constantly there for them. 
As mayor, she wants to bring strong lead-
ership and fiscal responsibility to the city by 
applying certain cuts to the budget, like cater-
ing for city events.
Reid received $2,840 in monetary dona-
tions since she announced running in Janu-
ary, according to the Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections office.
Reid also said giving law enforcement a 
voice is a big priority for her personal connec-
tion to Gainesville Police. 
When city commissioners decided not to 
go with the police union’s proposed plan for 
wages in September, she was disappointed by 
the city’s decision. 
“They were just so dead-set on what 
they wanted to offer GPD, and it just wasn’t 
enough,” she said.
Brandon Morris, 32, agrees with Reid’s 
policies and goals for the city. He met her 
through the Alachua County Republicans and 
described her as being honest, selfless and for 
the people. 
“I remember sitting down at her dinner 
table, and we were talking,” Morris said. 
“She talked about how she wants to make 
this community better and run Gainesville for 
what it was meant to be, and I thought ‘this is 
somebody who’s special.’”
Regardless of the outcome of the election, 
Reid plans to continue to fight for what she 
believes in. 
“I’m just a hard working mom raising two 
little boys,” Reid said. “I just want the best for 
them, their future and for our community.”Marlon Bruce loves to sing. 
On some nights you can find 
Bruce, 20, belting karaoke down-
town, picking his next song based 
on the mood of the crowd. 
“If it’s a really young group, then I might 
whip out some Ariana Grande or Lady Gaga be-
cause I love laughs,” Bruce said.  “If not, I will 
probably go with Queen – I do love Queen.”
Bruce started singing in Gainesville two 
years ago when he moved from Ocala to go to 
Santa Fe College. 
After a few months, he fell in love with 
the city. He fell so hard, he decided to run for 
mayor to try to make it a better place, he said.
“The problems we have are not going to 
wait for everyone to grow up,” Bruce said. 
As mayor, Bruce wants to help provide af-
fordable housing, lower Gainesville Regional 
Utilities rates and help fix roads and infrastruc-
ture. 
Bruce received $25 in monetary donations since he announced running in January, ac-
cording to the Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections office.
At Santa Fe College, Bruce said he joined 
Model United Nations, Young Americans for 
Liberty and Global Society. He joined Santa Fe 
Student Government as a senator and attorney 
general but stopped last Fall after he was ac-
cused of violating the group’s rules. 
Last Summer, Bruce began the semester 
active in Student Government and enrolled in 
classes as a Santa Fe student. Halfway through 
the semester, Bruce dropped his classes but 
continued with SG. 
Leaders in the club said Bruce knowingly 
violated the rules and asked for him to be re-
moved from the organization. Bruce quit from 
his positions in the Fall. 
“My intention wasn’t anything bad. My 
intention was just to serve the Student Body,” 
Bruce said.
Even with the issues with SG, Bruce stayed 
friends with Antoneik Evans, 21, Santa Fe Stu-
dent Body vice president, who first met Bruce 
when they ran against each other in the 2018 
Sante Fe SG presidential elections.
Despite the rivalry, she said they became 
good friends. She said when she’s with Bruce 
they mostly talk about politics, and he’s always 
interested in having a debate. 
“He’s willing to take the extra mile through 
what he knows, through his intelligence, to 
make sure things are changed, ” Evans said.
Bruce said even if he doesn’t win, he hopes 
at least more people, especially students, will 
vote because local government is important. 
“While I do plan on winning, if I lose that’s 
OK, too, because then I know that people still 
heard me,” he said.”Mayor Lauren Poe first ran for office 
in sixth grade for student govern-
ment. He lost. 
The next year he tried again – 
and lost again. He continued to run 
every year, through middle and high school. 
He never lost hope, and senior year he 
was elected Gainesville High School senior 
class president. 
“It goes back to public service,” Poe said. 
“I just always wanted to give what I could to 
serve the people around me.” 
Now he’s running for his final term as 
mayor after serving the city for 10 years as 
a city commissioner. He was elected as com-
missioner in 2008 and mayor in 2016.
“I really just fell in love with the challenge 
of trying to create a better community,” Poe 
said. 
Poe has also been a professor at Santa Fe 
College since 2002 who teaches economics 
and government.
One of his greatest accomplishments as 
mayor is launching the initiative to have 100 percent renewable energy for residents by 
2045, he said.
His main drive is to close social, economic 
and racial equity gaps in the city, he said. 
He has worked with the commission to be-
gin working on this mission and says he will 
continue if he’s re-elected.
“There’s no magic pixie dust that I’m go-
ing to sprinkle to make things happen,” Poe 
said. 
He said the commission has made prog-
ress on this mission by advancing the afford-
able housing discussion by holding work-
shops and talks; looking at how to create 
high quality after-school care; and imple-
menting transportation policies, such as the 
on-demand shuttle service for underserved 
areas in East Gainesville.  
Poe received $17,225 in monetary do-
nations since he announced his running in 
November, according to the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections office.
Thomas Hawkins, a former city commis-
sioner, donated $150 to his campaign. He 
first met Poe in 2007 when they ran for com-
mission at the same time. They served to-
gether and have stayed friends since, he said.
He described Poe in three ways: He has 
integrity, he’s a deep thinker and he’s com-
passionate. 
“He really thinks that government can 
play a role in helping people and making 
their lives better,” Hawkins said. 
Poe said if he doesn’t win, he will take 
a nap.
“It’s hard to imagine not being mayor,” 
Poe said. “But, as long as the voters believe 
in me and want me in this position, and as 
long we have a commission and staff that’s 
up for the task, then I’m going to put every-
thing I have into it.”Jenn Powell wasn’t thinking about poli-
tics four years ago. She wanted to trav-
el the country after raising her three 
children. 
Then she got pregnant, and her 
youngest daughter, Norah, completely 
changed her life. 
For the first time, Powell, 40, was home 
spending time with her family, she said. She 
was exercising and living a healthier life. 
“She changed everything,” Powell said. 
“I realized the older kids might be able to 
fend for themselves, but if we didn’t change 
things soon, there will be nothing left for 
Norah. She was the driving force to getting 
involved in politics.”
Now, Powell is running for mayor to give 
a voice to everyday families like her own. 
She said there needs to be change in the 
way the city is run. Specifically, she doesn’t 
think the conversation on city changes in-
volves the community enough. She wants 
to find ways to create solutions that the 
community wants. “If they want a fighter who’s going to 
make it her sole purpose to make a differ-
ence and change the direction the city’s 
headed, then I’m the candidate,” Powell 
said.
Powell also believes the city’s budget is 
not being used effectively. The first thing 
she will do in office is to go line by line in 
the budget to find where cuts can be made 
to find money to make Gainesville a more 
affordable place to live. 
One way she said she would make the 
city more affordable is to start moving to-
ward a living wage for residents, she said.
She said she will be personally combat-
ing the misuse of the budget by accepting 
the lowest paid city employee salary if she 
is elected mayor. 
“If it’s good enough for a bus driver, it’s 
good enough for the mayor,” Powell said. 
Powell received $5,428 in monetary do-
nations since she announced her campaign 
in December, according to the Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections office.
Fighting for a living wage was one of the 
reasons she filed to run against Helen War-
ren in the 2017 commission election, losing 
by 9.3 percent. 
Her second oldest daughter Brevyn 
Richey, 20, got to cast her first vote that 
year, and she got to vote for her mother. 
Richey said her mother understand 
where community members come from. 
“We lived on every single side of town 
throughout my whole life,” Richey said. 
“She has all the different experiences and 
understands the true heart of Gainesville 
and the people living here.”Who are the city of Gainesville mayoral candidates?
Jenn
 Powell
Marlon 
BruceLauren 
Poe
Jennifer 
ReidBy Karina Elwood   |   Alligator Staff Writer FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos used to ﬁ  x Roomba vacu-
um cleaners. 
He did it out of his love to take 
things apart, put them back to-
gether and ﬁ  gure out how they work. 
He said it’s this passion for problem-
solving that led him to City Hall and drove 
most of what he’s done as District 4 city 
commissioner. 
Hayes-Santos calls himself a policy 
nerd. He likes to look at the details of how 
the city works and ﬁ  gure out how he can 
help make it better. 
He said one of his greatest accomplish-
ments since he’s been in ofﬁ  ce is the move 
towards zero waste by 2040, which he has 
made progress towards by helping pass a 
law banning single-use plastic bags and 
foam containers. 
If he is re-elected as commissioner, 
he said he will continue his work toward 
providing city-wide broadband internet, 
world-class parks and creating renters’ 
rights ordinances. 
Before he was problem-solving for the 
city, he worked for some start-up compa-nies in Gainesville. He still works as the 
director of ﬁ  nance at Trendy Entertain-
ment, a video game development studio. 
His ﬁ  rst job at about 14 years old was 
far from Gainesville, picking blueber-
ries during the summer in Canada on his 
mother’s farm, he said.
Protecting the environment is a prior-
ity for Hayes-Santos. He was awarded the 
Osprey award by the Sierra Club in 2018, 
which is granted to one government of-
ﬁ  cial in Florida for their efforts in protect-
ing the environment. 
Hayes-Santos’ campaign received 
$9,455 in donations since he announced 
his running in December, according to the 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections 
ofﬁ  ce.
Jody Noll, 34, ﬁ  rst met Hayes-Santos in 
eighth grade, and they have stayed good 
friends since. 
He said even at a young age, Hayes-
Santos had a desire to make Gainesville a 
better place. 
“Since he was 18, has always seen the 
big picture,” Noll said. “He’s always rec-
ognized the importance of local politics. 
Our group of friends have mostly moved 
away, but Adrian has always wanted to 
stay in Gainesville. It’s the community 
that he loves.”
Hayes-Santos said he’s not sure what 
he’ll do if he doesn’t win. He said he has 
never been the type of person to have a 
set, clear path in life, but he knows he will 
continue to stand up for the issues he be-
lieves in. 
“I’m going to go do something I’m pas-
sionate about,” Hayes-Santos said. “I’m 
not going to drop the issues that I’ve put 
forward. I will continue to advocate. I will 
continue to push for the issues that I think 
are important.”The inside of Robert Mounts’ historic 
log cabin looks like a museum.  
There’s a dining room table 
from Hong Kong and a wall piece 
from Morocco along with other 
decor from places around the world like 
Thailand and Germany. 
“We’ve got all kinds of stuff from 
around the world, and it ﬁ  t in here just 
nicely,” Mounts said. “So that’s kind of 
a neat, eclectic combination here that re-
ﬂ  ects our lives.”
Five years ago, he moved into his 
current house back in his hometown, 
Gainesville, and is now running for Dis-
trict 4 city commission.
Not far from Midtown, his 1937 Lincoln 
Log-esque house sits on the 2 ½-acre lot 
he owns. 
Mounts said his home is a reﬂ  ection of 
his life traveling in the military.
Mounts, 77, spent 25 years as a Judge 
Advocate General lawyer in the U.S. Air 
Force, and 18 years in South Korea as a 
special assistant to the deputy commander 
of U.S. Forces Korea for international rela-
tions. Since moving back, Mounts immersed 
himself in the community.
He was the president of the University 
Heights Neighborhood Association, where 
his goal was to make sure that college 
students were good neighbors and led the 
neighborhood opposition to the gnvRise 
affordable housing initiative. 
He said as commissioner, he believes 
the city needs to ﬁ  nd other ways to pro-
vide affordable housing while maintaining 
the culture of neighborhoods. 
One way he said he thinks the city 
should do that is by introducing commu-
nity land trusts. 
Mounts received $7,735 in monetary 
contributions since he announced his run-
ning in February, according to the Alach-
ua County Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce.
David Colburn, director of the Bob Gra-
ham Center, has gone to Holy Trinity Epis-
copal Church with Mounts since Mounts 
moved back to Gainesville. 
He said Mounts is incredibly qualiﬁ  ed 
to be on the Gainesville commission be-
cause of his many years of experience as a 
lawyer and working in politics. 
“We’re fortunate in Gainesville that we 
have a lot of talented people that seek po-
litical ofﬁ  ce and seek the betterment of the 
city and its citizens,” Colburn said. “And 
Robert is certainly one them.”
Mounts said he wishes he could do 
more to help on a national level but, said 
the ﬁ  rst step is making a difference on the 
local level. 
“What I can do is try to shape policy 
on the local level. Try to be an opinion 
leader, and try to be an example,” Mounts 
said.
Adrian Hayes-Santos
District 4 IncumbentRobert Mounts
District 4
What’s on the ballot?
Spots for mayor and 
District 4 commissioner 
will be voted on. In 
addition to these two 
positions, a charter 
amendment to create 
a city charter review 
commission will also be 
voted on. EVERYTHING TO KNOW ABOUT GAINESVILLE GENERAL ELECTIONS:  
Early voting:
March 9-16
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
(Saturday, Sun-
day, Monday, 
Wednesday and 
Friday)
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
(Tuesday and 
Thursday)What to bring 
with you:
All voters must have 
a valid ID that includes 
a picture and signature. Locations:
Millhopper Library
3145 NW 43rd St.
Senior Recreation Center
5701 NW 34th Blvd.
Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce
515 N.  Main St. 
J. Wayne Reitz Union
 655 Museum Road 
Martin Luther King Jr. Center
1028 NE 14th St.
Regular voting:
Voting day is Tuesday, March 19, 
from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Your polling 
location will depend on your ad-
dress.Who are the canadidates running for City Commission?
By Karina Elwood   |   Alligator Staff Writer 
WHAT’S NEW?
On Jan. 9, voting rights were restored 
for felons in Florida. For those who 
registered, the upcoming election will 
be the ﬁ  rst since rights were restored.
What’s the
 charter amendment?
A city charter review 
commission would be 
created and given the 
power to review and 
propose amendments 
every decade.Mayoral Candidates
Incumbent, Lauren Poe
Marlon Bruce
Jennifer Reid
Jenn Powell
District 4 Candidates
Incumbent, Adrian 
Hayes-Santos
Robert Mounts10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer 
It’s been 10 days since friends and 
family last saw Jasmine Robinson, 
who is pregnant. 
On Feb. 20, Robinson, 23, was 
reported missing to Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
She is 5’2 and 150 lbs, according to 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
She has not contacted friends or 
family since they last saw her.
Robinson, an Archer native, is in 
her third trimester of pregnancy, Bet-
tye Collins, her 36-year-old cousin, 
said.
After coming home from work on Feb. 18, Robinson told her 
aunt she was going to bed at 
about 8 p.m., Collins said. 
When her aunt came to 
pick Robinson up the next 
morning for a doctor’s ap-
pointment, Robinson was no-
where to be found. 
Her toothbrush, money 
and clothing were all still in 
the home, Collins said. 
“Anybody that’s leaving, they 
would take some stuff with them,” 
Collins said. 
Collins describes Robinson as a 
sweet, loving person. 
“She plays basketball. She’s very 
family oriented. She participated in church plays,” Collins 
said.“It’s never like her to 
leave off without talking to 
anybody.”
If anybody sees or hears 
from Robinson, Collins urges 
them to tell Robinson to re-
turn home.
“We’re hoping nobody did 
anything to her,” Collins said. 
“We just want her home safe.”
Any information about Jasmine 
Robinson and her whereabouts can 
be shared with Detective Joel Morris 
at jmorris@alachuasheriff.org or 352-
367-4083. Bettye Collins, Robinson’s 
cousin, can be contacted at 352-875-
4629.
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville resident woke up to 
something much worse than a ticket on 
his car in early February. He found a 
dead cat in a trash bag. 
The woman suspected of killing the 
cat and placing it there has been on the 
loose for the past three weeks.
On Feb. 5 at about midnight, an 
unidentiﬁ  ed woman entered a parking 
garage on the 1400 block of Northwest 
Fourth Ave. in the College Park neigh-borhood, Ed Williams, the director of 
animal services, said. She walked up to 
a car put a trash bag containing a dead 
cat on the hood.
It is unknown why she put the cat on 
the car, he said.
She is a young, white female weigh-
ing about 110 pounds and was 5 feet 6 
inches tall, he said. She drove a black 
Nissan Frontier Crew Cab pickup truck 
and had an accomplice.
Animal services believes there is a re-
lationship between the woman and the 
owner of the car but were not able to identify her. 
Williams said the investigation has 
taken so long because her face was not 
clearly seen on the surveillance footage. 
Animal abuse by neglect is common, 
but acts like this one are not, he said.
The suspect could be charged with 
felony animal cruelty if animal services 
can prove it was intentional, Williams 
said.
Anyone with information on the case 
is urged to call Alachua County Animal 
Services at 352-264-6870.Pregnant Archer woman Jasmine Robinson, 23, reported missing
Police search for woman who killed cat, put it on car· CRIME ROUNDUP ·Robinson
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police arrested a woman 
Wednesday accused of knowing about a man 
who was sexually abusing two minors. 
The children told authorities that Amber 
Sanchez-Xochicale, of Gainesville, knew that 
Criseforo Sanchez-Xochicale, of Gainesville, 
sexually abused them, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report.  One of them, 
a girl between 12 to 18 years old, said Amber 
Sanchez-Xochicale, 34, did not protect her. 
On Feb. 22, the girl told police she was 
sexually abused by Criseforo Sanchez-Xochi-
cale, 34, the report said. 
Amber Sanchez-Xochicale told the girl she 
needed to deny the sexual abuse, the report 
said.  
On Feb. 27, the other child told authori-
ties Criseforo Sanchez-Xochicale inappropri-
ately touched him or her while he or she was 
asleep, the report said. 
Amber Sanchez-Xochicale told police the 
children never told her about the abuse and 
they were lying, the report said.
She was charged with two counts of child 
neglect, the report said. 
She remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Thursday in lieu of a $100,000 bond. Woman accused of denying 
sexual abuse of childrenBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300       3-1-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
FOR RENT
2-STORY HISTORICAL HOUSE.
9-10 bedrooms starting 8-1-19.
1022 NW 3rd Ave.
Contact Brenda 352-672-8657          3-1-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Must have knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Between: Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
We have a part time job waiting for you if 
skilled at INDESGN and can type well.
Call Connie or Jim at (352)377-2444     3-1-
5-14
Wanted. Driver w long-bed pickup
to take king bed frame and its owner
to Hollywood, FL on 3/16/19.
Call 352-359-3787.      3-15-4-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
MATH TUTOR
More than 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.     3-1-1-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Robert E. Lee Morris
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/01/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/01/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 1, 2019
ACROSS
1 College Park Big 
Ten athlete
5 Smarten (up)
10 Cutlass, e.g.
14 Big name in the 
cookie aisle
15 “Rebel Without a 
Cause” actor
16 Castle
17 Addition at the 
palace?
19 Dot on a globe, 
perhaps
20 Surprising and 
sometimes 
annoying 
success
21 Felicity’s 
“Desperate 
Housewives” role
23 Somme summer
24 Pringles 
alternative
26 Trap fluff
27 “__ about time!”
28 Reason for road 
service
32 Disreputable
35 “All in the Family” 
spinoff
36 Dallas NBAer
37 Church service
38 Zany
39 Ballet move
40 Weapon in some 
action flicks
41 Potsdam 
“please”
42 Social gathering
43 Rip verbally
45 Fall back
46 Acknowledge
47 Woodwind 
musician’s piece
49 CPR pro
52 Gasses up
55 University of 
Wyoming city
57 PC addresses
58 Mole in the cat 
food factory?
60 Down
61 Egbert __, aptly 
named W.C. 
Fields character
62 Countertop 
material
63 Alluring
64 Youngster of an 
awkward age
65 Bullring bravosDOWN
1 Kitchen topper
2 Release 
violently
3 Shortstop 
alongside 
Robinson
4 Keats or Yeats
5 Brainpower
6 1492 sailer
7 Lodging provider
8 Sense
9 Jimi Hendrix 
classic
10 Point in the right 
direction
11 Missing watch?
12 Nimrod
13 Arcade 
trademark word
18 Vile
22 Nick at __
25 Intangible quality 
responsible 
for four puzzle 
answers
27 Passports, e.g.
29 “Star Wars” hero
30 Velocity, e.g.
31 At any time
32 “Give me __ and 
nothing but”: 
Tom Lehrer lyric33 Sunset obscurer
34 Change in 
China?
35 Actor LeBlanc
38 It includes reds
39 Lively dance
41 Small meal
42 Sierra __
44 Mixed martial 
artist Ronda
45 Heavy
48 Beethoven 
dedicatee49 Inbox message
50 Prepare, as 
garlic
51 __ Pete: hot 
sauce brand
52 Massages
53 Creator of Perry 
and Della
54 Winter coat
56 Magazine 
contents
59 Go after, in a 
way
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, February 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Hornet and 
Matador
5 Tech-savvy 
school gp.
11 Higher ed. test
14 Fail to save one’s 
skin?
15 Bring back to the 
firm
16 35-state Western 
org.
17 Spot to spread 
out a ship’s map, 
maybe?
19 “The Racer’s 
Edge”
20 “American Gods” 
actor McShane
21 Shell material
22 Milk by-product
23 Yale’s Mr. Yale
25 Sailors dealing 
with a ship’s 
cargo?
28 Most warm
30 Barbershop staple
31 Industry mogul
32 Seedy abode
36 Sushi choice
37 Awesome things 
near the front of a 
ship?
38 Sweetie, in slang
41 Snore
42 Numerous
43 Gave one’s word
45 Often recyclable 
tech products
47 Backwards 
glance on a ship?
51 Adams who shot 
El Capitan
52 Tiny parasites
53 Secluded valleys
55 __ Lanka
56 Imaginepeace.
com artist
57 Strength measure 
of the ship cook’s 
spirits?
60 Ref’s call
61 “Her cheeks are 
rosy, she looks a 
little nosey” girl in 
a 1962 #1 hit
62 Like crazy
63 Sun, in Ibiza
64 Use a combine
65 Soccer followers?
DOWN
1 Restaurant 
review factor
2 Get all preachy3 Kind of 
psychology
4 Criterion: Abbr.
5 Neighborhood
6 Climbing plant
7 One-named 
“Hollywood 
Squares” 
panelist
8 Defamation in 
print
9 Web address
10 Spelling event
11 “Jeepers, I 
wouldn’t think 
of it!”
12 Not for kids
13 2018 awards 
event hosted by 
Danica Patrick
18 African herd
22 GPS navigation 
app
24 QE2 designation
26 Drift off
27 Dutch artist 
Frans
29 Gardening tool
33 Punching tool
34 With 42-Down, 
like some 
bobsleds
35 Harley 
Davidson’s 
NYSE symbol37 Stable 
environment?
38 Jazz improv 
highlight
39 Waiting area
40 Some cosmetic 
procedures
41 Hot under the 
collar
42 See 34-Down
43 Hammered
44 “No hard 
feelings, dude”
46 Winged stinger47 Vegas  
attraction
48 Rubberneck
49 Stan’s slapstick 
pal
50 Naval bases?
54 Gloating word 
usually repeated
57 Setting at 0 
degrees long.
58 “This is so 
relaxing!”
59 West Coast 
athlete
1.  Unfortunate, grim 
1.  ____ tantrum5.  Pop ____
2.  Germany neighbor6.  Disturb
3.  Involve7.  Pavilion
4.  Fidel ____GCRTIA
MREPTECSUIM
ORSTU
USAIRAT
LEDICNUZGAOEB
AOCSTRANSWERS: 1A-Tragic  5A-Music  6A-Roust  7A-Gazebo
1D-Temper  2D-Austria  3D-Include  4D-Castro  B-Asparagus3-1-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
CLUE: China is the world’s leading 
grower of ____.
BONUS1
62
53
74
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators fall to Georgia on senior night
The Florida women's basketball team lost to the Bulldogs on Thursday night 
69-57. Forward Zada Williams led the team with 21 points, while senior 
guard Funda Nakkasoglu scored 14 points.Attacker Lindsey Ronbeck and the 
Gators lacrosse team faces Navy on 
Saturday at 11 a.m. in Annapollis, 
Maryland. GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The Gators were riding high as 
the SEC’s sole undefeated team in 
conference play when they stepped 
into the O’Connell Center to face 
off against Georgia last Friday.
They paid the price for their 
overweening and walked out with 
their ﬁ  rst SEC loss.
When coach Jenny Rowland’s 
squad heads to the Barnhill Arena 
in Fayetteville, Arkansas, to take 
on the Razorbacks on Friday, it 
doesn’t plan to make the same mis-
take again.
“Conﬁ  dence is a great thing to 
have, but don’t get overconﬁ  dent 
to where your mind isn’t sharp,” 
Rowland said. “We kind of left that 
behind last Friday.”
While Arkansas won’t be the 
toughest SEC opponent Florida has 
faced on its schedule—far from it, 
in fact—the meet will still help de-
cide the conference’s champion, as 
a win for No. 3 UF (5-2, 5-1 SEC) 
will guarantee at least share of the 
crown, with a chance to take sole 
possession of it depending on other 
meets.Here’s what the Gators will be 
looking out for on their quest for 
SEC glory:
Razor’s Edge
It hasn’t been a great year for 
Arkansas.
The No. 20 Razorbacks (1-6, 
0-5 SEC) have yet to win a meet 
at home, with their only victory 
coming in an away meet over the 
Arizona Wildcats. On top of that, 
Florida’s average score across all 
its meets, 197.579, is better than 
the Razorbacks’ highest on the 
season, 196.375. The Gators have 
eclipsed 197 in every meet so far 
this season, while the Razorbacks 
haven’t met that mark all season.
In Arkansas’ loss to LSU last 
Friday, sophomore Sophia Carter 
stood out. Her 9.900 on the beam 
was the highest for the squad on 
the night, and she placed with a 
9.950 on her ﬂ  oor routine.
Freshman Kennedy Hambrick 
was the only other scorer at or 
above 9.9 on Friday, netting a 
9.900 on the vault during Arkan-
sas’ ﬁ  rst rotation.Florida faces struggling Arkansas after upset loss
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida gymnast Trinity Thomas was named SEC Gymnast of the Week following her performance 
against Georgia on Saturday. She collected 9.975s in both ﬂ  oor and bars.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida guard Noah Locke went up for 
the jump shot, but he noticed forward 
Isaiah Stokes open in front of the basket 
with 49 seconds left in the ﬁ  rst half. 
At his peak height, he threw the ball 
forward. Stokes grabbed it, boxed out his 
defender until he created enough separa-
tion and made an easy layup.
The play not only put the Gators 
men’s basketball team ahead by 12 over 
Vanderbilt, a game it ultimately won, but 
also showcased its new offense. Florida is 
becoming more physical in its offensive 
scheme with just three games remaining 
in the regular season.
“We were very one-dimensional early 
on,” coach Mike White said. “Unfortu-
nately, we found that out the hard way. 
It’s stuff our guys work on every day, and 
our guys have taken ownership and have an understanding that it’s been a deﬁ  -
ciency.”
White said on Tuesday the Gators 
have been working on adding new ways 
of scoring, mainly attacking the rim more 
and getting to the free-throw line.
It worked.
Florida mainly shot from behind the 
arc at the beginning of the season, rarely 
working the ball into the paint to center 
Kevarrius Hayes or designing plays to get 
an easy bucket.
It shot less than 20 three-pointers in 
just three of its ﬁ  rst 21 games. Florida 
shot over 30 attempts in six of those 
games. In UF’s last four games, it tried 
less than 20 threes in three of them. 
“We want to attack the basket more,” 
White said. “We’re better at posting up. 
We’re better at interior passing. Keyontae 
Johnson puts more pressure on the rim. 
Jalen Hudson is ﬁ  nding a little bit of a Gators adding new aspects to 
their oﬀ  ense as season nears endKyle's Files / Opinion
The Florida baseball team 
was expected to struggle 
early on because of the 
sheer number of freshmen 
and newcomers on the 
roster.
“Growing pains” is the senti-
ment that coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
continues to echo.
UF has struggled, posting a 6-4 
record through a week and a half. 
And 11 freshmen — 15 players overall — have 
already made their debuts as Gators. But those 
two statements are not necessarily directly cor-
related.
Florida’s best hitter turned 19 on Sunday, 
the same day he hit his ﬁ  rst career home run in 
a series-clinching win over Miami. Freshman 
Kendrick Calilao leads the Gators in nearly ev-
ery offensive category: batting average (.355), 
triples (2), RBIs (9), total bases (20), slugging 
percentage (.645) and on-base percentage 
(.476).
Calilao is also tied with fellow freshman 
Cory Acton for the team-lead in walks (7). Ac-
ton drew four walks against UCF and singled in his only at-bat of the night. Ac-
ton has now reached base safely 
in nine consecutive at-bats. This 
streak brought his on-base per-
centage up to .410, the third-best 
on the team behind Calilao and 
sophomore Brady McConnell 
(.432).
The other consistent freshman 
in the lineup is early enrollee Jud 
Fabian. He is tied for the team 
lead in doubles (3) and is third in RBIs (5). 
But he's also second on the team in strikeouts, 
which leads to an issue that plagues the Gators, 
more so the veterans than the freshmen.
UF has struck out 92 times this season, a 
shade over a third of its total outs have come 
on strikeouts. 
Sophomore Brady Smith leads the team 
with 12 strikeouts and is hitting a lowly .050. 
Smith singled in his ﬁ  rst at-bat of the season 
against Long Beach State and is hitless in 19 
at-bats since then. Junior Austin Langworthy 
has struck out 10 times and was in the leadoff 
spot up until the second game of the Miami se-Youth isn’t to blame for UF's struggles
 Kyle Wood
Twitter: @KkylewoodSEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Three runs. 
That is all Florida’s offense managed in two 
games on Thursday at the Judi Garman Classic 
in Fullerton, California. 
The Gators (20-1) still came away with a 1-0 
win against New Mexico (5-10) and a 2-1 vic-
tory over No. 20 Oregon (11-4) on the strength 
of Florida’s pitching and some brilliant plays 
on defense.
Lugo ties career-high in K’s in extra-
inning win
Natalie Lugo set a career-high for strikeouts 
in a start last Wednesday when she fanned 13 
batters in a win over Jacksonville. 
She tied that mark just eight days later 
against New Mexico. The sophomore shut out the Lobos in seven 
innings of work, allowing four hits and walk-
ing just one batter en route to a Florida win. 
However, New Mexico’s Kennedy Ferguson 
did the same to Florida. The Gators couldn’t 
score a single run through seven innings ei-
ther, so the game went to extra innings. 
Coach Tim Walton brought in senior Kel-
ly Barnhill to replace Lugo in the top of the 
eighth. Barnhill struck out three batters to keep 
the shutout going and was awarded her 10th 
win of the season. 
Jade Caraway led off the bottom of the 
eighth inning and smacked Ferguson’s sixth 
pitch of the at-bat for a walk-off RBI double 
to drive home third baseman Hannah Sipos, 
who started the inning on second due to the 
international tiebreaker rule, to win the game 
for Florida. Barnhill dominates Ducks
Barnhill came back from being rattled by 
UCLA on Wednesday to deliver another solid 
performance against Oregon in Florida’s 2-1 
win. 
The senior, who improved to 11-1 on the 
season, struck out nine batters, walked one 
and gave up three hits in a complete game ver-
sus the Ducks. 
Florida’s offense continued to sputter in its 
second game of the day. The Gators batted just 
.224 in their two games combined and drew 
only four walks. 
Caraway robbed Oregon left fielder Cherish 
Burks of a home run in the top of the sixth, and 
the game stayed scoreless until Oregon scored 
a run in the top of the fifth inning. First base-
man April Utecht belted Barnhill’s 2-2 offering 
over the left-field fence for a solo home run. 
The Gators’ offense briefly snapped out of its funk in the bottom of the inning. Cara-
way reached second on an error by Burks. 
She touched home two batters later when first 
baseman Kendyl Lindaman drove a two-out 
RBI single to tie the game. 
Outfielder Haven Sampson came in to 
pinch-run for Lindaman and scored on an RBI 
single by right fielder Jaimie Hoover to take the 
lead. 
Barnhill retired the next six Oregon batters 
to close out the Gators’ second win of the day 
and their fourth win over a ranked opponent. 
The Gators will face two top-five teams to-
morrow in No. 2 UCLA and No. 5 Washington 
and will finish the six-game tournament with a 
matchup against CSUN. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgQuality pitching leads Florida to two victories in California
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The No. 7 Florida baseball team 
is back at Alfred A. McKethan Sta-
dium this weekend for a three-game 
series with the Big South’s Winthrop 
Eagles, starting tonight at 6:30 p.m.
The Gators lead the all-time series 
8-3, winning their last two matchups 
with the Eagles in 2011 under coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan.
Winthrop (3-3) is coming off a 
two-game sweep of George Mason, 
outscoring the Patriots 10-1.
The Eagles have been hitting well. Their batting average sits at .302, the 
best in the Big South Conference.
At the plate, senior infielder Grant 
English leads Winthrop with 10 hits, 
good for a .417 batting average.
Senior starter Nate Pawelczyk 
(2-0, 1.50 ERA) leads the Eagles on 
the mound. The Big South Pitcher 
of the Week is expected to pitch on 
Sunday, which will set up quite a 
matchup between he and UF starter 
Jack Leftwich (2-0, 1.64 ERA). Ty-
ler Dyson will face Thad Harris on 
Friday, while Tommy Mace will go 
against Zach Peek on Saturday.
The Gators (6-4) have struggled in midweek games, going 1-3 to 
start, but with their three-day rota-
tion in place during weekend series, 
they have won five of six.
Youth has been key for the Gators 
so far this season.
Freshman first baseman Kend-
rick Calilao has been arguably the 
team’s best hitter through 10 games. 
He earned co-SEC Freshman of the 
Week honors after a 7-for-12 perfor-
mance against the Miami Hurricanes 
last weekend.
Another freshman who seems to 
have figured it out is third baseman 
Cory Acton. The Fort Lauderdale, Florida, native has reached base in 
nine straight games and is 6 for 12 in 
his last four.
Closer Nolan Crisp has also been 
a great contributor for the team, as 
he already has five saves this season. 
Both are early enrollees that could be 
playing high school ball but are mak-
ing big plays for the seventh-ranked 
college program in the nation.
The veterans have been the sur-
prise so far this year for the Gators, 
and not in a good way. All of the 
junior and senior starters have yet 
to get it going as senior designated 
hitter Nelson Maldonado currently boasts the highest batting average 
among them at .250.
Florida’s weekend rotation has 
excelled.
The trio Dyson, Mace and Left-
wich has combined to go 4-0 in six 
starts, striking out 30 batters in that 
span.
They’ll be tasked with stop-
ping a Winthrop lineup that fea-
tures six players with batting av-
erages over .300.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgUF searching for consistency in series against WinthropBY THE NUMBERS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida football team capped 
off a successful season with a domi-
nating win over Michigan in the 
Peach Bowl. It was a feel-good mo-
ment for a team that returned a lot 
of talent from 2017’s 4-7 campaign. 
The Gators are taking a hit in 
some of their most important posi-
tions in 2019. Defensive lineman 
Jachai Polite, who had the second-
most sacks (11) in the SEC, is gone. Star safety Chauncey Gardner-John-
son, who was tied for second in the 
SEC in interceptions (4), is gone. 
Four starters on the offensive line 
— Tyler Jordan, Martez Ivey, Fred 
Johnson and Jawaan Taylor — are 
gone.
Losing players to graduation or 
the NFL Draft isn’t anything new. 
But is it possible to predict how good 
Florida will be in 2019?
In the next alligatorSports’ “By 
the Numbers,” we look into how the 
UF football team will pan out next year and if it will be just as success-
ful as this season.
Question: How good will the 
Gators be next season?
This will be hard to answer, but 
let’s give it a shot. First, let’s look at 
who is leaving on offense. 
The biggest losses are coming on 
the offensive line. Jordan, Ivey, John-
son and Taylor played all 13 games 
this season. While they weren’t al-
ways perfect, they did a good job at 
giving quarterback Feleipe Franks 
enough time in the pocket and open-
ing up holes for the runners. They 
will be tough to replace.
Running back Jordan Scarlett de-
clared for the draft. He was UF’s sec-
ond-leading rusher with 776 yards 
on 131 carries. Tight end C’yontai 
Lewis is also leaving due to gradu-
ation.
On defense, linebacker Vosean 
Joseph, Florida’s leading tackler 
(93), declared along with Gardner-
Johnson and Polite. While the Gators 
didn’t take a big hit on defense in 
terms of numbers, they did lose a 
handful of playmakers.
Prediction: The Gators will not 
do as well next season.
This one was tough to predict, but purely based on the stats of those 
returning, Florida will still do well. 
Just not as well as this season. 
Before we start, it’s important to 
point out that any first-year player or 
returning player can break out to fill 
the gaps. We don’t know who that 
will be yet, so we can’t count that in 
this article.
We’ll break down each position 
and give a quick analysis of each.
Quarterback: Franks had his best 
season at Florida so far. He threw for 
2457 yards and 24 touchdowns, had 
a 58.4 completion percentage and 
threw just six interceptions all year. 
On top of that, Franks turned into a 
dual-threat quarterback, running for 
350 yards and seven touchdowns. 
Florida will be fine at this position. 
The only question is if he can still 
do well without an experienced of-
fensive line.
Running back: Scarlett was UF’s 
second-best rusher this season, but 
its best is sticking around. Lamical 
Perine emerged as a future first-
option running back under Mullen’s 
running-back-by-committee scheme. 
He ran for 826 yards and seven 
touchdowns.
He will thrive as the main run-
ning back. Mix in sophomore Dame-
on Pierce and redshirt sophomore 
Malik Davis (returning from injury), 
the Gators could have one of the best running back corps in the SEC. 
Again, the biggest question is if they 
can still perform as well without a 
strong O-line.
Receiver: This will be quick. 
Florida isn’t losing a single receiver. 
Van Jefferson, Trevon Grimes, Josh 
Hammond, Tyrie Cleveland, Fred-
die Swain and Kadarius Toney are 
all coming back. Together, they had 
1,973 yards and 21 touchdowns. 
Offensive Line: This will be 
why the Gators struggle early next 
season. The only returner is center 
Nick Buchanan, who played in 12 
games last year. Brett Heggie and 
Stone Forsythe will help fill the role, 
as they combined for 22 games, but 
it still leaves a lot of open positions. 
Florida will need a freshman to play 
right away, and that will hamper the 
team’s success.
DBU: The cornerbacks and safe-
ties will anchor Florida’s defense in 
2019. CJ Henderson and Trey Dean, 
the starting corners, are back. Hen-
derson recorded 38 tackles, two in-
terceptions, seven pass breakups 
and three sacks, while Dean had 
26 tackles, one interception and six 
pass breakups. It only gets better, as 
Marco Wilson is returning from an 
ACL tear. This will put Henderson 
and Wilson as starters at corner... Predicting how the Gators will perform in the 2019 season
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Running back Lamical Perine ran for 826 yards and seven touchdowns.
Read the rest of this story  
on alligator.org/sports16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2019
Celebrate 
Mardi GrasCelebrate 
Mardi Gras
ENJOY starting at 7pm 
(price go up $1 every hour)
$1 Craft Drafts
$1 Hurricanes on tap
$1 Hand Grenade ShotsENJOY  (All Day)
$4 Beignets
$4 Crawfish Po’ Boys
DJ starts at 9 pm!
No Cover for the 1st 200 peopleFAT TUESDAY - BEAT THE CLOCK!
Catch the Crawfish beads & win FREE PRIZES!
1728 West University Avenuerestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 Let’s Party! Let’s Party!rhythm.”
Johnson and Hudson have been a big part of Florida’s 
transition late in the season. Johnson draws fouls on the 
inside and gets to the free-throw line, while Hudson drives 
to the basket more. Hudson scored 17 points against the 
Commodores, showing off skills like alley-oops, dunks, 
jump shots and three-pointers. 
Another player who made a change offensively is guard 
Andrew Nembhard. The freshman has stepped up his 
game to become one of UF’s most consistent options. 
He’s learning how to finish at the rim when going up for 
a contested layup. He’s minimizing turnovers. And when 
Nembhard isn’t scoring, he’s collected assists in its place.
Over the last four games, Nembhard is shooting 74.1 
percent from the field. That includes a perfect 9 for 9  
against Alabama on Feb. 16.
The future is optimistic for the Gators as they attempt to 
close out the season strong. They still have to face Georgia 
and LSU at home before closing out the season against 
Kentucky in Lexington. With an upgraded offense, they 
can escape some of these contests with wins.
“I think we’re very confident right now,” Hayes said. 
“I think we have a sense of what we’re capable of. Even 
though there’s still more to do, we’re getting there.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Guard Jalen Hudson scored 17 points against Commodores
ries, when he was replaced by McConnell 
(who has also struck out 10 times).
Langworthy has the second-worst bat-
ting average on the team (.158) among 
qualified hitters (at least two at-bats), only 
better than Smith. Wil Dalton, another ju-
nior, is not hitting much better (.172).
Common advice from coaches is to “act 
like you’ve been here before.” The reality 
is, the older players have not only been 
here before but have played in the SEC 
Tournament and College World Series. 
The youth has been the primary target 
of the blame so far, but it’s actually the 
struggles of the older players at the plate 
that is detrimental to the offense.
The freshmen on the pitching staff 
have seen more highs and lows.
Early enrollee Nolan Crisp is Florida’s 
most reliable arm out of the bullpen. Crisp 
hasn’t allowed a run, and has earned five 
saves in five appearances. He may even 
surpass Florida’s single-season saves 
leader, Michael Byrne, who recorded 19 
in 2017. Just two of the 20 batters Crisp 
has faced have reached base. He has five 
strikeouts in six innings.
Freshman David Luethje has not given 
up a run out of the bullpen in 7.1 innings.
Nick Pogue, Kris Armstrong and Ben 
Specht, all freshman relief pitchers, have 
stumbled at times, but like O’Sullivan 
said, that is to be expected.
Junior Tyler Dyson hasn’t given the 
youthful bullpen much help so far. One of 
the most experienced pitchers on the team 
has not set the tone for the team in con-
secutive disappointing Friday night starts. 
Dyson failed to surpass four innings on 
the mound against Long Beach State or 
Miami.
The freshmen are not only holding their 
own, but also carrying Florida through 10 
games. It’s up to the experienced players 
to remember that they actually have been 
here before and to start playing like it.
Kyle Wood is a staff writer. Follow him on 
Twitter @Kkylewood and contact him at 
kwood@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 14
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF guard Andrew Nembhard is shooting 74.1 percent in his last four games.
Heavy is the head
The scenario is clear. With a win, the 
Gators are guaranteed at least a part of the 
SEC regular-season title. Should this occur, 
along with the Auburn Tigers losing their 
match against Alabama on Friday, Florida 
would hold sole possession of the SEC 
championship.
Despite the looming implications noth-
ing has changed for UF as it prepares to hit the road.
“We don’t really talk about it, I guess,” 
freshman Trinity Thomas said. “We just 
come in here and do our thing, because all 
we can control is what we do.”
UF’s “thing” is a sole tenet that Row-
land has preached to her team this year: 
normality.
“Staying normal just means doing exact-
ly what you’ve been practicing in the gym,” 
Thomas said. “No different out there. Don’t 
go harder, don’t hold back.”
There’s also the matter of junior Ra-chel Gowey, who is usually a staple on 
the team’s beam corps. Gowey rested last 
week in the meet against Georgia and was 
replaced by freshman Leah Clapper. When 
asked about Gowey's status, Roland hinted 
to the fact that she might not compete.
“Just keeping (Gowey) healthy, moving 
her along steadily is great,” Rowland said. 
“I think you’ll see similar lineups to what 
you saw this past weekend.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14Rachel Gowey didn't compete against Georgia