We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
RMU drops Huggins after rape accusation
A former UF football player is no longer on RMU’s roster , pg 5
Rock music for hearing implants
High Dive beneﬁ  t concert raised funds, pg 4
RMU drops Huggins after rape accusation
,
Second-half adjustments prove
successful for Gators
That trend could be helpful moving forward, pg 
10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 17
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
NO ARRESTS MADE 
IN 25-YEAR-OLD’S DEATH
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Deputies believe a Sunday morning home invasion 
robbery led to the death of a 25-year-old man and the 
injuries of a 22-year-old man.
Before 2 a.m., Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies 
found the two men inside a home on the 1200 block of 
Southwest 75th Drive, according to a release. Jonathan 
Morris was found dead when law enforcement arrived, 
and the unnamed 22-year-old was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital.
Morris’ death is considered a murder, said ACSO 
spokesperson Art Forgey. Deputies are not releasing 
the cause of Morris’ death at this time.
Upon arriving at the scene, deputies noticed that the home’s front door was wide open and an alarm was 
blaring from a car parked in the driveway, according 
to the release.
Soon after the ﬁ  rst two men were found, a third 
man, whose name was not mentioned, was found in-
jured on the 700 block of the street. He was also taken 
to UF Health Shands, according to the release. Depu-
ties are investigating whether he is involved in the in-
cident.
There are no arrests as of Sunday afternoon, Forgey 
said. 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst homicide in Gainesville in 2019. 
In April, a Gainesville man was arrested in connection 
to the murder of 20-year-old Daniel Schweitzer, who 
was missing for months beforehand.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgACSO: Man killed after robberyTHE MOTION 
PASSED 6-1
By Ashley Lazarski
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville is one employ-
ment contract away from se-
curing a city manager. 
In a special meeting at 
the Gainesville City Hall 
auditorium on Friday after-
noon, city commissioners of-
ﬁ  cially selected Lee Feldman 
as their desired city planner 
and motioned to begin nego-
tiating his employment con-
tract. 
The motion was passed 
6-1 with Commissioner Da-
vid Arreola in dissent. Arre-
ola declined to comment due 
to the “sensitive nature of 
a vote regarding someone’s 
employment,” he said. 
Before the vote, each 
commissioner announced 
both the candidate they 
wished to vote for as well as 
their reasons for selection. 
Commissioner Gail Johnson 
used this opportunity to ex-
tend her support to Feldman.
None of the candidates, 
including Feldman, were at 
the meeting. Feldman could 
not be reached for comment. 
“I think he knows who 
we are, and he knows the 
challenges he is stepping 
into. He’s ready to do it. He’s 
ready to do the job,” John-son said. 
Johnson said she talked 
to more than 20 people in the 
community, and all of them 
were in agreement that Feld-
man would be the best ﬁ  t for 
Gainesville. She agreed, and 
supports him for a myriad of 
reasons, she said. 
“We have a very unique 
community, and I don’t 
think there’s anything this 
man hasn’t seen,” Johnson 
said. 
Commissioner Helen 
Warren said of the ﬁ  ve can-
didates, Feldman was the 
only candidate who pre-
sented a written proposal of 
a plan to move forward with 
the city, she said. 
“I’m looking for someone 
who can focus on what our 
ﬁ  nancial future is going to 
look like,” Warren said. “I 
could go on with other char-
acteristics, but he was my 
favorite, and I can stay with 
that.”
Before the vote, Mayor 
Lauren Poe addressed the 
other candidates and ad-
vised them to “hold out for 
that next job.” He said he 
wishes the best for each can-
didate. 
The ﬂ  oor was brieﬂ  y 
opened for citizen comment, 
during which Nick Gonza-
lez, 35, expressed his sup-
port for Feldman. 
Gonzalez, a Gainesville Gainesville selects 
new city managerUPD RESPONDS AFTER 
STUDENT-LED PROTESTS
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
After weeks of student activism, 
there will be blue lights on Frater-
nity Drive.  
University Police announced 
Friday that four blue light emergen-cy phones will be added on Frater-
nity Drive, which is the only area 
on UF’s campus without them. 
This follows a march of about 200 
students demanding for blue lights 
to be installed there. 
Blue lights are non-dial out-
door telephones that can instantly 
reach UPD and share the location. 
UPD, along with the UF Division of 
Planning, Design & Construction, UF Emergency Management and 
the Ofﬁ  ce of the Director of Physi-
cal Security, are working with an 
outside contractor to get the lights 
installed. 
“We would like to thank the 
students who demonstrated the 
care and concern they share for the 
safety of our community by bring-
ing to our attention the need for 
these BLPs,” UF Police Chief Linda Stump-Kurnick wrote in the state-
ment.
The cost of the new blue lights 
are unknown. The Alligator made a 
records request regarding how of-
ten blue lights are used on campus 
and where.
UPD could not be reached for 
further comment. UF Division of 
Planning, Design & Construction 
did not have blue light installation as a current project on their web-
site as of Sunday night. 
Before the Sept. 17 protest,  the 
UF Interfraternity Council released  
a statement that said it does not 
oppose blue lights anywhere on 
campus. UF Student Government 
senators originally denied motions 
of adding the lights because Greek 
organizations were not consulted. Four blue lights will be installed on Fraternity Drive
SEE MANAGER,  PAGE 4SEE BLUE LIGHT,  PAGE 4
SOULFEST
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff 
The Danza Dance Company celebrates their victory at the 2019 Soulfest. The group will perform at Gator 
Growl, a homecoming celebration. See the photo story on page 3.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  73°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
FAFSA Extravaganza
When: Oct. 1, 2 to 6 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union G320
What: Get FAFSA and financial 
aid help, visit a campus resource 
fair and attend workshops 
on financial literacy, funding 
opportunities and career 
connections at the Reitz Union. 
For a complete schedule, 
visit https://www.sfa.ufl.
edu/fafsa2019/. To apply for 
financial aid, complete the Free 
Application for Federal Student 
Aid (FAFSA) at www.fafsa.
ed.gov. You can file a 2020-21 
FAFSA as early as Oct. 1, 2019.
Gator Growl
When: Oct. 4, 6 p.m.
Where: Flavet Field
 Woodlawn Dr
What: Gator Growl is a 
historic UF event to celebrate 
homecoming. The event includes 
live performances, food truck 
vendors and comedy skits. This 
year's performers are country 
artist Chase Rice and country 
group LANCO. Tickets start 
at $25 for general admission 
and $50 for pit access and 
can be purchased online via 
Ticketmaster. 
Florida Museum presents 
‘A Celebration of the Life of 
Alexander von Humboldt’
When: Oct. 6, 7-9 p.m.
Where: Curtis M. Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History is celebrating 
renowned naturalist Alexander 
von Humboldt’s 250th birthday 
This free event features a special 
performance by the Gainesville 
Master Chorale and a talk by 
best-selling author Andrea Wulf 
followed by a Q&A and book 
signing. For a full schedule or 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/humboldt or call 352-273-2047.
Butterfly Fest 
When: Oct. 12, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, 3215 Hull Road
What: Explore the lives of bats, 
bees, birds and butterflies at 
the 14th annual ButterflyFest. 
Learn about butterfly 
gardening, native pollinators, 
conservation, backyard wildlife 
and more during this free event. 
Experience butterfly releases and 
come dressed in your favorite 
pollinator attire for the pollinator 
parade. Visit the #ButterflyFest 
webpage for more information 
and a full schedule of events, 
www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
butterflyfest. 
Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Oct. 18-20, 9 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 200 SE 
Depot Ave.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people 
to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests can upgrade 
their experience with Petty For 
The People Packages to receive 
additional merchandise and 
support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine. 
2019 Fall Art Show 
Submissions
When: Submissions displayed 
Oct. 19-20
Where: Alachua County Library, 
401 E University Ave. in Meeting 
Room A
What: The Alachua County 
Library District invites teen 
artists ages 12 to 15 to submit 
works for the 2019 Fall Art Show 
through Oct. 11. Works will be 
judged by professionals including 
staff members from UF’s College 
of the Arts and the Harn Museum of Art on Oct. 18. Winners will 
be announced on Saturday at 1 
p.m. at the Headquarters Branch. 
Submissions can be made at any 
Alachua County Library District 
Branch. Prizes will be awarded 
for first through third place. For 
more details or to schedule an 
interview, please contact Rachel 
Cook at 352-334-3909. 
Friends of the Library Alachua 
County Library District
When: Oct. 19-23, 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m.
Where: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County, 430 N Main St.
What: Friends of the Library 
Alachua County is hosting the 
Friends of the Library Sale. In 
addition to books, the sale will 
include art, comic books, manga, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records and 
more. Most items are priced 
between 25 cents and $4. On, 
Tuesday, everything will be 
marked half-off and Wednesday 
everything will be 10 cents. All 
proceeds support the Alachua 
County Library District and area 
literacy projects. Sale hours are 
Saturday, Oct. 19  from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. and noon to 6 p.m. 
Sunday through Wednesday. 
GCM Food Fest
When: Oct. 24, 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Where: Celebration Pointe
What: The sixth GCM Food 
Fest is coming to Gainesville. 
Enjoy great food from over 50 of 
Gainesville's best restaurants all 
in one location. GCM has teamed 
up with Celebration Pointe to 
host what they hope will be the 
biggest and best festival yet.  
Celebration Pointe Avenue, in 
front of the Nike store and the 
Tommy Hilfiger store, will be 
closed and filled with music, 
food, beer, wine and kids' 
activities. Admission to the 2019 
GCM Food Festival is free. To 
ensure the festival is accessible 
to all audiences, meal and drink 
tickets will be sold a la carte 
for only $2 each. Download the 
Gift Certificates and More app 
and receive one free meal/drink 
ticket. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 17
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella NinoMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
5k Race/Walk
OCTOBER 19 | 8 AM
$20 Per Race Participant
 HAWTHORNE STATE TRAIL
13400 SE 15 STREET GAINESVILLE FL 32641
Questio ns ca ll Matt R asco vich at 352.505.4 974 or em ail m rasco vich@voa-fla .orgProceeds will benefit nonprofit Volunteers of America of Florida which
provides housing stability, case management and many more positive life
changing support services to Veterans, families and Floridians in need.Registration: 
http://voaflorida.org/5kstepsforvets/ 5k Race/Walk
OCTOBER 19 | 8 AM
$20 Per Race Participant
 HAWTHORNE STATE TRAIL
13400 SE 15 STREET GAINESVILLE FL 32641
Questio ns ca ll Matt R asco vich at 352.505.4 974 or em ail m rasco vich@voa-fla .orgProceeds will benefit nonprofit Volunteers of America of Florida which
provides housing stability, case management and many more positive life
changing support services to Veterans, families and Floridians in need.
Registration: 
http://voaflorida.org/5kstepsforvets/ $20 Per Race Participant
Registration:
http://voaflorida.org/5kstepsforvets/
Sabor Latino, a Latin dance club at UF, starts their routine at the 2019 Soulfest, which is hosted as a part of Gator Growl in an effort to showcase and celebrate the 
diversity and talent among the students at UF.
This year’s Soulfest was sponsored by LIFEWTR, and 
students were able to submit an original art piece that 
represented the 2019 Soulfest theme. There were three 
winners of the competition, and their artwork will be 
displayed in the Reitz Union bookstore. 
Wes Pfuntner, a 19-year-
old Santa Fe mechanical 
engineering sophomore, 
shows his moves on 
stage after hosts asked 
audience members to 
come up on stage and 
walk the runway if they 
thought they were the 
best dressed.
Eight fraternities and 
sororities showed off their 
stepping skills. Alpha Phi 
Alpha, Alpha Kappa Alpha, 
Kappa Alpha Psi, Omega Psi 
Phi, Delta Sigma Theta, Phi 
Beta Sigma, Sigma Gamma 
Rho and Iota Phi Theta all had 
a representative from their 
fraternity or sorority who 
performed on stage as part of 
a choreographed act.
Photo Story by Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff 
Heart of Soulfest
More than 300 people gathered in the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts Sunday night to watch various acts 
perform in Soulfest, a multicultural talent show. The show, 
which is free for students, started in 2000. This year’s theme 
was Expedition Soulfest: Every Country is Gator Country. 4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019
,
,Originally, UPD advocated 
for the GATORSAFE mobile ap-
plication, which functions as a 
mobile blue light, rather than 
supporting the addition of physi-
cal ones. Student Body President 
Michael Murphy also encouraged 
students to use GATORSAFE in 
a letter to the editor, and said 
physical lights were a “tremen-
dous waste of student fees.”
“Painting the picture that stu-
dents are left without recourse in 
an emergency due to the absence 
of a blue light isn’t just false, it’s 
dangerous,” Murphy wrote. 
In the Fall SG elections, In-
spire Party, stressed the further 
installation of blue lights as a 
platform point. Inspire won the 
majority of the open Senate seats. 
To Samantha Gildea, a 
20-year-old UF international 
studies and Russian studies 
sophomore, the action was a 
means to an end. She, along with 
protest organizers Mark Merwit-
zer, Alfredo Ortiz, William Zelin, 
Emily Hyden and the Gainesville chapter of National Women’s 
Liberation, said the issue should 
have never been as divisive as it 
was. 
“In this process, so many 
people have made me feel like 
we were asking for too much,” 
Gildea said. “‘You want a blue 
light? Well, it’s expensive. You 
want a blue light? Well, there’s 
357 already. You want a blue 
light? Well, we have an app.’ It 
made me feel so small.”
After the protest, Gildea said 
she and other organizers were in 
contact with UPD spokesperson 
Maj. Brad Barber who said the 
department was “moving for-
ward with initial planning,” on 
Sept. 24. Three days later, UPD 
announced the four new lights 
on Fraternity Row. 
Gildea said the protest’s goal 
was to have one light installed. 
The installation of four lights is 
beyond her wildest expectations. 
She said this is an example of 
Gators coming together to make 
tangible change.
“I’m so grateful to not only 
the students who came out but the students who listened,” Gil-
dea said. “There were so many 
allies. It took my breath away.” 
Mason Mellott, a 21-year-old 
UF psychology junior, said he 
was hit by a car on Fraternity 
Drive while biking at night in 
November 2017. He considers 
blue lights a universal symbol 
of emergency services and said 
seeing one there would have 
prompted him to seek help from 
police. 
Now that blue lights will be 
installed on the dark road, stu-
dents will have more of a chance 
to get help during emergencies, 
he said. 
“Every emergency is a valid 
emergency, even if it doesn’t feel 
like it in the moment,” he said.
@AEscalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgBLUE LIGHT,  from pg. 1About 200 protested for the lights
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter and vice president of 
Gainesville Professional Fireﬁ  ght-
ers, said his union works very 
closely with both the city man-
ager and the city commission on 
a variety of issues, from service 
delivery to working conditions to 
beneﬁ  ts. 
After reaching out to each 
of the candidates, Gonzalez de-scribed Feldman as “head and 
shoulders above the other candi-
dates.” He reasoned that Feldman 
is both the most experienced can-
didate and the most prepared to 
lead this organization, he said. 
“He’s got great ideas on many 
far-reaching issues for our city, 
and it’s kind of a breath of fresh 
air,” Gonzalez said. 
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgMANAGER,  from pg. 1‘He’s got great ideas...’AN 18-MONTH-OLD 
CHILD WAS INJURED 
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Multiple people, including an 
18-month-old child, were injured in 
a car crash in northeast Gainesville 
Sunday evening. 
The crash happened at about 5 
p.m. at the intersection of Waldo 
Road and Northeast Eighth Avenue. 
Three ambulances were sent to the 
scene of the crash, said Gainesville 
Police Sgt. Leah Hayes. The cause of 
the crash is unknown. Nobody was 
killed.
According to an alert from The 
Incident Page Network, a nation-
wide program that sends alerts on 
local emergencies, ﬁ  ve people were 
involved in the crash, three of which 
experienced “physical trauma,” in-cluding the 18-month-old. An ofﬁ  cer 
at the scene said the child’s injuries 
were improving. The status of the 
other patients is unknown. 
It is unclear how many cars were 
involved in the crash. Around 6 p.m., 
only one car remained on the road. 
The car, a white four-door Toyota, 
appeared to have blood stains on the 
right-hand side as well as a shattered 
windshield. GPD ofﬁ  cers blocked the 
intersection, which appeared to have 
skid marks.
Hayes said there was no update 
regarding the crash or victims as of 
Sunday evening. The Alligator called 
and emailed GPD spokesperson Jorge 
Campos and Gainesville Fire Rescue. 
Neither responded by publication. 
This is a breaking news story. 
Check alligator.org for updates. 
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgThree injured in Waldo 
Road multi-car crashAMOUNT OF MONEY RAISED TO 
BE ANNOUNCED TODAY
By Cassandra Perez
Alligator Staff Writer
Local rock bands played at the High Dive Sunday 
night to raise money to help children who are hard of 
hearing. 
The beneﬁ  t concert was hosted by Hearos for Hear-
ing, which is a UF National Student Speech Language 
and Hearing Association organization that raises 
awareness for the hard-of-hearing community and 
helps cochlear implant patients. 
All proceeds from ticket sales will go toward the 
cochlear implant program at the UF Health Speech and 
Hearing Center, which provides cochlear implants to 
children and organizations that support Gainesville’s 
hard-of-hearing community.
The amount of money raised will be announced on 
Facebook today, said Hearos for Hearing director Nao-
mi Kelly, a 21-year-old UF communication sciences 
and disorders senior. In the 2018-2019 academic year, 
the organization raised $8,054 at their beneﬁ  t concert, 
relay races and socials, according to its website.
“Last year was our ﬁ  rst time putting on a beneﬁ  t 
concert,” Kelly said. “So to have the opportunity to do 
that again has really been wonderful, to have such a 
supportive community and to work with people I’m 
already familiar with.”
The concert featured local bands including the Stiff 
Joints, Tanuki Garden Club, Friendly Dads and The 
Real You. 
During the Stiff Joints set, Jeff Barnhart, the band’s 
lead vocalist and guitarist, thanked Hearos for Hearing 
for inviting his band to perform at the beneﬁ  t concert 
for its second year, highlighting the organization’s 
cause.
“We can get behind that,” he said. “After all, what 
kind of world would this be if you couldn’t hear The 
Stiff Joints?” 
The event also included a “kids’ hour” with face 
painting, crafts and activities, before the concert start-
ed. More than 20 children participated, Kelly said. 
Rosemeri Richardson said Hearos for Hearing has 
helped her family for a decade. When her son couldn’t 
get ideal hearing loss screening in South America, 
her family moved to Gainesville and was helped by 
Hearos for Hearing and the UF Health Speech and Hearing Center.
She said her family has beneﬁ  ted from the efforts of 
the organization through its support of the UF Health 
Speech and Hearing Center, a clinic her family de-
pends on for her son’s implants.
“When you’re a parent and you have kids that are 
born with hearing loss you can feel so lost,” Richard-
son said. “That there are people and groups of people 
that are out there organizing these kinds of events — 
it’s just great.”
@cassandraperez0 
cassieperez00@gmail.comHigh Dive concert raises money for hearing implants
Kat Antunes / Alligator Staff
T anuki Garden Club plays Sunday night at The High Dive as part of the Hearos for Hearing concert to benefit the hard-
of-hearing community.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
HE DID NOT PLAY 
AFTER THE ACCUSATION 
WAS PUBLISHED 
By Sam Campisano
Alligator Staff Writer
Former UF football player John 
Huggins has been dismissed from 
his second team in the last two 
months following a rape accusation.
Huggins is no longer listed on the 
roster for Robert Morris University 
in Pennsylvania, where he trans-
ferred after his original dismissal from Florida last month. A source 
close to the team conﬁ  rmed he has 
been released from the program. 
The rape allegation against Hug-
gins was made public in The Alliga-
tor on Sept. 20. The rape allegedly 
occurred in January outside of Ala-
chua County, while Huggins was a 
UF football player. A RMU spokes-
person said the university was un-
aware of that allegation before it 
was made public. 
His dismissal from UF came four 
days after the grandmother of the 
alleged rape victim described the in-cident in an email to team and uni-
versity ofﬁ  cials, as well as Alligator 
reporters. 
Huggins was dismissed from 
Florida for what coach Dan Mullen 
described at the time as “not living 
up to what we expect of the Gator 
standard.” Huggins was also ac-
cused of choking a female tutor at 
UF and possessing marijuana in his 
apartment. 
Huggins played in three games 
for RMU this season before the 
rape allegation was published. He 
did not play on Sept. 21. RMU as-sistant athletic director Jim Duzyk 
told The Alligator it was a “coaches 
decision.” 
It’s unclear when he was dis-
missed from the team, but by Sat-
urday afternoon he was no longer 
on the roster. His Twitter location is 
Central Florida as of Sunday night.
Ron Kozlowski, Huggins’ attor-
ney, did not respond to a voicemail 
Sunday. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org  
THEY PREVIOUSL Y AGREED
 TO 50-50 FUNDING
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville city commissioners are still 
attempting to remedy Alachua County’s 
lack of funding for local homeless centers.
Last Thursday, city commissioners 
passed a motion for the city to compen-
sate for the county’s shortage of funds for 
GRACE Marketplace this year. The motion 
passed with a 5-2 vote, with Commission-
ers David Arreola and Adrian Hayes-Santos 
in dissent. 
At the joint City and County Commis-
sion meeting on Sept. 23, city commission-
ers expected the county to commit equal 
funding to GRACE and Dignity Village, 
which they had previously agreed upon in 
May. 
However, the county diminished its 
budget to $500,000, which is $250,000 less 
than what GRACE was expecting, Arreola 
said.
“You can imagine. A quarter-million 
dollars for a homeless shelter is a huge 
chunk of money,” Arreola said. “They left that meeting leaving GRACE Marketplace 
short $250,000.”
The county proposed a three-year plan 
to use the $250,000 taken from GRACE’s 
overall reserves and reallocate that funding 
toward permanent housing for the home-
less. 
However, Arreola said the county has 
only asked for funding opportunities and 
hasn’t produced an actual rehousing plan 
yet.  
“It’s like putting the cart before the 
horse,” Arreola said. 
However, Alachua County Commis-
sioner Ken Cornell said putting money to-
ward housing helps the facility.
“I’m comfortable with this plan moving 
forward,” he said. “I’m not comfortable 
with the status quo.”  
Arreola said it was best to bite the bul-
let and spend more to make up for the lost 
county funding. The City Commission also 
wants to secure a ﬁ  ve-year contract to pre-
vent negotiating every year, he said. 
City Commissioner Harvey Ward sup-
ports the motion passed Thursday not only 
because he wants to get GRACE funded, 
but because he believes the City and Coun-
ty Commission shouldn’t have to debate 
this every year. “If we don’t do this, the people who live 
at GRACE Marketplace lose. The people 
who depend on GRACE Marketplace lose.” 
Ward said during the meeting. “The coun-
ty doesn’t lose. We all go home tonight.” 
During the meeting, Jon DeCarmine, the 
GRACE executive director, said he doesn’t 
mind how the city and county decide to 
split up the funds, as long as current and 
future GRACE residents know there will be 
active responses to emergency crises and 
housing will remain available to them at 
all times. 
“Both rapid rehousing and permanent 
supportive housing are vital parts of a 
functioning, housing-ﬁ  rst system,” DeCar-
mine said. 
Henri Prichon Hart, a resident at Digni-
ty Village, agrees with the committee as far 
as permanent housing being a long-term 
solution. However, he believes GRACE 
and Dignity Village still require funding for 
those making the transition. 
“Not everybody is ready for perma-
nent housing, but every homeless person 
should have a place where they can reside 
and feel comfortable at,” Hart said.
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgFormer UF football player accused of rape dismissed from RMU
City, county commissioners continue debate over GRACE fundingHuggins
Via Google Maps
The area surrounding Grace Marketplace and 
Dignity Village, which was previously acquired by 
the city of Gainesville. 
EditorialMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Impeachment is a 
process, not a 
sure thing
Although President Richard Nixon was so fearful of im-
peachment he chose to resign before it could happen, 
the process concerning President Donald Trump might 
not be as serious as people think. Watergate might have 
been a big deal, but this impeachment may not be. 
Only two presidents have been impeached: Andrew Johnson 
and Bill Clinton. Both were able to ﬁ  nish their terms and both 
offenses were less severe than what Trump is being accused of.  
President Johnson was impeached for ﬁ  ring a cabinet secre-
tary without the consent of Congress, and we all know Trump 
has a history of ﬁ  ring people willy-nilly. Clinton’s impeachment 
process started with a public affair, and well, Trump has acquired 
his own headlines in that territory. However, it doesn’t seem like 
he’ll be leaving the Oval Ofﬁ  ce anytime soon. 
Trump is known for stretching the boundaries of what a typi-
cal president can and can’t do or say. Whether it be his off-script 
speeches or the accusations of sexual misconduct against him, it 
seems like the United States is just used to his behavior despite 
the efforts of other political ﬁ  gures. 
The failure of the Mueller Probe, which investigated Trump’s 
link with Russia during the 2016 election, is the perfect example 
of this. The investigation not only took two years, but it also cost   
$32 million and achieved no clear end result. To be fair, the in-
vestigation was riddled with problems. No charges were placed 
on Donald Trump Jr. for conspiring with WikiLeaks, and Mueller 
failed to question the president under oath. 
Maybe the problem isn’t that people aren’t trying, but rather, 
people aren’t trying hard enough. 
However, recent developments show things seem to be chang-
ing. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ﬁ  nally launched a formal im-
peachment inquiry against Trump just days after it was revealed 
through a letter from a government whistleblower (supposedly 
from the CIA) that he was allegedly working with the Ukrainian 
government. Ironically, it sort of resembles the Watergate scan-
dal with a Republican president trying to spy on his Democratic 
opponents. 
Could it be that Trump wants to set the record for most scan-
dalous presidency ever? With what he’s done so far, it seems 
like it.
So far, it’s fair to be excited about this impeachment inquiry. 
It seems this allegation has the most solid backing of support 
and evidence. Plus, this is the ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial impeachment process 
against him. 
The fact that the majority of the Democratic Party has always 
wanted Trump to be impeached hasn’t been a secret. The ques-
tion of impeachment seems to arise almost everyday (or at least 
every time Trump does something questionable). 
This, unfortunately, could be one of the downfalls of the im-
peachment process. 
An alarming amount of the nation seems to be questioning the 
legitimacy of this inquiry. According to a poll conducted by CBS,  
55 percent of Americans approve of the impeachment inquiry of 
Trump — but what about the other 45 percent? Individuals like 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell believe it’s all part of an 
“impeachment parade” made by Democrats in order to reverse 
the results of the 2016 election. This of course, does not look 
good for its legitimacy. 
Whatever it is, we can’t know for sure until it actually hap-
pens — or if it even happens in the ﬁ  rst place. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.+
Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORNow more than ever, fashion brands have 
been attempting to ride the activism 
bandwagon. 
As September comes to a close, so 
does fashion month, with numerous 
brands taking a stand on issues of their choice. 
Fashion brands using the vast exposure of fash-
ion month to tackle an issue should be celebrat-
ed. However, there are more appropriate ways 
of doing this.
In a recent Gucci runway show, the renowned 
fashion brand began its show with models mov-
ing down a conveyor belt runway while wearing strait-
jackets and blank stares. Afterward, the second series of 
models walked down the runway in effervescent colors 
with an upbeat energy.
Runway model Ayesha Tan-Jones participated in a 
silent protest of the straitjackets by displaying the mes-
sage “MENTAL HEALTH IS NOT FASHION.” The words 
were written on the model’s open-faced palms with black 
marker.  
“The stigma around mental health must end,” Tan-
Jones wrote in an Instagram post. “It is hurtful and insen-
sitive for a major fashion house such as Gucci to use this 
imagery as a concept for a ﬂ  eeting fashion moment.”
Gucci responded to the upset by saying that they 
“designed these blank-styled clothes to represent how 
through fashion, power is exercised over life, to eliminate 
self-expression.”
In a world where mental health is constantly stigma-
tized and misunderstood, the utilization of straitjackets is 
insensitive. It serves as an addition to the thousands of 
false images associated with mental illness. 
The so-called power being emitted from the conﬁ  ned 
models was nowhere to be found besides the protest by 
Tan-Jones. If anything, the brand portrayed the models as 
powerless against mental illness. 
Gucci forgot the fact that mental illness looks different to each person and that people with mental ill-
nesses are diverse. 
Earlier in the month, New York streetwear 
brand Bstroy released hoodies that were tagged 
with the names of schools who suffered from 
mass shootings and torn with bullet holes. 
In a statement to Time magazine, Bstroy’s 
co-founder Dieter Grams said, “We wanted 
to make a comment on gun violence and the 
type of gun violence that needs preventative at-
tention and what its origins are... while also 
empowering the survivors of tragedy through 
storytelling in the clothes.”
Embellishing bullet holes into clothing is not a symbol 
of empowerment. It trivializes shootings and normalizes 
them into culture. And they should never, ever, be nor-
malized. 
Instead of garnishing hoodies with bullet holes to raise 
awareness, the brand could have donated a portion of its 
proﬁ  ts to March for our Lives or Sandy Hook Promise.
Kind intentions may have been present, but there are 
better  ways to tackle social issues. 
Prabal Gurung tackled American immigration laws by 
showcasing a diverse group of runway models wearing 
beauty pageant sashes featuring the question “Who gets 
to be American?” Luxury-brand owner François-Henri 
Pinault signed a “Fashion Pact” with 32 signatures from 
major retailers promising to produce more sustainably.
Everyone’s more than welcome to leap into advocacy. 
It should be encouraged. There are too many critical issues 
in the world to ignore, and fashion should not be exempt 
from joining. However, it is imperative that it, along with 
everyone else, does its research so that brands act with 
sensitivity and a genuine understanding with these issues.
Lauren Rousseau is a UF journalism sophomore. When fashion misses the jump into advocacy Column
Lauren 
Rousseau
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
How is it possible to feel alone in 
a crowd? Among 50,000 other 
students, I thought I’d arrive 
on campus and surely ﬁ  nd my 
place shortly thereafter. How 
could I not with such a massive pool of 
students and clubs? I had seen cliques 
form as early as Preview. A few months 
in, and it still hadn’t happened to me.
It would be around two years before 
I’d really settle anywhere. Looking back, I think 
this timespan was critical to my own growth, but 
in the moment it deﬁ  nitely didn’t feel like it. To-
day, I would like to offer a few words of advice 
from a former lonely student. 
For starters, I’ve found through my own ex-
periences that people will often unfairly pair 
their loneliness with self-criticism and feel that 
it’s somehow thier own fault for feeling isolated. 
Did you know that across a 12-month period, 64 
percent of students will have felt “very lonely?” 
Or, moreover, 46 percent of the United States 
population feels lonely regularly? Isn’t it crazy 
that we live in the most interconnected time in 
history, yet we are feeling increasingly more 
alone? The truth of the matter is, loneliness can 
affect anyone. Regardless of how many friends 
they had before college, their level of charisma 
or anything else. You don’t even have to be 
alone to feel lonely. It’s entirely possible to be 
surrounded by people you know and still feel 
isolated. 
I think that the ﬁ  rst thing we should do is rec-
ognize that these thoughts are valid. It can take 
a long time for a new place to feel like home, es-
pecially when our home is designed to challenge 
us. That doesn’t just apply to campus, but future 
jobs, too. Loneliness is not a “one and done” 
thing. It’s unrealistic to expect to toss away lone-
liness forever, and I am really not qualiﬁ  ed to say 
anything different. However, I found that the best 
way for me to mnage it was to reframe it as an 
opportunity to be constructive.
In making the most of solitude, I think that we 
should all be spending as little time in our rooms 
as possible, especially with the door closed, 
blinds drawn and lights off. Basically, don’t be 
me on weekends. Instead, try to do as much as pos-
sible elsewhere. You can set up a lap-
top at Library West or pull up a ham-
mock to read on Plaza of the Americas. 
At the beginning of the week, look and 
see what events are being scheduled. A 
few standouts are anything happening 
at the Harn Museum of Art or programs 
orchestrated by our cultural organiza-
tions. By doing this, you might meet 
new friends, but that shouldn’t be the point of do-
ing these things. I think the time we spend alone 
can be an incredible opportunity for self-growth 
and reﬂ  ection. Finding productivity in solitude, 
I think, is an important skill to learn for the fu-
ture. Activities that provide the most intellectual 
stimuli seem like great ways to spend that time. 
Of course, loneliness is a seemingly normal 
occurrence, but anyone’s pain as a result of it is 
worth paying attention to. In fact, studies have 
shown that social pain as a result of loneliness 
activates the same mechanisms in your brain as 
physical pain. If you feel like you’re suffering 
from loneliness, or if anything else is giving you a 
hard time, I’d encourage you to make use of the 
Counseling & Wellness Center, the UF Care Area 
or the Alachua County Crisis Center.  
Don’t be in too much of a rush to ﬁ  nd your 
place on campus. It might take time, and that’s 
OK. While it’s OK to experience this loneliness, 
the pain it may bring is valid and deserves care 
too. 
As always, look out for others who might be 
going through hard times, and good luck on mid-
terms.
Matthew Diaz is the Hispanic caucus leader in 
UF Student Government Senate. It’s all right to feel lonely on campusColumn
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.orgOn Sept. 26, a partially redacted let-
ter was declassiﬁ  ed. A whistleblow-
er (later revealed as a CIA ofﬁ  cer 
posted to the White House) uncov-
ered an incident where President 
Donald Trump pressured Ukrainian Presi-
dent Volodymyr Zelensky to launch a private 
investigation into Democratic presidential 
candidate Joe Biden and Biden’s son Hunter. 
The latter was formerly on the board of a 
Ukrainian natural gas company. 
The whistleblower also described how 
this call was placed in a classiﬁ  ed storage 
system despite containing no sensitive infor-
mation and how Trump’s personal lawyer, 
Rudy Giuliani, was used as a go-between for 
Trump and Zelensky despite ofﬁ  cials’ con-
cerns about “circumvention of national secu-
rity decision-making processes.” In response, 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced an 
impeachment inquiry into Trump.
This scandal is concerning in many ways, 
but for the purpose of this column, the most 
important aspect is that Trump’s actions 
likely violated campaign ﬁ  nance laws. Cam-
paigns are prohibited from accepting or so-liciting any “thing of value” from 
foreign nationals or governments, 
and damaging information against 
a political opponent would cer-
tainly count as a “thing of value.” 
However, we can’t know for sure 
without a ruling from the Federal 
Election Commission (FEC). 
Here’s where we run into a big 
problem.
Under normal circumstances, the FEC 
oversees and enforces U.S. election laws, 
which would include illegal foreign contri-
butions. However, four of the six commis-
sioners must be present to take any enforce-
ment action. Since August, the commission 
only has three members, making most of 
the FEC’s functions impossible. While Chair-
woman Ellen Weintraub said campaign re-
ports must still be ﬁ  led and the FEC will still 
investigate any complaints, it’s cold comfort 
when a quorum is required to act on those 
complaints. In short, the FEC is unable to do 
anything about even the most blatant viola-
tions, and that includes Trump seeking as-
sistance from Ukraine. What does it matter if the FEC 
is able to function or not? Well, I 
would argue that the FEC is need-
ed to preserve the integrity of elec-
tions. Ideally, elections are sup-
posed to be unﬁ  ltered, with voters 
not being inﬂ  uenced by outside 
actors like other countries. While 
we don’t always reach that ideal 
state, we must strive to be as close 
as we can. Thus, by allowing other countries 
like Ukraine to intervene in our elections, or 
even for an American to push Ukraine to in-
tervene, it dilutes your power as a voter. In 
the long term, if candidates can seek foreign 
intervention without punishment, what’s to 
stop another candidate from doing the same 
and perhaps succeeding?
Without the FEC providing clarity, the 
American political system is left in an awk-
ward state. With the FEC unable to provide 
a fair and nonpartisan perspective on the 
Trump-Ukraine scandal, punishment and re-
sponses are left to the political sphere. The 
issue of being judged by partisans who are 
likely to base their decision on their opin-ions of Trump rather than the letter of the 
law also remains. A new FEC commissioner 
would help resolve this crisis.
Unfortunately, Trump’s nominee, Trey 
Trainor, has yet to be given a hearing by the 
Senate yet. Even worse, transparency ad-
vocates have raised concerns that Trainor’s 
pro-Trump advocacy and history of ﬁ  ghting 
campaign ﬁ  nance laws would jeopardize 
his ability to fairly judge and enforce elec-
tion laws. While Trainor is far from a perfect 
nominee, one way or another the FEC must 
reach its quorum.
We need to contact our senators and 
members of Congress and tell them that the 
FEC must have an additional member so it 
can resume normal operations. Regardless of 
what side of the political aisle you’re on, we 
can all agree that American elections should 
be fair and uncompromised,  and that those 
who violate that principle should be pun-
ished. That’s what makes our democracy 
work.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.FEC vacancies may stop Trump-Ukraine scandal progressionColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
UF Counseling & Wellness Center: 
352-392-1575
UF Care Area T eam: 
352-294-2273
Alachua County Crisis Center: 
352-264-6789Is majoring in English 
worth it? This ques-
tion was posed in an 
article published in 
the Wall Street Jour-
nal on Sept. 9. Its author, 
William McGurn, was for-
merly George W. Bush’s 
speechwriter, so you’d 
think he’d understand the 
importance of a degree that focuses 
on proper writing and communication 
skills. Apparently not. 
McGurn says his primary issue with 
the modern-day English degree lies in 
the fact that universities now provide 
“watered down curriculums,” with 
classes that focus more on “Harry Pot-
ter” and gender theory than Chaucer 
and great literature. He argues the cours-
es that are offered now are less vigorous 
than courses provided to generations be-
fore us, and “what’s on offer today isn’t 
your father’s English degree.” Sure, my 
dad did not have the privilege of read-
ing Toni Morrison’s “Beloved,” Charles 
Dickens’ “Bleak House” and “Harry Pot-
ter and the Sorcerer’s Stone” in the same 
semester. I guess McGurn is right: My 
English degree is better than my dad’s. 
If you consider classic pieces of Brit-
ish Literature or the works of Langston 
Hughes or Shakespeare to be frivolous, 
then you might think I’m not getting 
much out of my degree. But the remark-
able aspect of education and literature is 
that they have the ability to evolve over 
time.
Reading Shakespeare will always 
be worthwhile. The Bard’s one-liners 
and soliloquies are timeless, and I am 
a better writer and scholar for having 
analyzed works such as “The Tam-
ing of the Shrew” and “The Merchant 
of Venice.” But who says I can’t read 
“Harry Potter” alongside Chaucer? May-
be I want to study gender theory in the 
context of great literature such as Char-lotte Brontë’s “Jane Eyre.” 
(Spoiler alert: I have.) The 
Wizarding World of Harry 
Potter didn’t even exist 
when my parents were 
going to school, so why is 
the undergraduate student 
in 2019 being berated for 
reading literature that are 
classics for our generation? 
It’s bafﬂ  ing to me.
 One could even argue that an Eng-
lish degree received in 2019 is even more 
well-rounded, seeing as we’re study-
ing ancient literature alongside modern 
works — both respectively inﬂ  uencing 
the contemporary culture of our society.  
Aside from the curriculum, McGurn 
claimed that a degree in English is 
ranked No. 132 out of 162 college ma-
jors when regarding the median income 
and the current unemployment rate. 
The data analyst from the cited study 
claimed that choosing a major “is one of 
the most important ﬁ  nancial decisions 
many people make, and the repercus-
sions can be long-lasting.” While on the 
surface this may be true, choosing Eng-
lish as a major doesn’t deﬁ  ne your fate. 
A STEM major may not provide you 
with the same transferable skills, and 
English is an extraordinarily versatile 
degree. If you are interested in creative 
writing, ﬁ  lm, screenwriting or classic lit-
erature, odds are you will study English. 
If you want anything ranging from 
comedy to business, there’s no better 
way to learn to communicate effec-
tively than through English. Whether 
you study ancient prose or modern-day 
novels, you will be expanding your 
mind and acquiring the skills necessary 
for success in any ﬁ  eld. So, in summa-
tion, yes. Majoring in English is worth 
it. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
junior.Is majoring in English worth it?Column
Hannah Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgBEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
"Our liberty depends on the freedom of the 
press, and that cannot be limited without be-
ing lost." –Thomas Jefferson
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy of running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
Another Monday night without a date? Read 
The Alligator.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Designated drivers are the greatest
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  Assemble
1.  Alexander ____ Bell5.  Bicker
2.  More snug6.  High male voice
3.  ____ Flame7.  Ornamental band
4.  Soul, attitude RAHGET
RGAHMAGRAEU
ETONR
TEHIGRT
RALNEETMEATRL
IPTIRSANSWERS: 1A-Gather  5A-Argue  6A-Tenor  7A-Armlet
1D-Graham  2D-Tighter  3D-Eternal  4D-Spirit  B-Australia9-30-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the sixth-largest country 
in the world (land area).
BONUS
SOLUTION ON PAGE 9MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 ★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Please recycle this newspaper.
Experienced horse person for weekend 
feeding and cleaning of barn. Must have own 
transportation, farm in NW Marion County. 
Call (352) 591-2121 to arrange an interview.    
10-7-19-8-14
HELP WANTED: 
Provide care for my daughter. Must assist 
with oral hygiene. Mon - Fri, 9:30 - 2:30. 5 
hrs per day. Must have car. Please call 352-
339-2798    9-30-5-14
Fun fact: The blue whale is the largest animal known 
to have ever existed. The marine mammal is so large, 
in fact, that a grown man could swim through its largest 
blood vessels.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Designated drivers are LITERALLY lifesavers.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk driversDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
SHARED NANNY in a family home. I have 2 
full time spots available. Providing exceptional 
& loving care for children of busy profession-
als. Bilingual. Small groups. FT or PT. Over 25 
yrs exp. FHdaycare.com 352-213-5375    10-
2-19-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/30/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/30/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 30, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gull relatives
6 Spots to fast-
forward through
11 Cleopatra’s killer
14 Sharply inclined
15 Trip odometer 
function
16 Chinese steamed 
bun
17 *Realtor’s client
19 Category
20 Rural stopover
21 __ d’Alene, 
Idaho
22 “Well, gosh!”
24 Social reformer 
Jacob
26 *Surface for 
slicing rye, say
28 Body ink
30 Eye part that 
may become 
detached
31 Golf’s Slammin’ 
Sammy
32 Karma
35 Vegas’ “one-
armed bandit”
36 *Vehicle’s rear 
warning lamp
39 Head or tooth 
pain
42 Pick out with 
care
43 Aficionados
47 “Ye Olde”  
retailer
49 Lose its fizz, as 
soda
50 *Feline metaphor 
for an empty 
threat
54 Pâté de __ gras
55 Goodnight 
woman of song
56 “The __ Wears 
Prada”: 2006  
film
58 “__ you  
awake?”
59 Vied for office
60 Certain brain 
tissue, or what 
each half of the 
answers to the 
starred clues 
can be
63 Pre-marital (just 
barely) promise
64 Parisian love
65 Reagan attorney 
general Ed
66 After taxes
67 Easy victories
68 Medicare Rx 
sectionDOWN
1 Tops with 
slogans
2 Ian Fleming or 
George Orwell, 
schoolwise
3 Get the old gang 
together
4 Old Nintendo 
game console: 
Abbr.
5 Job detail,  
briefly
6 More accurate
7 Change of __: 
trial request
8 Stars, in Latin
9 Lousy grade
10 Flasher at a 
disco
11 1797-1801 first 
lady Adams
12 City near Naples
13 Prodded
18 Stereotypical 
boxcar hopper
23 1979 Donna 
Summer hit
25 Local govt. 
prison
27 Bit of wine 
sediment
29 “Ghost” psychic 
__ Mae Brown
32 Winter malady
33 “__ My Children”34 Shop __ you 
drop
37 Rapper/actor 
whose name 
sounds like a 
summer drink
38 “Westworld” 
network
39 Pill for pain
40 Pantomimed act 
in a parlor game
41 “Sure wish that 
doesn’t happen”
44 Pool noodle, e.g.45 “... who is the __ 
one of all?”: Evil 
Queen
46 Manned the helm
48 Like the Great 
Depression, 
timewise
49 Like the Reaper
51 Figure of speech
52 Hop out of bed
53 Activist Medgar
57 Tanning device
61 Medical ins. plan
62 Scone go-with
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Little more than 
a drop
11 Gossip
15 Simile for “luve” in 
a classic poem
16 “__ the valley 
of Death ... ”: 
Tennyson
17 C.S. Lewis, for 
one
18 High seas adverb
19 Declared one’s 
innocence, say
20 Over and done 
with
21 Trio in H2O
22 Varnish option
23 “I’m innocent”
24 __ Brava: 
Spanish tourist 
site
28 Emailers, e.g.
30 Bentley of 
“American 
Beauty”
31 Nadya Suleman, 
in 2009 headlines
33 No-frills flight 
feature
35 Martial artist/
musician Steven
36 Straighten up
37 Instruments also 
called rumba 
shakers
39 Genetic 
identifiers
40 Connections
41 Isabella I’s birth 
city
43 To the point
44 Snake targets
46 Factor of diez
48 More than just 
eats
49 Texter’s “May I 
say”
50 “__ Before 
Chanel”: 2009 
film
54 Military group
55 “Sgt. Pepper” 
collectible
57 Shakers, but not 
movers
58 Workers behind 
bars
59 Deuce topper
60 Connect with by 
nailing, sayDOWN
1 Yap
2 Inferno
3 Not occupied
4 ’60s role for 
Bamboo 
Harvester
5 Entreat
6 Parkinson’s  
drug
7 Post-printing 
problem
8 Palms off (on)
9 Company 
co-founded by 
J.P. Morgan
10 Reason for a 
court replay
11 Likewise
12 Like a 
stereotypical 
cannibal captive
13 Claudius and 
Porky Pig
14 Stable 
judgment?
21 Be called
22 “Dream a Little 
Dream of Me” 
singer
24 Matter of space
25 Port-to-port 
connector26 Scott Hamilton 
venue
27 Cover-up in 
Nero’s time
29 Novelist Jaffe
32 Scandinavian 
patron
34 Art buyer’s 
concern
38 Strait of Messina 
isola
39 It often follows a 
breakout42 Transitional 
situations
45 Big name in oil
47 Title in a Dumas 
title
50 Lake of 
Lombardy
51 Spot for pots
52 Marriage doc.
53 Roughly
55 Loser to Franklin 
in ’36
56 Spam holder
09/27/19
(SPOILER ALERT)
PUZZLE
SOLUTIONS
SOLUTION BELOWFormer Florida hurdler T J 
Holmes qualiﬁ  ed for the men's 
400-meter hurdles ﬁ  nal at the 
IAAF World Championships on 
Saturday in Doha, Qatar. He'll 
compete on Monday afternoon.Gators reveal throwback uniforms for Auburn game
In the spirit of homecoming weekend, Florida will debut some new threads 
for Saturday's contest against the Tigers. The Gators will wear white hel-
mets and pants with blue jerseys and black cleats mirroring the 1960s look.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida has one of the most 
decorated baseball programs 
in the nation.
Fifteen conference cham-
pionships. Thirty-ﬁ  ve NCAA 
Tournament appearances. The 
2017 national championship.
Despite all that success, Florida 
has failed to produce many great 
big leaguers.
Enter Pete Alonso.
The New York Mets ﬁ  rst baseman had one 
of the greatest debut seasons in MLB history 
this year, hitting 53 home runs to break Aaron 
Judge’s rookie record.
Alonso, who played at UF from 2014-16, is a 
lock to win the National League Rookie of the 
Year Award. He ended the season with a .260 
batting average and 120 RBIs (a Mets rookie 
record) to go along with his record-breaking 
home run total. He also was an All-Star and 
won the Home Run Derby.
He’s already MLB’s greatest Gator since the 
1950s.
The best player to come out of Florida is 
probably Al Rosen, who helped the Cleveland 
Indians win the 1948 World Series, the 1953 
American League MVP and was a four-time 
All-Star for the Cleveland Indians.
UF has produced plenty of good Major 
Leaguers since then, but none on the level of 
Alonso.Darren O’Day was an All-Star in 
2015. David Eckstein was a World 
Series MVP. Mark Ellis, Ryan Ra-
burn and David Ross all had long 
Major League careers.
But none ever had the type of 
success Alonso just had.
It goes beyond the numbers, 
though. The aptly-nicknamed 
“Polar Bear” donated $100,000 of 
his Home Run Derby winnings to 
the Wounded Warrior Project and the Tun-
nel to Towers Foundation. He circumvented 
MLB rules and ordered custom 9/11 memorial 
cleats for his entire team to wear. He recently 
announced that he’d donate his pair to the 
9/11 Memorial and Museum.
He endeared himself to Mets fans not only 
through his play but through his passion. 
Alonso celebrated his own accomplishments 
and his team’s accomplishments like a Little 
Leaguer. He wrote an impassioned letter to 
his team’s fans (and coined the now-iconic 
“LFGM” catchphrase) in the midst of the Mets’ 
46-26 second-half run.
He did not just become the face of the Mets 
in his rookie year; he became one of the faces 
of baseball.
Al Rosen better watch out. Alonso, just 24, 
has the ability to dominate baseball for years 
to come. Pretty soon, there will be a new 
GOAT Gator in MLB.Pete Alonso is (already) UF’s best MLB starGreen Eggs and SamFOOTBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Florida’s defense 
looked like a completely 
different unit when it 
came out of the locker 
room for the second half 
against Towson on Satur-
day.
Throughout the ﬁ  rst 30 
minutes of play, the Ti-
gers — ranked No. 10 at 
the FCS level — found a 
surprising amount of suc-
cess on the ground.
They had 61 rushing 
yards with most of them 
coming from quarterback 
Tom Flacco. He broke 
several long runs, includ-
ing a 22-yard scamper 
on Towson’s ﬁ  rst play 
from scrimmage. The Ti-
gers were 5 for 8 on third 
down and out-possessed 
the Gators by more than 
a minute.
But UF (5-0) shut the 
Tigers’ rushing attack down in the second half, 
only allowing four more 
yards on the ground. It 
got Towson’s offense off 
the ﬁ  eld, only giving up 
conversions on 3 of 7 third 
downs, and preserved the 
38-0 shutout.
Coach Dan Mullen said 
after the game he was 
pleased with the adjust-
ments from defensive co-
ordinator Todd Grantham.
“I think everybody 
knows Todd (Grantham) 
is a great defensive coor-
dinator, a great defensive 
coach,” he said. “He does 
a great job with in-game 
adjustments. Our guys 
have come out and played 
hard in the second half.”
That’s been true all 
season, as well.
Of UF’s ﬁ  ve wins, two 
were shutouts against 
FCS teams, and another 
came by 31 points against 
a drowning Tennessee 
squad.But in the other two 
matchups — against Mi-
ami and Kentucky — UF 
trailed at halftime.
It outscored those 
teams 39-14 in the second 
half in comeback wins.
The halftime adjust-
ments haven’t just been 
felt on the defensive side 
of the ball, either.
Florida ran for 60 yards 
in the ﬁ  rst half against 
Towson, but totaled 100 
in the second, largely 
thanks to a 37-yard touch-
down from sophomore 
Dameon Pierce.
Pierce said the differ-
ence in the second half 
was in run blocking.
“Getting blocks that 
we didn’t make in the 
ﬁ  rst half, just executing, 
that’s what it comes down 
to,” he said. “We just ex-
ecuted better, and we had 
calmed our nerves a bit.”
Mullen said he told the 
team to clean up its effort at halftime.
“I just challenged them 
on missed assignments,” 
he said. “That doesn’t 
help our cause. That has 
got to improve.”
Mullen is no strang-
er to issuing less-than-
friendly halftime messag-
es. He did it in the game 
against Tennessee-Martin, 
and he said he did it again 
Saturday.
Center Nick Buchanan 
said that Mullen’s mes-
sage was simple but ef-
fective.
“His message was we 
need to play to our stan-
dard,” he said. “It doesn’t 
matter who our opponent 
is, we’ve got to play to the 
best of our abilities.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgThe Gators are a second-half team
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Running back Dameon Pierce led the team in rushing with 84 yards 
and a touchdown on six carries (48 of those coming in the second half).
Adam Hunger / Associated Press
Mets ﬁ  rst baseman Pete Alonso hit his 53rd home run of the season, breaking 
the rookie record Yankees star Aaron Judge set in 2017. 
Sam Campisano
Twitter: @scampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
SOCCER
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Forward Cassidy Lindley needed 
just one touch. And forward Madi-
son Alexander played her a perfect 
ball to the right side of the 18, and 
Lindley got a step on Vanderbilt’s 
backline.
She didn’t need a favorable posi-
tion either, as she ripped a shot at an 
awful angle way to the right side of 
the 18. Even still, she curled it past 
goalkeeper Lauren Demarchi into 
the left side of the net. 
That goal put Florida up 1-0 in its 
match against Vanderbilt in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, on Sunday. Boast-
ing a four-game winning streak, the 
Gators traveled about 580 miles to 
Music City with an opportunity to 
beat the No. 15 team in the nation. 
And UF left victorious, as Lindley’s 
goal was the only one of the entire 
match, sending the Gators back 
home with five wins in a row, and a 
3-0 SEC start. 
“(Alexander) played it through, 
and I just thought, ‘shoot it,’ because 
I knew no one would be there as 
our other forward was super wide,” 
Lindley said. “So I just hit it.”
Florida’s defense dominated the 
first 20 minutes of action. The ball 
was in its half for most of that time, 
but only got into the 6-yard box once. 
Then, the 20th minute presented the 
first real chance for the Gators. 
Forward Deanne Rose, fresh off a game-winning goal against Missouri, 
took the ball from the left wing and 
cut all the way across to the right 
of the 18-yard box. Then, the To-
ronto native had a clean shot on goal 
against Demarchi. Rose hooked her 
shot left and missed the best chance 
UF had until the goal later on from 
Lindley.
“It wasn’t our best as there were 
some opportunities we didn’t fin-
ish,” Lindley said. “But we kept the 
lead and did a good job of keeping 
our heads high throughout.”
All first half, the Gators backline 
did an excellent job containing the 
Commodores’ star forward Haley 
Hopkins. Vandy’s best scoring threat 
never put together anything threat-
ening on that side of the 90 minutes. 
Most importantly, Hopkins, along 
with typically-threatening midfielder 
Maddie Elwell, were cut off from 
dangerous ares. 
Defenders Kit Loferski, Julia Les-
ter and Georgia Eaton-Collins shut 
the Commodores down early before 
they developed into anything signifi-
cant. With the exception of a few set 
pieces, the ball rarely entered into 
UF’s 18. 
Twelve minutes into the second 
half, UF midfielder Parker Roberts 
took it down the left side and played 
a pretty airball to fellow midfielder 
Tess Sapone. She had a prime oppor-
tunity for a shot but barely missed 
the net, as the ball hit the right post 
and harmlessly rolled out of play. The rest of the second half was 
full of semi-close chances and then 
one extremely close chance for the 
Commodores with 30 seconds re-
maining. A cross found the head of 
Hopkins inside the six and goalkeep-
er Susi Espinoza reacted just before 
the ball reached the goal line to de-
flect it off her knee out of the box. It 
was the only legitimate one-on-one 
save Espinoza had to make all game, 
and it was perhaps the most impres-
sive save of her career. 
Coach Becky Burleigh credits her 
team’s persistence for holding on to 
the slim lead. 
“We were tough today,” she 
said. “Still think we can manage the 
games better but in terms of our ef-
fort and physicality, I thought we did 
a really good job.”
The victory was UF’s first time 
beating a ranked opponent since No. 
16 South Florida on Aug. 25 and the 
first time beating a top-15 opponent 
all season. More importantly, a team 
that once dropped four in a row has 
now collected five in a row, three of 
those in the SEC. 
”It is tough to come here, play a 
noon game against a really talented 
Vandy team,” Burleigh said. “So for 
us to come out with the shutout and 
the win is huge.”
gmarsh@alligator.org
@GrahamMarshUFUF edges Vanderbilt 1-0 in Nashville, expands win streak to 5
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Gators forward Cassidy Lindley scored Florida’s one and only goal 
Sunday against Vanderbilt in Nashville, T ennessee. It was Lindley’s 
third goal of the season, the third-most on Florida’s roster behind 
Vanessa Kara (6) and Deanne Rose (4). 
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior opposite attacker Holly Carlton is second on 
Florida’s roster with 107 kills behind sophomore outside hitter 
Thayer Hall (169). Carlton played a major role on the blocking front 
in UF’s 3-1 win over Georgia on Sunday afternoon in the O’Connell 
Center and will be vital in UF’s match at Kentucky on Sunday.
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Florida’s fate was 
practically etched on a 
tombstone Sunday after-
noon, as it trailed Geor-
gia 19-11 in the third set, 
having already lost the 
first frame.
Any hope of a come-
back was eight points 
away. But then it wasn’t. 
One by one Florida 
inched its way closer to 
19, and with every point 
it notched, Georgia’s lead 
started dissipating. 
A key block from op-
posite attacker Holly 
Carlton on the right side 
slammed the ball from 
the palms of her hands 
into the floor. The play 
forced Georgia to burn 
its second timeout of 
the frame and pulled the 
Gators within one, 22-21.
A kill from Carlton 
brought Florida up 24-
23, and another big block 
on the right side sealed a 
third set win for UF. 
The momentum from 
the third frame propelled 
the Gators (11-2) through 
the fourth set, taking the 
match win (22-25, 25-21, 25-23, 25-17) and keep-
ing an undefeated record 
in SEC play (2-0).
“That was some pretty 
good volleyball,” coach 
Mary Wise said after the 
match. “Credit Georgia, 
they played so clean. 
They didn’t make any un-
forced errors early on and 
didn’t give us any points. 
They took it to us, but 
things withheld and (our) 
players responded.”
Here are two things 
that helped Florida notch 
the win at home:
Adjustments on the 
block
A tough Georgia of-
fense showed what it 
could do early in Sun-
day’s matchup. Kill after 
kill, the Bulldogs went on 
a 9-4 run to go up 15-10 
against Florida in the first 
set.
Outside hitter Kacie 
Evans in particular was 
a big threat on Georgia’s 
roster, logging 16 kills 
(the highest of both ros-
ters) on 42 swings. 
Florida’s block 
couldn’t take away the 
heat in the opening set, 
allowing Evans to score repeatedly. But in the 
second set, the Gators fi-
nally made some adjust-
ments. 
“Blocking does tend to 
come in bunches and get-
ting into a rhythm,” Wise 
said. 
Carlton and setter 
Marlie Monserez were 
front-lined for making 
those adjustments on the 
right-side pin. 
“I thought the coaches 
did a great job giving us a 
nice game plan going into 
the match,” Carlton said. 
“We were prepared men-
tally, but coming out I 
didn’t think that we were 
prepared for what kind of 
team it was going to be. It 
took us a little bit of time 
to adjust the rhythm of 
our block and getting ad-
justed to what shots they 
might take.”
Adjustments on shots
While Georgia’s of-
fense was solid through 
and through, Florida’s 
offense took a while to 
truly start up. 
Sophomore outside 
hitter Thayer Hall only 
logged four kills in the 
opening frame (com-pared to the six Evans 
notched), and Carlton 
was right behind her with 
three. 
Once the team re-
grouped after the first set, 
Hall found the open court 
and so did Carlton. 
Hall opted to use the 
tip shot a lot more than 
she has previously, even 
going so far as to tip out 
of the back row.
Carlton also changed 
things up by hitting more 
shots down the line and 
hitting cross-court into 
the deep corners.
Both methods proved 
their worth in the 3-1 
match win. 
“Our team right now, 
we’re a team that likes to 
feel our way into matches 
before we start playing 
well,” libero Allie Grego-
ry said. “We’re working 
on that, but I’m proud 
of the team for making 
adjustments, I made ad-
justments, and just fol-
lowing the game plan our 
coaches work so hard on. 
We just have to get a little 
quicker at it.” 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators stay undefeated in conference play with Georgia win12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2019
MEN’S GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
For the fourth time in as many 
years, the Gators made the cross-
country trek to Portland, Oregon, 
for the 54-hole Nike Collegiate In-
vitational.
After a solid showing last 
weekend in Chicago, where the 
young squad bested three top-five 
schools en route to a seventh-
place finish, the team returns to 
action among another stacked 
field this week.
The Nike-sponsored, Oregon-
hosted tournament features nine 
ranked programs competing 
alongside Florida, including five 
top-10 programs: No. 3 Baylor, 
No. 4 Wake Forest, No. 7 Duke, 
No. 9 Oklahoma and No. 10 Tex-
as.
For the second-consecutive 
event, three freshmen earned 
spots in the lineup, a trend that 
owes its origins to the intensity 
of coach J.C. Deacon’s recent re-
cruiting trail and the level of tal-
ent he has brought to Gainesville 
in the past few years.
In Sunday’s opening round, the 
youthful trend once again proved 
its value. Florida ended the day 
with a 2-under 284 total, enough 
for eighth place and ahead of two 
top-10 programs.Freshman Ricky Castillo set 
the tone for the men, rattling off 
six birdies on his way to a 4-un-
der 67. The current eighth-ranked 
amateur in the world is the sec-
ond-highest ranked player in this 
week’s field. After sluggish per-
formances in his first collegiate 
events, he now has consecutive 
rounds in the 60s to show for it.
Freshman Quentin Debove 
also strung together a solid score, 
his 1-under 70 setting him just 
outside the top-25 individually.
As for the rest of the men, ju-
nior John Axelsen struggled to a 
back-nine 37 en route to an even-
par 71, freshman Fred Biondi shot 
74 in his first taste of collegiate 
play and junior Chris Nido was 
bested by two double bogeys, 
signing for a 75. 
Though the venue this week — 
the esteemed par 71 Witch Hol-
low course at Pumpkin Ridge Golf 
Club — measures at a meager 
6,997 yards it is still uninviting 
to low scores, and should serve 
a true championship test of golf 
this week. 
The second and third rounds 
will take place on Monday and 
Tuesday, respectively and begin 
with 11 a.m. tee times.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgGators in 8th place after first round in Oregon
Alligator File Photo
Men’s golf coach J.C. Deacon said he was happy overall with the way his players responded to difficult 
conditions out on the course. “We are 100 percent building some momentum, ” he said in a release. 
“When it all comes together, this team is going to be really exciting. ” 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Junior McCartney Kessler lost in doubles with junior Victoria Emma against Oklahoma 
State 7-6(3) on Friday and again on Sunday against T ennessee 7-5. In singles play, Kessler 
posted two wins against Oklahoma State (Saturday) and Miami (Sunday).  
TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Duarte Vale’s stock 
just keeps rising.
The Gators’ junior star 
had a 15-1 record in sin-
gles last spring. He won 
the singles and doubles ti-
tles in the Seahawk Invite 
two weeks ago. And now 
he has another title to add 
to his name.
Vale took home the 
championship in the black 
singles draw at the South-
ern Intercollegiate Cham-
pionships at the Universi-
ty of Georgia. He defeated 
No. 82 Juan Pablo Grassi 
from UCF in a straight-set 
6-2, 6-2 win.
Vale is off to a 7-0 
record in singles this 
year with wins over two 
ranked opponents, Grassi 
and Wake Forest’s No. 15 
Bar Botzer.
Vale’s victory was a 
bright spot in what was 
just an average week-
end for the men’s team. 
Freshman Blaise Bicknell, 
juniors No. 31 Andy An-drade and No. 68 Josh 
Goodger and sophomore 
No. 70 Lukas Greif all 
picked up wins for UF, 
but all came in the conso-
lation bracket.
The team had a below-
average performance in 
doubles. No. 4 senior Jo-
hannes Ingildsen and ju-
nior Brian Berdusco fell in 
the third-place matchup 
in the red doubles draw 
6-1. Greif and Goodger 
made their way to the 
black doubles consolation 
finals before falling, 6-3.
Florida finished the 
tournament, which in-
cluded over 15 nationally 
ranked teams, at 18-15.
“Hats off to Duarte Vale 
for winning his second-
consecutive singles title,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said 
in a release. “Duarte won 
convincingly all weekend 
with a single-minded fo-
cus and great intensity.”
UF’s women’s tennis 
team found success on 
Sunday with three singles 
victories, but like the 
men’s team, all the wins came in the consolation 
bracket. 
No. 91 junior Victoria 
Emma led the team with 
three singles wins to fin-
ish the weekend with a 
3-1 record. No. 23 junior 
McCartney Kessler and 
No. 85 sophomore Mar-
lee Zein, who lost both 
their matches on Friday, 
bounced back to fin-
ish with a 2-2 record. In 
doubles, No. 6 Emma and 
Kessler lost in the second 
round 7-5.
The women’s tourna-
ment included nine teams 
that were ranked in the 
top 25 at last season’s 
end. The Gators finished 
with a record of 10-7.
“All three players came 
out with a great attitude 
and fight,” assistant coach 
Lauren Embree said in a 
release. 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida finishes strong in weekend tournaments