We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
New face in City Commission race
An opponent ﬁ  nally joined a commissioner race on the last day 
to ﬁ  le to run, pg. 3
Don’t worry, the waters are safe
UF study ﬁ  nds decrease in shark bites, pg. 10Gymnastics put forth high-caliber 
performance despite loss
Even though they lost to Oklahoma, the Gators 
unleashed a season-best showing, pg. 14 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 54
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen’s 11 points against the Kentucky Wildcats wasn’t enough for 
the Gators men’s basketball team to secure the win. Get a full analysis of what went wrong 
on page 14.
By Kelly Hayes
and Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writers
He was to receive hot wings. Now, the fu-
ture of his chicken feast at UF is in limbo.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment detained rapper 21 Savage detained on 
Sunday morning in Atlanta, according to The 
Associated Press. 
The Grammy-nominated rapper, whose 
full name is Sha Yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, was scheduled to perform 
at the O’Connell Center 
on Feb. 27 in celebration 
of Black History Month, 
but it is now unclear if 
that will take place. 
21 Savage was arrest-
ed as part of a targeted 
operation involving local 
and federal authorities, according to AP.  
The university planned to pay $110,000 for 
the performance due by Feb. 27 by check, ac-cording to his contract with UF. 21 Savage is 
scheduled to give an hour-long performance 
hosted by Student Government Productions 
and the Black Student Union. 
Tickets for the Feb. 27 concert went on 
sale last Wednesday for students in a presale 
for $10 each, and then became available to 
the public the next day for $20 each. More 
than 6,000 tickets were available and were all 
sold, according to an SGP statement. 
Andrew Kelly, the chairman of SGP, 
wrote in an email that the organizations that planned the event were surprised to hear the 
news of the rapper’s arrest. 
“We are working with our agents and will 
post an update once we have more informa-
tion,” he said. 
Kelly declined to answer further questions 
on how 21 Savage’s detention will affect the 
concert and ticket sales and said to follow 
SGP social media for updated information. 
The staff working with 21 Savage in his 
THE 17-DAY-CELEBRATION 
TRIBUTES THE 17 VICTIMS
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s been nearly a year since the 
Valentine’s Day Marjory Stone-
man Douglas High School shoot-
ing. UF students who are alumni of the Parkland school plan to 
honor those who were killed. 
Elizabeth Stout, an MSD alum-
na who was in the shooting and 
the president of March For Our 
Lives Gainesville, wanted to ﬁ  nd 
a way to honor the 17 lives lost 
without ﬁ  xating on the negativity 
of the anniversary by hosting a 17-
Day Celebration.
“I started to get really anxious and upset again and everything 
started coming back,” the  18-year-
old UF political science freshman 
said. “I was just trying to ﬁ  nd a 
way to not be upset this year, so I 
decided to make this.” 
The 17-Day Celebration started 
Jan. 28 and ends on the anniver-
sary, Stout said. Each day hon-
ors one of the Parkland victims 
through a trait that deﬁ  ned them.Examples include “Wear Or-
ange For Jaime Guttenberg,” in 
honor of the 14-year old who was 
killed or “Wave and Smile to Your 
Loved Ones for Aaron Feis,” in 
honor of a friendly security guard 
who lost his life, Stout said.
Julia Tiplea, a 20-year-old 
UF marine sciences junior, 2016 
MSD alumna and a founder of UF 
Stands With MSD, believes this event will help memorialize the 
victims positively, she said.
“The important thing is to not 
dwell on the anxiety and grief that 
we’ve been through,” Tiplea, said. 
“Instead, we celebrate the lives of 
those that are no longer with us, 
as I’m sure that is what they’d 
want.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.org21 Savage detained by ICE, status of UF performance unclear
March For Our Lives Gainesville honors year since Parkland shootingINVESTIGATION STARTS A 
MONTH AFTER CRASH
By Katherine
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
The National Transportation Safety 
Board sent a team to Gainesville Thurs-
day to investigate the January Interstate 
75 crash that killed seven. 
The eight-member team is investi-
gating the cause of the crash and issu-
ing safety recommendations, said Keith 
Holloway, a board spokesperson. 
The investigation was delayed be-
cause of a month-long government 
shutdown, Holloway said. During the 
shutdown, 21 crashes were not inves-
tigated and 367 employees were fur-
loughed, only 26 were deemed essential 
personnel. 
On Jan. 3, an I-75 crash killed ﬁ  ve 
children — Jeremiah Warren, 14; Joel 
Cloud, 14; Cierra “Cece” Bordelan, 9; 
Cara Descant, 13; and Brieana Descant, 10 — and two semi truck drivers, Steve 
Holland, 59, and Douglas Bolkema, 49. 
Eight people were injured.
Holland was driving northbound on 
I-75 near Gainesville and hit Robyn Rat-
tray, who was among the injured. Both 
vehicles went through the guardrail, 
into the southbound lane and hit the 
passenger van the children were in and 
Bolkema’s semi truck. The van over-
turned, ejecting some passengers.
Both semi trucks caught ﬁ  re after 
ﬁ  fty gallons of diesel fuel spilled onto 
the highway.
The passengers in the van were on 
their way to Walt Disney World in Or-
lando from Louisiana.
Investigators will look at the vehi-
cles, photographs and documentation 
taken when the board wasn’t on the 
scene, Holloway said. 
“We weren’t able to arrive on scene 
when the accident occurred. So in our 
investigations, we try to gather as much 
perishable type of information and data Federal investigation of 
January I-75 crash begins
SEE CRASH,  PAGE 4SEE 21 SAVAGE,  PAGE 421 Savage
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS 
WEDNESDAY
Discover Florida Museum 
Volunteer Opportunities 
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will hold an orientation 
for adults interested in learning 
more about volunteering from 
3-5 p.m. The program is de-
signed to help participants iden-
tify the best match for their in-
terests and abilities. Volunteers 
serve as exhibit guides to 
school groups and other mu-
seum visitors or they work in 
the collections and research 
departments. Pre-registration is 
required, and volunteers must 
be 18 years or older. For more 
information, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/volunteers or call 
352-273-2055.
THURSDAY
Countering Corruption and 
Asset Recovery
Camelia Bogdan will present 
“Fostering Efficacy In Asset 
Recovery in Transnational 
Cases of Grand Corruption” for 
free at noon in Holland Hall 
360 in the UF Levin College of 
Law. Bogdan will share her ex-
perience as a Bucharest Court 
of Appeals judge and a distin-
guished international expert 
in countering economic crime. 
Refreshments will be served.
SATURDAY
An Epoch Night at the Museum
From 7:30-11 p.m. attendees 
can sample crickets and oth-
er insects at a tasting station 
while dancing to music by DJ 
Elio. Proceeds from the gala 
support museum educational 
initiatives that emphasize out-
reach to underserved commu-
nities. Tickets start at $100. For 
more information, to purchase 
tickets or make a donation, 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/epochparty or call 352-
273-2047.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
African American Read-In
Attendees, including communi-
ty leaders, will read passages, 
poems and stories by black au-
thors.
When: Feb. 24  from 2-4 p.m. 
Where: Alachua Branch, locat-
ed at 14913 NW 140 St. Black History Through the Arts
Attendees can celebrate black 
history with musical and dance 
performances, poetry read-
ings and lectures. The keynote 
speaker will be John Gay, the 
past president of the Orlando 
chapter of the Tuskegee 
Airmen. 
When: Feb. 17 from 3-4 p.m. 
Where: Archer Branch, located 
at 13266 SW State Road 45
African American Read-In
Attendees can discover 
books and stories by African 
Americans. Refreshments will 
be provided.
When: Feb. 16 from 2-3:15 p.m.
Where: Hawthorne Branch, lo-
cated at 6640 SE 221 St. 
Reclaiming Kin: Once Lost, 
Now Found
Karen Kirman, the Haile 
Homestead president and 
church historian, and Tatanya 
Peterson will discuss their ge-
nealogy research on Peterson’s 
family, which dates back to a 
plantation in Alachua County.
When: Feb. 9 from 2-3 p.m.
Where: Headquarters Branch 
located at 401 E. University 
Ave.
Tasty History
Children ages 5-11 can cel-
ebrate Black History Month 
and the invention of the potato 
chip.
When: Feb. 19 from 3-4 p.m.
Where: Cone Park Branch, lo-
cated at 2801 E. University Ave.
Race, History and Political 
Participation in America
UF professors Paul Ortiz and 
Sharon Austin will discuss 
their books on race, history 
and politics at 6 p.m. Feb. 13 
in the Pugh Hall Ocora. A book 
sale will follow the public talk.
Their recently released publi-
cations “The Caribbeanization 
of Black Politics: Race, Group 
Consciousness, and Political 
Participation in America” and 
“An African American and 
Latinx History of the United 
States,” examine the impact, 
struggles and development of 
minority politics in America.
Lecture: The Relevance of 
Baldwin
 Mark Reid, a UF English profes-
sor and affiliate in the African 
American Studies Program 
and the UF Center for African 
Studies will host a lecture from 3-4 p.m. Sunday in the Harn 
Museum of Art. The talk will 
cover the moral and ethical rel-
evancy of Baldwin to contem-
porary times. 
 
MORE
Santa Fe Adjunct Professors 
Will Speak About Their 
Union Campaign
Santa Fe adjunct professors 
will speak about their union-
ization campaign at Santa Fe 
College at 6 p.m. on Feb. 26 
at the Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, 1236 NW 18th Ave. 
Professors will talk about 
their nearly 2-year push for 
living wages, better work-
ing conditions and a union. 
Refreshments will be provided 
at 6 p.m. 
Student Government Elections
Requests for absentee bal-
lots are due at 5 p.m. on 
Wednesday, Feb. 6. The 
form can be found at sg.ufl.
edu/elections. An SG debate 
will take place at 6 p.m. on 
Tuesday, Feb. 12 in the Reitz 
Rion Ballroom. From 8:30 a.m. 
to 8:30 p.m. on Feb. 19 and 
Feb. 20, UF students can vote 
in the SG election.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  51°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Sabrina Conza, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Hope Hatchcock,
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn Jones,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Graham Marsh, Blake Trauschke 
Correction:
In Friday's edition of "Darts and 
Laurels" , "Chisme Con Cady, " is 
Gainesville's first Latinx music 
radio show. The Alligator re-
ported differently.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 54MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
1. UF graduate within the last 5 years with expertise 
in one of the following areas:  web development, 
coding, search engine optimization, digital advertising 
and marketing, nonprofit fundraising and grant writing. 
2. Working professional with expertise in one of the 
following areas: web development, coding, search 
engine optimization, digital advertising and marketing, 
nonprofit fundraising and grant writing.
3. Non-student, community member at large.
Applications for these positions are available at the new Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 
a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Thursday, February 14. Candidates 
located outside of the Gainesville area can receive an application by 
emailing Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.org.
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that 
time to read information regarding the application process. Part of the 
application consists of short essays in response to specific questions. 
Applications must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, February 
15 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday, February 22 at 11 
a.m. Applicants must meet the above qualifications.  
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employerand
announces the opening of the following positions:
All are unpaid members of the Board of Directors
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.More training. More opportunities. 
More success. 
That’s ALDI. We’re one of the nation’s leading grocery stores because of our 
commitment to more. More value for our customers. More stores opening every year. 
And more opportunity for our people. People like you. As a District Manager, you’ll 
manage millions in revenue as you oversee your district and inspire your teams. 
You’ll be more than a leader. More than a coach. You’ll help shape our direction and 
work with your teams to deliver the service our customers expect. We also believe 
in rewarding our employees with more. Our District Manager positions start with 
an $80K salary plus a $5K signing bonus and increase to $110K in five years. We also 
provide our District Managers with a fully expensed AUDI A3 and three weeks of 
vacation time during their first full year of employment. If you’re looking for more, you 
just found it.
Learn more: careers.aldi.usWE MEAN IT .WHEN WE SAY WELCOMETO MORE ,COMMISSIONER ADRIAN 
HAYES-SANTOS WAS RUNNING 
UNOPPOSED UNTIL NOW
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Robert Mounts almost didn’t make it on the 
ballot. 
Mounts, 77, of Gainesville, ﬁ  led to run for the 
District 4 Gainesville City Commission seat Friday 
morning, the last day to qualify for the race. 
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos, 34, 
will no longer run unopposed in the city’s regu-
lar election for the District 4 commission seat on 
March 19. The election also includes the mayoral 
race. Voter registration closes Feb. 19. 
“I didn’t expect to run,” Mounts said. “I felt 
that we needed to have this healthy debate as a 
community about our future.”
Hayes-Santos, the incumbent, announced his 
bid for re-election in December. He said he’s ex-
cited to have some competition in the race.
“I’m excited to go knock on doors and have 
great front door conversations,” Hayes-Santos 
said.
If elected, Mounts said he wants to see a bal-
ance in redevelopment decisions that preserve the 
history of Gainesville and provide opportunity for urban areas. He supports the 
idea of developing community 
land trusts to address the lack 
of affordable housing, while 
still preserving the charm of the 
neighborhoods. 
“We’re all for some way 
to address the housing crisis 
but not at the expense of tra-
ditional and historic neighbor-
hoods,” Mounts said. 
Mounts, who was born and raised in 
Gainesville, spent 18 years in South Korea as a 
special assistant to the deputy commander of U.S. 
Forces Korea for international relations. Before 
that, he spent 25 years as a judge advocate for the 
U.S. Air Force. 
After returning to his hometown ﬁ  ve years 
ago, he said his decision to run for commission 
comes from giving the neighborhood a voice in 
search for balance between preservation and re-
development. 
“We need to consider the concerns and issues 
raised by the surrounding neighbors and do what 
we can to preserve the best of Gainesville while 
we move it further into the 21st century,” Mounts 
said.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgLast-minute candidate joins District 4 race
Mounts
By Ke’on Christian
Alligator Contributing Writer
Allison Peters had just lost her 
mother to breast cancer when she 
walked into a routine exam room in 
October.  
The UF nursing clinical assistant 
professor had felt a lump and began 
to worry. After 16 years of being in re-
mission, she learned her breast cancer 
returned. After months of waiting, she 
decided to tell her students Tuesday 
morning.
Two days later, her students want-
ed to surprise her.
“After enduring chemotherapy, 
mastectomy and reconstructive sur-
geries, I was stronger and wouldn’t al-
low cancer back into my life,” Peters 
wrote in an email.
Thursday morning, 120 of Peters’ 
students wore pink and presented 
her with gifts and cards to show their 
support for her when she walked into 
class, Shari Huffman, a clinical lectur-
er at UF’s College of Nursing, wrote in an email.
“Peters was very surprised and 
overwhelmed by the students and was 
practically speechless,” Huffman said.
The last thing Peters wanted was 
to make a big deal and have everyone 
worry, but she made sure the students 
knew what she was going to be facing 
when it came to her upcoming chemo-
therapy, Huffman said. 
“She told the students that she will 
be so happy and relieved when she 
sees them as a patient in the infusion 
area, knowing that they will take ex-
cellent care of her,” Huffman said. 
Peters’ cancer is aggressive and in 
her lymph nodes, which means she’ll 
need chemotherapy and possible sur-
geries, Peters said.
Although she has a long journey 
ahead of her, Peters knows the tech-
nology and treatments are better than 
they were 16 years ago and is relying 
on the support of her friends and fam-
ily to get her through, she said.
“I know this is a marathon, not a 
sprint,“ Peters said. UF professor diagnosed with 
breast cancer again 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019and evidence that we can,” Hollo-
way said. 
The board is working with Flor-
ida Highway Patrol, who started the investigation, and the Florida 
Department of Transportation, Hol-
loway said. 
“We’re going to share as much 
info that we have at this point and 
that we know factually so that they 
have the best idea of what trans-pired,” said Lt. Patrick Riordan, 
FHP spokesperson.
FHP is looking into vehicle 
equipment, weather factors and the 
drivers involved, he said. Troopers 
are also using witness statements, 
interviews with those involved and results from the office of the medi-
cal examiners. 
“We got months in front of us,” 
he said. “There’s a lot of moving 
parts to our investigation and they 
take time.”
It’s unclear when the board’s in-
vestigation will end or how long the 
investigators will be in Gainesville, 
Holloway said. Investigations are about 12 to 18 months and, in nor-
mal circumstances, investigators 
can be on scene for a week. 
“They don’t have a physical 
scene,” Holloway said. “Things are 
a little different.” 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgCRASH,  from pg. 1FHP will work with the board IT RANKS HIGHER THAN 
THE STATE’S LIVING 
AFFORDABILITY
Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Low income and unafford-
able house prices have caused 
Gainesville to become one of the 
least affordable cities in Florida. 
On Jan. 17, homearea.com, a 
website that uses Census data to 
create housing statistics for cities,  
updated its “Cities in Florida with 
the Most Affordable Homes” list, 
which showed Gainesville ranking 
35 out of 53 surveyed cities with a population of more than 60,000. 
The list used 2017 Census Bu-
reau data to compare local in-
comes with local home prices to 
determine the housing affordabil-
ity in the area, the website said. 
Gainesville received a rating 
of 4.6, which is higher than the 
Florida average of 4.1. According 
to HomeArea, anything under 3 is 
affordable.  
This is considered to be severe-
ly unaffordable, according to the 
housing affordability rating cate-
gories outlined by Demographia’s 
International Housing Affordabil-
ity survey, which also uses the 
same rating scale.
Jessica Cowart, a 40-year-old real estate agent at Keller Williams 
Realty, said the average price of a 
home in Gainesville is significant-
ly lower than the average for the 
entire state.  
“If you compare Gainesville to 
its nearest neighbors, those areas 
tend to be slightly less expensive, 
but in an overall comparison to 
the state, we are one of the better 
places to purchase,” Cowart said. 
The median price for a home 
in Florida is about $178,700 and 
in Gainesville is about $147,500, 
according to the Census Bureau 
American Community survey five-
year estimates. The median in-
come in the city is about $34,004.
Cowart said there’s been a sharp spike in buyers moving to 
the city from South Florida where 
homes are more expensive.
This influx of wealthy residents 
to the city could be preventing the 
local market from readjusting to 
match the low income of its native 
residents, which is making it in-
creasingly unaffordable for locals, 
said Hector Sandoval, a UF assis-
tant economics professor.
Mona Gil de Gibaja, president 
of United Way of North Central 
Florida, said that there are many 
residents living below the poverty 
line that can’t afford current mort-
gage rates and rental prices. 
About 57 percent of residents 
are living below the poverty line, according to a United Way an-
nual Asset Limited, Income Con-
strained, Employed report, which 
outlines challenges faced by the 
working population.
She said that with the current 
rates of housing students may be 
able to survive with financial as-
sistance from parents, but for resi-
dents it is almost impossible. 
“You might be making a rela-
tively decent salary, but it can be 
difficult to have a balanced bud-
get if the price of housing is too 
much,” she said. “You’re always 
going to be in debt or need other 
assistance like a food bank.”Gainesville ranks as severely unaffordable, survey says
Nicole Needles / Alligator Staff
Local Heroes
Steven Butler (middle), the executive and artistic director of the Actors’ Warehouse, accepts recognition Sunday on behalf of Gail 
Johnson, a Gainesville city commissioner, during the Black Women of Distinction: Making History in Alachua County event at the Ac-
tors’ Warehouse, 619 NE First St. Kim Barton (left), the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections; Evelyn Mickle (center left), a retired 
nurse; and Gigi Simmons (right), a Gainesville city commissioner also received awards highlighting their achievements in Alachua 
County. Anne Kinnebrew (center right), a consulting scholar, participated in the award ceremony but did not receive an award.
 
The Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Florida State Univer-
sity’s head football coach announced Sunday 
that quarterback Deondre Francois had been dis-
missed from the team after allegations of domes-
tic abuse surfaced.
FSU head coach Willie Taggart said in a state-
ment Sunday that he had notified Francois of his 
decision the night before. Taggart’s decision to 
drop Francois came the same day the quarter-
back’s girlfriend posted a video to Instagram al-
leging abuse by Francois.
“As we build a new culture and foundation for 
FSU football, we have high expectations for all 
of our student-athletes and we will not shy away 
from those high standards of conduct,” Taggart 
said. “We are moving forward as a program.”
The Tallahassee Democrat reports that the 
video shows neither Francois nor the girlfriend, 
but a woman can be heard begging a man to stop 
hitting her.
Francois hasn’t been charged with a crime. 
He couldn’t be reached and Francois’ uncle, Pat 
Julmiste, didn’t respond to a phone call seeking 
comment.
Only last month, Francois announced he 
would return to FSU for his senior season in 2019.
The redshirt junior started 11 games for the 
FSU Seminoles, who went 5-7 in 2018 but did not 
make a bowl game for the first time since 1982.
Francois completed 57 percent of his passes 
for 2,731 yards, 15 touchdowns and 12 intercep-
tions. But in each of his last four starts, he com-
pleted fewer than 50 percent of his passes and 
had just two touchdowns along with six intercep-
tions.FSU dismisses 
quarterback after 
abuse allegations
UF contract could not be reached for com-
ment. 
The contract included had included a 
clause, which was crossed out, that stated 
if the performance was rendered impos-
sible by “any act or regulation of any pub-
lic authority or bureau,” neither party can 
claim damages, and any deposit already 
made to the artist may be retained. Bryan Cox, an ICE spokesperson, said 
in a statement to AP that 21 Savage is a 
British citizen, and he had overstayed his 
visa, which expired in July 2006. 
In 2014, 21 Savage was convicted of fel-
ony drug charges in Georgia, Cox told AP. 
His lawyer, Dina LaPolt, is currently 
working on getting 21 Savage out of feder-
al immigration detention, according to AP. 
He is undergoing deportation proceedings 
in federal immigration court. LaPolt told AP he is a role model to sev-
eral people in the U.S., especially children 
in the Atlanta area. 
The Atlanta Police Department and 
ICE could not be reached for comment.  
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.org21 SAVAGE,  from pg. 1Cancellation clause in his UF contract was crossed outMONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
FIVE OTHERS WERE 
INJURED
A 6-week-old baby from Gainesville 
was killed and ﬁ  ve others were criti-
cally injured Friday in a multi-vehicle 
crash near Silver Springs. 
Just after 4 p.m., a semi-truck was 
driving west on East State Road 40 at 
Northeast 125th Terrace Road when 
the driver drove straight instead of 
following the road’s curve, said Lt. 
Patrick Riordan, a Florida Highway 
Patrol spokesperson. 
Troopers are treating the crash as a 
trafﬁ  c homicide, he said.
The trailer drove across the east 
lane, hitting a van and then a pickup 
truck driving behind it, he said. De-
bris from the crash then hit a motor-
cycle driver.
Zoe Robles Vallespi, the baby from 
Gainesville, died on the scene, Rior-dan said. She was in the van with 
other passengers who were critically 
injured including, Ashley K. Borja, 
28, of Ocala; Juan G. Robles Vallespi, 
31, of Gainesville; Juan Robles Val-
lespi, 5, of Gainesville; Kley Borja, 
4, of Ocala; and Mia Figueroa, 8, of 
Gainesville.
Juan G. Robles Vallespi was taken 
to Ocala Regional Medical Center, 
Riordan said. The driver of the van 
and three children were taken to UF 
Health Shands Hospital. 
The 36-year-old trailer driver, 
Lacosta Romone Clyde of Daytona 
Beach, wasn’t injured, Riordan said. 
The motorcycle driver — William 
Weakland Jr, 36, of Ocala — and 
pickup driver — Phillip Morris, 42, 
of Ocklawaha, Florida — had minor 
injuries and were not taken to a hos-
pital, he said.
“Life is precious,” Riordan said. 
“Defensive driving is everything.” A man is accused of pointing a gun at an-
other man and then reporting it missing to 
police was arrested Saturday.
At about 2 a.m., Freddy Lee J. Holmes, 
25, of Gainesville, was argued with the vic-
tim in the parking lot of a Mobil gas station, 
at 4234 SW 20th Ave., when he pulled out a 
Glock, according to a Gainesville Police ar-
rest report. 
Holmes placed the barrel of the handgun 
to the victim’s head, the report said. The vic-
tim grabbed Holmes’ wrist and knocked the 
gun out of his hand. 
An unidentiﬁ  ed man picked up the gun 
and left the parking lot, the report said. The 
victim also left and an employee at the gas 
station overheard Holmes repeatedly ask 
where his gun was.
Holmes called the police to report that his 
gun was missing, the report said. When police arrived, 
they reviewed surveillance 
video and saw the incident, 
the report said.
Holmes did not have a 
concealed carry permit and 
did not talk to police after 
he was arrested, the report 
said.
Holmes was charged with concealing an 
unlicensed ﬁ  rearm and improperly exhibit-
ing a ﬁ  rearm, the report said. 
He also had a warrant accusing him of 
repeatedly punching a man, who he was car-
ing for, after arguing with him while play-
ing basketball in April, according to court 
records. 
Holmes remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $100,000 bond.
HIS BOND IS $250,000
Police arrested a Gainesville man Sat-
urday who is accused of stabbing a man 
who said something about his hat. 
A warrant for Dominic Rocco LaPas-
tina’s, 34, arrest was issued Friday, ac-
cording to court records.
At about 12:45 a.m. Friday, the victim 
and a witness were having drinks at Lil-
lian’s Music Store, 112 SE First St., when the victim commented 
on LaPastina’s hat, ac-
cording to a Gainesville 
Police sworn complaint 
report. 
The victim and 
LaPastina started argu-
ing, the report said. The 
witness saw LaPastina 
repeatedly punch the victim in the back.
The bar’s video footage showed LaPas-tina take something out of his coat pocket 
and striking the victim in the back, the 
report said. 
The witness broke up the ﬁ  ght, the re-
port said. A bartender told police that the 
man didn’t hit LaPastina back.
The man was unaware he was stabbed 
until he was put inside a car, the report 
said. There was a large amount of blood 
on the car seat, ﬂ  oor and door. 
He was taken to the trauma intensive care unit at UF Health Shands Hospital 
because of the blood loss, the report said. 
He had a puncture wound in his lower 
back and scratches on his face and back. 
LaPastina was charged with aggra-
vated battery with a deadly weapon, the 
report said. 
He remained in the Alachua County 
Jail on Sunday in lieu of a $250,000 bond. Gainesville baby dies in crash GPD: Man arrested after calling 
police to report his missing gun
Man accused of stabbing after downtown bar ﬁ  ghtHolmes
Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez   |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98  
LaPastina
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Groundhog Day  
is the only  
non-problematic  
holiday of the year
One of the weirdest days of the year passed Saturday 
when America stopped and waited upon the actions 
of a groundhog named Punxsutawney Phil to play 
the role of meteorologist. And somehow nobody has 
questioned this tradition in the nearly 150 years that 
Groundhog Day has existed. In fact, in Pennsylvania, the Punx-
sutawney Groundhog Club celebrated Groundhog Day from 
Sunday, Jan. 27 to yesterday, nearly the same number of nights 
dedicated to Hanukkah — an entire religious holiday. 
Groundhog Day has been around since the late 1800s, be-
coming the most wholesome holiday in America. It’s a prime 
example for appreciating the smaller things in life, like a ground-
hog and his shadow. It’s a day in which thousands of people 
gather to see what Punxsutawney Phil is going to do. Will he 
see his shadow? Will he not? Do we actually care? 
If you do, Phil didn’t see his shadow, which means spring is 
on its way, supposedly. However, with a lot of the country suf-
fering from a polar vortex, any form of a warm weather promise 
is a good one. It should be said, however, there is no scientific 
evidence to support Phil’s prediction, with an estimated 40 per-
cent accuracy rate. With no proof, is there a point to spending 
150 years watching the groundhog, large type of squirrel, pop 
out from a tree every February? The short answer, of course. 
Groundhog Day is the purest holiday celebrated in the U.S. 
each year. The historical significance of the day is minor. There 
are no presents that appear underneath a tree and not even a 
feast to go along with the celebration. Yet, somehow Ground-
hog Day has an entire movie dedicated to it. 
Phil and his wife, Phyllis, are presented each year by a group 
of men dressed in their best attire, top hats and all, to a crowd 
of thousands all waiting to see if winter will continue or if spring 
will arrive early. And the best part is no one really cares how the 
day goes. It’s one of the only events of the year in which no one 
can get upset about the outcome of the day. It’s the perfect holi-
day: no one can be let down and consumerism isn’t rampant.
Groundhog Day, in the grand scheme of things, is insignifi-
cant. But, it serves as an example of how a day can be simple, 
but also celebrated for that exact reason. It’s about a ground-
hog, who is well taken care of throughout the year, and pops 
out of a fake tree to be presented to thousands of chanting fans 
each year. How can that not make you smile? 
There’s something to be said about celebrating the smaller 
things in life, like Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, does each year. 
They’ve taken a seemingly unimportant event and turned it into 
a day for celebrating. If America can appreciate the actions of a 
groundhog, can’t it learn to appreciate the smaller things in life, 
like someone holding the door open, a nice sunset or simply a 
smile from a stranger on the street?
We’re not saying that there needs to be a parade for getting 
an A on an exam, but maybe take the time to celebrate the 
things in life that you normally don’t think twice about. There 
are things to be learned from a skittish groundhog. Allowing 
yourself to enjoy something that has no real significance is how 
we get to be more understanding and appreciative of others. Let 
yourself appreciate silly things. It’s how we can hold onto the 
more innocent parts of life.UF’s racial equality problem should 
be acknowledged and fixed
As humans, we make mistakes. We 
have all said and done things we re-
gret. We shouldn’t hide our mistakes 
and pretend they never happened. 
We should embrace them and show 
the world that we have learned and are ready 
to grow.
Similarly, UF should not hide the fact that 
it has made many appalling mistakes in the 
past. Half a century ago, the university denied 
Virgil Hawkins admission to its law school 
based solely on his skin color. Hawkins 
fought legal battles for nearly nine years to desegregate 
the law school at UF. Though he was never allowed to 
attend law school at UF, per his settlement agreement, 
the university agreed to desegregate its graduate and 
professional schools. As a result of his sacrifice, UF’s 
students of color enjoy being able to attend the univer-
sity. Hawkins’ struggle is the prime reason many stu-
dents can attend UF. Hawkins forged a path for aspiring 
minority students in Florida.
As a result of Hawkins’ sacrifice, UF admits students 
of all races. However, UF has a racial equity problem. 
Ever since I moved to the U.S. and Florida, I have al-
ways wanted to attend UF. I fell in love with the idea of 
being a Gator. But once I started attending UF, my love 
started to fade away.  My experience at UF has not been 
what I imagined it to be.
During my first semester at UF in the Summer of 2017, 
a female barista at Starbucks assumed that I played foot-ball for UF. At that time, I was startled by her 
comment. I couldn’t believe she assumed that 
the only way for a large black man to attend 
this university was through athletics. Mov-
ing forward to Fall of 2017, Richard Spencer 
came to campus, and I witnessed how much 
hate people have toward people of color. The 
graduation ceremony of 2018 is just another 
example of the university’s failings. It felt like 
every part of my identity, as a black Haitian 
American man, was under attack, to the point 
where I no longer felt welcome at UF.
We, as a community, must acknowledge that this 
great university has made mistakes in the past. Howev-
er, it is impossible to fix any problem without acknowl-
edgment. I believe we should honor and display Virgil 
Hawkins’ name on UF’s main campus, where everyone 
who steps foot onto it can know who he was and what 
he has done for students of color and students in gen-
eral.As students of this institution, we should not hide 
this piece of our history. 
We should embody it and show the world that we 
have passed that rudimentary level and we are working 
toward a future where everyone at UF can feel at home 
and proud to be a Gator. I believe together we can make 
this university shine brighter.
Mackintosh Joachim is a psychology and women’s 
studies sophomore. Letter to the Editor
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORMackintosh
Joachim
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
It was 3:45 p.m. on a Tuesday. The air was 
cold, rushing against my cheeks, warning 
of the imminent downpour. For January 
in Gainesville, this was the best weather 
I could hope for. As I began the journey 
from Library West to Tigert Hall gripping two 
iced coffees, I contemplated the whirlwind 
that my life had become in just a couple of 
hours. 
The day before, I returned to my dorm af-
ter class ﬁ  lled with the traditional anxiety of 
a Monday night, stressing about the busy week ahead. My 
roommate, Will Hasell, greeted me with a tone of great 
excitement, prompting me to check Twitter. I discovered 
President Kent Fuchs had tweeted about my previous col-
umn on iced coffee. 
Oftentimes in life, a small victory can cause a massive 
shift in someone’s mood. This was one of those times. I 
checked the state of my direct messages and found them 
overﬂ  owing. The clout of a Fuchs retweet gave me a small 
taste of Gator glory. It was the ﬁ  rst time in my life I felt like 
an actual writer.
The next morning, I rode the emotional high with a bold 
follow-up. I sent President Fuchs an email at 10:26 a.m., the 
subject being: “Thank you and an important offer.” 
President Fuchs revealed in his tweet that he had never 
mixed ice and coffee together to form the golden elixir of 
our generation that I had fawned over in my article, and I 
proposed that I should deliver him his ﬁ  rst iced coffee. I 
expected no reply, or possibly a kind declination of my pro-
posal. Instead, at 10:33 a.m. (less than 10 minutes later), 
President Fuchs replied saying, “Your article was great! I 
accept your offer!” He asked if I could meet him that day 
at 4 p.m. I accepted without a second thought, as I stared 
in shock at the screen of my laptop. He signed off with, 
“Warm regards, Kent.” 
Warm, just like his preference in coffee. However, I was 
determined to convince him of the superiority of the iced 
form of the beverage.I ran with a unique form of adrenaline. It 
was derived from the fear of being late to meet 
Fuchs and of letting his iced coffee melt in to a 
sad form of the drink. I arrived at 3:50 p.m. He 
was out of the ofﬁ  ce when I got there, sched-
uled to return promptly at 4 p.m. As expected, 
Fuchs strode in at that time.
“You must be Kyle,” he said with a grin. I 
nodded, speechless as I went to shake his strong 
hand. I was face to face with a man revered 
as a god and it seemed almost like a dream. I 
regained my composure as our hands parted and offered a 
light joke. “The only downside of an iced coffee is a cold 
handshake!” President Fuchs laughed and directed me into 
his ofﬁ  ce. 
Seated, he started off the conversation by saying, “Tell 
me about yourself!” 
What followed was an incredible discussion about my 
experiences on campus, his involvement with The Alliga-
tor, my aspirations as a writer both at UF and beyond and 
of course our tastes in caffeinated drinks. After a wonder-
ful conversation, we recorded a short video for his Twitter 
follow-up, where he put my knowledge of coffee to the test. 
We then clinked our plastic mugs and took photos around 
the ofﬁ  ce. President Fuchs bid me farewell by stating, “I 
like that you write, Kyle.” 
While this experience is something I will remember for-
ever, I think it says more about Kent Fuchs and his will-
ingness to engage with students, than it does about me. 
Fuchs is not just the leader who is guiding UF up the public 
university rankings, he is a compassionate and earnest man 
who cares about everyone on campus. When we spoke, 
he told me that he’d never met a student who said they 
regretted coming to UF. It’s much more likely they all saw 
in Fuchs a genuine passion for the school and its students. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English freshman. His 
column appears on Mondays.Coffee with Kent: A delivery to the UF presidentColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Jan. 17, the Gainesville City Council unani-
mously voted to ban single-use plastic bags 
and foam containers. The ban goes into ef-
fect Aug. 1, and covers things like to-go boxes 
and plastic grocery bags with handles. While 
the Gainesville City Council can be praised for its 
commitment to reducing plastic usage, a complete 
ban isn’t the only option. There are several other 
ways to reduce plastic usage.
Gainesville isn’t the ﬁ  rst place to consider or en-
act a plastic ban. San Francisco banned plastic shopping bags 
in 2007, following this up with a ban on bottled water in 2017. 
Boston banned single-use plastic bags in 2018, with a 5-cent 
fee for compostable and paper bags. Internationally, in South 
Korea large supermarkets are banned from providing shoppers 
with plastic bags except under limited circumstances (like car-
rying ﬁ  sh and meat). And last year the European Parliament 
voted to ban a variety of single-use plastics by 2021.
These examples of efforts made by governments are admi-
rable, and the problem they’re seeking to address is real. One 
estimate says that between 5.3 and 14 million tons of plastic 
makes it into coastal regions each year, polluting waterways 
and choking marine animals. But plastic products aren’t all 
bad. Plastic bags with handles are easier to use than handle-
less paper bags, and they can be adapted for other purposes 
like making doggy bags (as I can personally attest to). As the 
EU discovered, some single-use plastics like sandwich boxes 
don’t yet have a practical alternative (hence why the proposed 
European law would aim to reduce their usage rather than a 
complete ban).
So, what can we do instead of completely banning plastics? 
We can craft policies that would reduce plastic usage, while 
still saving them for those who need it. An example would 
be taxing plastic bags. In D.C., shoppers are charged 5 cents 
per plastic bag, with the money going toward a river clean-up project. Chicago instituted a 7-cent tax, and it’s al-
ready seen plastic bag usage decline by 42 percent. 
Stores can also do their part in this. 
Research into plastic cleanup and alternatives 
would also be a good use of our time and resources. 
As I mentioned before, plastics offer more conve-
nience than the current alternatives like paper and 
cloth bags, and while those who bring their own 
cloth bags when shopping are praiseworthy, get-
ting everyone in the world to do that is unlikely. 
So rather than spending money on enforcing a potentially-
unpopular plastic bag ban, we could instead put that money 
into research grants for developing better plastic alternatives, 
such as biodegradable plastics, compostable plastics or plas-
tics that don’t leave behind tiny microplastics that poison sea 
life. More money toward cleaning up our oceans and water-
ways would also help, as it’s a massive project that always 
requires more investment. Cleaning up our current waste may 
make future waste more manageable. We could also combine 
these efforts with a tax. The money from a plastic bag tax can 
go toward either environmentally-friendly plastics research or 
ocean cleanup.
I know it’s tempting to call for the complete banning of 
things, but bans aren’t the only tool cities, states and coun-
tries have at their disposal. Economics teaches us that people 
are usually discouraged from doing something when you tax 
or add extra charges, and plastic bags and other single-use 
plastics are no exception. With a little creativity, we can craft 
plastic proposals that are not only more accommodating of 
people who genuinely need plastic, but would also generate 
revenue that we can use to rid ourselves of polluting plastic 
once and for all.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column 
appears on Mondays.City plastic ban is a good start to a greener Gainesville Column
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgIn the wake of the statistics exam came a slew of angry 
messages. It was another test that hundreds of students 
spent hours studying for, starting early in the day and 
ending late in the night. The material wasn’t meant to 
be easy, but many felt that it wasn’t meant to be so hard.
Putting in a lot of work to get a good grade and not 
getting that grade can be frustrating. Students study hard 
in school and are sometimes still met with unsatisfactory 
grades, leaving them to feel like they deserved a better 
grade. But too frequently, students blame their professor for 
their bad grades. 
“The questions were worded unfairly.”
“How do they expect us to do well on these tests when 
they barely teach us half of it?”
“She just wants to see us fail.”
All of these remarks, in addition to more comments too 
inappropriate to publish, are common lines I’ve heard after 
each midterm and ﬁ  nal season. Students will do anything 
to avoid admitting that an exam was difﬁ  cult because they 
were unprepared, so they hold their professors accountable. 
Airing woes through enraged texts and heated conversations 
seems to be the best way to forget about difﬁ  cult assess-
ments.
This phenomenon may be explained through the social 
psychology idea of the self-serving bias. People have a ten-
dency to attribute their successes to internal factors, like 
their abilities and efforts, and attribute their failures to exter-
nal factors, like the situation. By using the self-serving bias, 
people preserve their high self-esteems in order to maintain 
favorable perceptions of themselves. The self-serving bias 
is used very frequently in school when it comes to exams. 
When students ace their tests, they will give themselves a 
pat on the back and reward themselves for their dedication 
and good study habits. But when they fail, it is someone or 
something else’s fault. Tricky questions, limited time and 
spiteful teachers are the suspected causes of the failure.
Students describe the instructors of their harder classes 
as cunning and devilish. In their eyes, these teachers hate 
students and will do anything to prevent success in their 
courses. Students think that receiving a bad grade is the fault 
of the professor, and fail to recognize that the material is 
tough and more could have been done to receive a good 
grade. People often are willing to blame anyone but them-
selves for not taking the time to be able to succeed. 
Psychological explanations aside, putting professors 
down without sufﬁ  cient reason is a bad practice. It might get 
the intended result of letting out frustration in the moment, 
but it won’t change your grade. If anything, it could cause 
you more problems than when you started. Succeeding and 
getting your desired grade can only be done through more 
effort and studying for the next exam.
Beyond school, everyone will have to deal with circum-
stances one might ﬁ  nd unfair. Burdensome situations will 
have to be dealt with in any job, bosses might be too strict 
or speciﬁ  c. Some people in life will deserve a snide com-
ment or a warning to others to not take the class. However, 
most college professors are in their occupation because they 
are experts and want to spread their knowledge to future 
generations. They are less vindictive than some struggling 
college students would lead you to believe.
Next time you’re less than thrilled with your grade, take a 
step back and a deep breath. Think about why you received 
the grade you did and what you can learn from the whole 
ordeal. It might help you save face for the next assignment. 
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column normally appears on Wednesday.Talking trash about 
your professor isn't 
going to get you an AColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
A Helpful Home
Photos by Chris Day
Alligator Staff
Emmarose Stokes, a 23-year-old Santa Fe College psychology junior, helps repair the Gainesville Peer Respite Serenoa House, 728 E. University Ave. The event was 
hosted by the National Alliance on Mental Illness. “Of all the tools in our community to help folks with mental health, this is one of our crown jewels, ” said Arthur 
Stockwell, president of NAMI. “We want to do all we can to keep it in tip-top shape. ”Stephanie Judd, a 22-year-old UF sociology alumna, sands a railing Saturday while volunteering 
at an event to refurbish the Gainesville Peer Respite Serenoa House, at 728 E. University 
Ave. A peer respite is a place where individuals suffering from psychological distress can stay 
to recover. Peer respites are staffed by individuals who have suffered mental or emotional 
distress and guests of the respite can spend up to eight nights a month free of charge.
 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government makes 
decisions for a student population of 
over 50,000, but it is turning its at-
tention to the world.
Three resolutions, non-binding 
statements of agreement, were heard 
before the UF Senate Judiciary Sun-
day, that address the global issues 
of divestment from fossil fuels, sup-
port of victims of a tornado in Ha-
vana, Cuba, and recognition of Juan 
Guaidó as the Venezuelan interim 
president. Student Senators will vote 
on some of the resolutions Tuesday 
night. 
The judiciary committee first 
spoke about how it would address 
Cuba after the strongest tornado 
since 1940 hit the country in the city 
of Havana on Jan. 27. 
Sunday’s resolution recognized 
the efforts of the Cuban American 
Student Association to provide aid to 
those affected and voiced support for 
Cuban Gators and their families.
On Thursday, the Cuban Ameri-
can Student Associated collected 
more than 35 bags and boxes of 
donations to deliver to Havana via 
a US-based travel company called 
Montes de Oca Travel. 
The committee then discussed a 
resolution that called for the divest-
ment of fossil fuels. Sam Jenkins (In-
spire, District D) and three students 
from Divest UF, an organization 
that wants UF to remove its money 
from fossil fuel industries authored 
the resolution, said Marcela Mulhol-
land, a member of Divest UF and a 
21-year-old UF political science and 
sustainability studies senior. 
“As young people, we have a 
unique moral position in this argu-ment,” Mulholland said. 
The resolution on Sunday asked 
for the creation of a divestment task 
force on the UF Board of Trustees 
and for money to be directed to sus-
tainable companies. 
During the hearing, Jenkins said 
the University of California, Berke-
ley, which is a top five public univer-
sity, had divested from fossil fuels. 
“Why can’t we be a leader, too?” 
Jenkins said. 
The resolution was postponed 
over concerns on how the endow-
ment process works. 
Aggie Argeros, a co-author of the 
resolution, said Divest UF would 
speak at the Senate meeting to show 
that students care about these issues.
“To not see it pass is very disap-
pointing,” said the 22-year-old UF 
sustainability and botany senior. 
The committee then spoke about 
how more than 1,200 miles away, 
Venezuela has experienced mass 
panic and riots due to claims that 
last year’s presidential election was 
corrupt, according to The Associated 
Press. 
The other globally reaching reso-
lution, showed SG’s support of Juan 
Guaidó, the leader of National As-
sembly, as leader over Nicolas Mad-
uro, the acting president. 
UF has a Hispanic/Latinx popula-
tion of 15 percent, according to UF 
Institutional Planning and Research. 
Stephanie Beltran, a co-author of 
the Cuban and Venezuelan resolu-
tions, (Impact, Freshman) said the 
resolutions don’t just affect Hispanic 
and Latinx students but said they can 
bring awareness to campus.
“This does affect the whole 
world,” Beltran said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgUF Student Government 
addresses climate 
change, global politics MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Cindy Jie performs a traditional Chinese water sleeve dance Sunday for the Year of the Pig: Spring Festival Gala 2019 event in celebration of the Chinese New Year at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. The event featured performances of modern and traditional dances, comedy and a Chinese orchestra. 
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Jake Canepari, 22, cheers Sunday in The Swamp 
Restaurant as the New England Patriots win Super 
Bowl LIII with a final score of 13 to 3 points. Canepari, 
who comes from a family of New England Patriots fans, 
wears his father’s hat during the game for good luck. 
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Jason Bonvie, 24, watches as the New England Patriots score against the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII 
Sunday in The Swamp Restaurant. “I am not trying to see no Pats win, ” Bonvie said.
A New Year
Sweet VictoryBy Kasamba Kokayi
Alligator Contributing Writer
A taste of Arabic culture was 
found in grape leaves, rice, onions, 
olive oil and tomatoes last Thursday.
About 20 people came to the UF 
Arabic Student Association’ ﬁ  rst 
Mahshi Night. For more than three 
hours, students made and ate mah-
shi, a dish made of vegetables such 
as grape leaves stuffed with rice, at a 
member’s apartment. 
The event celebrated mahshi be-
cause it reminded those of Arab cul-
ture of their roots and educated those 
who have never tasted the dish, said 
Ibrahim Ragab, a 21-year-old UF bi-
ology senior and president of the as-
sociation. 
“We wanted to bring a little bit of 
the Arab world home,” Ragab said.
The recipe differs across the spec-
trum of Arab countries, Ragab said. 
At the event, the group used the leaves of the grapevine plant, onions 
and tomatoes as their vegetables of 
choice.
Participants at the event started 
off by soaking the grape leaves for 
about two to three hours, then cook-
ing the rice and adding seasoning. 
Once the grape leaves ﬁ  nish, they’re 
rinsed, drained, removed of stems 
and added with stufﬁ  ng. They are 
then rolled tightly, much like a burri-
to. Once rolled, they are placed into a 
pan with added lime juice, tomatoes 
and olive oil. Lastly, they are baked 
in a oven at 325 degrees and left for 
about an hour.
The club spent about $160 buying 
supplies from Amazon and Publix, 
Ragab said. The Mahshi Night al-
lowed association members to bond 
with students who have never made 
mahshi before.
“I loved that we got to show them 
our culture,” Ibrahim said. “With 
how Arab people are seen today it’s good for them to see us as normal 
people.”
Hassan Moussa, a 19-year-old UF 
chemistry sophomore who has been 
in the association for two years, led 
everyone in making the mahshi. 
The dish is hard to make correct-
ly, Moussa said. The cooking process 
is time consuming and meticulous. 
“Many Arabs have had it before, 
seen their mothers make it but never 
learned themselves,” Moussa said.
Jasmine Iturres, a 18-year old UF 
chemistry freshman is Colombian 
but her roomate, who is Lebanese 
and Syrian, took her to the event. 
It was her ﬁ  rst time having mahshi, 
and said she enjoyed experiencing a 
different culture while being able to 
devour a new food.
“It makes you more open mind-
ed as a person,” Iturres said. “I’ve 
learned about a food I’ve never 
heard before and made it by expos-
ing myself to Arab culture.”By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sharks shouldn’t be a worry for spring-
breakers this year. 
In a study released Jan. 28,  UF re-
searchers found unprovoked shark attacks 
worldwide dropped to 66 incidents last 
year, which is 26 percent less than the 88 
recorded incidents in 2017. The most recent 
ﬁ  ve-year average reported about 84 inci-
dents annually, said Gavin Naylor, the lead 
researcher of the study, UF biologist and 
Director of the Florida Museum of Natural 
History’s shark research program.
Blacktip sharks, a species of shark 
named after the black tips on their ﬁ  ns, are 
responsible for most bites in southeastern 
United States, where researchers have seen 
the largest decline, Naylor said. The reason 
Blacktips have not been biting as frequently 
this year might be related to the rising water 
temperatures from global warming, causing 
a decline in the population. An incident is deﬁ  ned as an unprovoked 
attack from a shark, Naylor said. Only four 
incidents this year were fatal compared to 
six fatal attacks recorded last year.
Most shark bites are accidental, Nay-
lor said. Sharks could 
mistake people ﬂ  ailing 
their arms and kicking 
their legs for ﬁ  sh.
“Because these 
sharks act on instinct 
and have to be fast, 
they turn around and 
bite people immediate-
ly,” Naylor said. 
This research was conducted as part of a 
20-year study dedicated to recording every 
unprovoked shark attack worldwide, Nay-
lor said.
The shark research program collected 
data through the collaboration of teams in 
other areas such as Australia, South Africa, 
Hawaii and Brazil that all report interna-
tional shark attacks into one database, UF’s International Shark Attack File, Naylor said. 
There’s been a steady pattern of a de-
cline in shark incidents over the past 20 
years, but it’s important to look into why it 
has declined so suddenly, Naylor said.
“As biologists, we 
like to understand why 
animals do what they 
do,” he said.
Naylor said he hopes 
this research will help 
erase people’s phobia 
of sharks and help in-
crease understanding of 
them.
“The best thing to alleviate fear is knowl-
edge,” Naylor said. “People need to under-
stand that we share the world with these 
animals and try to integrate our behavior so 
we can live alongside them.”
Samson Eagen, a 19-year-old UF nursing 
freshman and UF Surf Club member, said 
he thinks about sharks every time he gets 
in the water after he was bumped off his surfboard by a 4-foot bull shark last year.
Eagen said it’s important to stay cautious 
in the water but not fear sharks themselves.
“The odds are that you’re as big, if not 
bigger, than any shark you’re in the water 
with,” he said. “They probably aren’t going 
to bother you unless you somehow pique 
their interest.”
Jenna Knobbe, a 19-year-old UF environ-
mental management in agriculture and nat-
ural resources freshman, aspires to pursue 
a career in shark conservation. The study is 
great news to her because it solidiﬁ  es what 
she has always known: Sharks don’t want 
to eat people, and only bite people because 
they are just curious.
Without sharks eating other ﬁ  sh, the 
prey species would overpopulate and mess 
up the oceanic food chain, Knobbe said.
“You should be afraid if you are in the 
ocean and don’t see sharks,” she said. “Peo-
ple don’t realize how vital sharks are to our 
marine ecosystems, and without sharks it 
would all collapse.”10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
UF researchers ﬁ  nd decrease in shark bites worldwide
Kasamba Kokayi / Alligator Contributor
Ibrahim Ragab, the UF Arabic Student Association president, shows a student 
how to properly roll  Mahshi, a stuffed grape leaves dish, Thursday night.
Wrapped and Rolled: UF students 
learn to cook, eat Arabic dish
HOW TO MAKE MAHSHI
1. Soak grape leaves in cold 
water for two to three hours
2. Rinse and drain in colander
3. Combine ingredients of 
choice with rice in a mixing 
bowl
4. Place one to two teaspoons of 
the mixture on a grape leaf
5. Fold in the sides and roll 
upwards
6. Place rolled grape leaf into a 
pan
7. Fill pan half full with water, 
place another baking pan on 
top
8. Cook at about 325 degrees for 
about an hour or until tender
9. Enjoy
(recipe according to thespruceeats.com)IMPACT RELEASED THREE 
PLATFORM POINTS SATURDAY
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Impact Party’s ﬁ  rst campaign points prioritize transporta-
tion and academics. 
The new platform points advocate for dockless scooter shar-
ing, an online request form for minor applications and afford-
able decal and parking spaces, said Danielle Grosse, an Impact 
Party campaign manager and 21-year-old UF industrial and 
systems engineering senior. 
“Over 200 students slated with the Impact Party this semes-
ter,” she said. “These students told us their ideas of projects 
they would like to see implemented on campus.” 
The platform points were released on the party’s Facebook 
page on Saturday. These points came out before Impact Party 
representatives will talk with students in Turlington and on 
the Reitz Union North Lawn this week to generate the rest of 
its platform.
“As we have done in past semesters, we like to roll out our 
platform over the course of the campaign,” Grosse said.
UF Spring elections will be held Feb. 19 and 20.
Dockless scooters are electric scooters that do not have a 
predetermined parking station.
While the scooters represent a cost-effective way to travel 
short distances, some cities, like Milwaukee and St. Paul, have 
issued sanctions on dockless scooter sharing programs after 
riders have abandoned the scooters around town or caused 
concern for pedestrian safety, according to The Associated 
Press. 
Grosse said Student Government will work with campus 
and city partners to make this program successful. 
Inspire Party presidential candidate Zachariah Chou said it 
was weird to see the campaign points come out so early be-
cause Impact Party hadn’t started talking with students yet. 
Chou said that Inspire Party’s platform will be released later 
this week after last week’s conversations with students.  
“I think it’s important to be able to talk to anyone because 
sometimes people don’t feel like they have a direct connec-
tion to their representatives,” Chou said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgParking, dockless 
scooters top of 
Impact’s platform BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020      2-4-19-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 4 Roommates 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
 Make an extra or full-time income from your 
photography. With just a camera, turn your 
hubby into a profitable business. 
Go to: http://photographyoppurtunity.club      
2-6-19-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20The Village at Gainesville Career Fair
February 6, 2019 from 10am - 2pm
8000 NW 27th Blvd, Gainesville Fl 32606      
2-6-19-3-14
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/11- 
2/14 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.      2-11-19-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attem -
ted to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-
4903 2-08-7-25
By Winston Emmons
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/04/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/04/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 4, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gather in a pile
6 City transport
9 Assume the 
role of
14 Dashed in the 
direction of
15 Fireplace 
remnants
16 Baseball’s  
home __
17 Military 
decoration
18 China : cha :: 
U.S. : __
19 Resistance 
member
20 Misdeed 
exculpation
23 Garden product 
word
26 Lyricist Gershwin
27 Ages and ages
28 Word after photo 
or black
29 Done tidily and 
without stress
33 Skillful
34 Early riser?
35 Wyatt of the Old 
West
39 Bedouin abode
40 Takes out the 
sloop
42 Classic cookie
43 Mediocre
44 Suffix with alp
45 Models for some 
Adam and Eve 
art
46 Precisely
50 Texter’s  
“I believe”
53 Louis XIV, par 
exemple
54 Badminton 
partition
55 Originally called
56 Exercise mantra
60 Minotaur’s island
61 Overtime cause, 
in sports
62 Seashore
66 Brother of Moses
67 Right-angled pipe 
shape
68 Came to a 
conclusion
69 Slope
70 Prefix with -lexic
71 Gives medicine to
DOWN
1 Pitcher’s asset
2 West of “My Little 
Chickadee”3 Plus
4 Ollie’s partner
5 Single singer
6 WWII Philippine 
battleground
7 Manipulative sort
8 Causing 
disgrace
9 Cooks’ protective 
wear
10 Sheet music 
symbol
11 Forbidden
12 Consumed 
eagerly
13 Disposes of on 
eBay
21 60-min. periods
22 Subjects, 
usually, in 
grammar class
23 Bitty biters
24 Show with 
horses and bulls
25 Warning signs
30 Model Kate 
married to Justin 
Verlander
31 Willow twig
32 South Korea’s 
capital
36 Elizabeth of 
cosmetics
37 Creator of 
yummy “pieces”38 Entourage
40 Do what he says 
or you lose
41 Made sacred, as 
with oil
45 Observed
47 “Murder on the 
__ Express”
48 Marx co-author
49 Cultural funding 
org.
50 Machu Picchu 
builders
51 Point of a fable52 Wagner work
57 Huge amount, as 
of homework
58 Slick, like a 
garage floor
59 Forbidden  
thing, and  
what each  
of four long 
answers is?
63 Spots on 
television
64 Understand
65 NFL scores
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/02/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/02/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, February 2, 2019
ACROSS
1 Green side
6 Fruit named for a 
horticulturist
10 Target Field 
athlete
14 Smart timepiece
16 “That can’t be 
good”
17 Reason for a 
case
18 Neck and neck
19 Vet
20 Chicken __: fast 
food nuggets
22 Special nights
23 Refined
24 Hot spot
26 Ski carriers
29 Jordanian dough
30 Disney dog
31 Unpaid assistant 
in many offices
32 Weather-
sensitive stat, 
often
33 Get ugly with
36 Da Vinci’s “The 
Last Supper,” for 
one
37 Policy affecting 
returns
39 Scrapes (out)
40 Beethoven’s 
“Rage Over a 
Lost Penny,” e.g.
42 Tears
44 Light wash
45 Han River city
46 Bits of thread
47 Resonated, in a 
way
49 Place to find the 
Silk Road
53 Left out to dry
54 Film with 
dangerous jobs
56 Gallic gal pal
57 Game whose 
heroine was 
played by 
Angelina Jolie in 
a 2001 film
58 Goes (for)
59 Beachgoers’ 
specs
60 Biblical verb
DOWN
1 Spring __
2 Pinnacle3 Org. for women 
drivers
4 County where 
the Golden  
State Warriors 
play home 
games
5 Drops off
6 Diamond 
foursome
7 Some games 
end in them, for 
short
8 Ugly film
9 Republic in 
southwestern 
Russia
10 Pizza roll brand
11 Cats with light 
blond coats
12 What an 
extended thumb 
might indicate
13 Silent signals
15 Results of some 
press releases?
21 Compact  
figure?
24 Makes out too 
much, say
25 Words of 
reinforcement
26 Looks amazed27 Laudatory lines
28 Farm structure
29 Prized
30 What an 
extended thumb 
might indicate
34 Slights
35 Half a two-island 
country
38 Dish cleaners
41 London locale
43 Mo. named for 
an emperor44 Choir elevator
46 Gentle sorts
47 First female 
Asian-American 
Cabinet member
48 Slight amount
50 Crafted
51 Home of  
the Iowa  
State Daily
52 Split up
55 Global financial 
org.
1.  Dished up
1.  Hot ____5.  Course
2.  Usual6.  Picture
3.  Raise7.  Backslide 
4.  Crucial EDERSV
EATSKRTUREO
GIAEM
ORIUETN
VETEEALVEERRT
ENUGTRANSWERS: 1A-Served  5A-Route  6A-Image  7A-Revert
1D-Streak  2D-Routine  3D-Elevate  4D-Urgent  B-Keanu Reeves2-4-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor was born in Beirut, 
Lebanon on Sept. 2, 1964. BONUS1. Since 1969, how many times have 
the Boston Red Sox won the A.L. East 
title?
2. Two Minnesota Twins were 
20-game winners during the 1990s. 
Name them.
3. Four head coaches for the Univer -
sity of Oklahoma football team have 
recorded at least 100 career wins. 
Name three of them.
4. In the 1973-74 season, Elmore 
Smith of the Los Angeles Lakers 
established a record for blocked shots 
in a season (393). How many players 
have surpassed that number since?
5. Colorado’s Nathan MacKinnon 
set an Avalanche record when he 
started the 2018-19 NHL season with 
goals in his first six games. Who had 
held the mark?
6. Which Asian men’s soccer team 
has appeared the most times in the 
World Cup?
7. In what year did Roger Bannister 
record the first sub-four-minute mile?
Answers
1. Ten times. 
2. Scott Erickson (20 wins in 1991) 
and Brad Radke (20 wins in 1997).
3. Bob Stoops (190 wins), Barry 
Switzer (157), Bud Wilkinson (145) 
and Bennie Owen (122).
4. Two — Mark Eaton (456 in 1984-
85) and Manute Bol (397 in 1985-86).
5. Mats Sundin did it in the first five 
games of the 1992-93 season when 
the franchise was located in Quebec.
6. South Korea, with 10 appearances.
7. It was 1954.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 4, 2019King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
New England Patriots win Super Bowl 53
The Patriots defeated the Los Angeles Rams 13-3 on Sunday in Atlanta. New 
England wide receiver Julian Edelman earned Super Bowl MVP honors after 
putting up 141 yards on 10 catches.
Khader Baqlah and the swimming 
team defeated T ennessee on 
Saturday during senior day. He 
ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst in the 200 free event.GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
It counts as a loss in the books. The Gators 
walked into the Lloyd Noble Center and walked 
out with their ﬁ  rst defeat.
UF has a lot to look forward to despite that 
loss. In the ﬁ  rst meet of the season where both 
competing teams scored over a 198, Florida’s 
performance showed the poise that comes with 
being a top team in the nation through its errors 
and its successes.
Here’s what it did right, along with an update 
on the team’s biggest weakness.
 
High Powered
It was mostly a night of highs for Florida.
Along with the team’s season-best total score 
of 198.025, both the bars and beam scores were 
good for the Gators’ third highest in each cat-
egory with a 49.675 and a 49.600, respectively. 
Florida holds the nation’s highest beam total, 
and its bars total against Kentucky is still tied 
for the best in the nation.
Some individuals set season bests as well. Al-
though her all-around total dropped a bit from 
last week’s meet, freshman Trinity Thomas tied 
her season record for the bars and hit a season-
high mark on the ﬂ  oor and the beam with a 
9.950 and 9.925, respectively. Five other gym-
nasts, including sophomore Alyssa Baumann 
and freshmen Savannah Schoenherr and Nya 
Reed, hit or equaled season-best totals during 
the meet.
“Honestly, I’m so proud of this team,” junior 
Amelia Hundley said in a release. “There were 
deﬁ  nitely some things we could work on, but I 
think there are a lot of highs.”
Through their individual improvements and 
season-high score, the Gators have proven they 
deserve the No. 2 spot, and they’ll certainly 
ﬁ  nd themselves deep in the postseason if their  Florida shows it’s a top team despite loss
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida gymnast Alyssa Baumann equaled two collegiate-best scores on 
Friday against Oklahoma. Her 9.975 on the beam and her 9.950 on floor 
were tied for the best scores of her career.
Four seniors left the Florida softball 
program at the end of last season, 
each one of them critical to a Wom-
en’s College World Series appear-
ance. 
The departure of the lineup’s second 
and third batters, third baseman Nicole 
DeWitt and ﬁ  rst baseman Kayli Kvistad, 
left a hole in the team’s offense. The exit 
of catcher Janell Wheaton and do-it-all 
pitcher/outﬁ  elder Aleshia Ocasio hurt 
UF defensively. And the loss of tenured 
pitching coach Jennifer Rocha to Oklaho-
ma left questions in the circle. 
However, the aid of two transfers, a 
deep lineup and a new pitching coach 
makes 2019’s ball club stronger and more 
venomous than last season’s. 
The addition of transfers Jade Caraway 
from North Carolina State and Kendyl 
Lindaman from Minnesota solved many 
of the Gators’ problems. 
Both factor in as signiﬁ  cant assets to 
the top of the lineup, and they’ll contrib-
ute heavily on defense. 
Caraway is a speedy center ﬁ  elder, and 
she’ll likely bat leadoff. The Winter Gar-
den, Florida, native led NC State in hits 
the past two seasons. She also made only 
ﬁ  ve errors in 110 career games at center 
ﬁ  eld and gunned down eight runners in 
the process. 
Second baseman Hannah Adams and 
All-American left ﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz 
did a tremendous job leading off a year 
ago, but too many leadoff options is not 
a problem for UF coach Tim Walton. Lo-
renz is a fantastic option batting second, 
and Adams can bat ninth and effectively 
ﬂ  ip the lineup back to Caraway, a combi-UF softball 
is reloaded 
and highly 
dangerousMark My Words / Opinion
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames 
Sports Writer
Florida guard Jalen Hudson drove to the 
basket and watched the ball fall through.
He was too quick for Kentucky guard 
Tyler Herro, too aggressive for forward 
Travis Reid.
UK coach John Calipari shook his head 
before calling for a timeout. The Gators just 
took a 42-31 lead over his No. 7 Wildcats.
It looked like the Gators had full control 
of the game up to that point. They were the 
tougher team and had the momentum. 
But Florida’s 11-point lead ﬂ  ipped to an 11-point deﬁ  cit in the six minutes follow-
ing Hudson’s layup, and the Gators left the 
O’Connell Center with a 65-54 loss to Ken-
tucky.
Here are three reasons why:
Gators’ offense evaporated at the 
worst time
It’s hard for a team to win with its 
two leading scorers combining for just 17 
points. And that makes it even harder for 
Florida (12-9, 4-4 SEC), a team which has 
been plagued with dry shooting spells all 
season.
Senior KeVaughn Allen is averaging a team-high 13 points per game, and fresh-
man Noah Locke is behind him with 11.4.
The two guards have failed to combine 
for 20 points seven times this season. Flor-
ida has lost all but two of those games, in-
cluding Saturday’s defeat against the Wild-
cats. 
Kentucky’s length on the perimeter and 
in the paint was a clear disruption, and 
both Allen and Locke struggled to be much 
a factor on the offensive end.
Seven of Locke’s 12 shot attempts were 
from beyond the arc, and two three-point-
ers were all he managed. Three reasons why the Gators lost to Kentucky
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Fans of the Florida women’s basketball 
team could dream for the first three quar-
ters on Sunday.
Buoyed by the three ball, the Gators 
trailed No. 19 Kentucky by just five enter-
ing the final ten minutes despite not hav-
ing two of its tallest players for most of 
the game.
It was all downhill from there.
Kentucky (18-5, 5-4) outscored Florida 
17-11 in the final quarter to pull away and 
earn a 62-51 victory at Rupp Arena, hand-
ing the Gators their fifth-straight loss.
Florida stunned the Wildcats by jump-
ing out to a 9-0 lead in the first three min-
utes. The Wildcats bounced-back to tie the 
score by the end of the quarter after using 
an early timeout, but the early run was 
enough to help establish that the Gators 
(5-17, 1-8) would not be a pushover.
Florida, as it has all season, started to 
struggle as the Kentucky full-court press 
began to take its toll. UF was sloppy trying 
to counter it, committing 16 turnovers in 
the first half alone.
It was a game in which turnovers told 
the entire story. Despite shooting 45 per-
cent from the field, opposed to Kentucky’s 
31.7 percent, Florida’s fate was sealed 
with the 24-9 turnover margin in favor of 
UK.
It was always going to be an uphill 
battle with Florida missing freshman for-
ward Kristina Moore. The 6-foot-1 Austra-
lian started every game this season before 
injuring her arm a week ago. To make 
matters worse for the undersized Gators, 
forward Paige Robinson committed three 
fouls in the first quarter alone and played 
just five minutes before fouling out. That 
forced Florida to play four guards for most 
of the afternoon.Fouls were a problem all day for the 
Gators, and Kentucky took full advantage 
by going 17 of 22 from the line. Florida 
went just 8 of 16. Wildcat guard Taylor 
Murray was the main beneficiary, go-
ing 11 of 13 on free throws en route to a 
13-point performance.
Fellow guard Rhyne Howard was the 
only UK player who scored more, with 16.
As Florida’s leading scorer Funda Na-
kkasoglu struggled to just eight points, guard Danielle Rainey kept UF in the game 
with a season-high 20, including a 3 of 5 
mark from beyond the arc. Guard Delicia 
Washington was the only other Gator in 
double-digits, with 10.
Florida lived and died with the three 
on Sunday, going 7-16 in the first three 
quarters before going 0-4 in the fourth as 
Kentucky pulled away.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFlorida comes up short in Kentucky upset bid
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Guard Danielle Rainey paced the Gators offensively against the Wildcats. She 
had 20 points on 7-of-10 shooting in the Gators’ 62-51 loss at Rupp Arena. 
MEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Not even the weather could prevent the Florida 
Gators from beating their in-state rivals.
The Fresh from Florida Sunshine Showdown 
had a lengthy rain delay of over one hour, but that 
didn’t stop UF from taking down No. 19 Florida 
State 4-1 when the match resumed indoors at the 
USTA National Campus in Lake Nona, Florida.
The Gators’ ended the Seminoles’ streak of two 
consecutive wins at the venue.
No. 4 UF began the match with a crushing 6-0 
doubles win from senior Alfredo Perez and junior 
Johannes Ingildsen over Lucas Poullain and Sebas-
tian Arcila. Freshman Sam Riffice and sophomore 
Oliver Crawford continued their dominance with 
a 6-3 doubles win over Richard Thongoana and 
Chase Wood.
Riffice won his first set outdoors in singles play 
6-4 despite initially trailing 0-3. The delay didn’t 
stop Riffice’s momentum. He cruised to a 6-3 vic-
tory in the final set to put the Gators up 2-0. In-
gildsen handily beat Thongoana 6-2, 6-1 to set up 
match point.
But the clinching win didn’t come easy for the 
Gators.
Sophomore Andy Andrade fell behind in the 
second set of his singles match 3-5, but he fought 
back and forced a tiebreaker. Ultimately, Andrade 
won the set 7-6 over Alex Knaff to clinch the match.
This was Florida’s second-consecutive victory 
in Lake Nona. It beat UCF on Thursday 6-1.
Coach Bryan Shelton was proud of the way the 
team fought through adversity.
“Give (Florida State) a lot of credit,” Shelton 
said in a release. “That team just plays us tough 
every single time we play them. They are a gritty 
group that competes really well. They gave us all 
that we wanted tonight and more. I’m really proud 
of our guys for how they hung in there.”Gators overcome 
rain delay, defeat 
Florida StateLACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Players leaving, coaching changes and 
evolving tactics all affect the preparation of 
a team and how it performs from season to 
season.
The most notable change for the Gators’ 
lacrosse team this year, however, is its tran-
sition from the Big East to the American Ath-
letic Conference.
The Big East consisted of 10 teams, but 
the AAC’s inaugural season of women’s la-
crosse is made up of only six teams: Florida, 
Cincinnati, UConn, Temple, Vanderbilt and 
East Carolina.
UF holds a 25-3 all-time record against 
these teams, and its dominance was evident 
in the AAC Preseason Coaches’ Poll.
The Gators were selected to win the con-
ference, receiving five of the six first-place 
votes. Additionally, seven members of the 
team earned Preseason All-Conference 
honors. If that wasn’t enough, Florida also 
swept the AAC Preseason Player of the Year 
awards.
Senior Haley Hicklen was named Pre-
season Goalkeeper of the Year after a record-breaking season in 2018. She set the Florida 
single-season record with 178 saves, and she 
finds herself 25 saves away from the school’s 
career record.
Junior Cara Trombetta was awarded with 
Preseason Defender of the Year. She started 
all 21 games as a sophomore, averaging 2.05 caused turnovers per game. Her 43 caused 
turnovers in 2018 set the program’s single-
season record.
Senior Sydney Pirreca earned Preseason 
Midfielder of the Year honors. In her junior 
year, she finished with 53 goals, 15 assists, 
26 ground balls and 49 draw controls after starting in every game of the season.
Senior Lindsey Ronbeck enters 2019 as 
Preseason Attacker of the Year after leading 
the team in scoring last season. She scored 
65 goals as a junior, averaging 3.61 goals per 
game, which ranked 12th in the nation.
Switching to the American means less 
traveling for the Gators, who played Denver 
and Marquette on the road throughout their 
four-year stint in the Big East.
It also provides them with the flexibility 
to organize games against stiffer competition 
outside of the conference.
No. 6 Florida’s non-conference slate in-
cludes eight ranked opponents: Maryland 
(T-No. 2), North Carolina (T-No. 2), Stony 
Brook (No. 5), Princeton (No. 8), Loyola 
(No. 9), Navy (No. 13), Syracuse (No. 15) 
and Colorado (No. 17).
“It’s critical for us to have a really strong 
out-of-conference schedule,” coach Amanda 
O’Leary said. “I think it sets the bar for us.”
For the second consecutive year, the 
Gators will start their 2019 campaign against 
No. 17 Colorado on Saturday in a non-con-
ference matchup.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUF embraces conference change heading into 2019 season
Alligator File Photo
Senior Lindsey Ronbeck was named the American Athletic Conference’s Preseason 
Attacker of the Year. She’s fourth on UF’s career goals list with 159. 
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019
Freshman Andrew Nembhard, who 
hasn’t led the team in scoring for a sin-
gle game, scored a team-high 12 points. 
Ten of those came during a first half in 
which he was the primary source of of-
fense.
Nembhard got to the basket, drained 
two three-pointers in the first period 
and used his vision to get the ball to his 
teammates on the perimeter to knock 
down open shots.
And when he couldn’t sustain that 
play and create late in the second half, 
no one else did.
UK’s PJ Washington and Tyler 
Herro dominated
They might have been able to beat 
the Gators all by themselves in those 
last six minutes. 
Washington and Herro helped the 
Wildcats (18-3, 7-1 SEC) bully UF down 
low during that span, sparking an 11-0 
run after Hudson’s layup with 13:59 
left.
Even at the beginning of the match-
up when Florida’s defense forced the 
Wildcats into outside shots -- they shot 
3-for-14 during the period -- Herro still 
found a variety of ways to score. 
He started 4 of 4, hitting twice from 
beyond the arc, and finished with a 
game-high 19 points.
Washington’s 15-point, 12-rebound 
double-double probably wasn’t as im-
portant as his ability to stimulate the 
Wildcats’ late-game intensity.
With his team facing an 11-point def-
icit, the sophomore forward passionate-
ly expressed his discontent to the group 
of Kentucky players that surrounded 
him. The Wildcats outscored the Gators 
34-12 after that.
Even the Florida players noticed 
Washington’s impact.
“You can hear him talking on the 
court to his teammates and keeping 
them going,” center Kevarrius Hayes 
said. “Even though he wasn’t scor-
ing offensively, he was still active and keeping the guys in check.”
Aggression, lack of depth ex-
hausted Florida down the stretch
Tired is an understatement. 
Florida knew it would have to play a 
stellar 40 minutes of defense against a 
team with Kentucky’s size that averages 
almost 80 points per game. 
And that depleted every bit of Flori-
da’s energy by the second half, during 
which Kentucky knocked down 50 per-
cent of its shots.
The Gators didn’t have 6-foot-8 for-
ward Keith Stone to help Hayes box out Kentucky’s big men, so the Wildcats 
dominated the glass as Hayes ran out 
of energy.
With few options on the bench to re-
lieve its starters, Florida was eventually 
too fatigued to get out in transition, stay 
physical and play to win. It was simply 
trying not to lose.
“This one hurts because we had the 
game in our hand,” forward Keyontae 
Johnson said. “For it to end like this, it’s 
a hard loss.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 14Washington had double-double vs. Florida
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White (pictured) and the Gators men's basketball team fell to 
Kentucky 65-54 on Saturday.
Aaron Ritter /  Alligator Staff
Florida freshman Savannah Schoenherr posted a collegiate-best in two events against Oklahoma on Friday. She 
posted a 9.925 on bars and a 9.90 on vault.
stretch improvement continues.
 
The Vault Problem
The Gators’ problems on vault are still very apparent.
Many gymnasts, like Reed and senior Alicia Boren, have 
trouble sticking their landings on the vaults, often striding 
forward when they hit the mat due to their inability to stop 
in place. Florida only had a single gymnast hit the 9.9 mark 
on Friday, with half of the rotation scoring below 9.8.
One of the team’s biggest improvements in its meet 
against OU came in that one 9.900 score. It was Schoen-
herr’s, who had been plagued with lackluster routines in 
the 9.4 and below range in the past few weeks.
Despite Schoenherr’s big improvement, Florida’s vault 
was still .450 less than its second lowest score, and it will 
certainly need to shape up its vault routines if it wants to 
defeat Oklahoma again in the NCAA postseason.
“I think we’re lacking landings on vault,” Thomas said 
in a release. “Once we get those down, watch out.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMASTICS,  from pg. 14Florida moves to 3-1nation which should prove lethal. 
Lindaman comes to Gainesville as the new start-
ing catcher, but she’s also one of the NCAA’s best 
hitters. She averaged .393 batting for her career at 
Minnesota, hit 40 home runs and is a two-time All-
American.  
Lindaman will likely bat third after Lorenz, and 
having two multi-season All-Americans hit back-to-
back spells trouble for opposing pitchers. But the 
scary part is that there’s plenty of power to come 
after Lorenz and Lindaman. 
Sophomore Jordan Matthews and junior Jaimie 
Hoover provide strength in the middle of the order. 
They’re both viable options at designated player 
and can play on the infield, but Hoover and Mat-
thews are mainstays in the outfield. 
As a freshman, Matthews gave Florida fans only 
a glimpse of what she’s capable of. She tore her 
ACL in her last game as a senior in high school and 
came into 2018 healthy but still not at peak fitness. 
This year, she’ll be stronger and more poised for 
big at-bats. She sent the Gators to Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma, with her walk-off homer against Texas 
A&M last year, so we know she has it in her. 
Hoover came along strong in NCAA play, and 
she’ll be an important piece to the 2019 team’s 
success. Not only can she provide power from the 
plate, she’s also one of UF’s fastest and most athlet-
ic players. This speed translates on the base paths 
and on defense.
Hoover can hunt down balls in the outfield, but 
she also plays third base, giving her the opportunity 
to replace DeWitt. 
Finally, Mike Bosch comes in as Florida’s new 
pitching coach after Rocha’s move to Oklahoma. 
Bosch comes from Syracuse, where he spent the 
last three seasons at head coach and served as an 
assistant during 2011, 2012 and 2015. 
The Orange produced two All-American pitch-
ers, Jenna Caira (2012) and Sydney O’Hara (2017), 
under his tutelage. Last year, Bosch coached Alexa 
Romero to an NCAA-leading 10.9 strikeouts per 
seven innings. 
Now, Bosch has senior Kelly Barnhill, a two-time 
All-American, and sophomore Natalie Lugo, who 
pitched in two combined no-hitters and a combined 
perfect game last season. 
With an experienced coach and two talented 
hurlers in the circle, the Gators are primed to im-
prove on last season’s World Series team.
Follow Mark Stine on Twitter @mstinejr or contact 
him at mstine@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14