We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
It’s a sweet story
A UF alumnus was featured on a documentary series for his 
cheesecake shop that he opened in honor of his late mom, pg. 8
Easy riding
The city started a new transit program in East Gainesville,  pg. 10Star gymnast injured, out for 
opening meet
Sophomore Alyssa Baumann will not be fea-
tured tonight against Missouri, pg. 14.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 45
HEARTS WERE BROKEN, 
FUTURE CAREER CHOICES 
WERE QUESTIONED.
Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Gabrielle Gibbs’ dream of mar-
rying UF football legend Tim 
Tebow was crushed.
“When I saw he was engaged, I 
was a little sad because I knew my chances with him were ofﬁ  cially 
over,” the 18-year-old UF explor-
atory freshman said. 
On Thursday, thousands of 
hearts broke as the 31-year-old 
Heisman trophy winner announced 
his engagement to 23-year-old 2017 
Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Pe-
ters, on Instagram, according to the 
Associated Press.
Tebow, who led the Florida 
Gators to a 24-14 win over Oklaho-ma in the 2008 National Champion-
ship Game, went on to play for the 
Denver Broncos and later the New 
York Jets in the NFL for three sea-
sons. Tebow’s accomplishments at 
UF landed him a spot in the Florida 
Sports Hall of Fame in 2017 and 
UF’s Ring of Honor in 2018. 
“Thank you for saying YES and 
making me the happiest man in the 
world,” Tebow wrote in the post. 
“You’re the love of my life, and I can’t wait to spend the rest of my 
life with you.”
Kevin Bode, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology junior, wondered how 
the proposal will impact Tebow 
professionally.
“I think it’s great Tebow is en-
gaged, even though I’m wondering 
what it’s going to do to his sports 
career and time spent on it,” Bode 
said.
Mariah Edwards, a 21-year-old UF psychology sophomore, has al-
ways been a fan of Tebow’s charity 
work such as the Tim Tebow Foun-
dation, which raises money for 
sick children, alongside his sports 
career.
“He’s been a good person, and I 
think it’s great that he’s going to be 
happy,” Edwards said.
@JoMarieUF
jfuller@alligator.orgUF students react to Tim Tebow’s engagementChris Day / Alligator Staff
Britney Young, 18, and Diaunte Jenkins, 19, of the group United We Dance, 
dance to a version of “Strange Fruit” sung by Nina Simone at the Martin Luther 
King Jr. opening ceremony in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom Thursday. The 
guest speaker at the event was Jeraldine Williams, the ﬁ  rst African American 
woman to graduate from the UF’s College of Journalism and Communications. 
“I look at all of you: black, white, other, and we laid the foundation for you to 
be where you are, the way you are today. ” Read the story on page 4.
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 
HALTS SOME RESEARCH 
PROGRESS.
Kelly Hayes and Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writers
Robert Ferl’s white-ﬂ  owered weed had a 
ticket to space. The UF Space Plants Lab director was 
counting down the days till his plant’s NASA 
launch. 
But the federal government shutdown has 
the small thale cress plant’s travels in limbo 
as Ferl’s calls to the federal space agency go 
to voicemail and his emails are left unread. 
Ferl is one of 1,075 UF researchers af-
fected by the government shutdown, which started Dec. 22, said the UF Vice President 
of Research David Norton. In the last ﬁ  s-
cal year, UF received $560.6 million in fed-
eral research funding. About 22.5 percent 
of 4,775 awards for funded UF projects are 
within agencies that are shut down. 
The biggest concern is not necessarily for 
the university, but the many federal employ-
ees anxiously operating without a paycheck, Norton said. Researchers who have already 
received federal funding in 2018 are able to 
continue working, but others could be im-
pacted from not receiving new awards.
“For every month the shutdown occurs, 
that’s a month where the money isn’t being 
allocated, and research isn’t being started,” 
Norton said. Government shutdown shows eﬀ  ects on UF, Santa Fe
SEE SHUTDOWN,  PAGE 4FEATURE FRIDAY
OTHER FLORIDA PUBLIC 
UNIVERSITIES PAY STUDENTS 
FOR GIVING TOURS.
Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Days for Matthew Cheek are not 24 hours 
long. He can go 36 without stopping. 
A typical day for the Santa Fe College student 
ambassador starts with a 7 a.m. alarm.
He’ll give hour-long tours, attend back-to-
back classes until the late afternoon and then 
head to Student Government Senate and Cam-
pus Ambassador meetings in the evenings. 
The family of the ﬁ  rst-generation college stu-
dent can’t afford to help pay for his education, 
but for being a Santa Fe tour guide, he receives 
a full ride. 
With hopes to transfer into UF and become 
a Florida Cicerone, Cheek, a 21-year-old biology 
sophomore, said, if selected, he would commit 
to being an unpaid Cicerone before quitting his 
love of being a Student Ambassador. 
“Even if I didn’t have the means to pay for 
college, I’d ﬁ  nd a way,” Cheek said. 
The UF Alumni Association has not paid Flor-
ida Cicerones since its founding 50 years ago be-cause it is a service organization, despite other 
Florida and top 10 public universities offering 
compensation for their student tour guides. 
Matt Hodge, the associate vice president of 
alumni relations, said Cicerones are not paid be-
cause they are no different from any other stu-
dent organization at UF.
The Alumni Association compensates the Ci-
cerones with a physical space for meetings and 
by dedicating a full-time employee to work with 
them. Cicerones volunteer because they have 
a love for UF and the hours are manageable, 
Hodge said. 
“They have taken a path that not every stu-
dent is willing to take,” Hodges said. “And that’s 
one that requires giving back to the University 
of Florida.” 
The coveted 75 spots  
More than 800 students compete for just 75 
Cicerone spots. 
To be eligible at UF, students must maintain 
a 2.75 GPA, be members of the Student Alumni 
Association, be in good standing with UF and 
pass two rounds of interviews. 
The chosen Cicerones will then attend train-
ing sessions, two-hour-long meetings every Florida Cicerones: 
A job or a privilege?
SEE CICERONES,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Gators Gymnastics vs. Missouri
The Gators Gymnastics team will 
compete in a meet at the Stephen 
O’Connell Center, at 250 Gale 
Lemerand Drive, from 6:45 p.m. 
to 9:45 p.m. Tickets are $1 for a 
child and $5 for a single game.  
GatorNights: Wonders of the 
World
The first Spring GatorNights will 
take place from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
at the Reitz Union. Attendees 
must be UF students and show 
their Gator 1 Card. One guest 
is allowed. Mentalist Wayne 
Hoffman will perform. Visitors 
can also win paintings from live 
art performances. A multicul-
tural fair and cultural showcase 
will also be held for guests to 
meet with student organizations. 
Visitors can meet others in a 
speed-friending game hosted by 
Campus Diplomats. Guests can 
decorate a luggage tag, create 
a take-home spray can art, do a 
treasure hunt escape room and 
participate in global trivia. “The 
Meg” will be shown at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Chamber. There 
will also be free bowling and bil-
liards in the Game Room.
#SCOTUS
UF alum Robert Barnes will speak 
about the U.S. Supreme Court at 
6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora. 
Barnes has been a Washington 
Post reporter and editor since 
1987 and has covered the U.S. 
Supreme Court since November 
2006. Barnes will talk about 
what to expect from the Court, 
which has a conservative ma-
jority. Policies on immigration, 
LBGTQ+ rights, asylum and citi-
zenship and the Affordable Care 
Act may be brought to the Court 
this year. He’ll also talk about the 
Kavanaugh hearings and Ruth 
Bader Ginsburg’s health. SATURDAY
Florida Museum 40th Collector’s 
Day
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will celebrate its 40th 
Collector’s Day from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. at the museum, at 3215 Hull 
Road. The event is free, and it will 
bring in collectors from across the 
region. Visitors can talk to collec-
tors to learn about the history and 
context of their pieces from clas-
sic cars to Pokémon memorabilia. 
For more information, visit flori-
damuseum.ufl.edu/event/collec-
tors-day or call 352-273-2061.
Roe v. Wade Anniversary 
Benefit
The Gainesville chapter of the  
National Women’s Liberation will 
host its sixth annual Roe v. Wade 
Anniversary Benefit starting at 7 
p.m. at the Wooly, at 20 N Main 
St. Donations between $10 and 
$20 to support the group will be 
accepted at the door. The event 
will feature local bands Glitter 
Whiskey and Routines, DJs Kelly 
Cochis and Mike Goston, com-
munity organizations, radical po-
litical theatre and a silent auction. 
The National Women’s Liberation 
is a multiracial feminist group for 
women who want to fight male 
supremacy and advocate for 
more freedom for women.
SUNDAY
Is Marriage in Your Future?
The Holloway Touchdown 
Terrace in Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium will host more than 40 
wedding vendors from 2 p.m. to 
5 p.m. Visitors can talk to repre-
sentatives from venues and meet 
with caterers, photographers and 
other wedding businesses. There 
will be door prizes and music.
MORE
New exhibit at Florida Museum 
offers look at killer whales
Visitors can learn more about the Lummi People, who are the origi-
nal inhabitants of Washington’s 
northernmost coast and south-
ern British Columbia, and their 
beliefs that killer whales are 
their kin in the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, at 3215 Hull 
Road. The exhibit is open until 
May 5. Exhibit features include 
a more than 4,000-pound, 16-
foot, hand-carved whale totem 
of a human riding a whale by 
the House of Tears Carvers of the 
Lummi Nation; five historical to-
tem poles; and two carved pipes 
that depict killer whales, bears 
and humans.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Correction:  In an article that 
ran in Monday’s paper titled “UF 
professor develops tool to test 
for malaria,” the prototype was 
tested in Zambia, Cameroon and 
Sierra Leone. It took five years to 
develop the concept and proto-
type. The $300,000 was awarded 
in grants, and the commercial-
ized version will need approval 
from the World Health Organiza-
tion once it is made. The Alliga-
tor had reported differently.
The Alligator strives to be accu-
rate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  66° LOW  47°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesMayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Lourdes Hernandez, Blake TrauschkeMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 45FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Laundry?
Solved.
From Tide to Febreze,  
shop and save close to campus.
Your Campus T arget
Just north of campus on
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
© 2019 T arget Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and T arget are registered trademarks of T arget Brands, Inc. C-000807-03-011
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
For the Space Plants Lab, the launch of 
Ferl’s experiment is a top concern, which was 
scheduled for takeoff in the coming weeks. The 
experiment remains up in the air due to lack of 
contact from NASA, he said. If canceled, the ef-
fects could be costly with the change in travel, 
airfare and the scheduled launch. There’s no 
estimate on how much it would cost. 
The day-to-day research tasks haven’t been 
immediately affected by the shutdown, but 
larger projects may be, said Juliana Cromie, a 
22-year-old UF undergraduate researcher at the 
lab. She’s hoping her assignment on the effect 
of cosmic radiation on seeds is still on track. 
“We don’t know quite how the shutdown 
will affect other aspects of our research, and 
we really won’t know until we hit a road-
block,” the UF microbiology and cell science 
junior said.
Outside of research laboratories, UF stu-
dents have not seen any impact on their tax 
return transcript, including offering interim 
grants or accepting paper copies of tax return 
forms, UF spokesperson Margot Winick wrote 
in an email.
“Current year UF students have generally 
gotten their documentation in already — which 
is not the case apparently at Santa Fe,” Winick 
said. 
Santa Fe College students are having de-
lays in their ﬁ  nancial paperwork, said Kamia 
Mwango, the college’s ﬁ  nancial aid director. 
The Department of Education has allowed stu-
dents who can’t receive their required docu-
ments from the IRS or other federal agencies to 
use alternative paperwork.
Despite this, Mwango said having the delays 
allows students to explore new types of schol-
arships or register for a later term in the Spring, 
which starts in March, she said.
“I have seen some really resilient students 
and some really collaborative agencies,” 
Mwango said. “Everyone’s been working to-
gether to try and get a resolution.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org
@lakshmigomez_
lgomez@alligator.orgSHUTDOWN,  from pg. 1The shutdown caused 
inancial aid issues.THERE WILL BE NINE EVENTS 
CELEBRATING KING’S LEGACY.
Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Jeraldine Williams came to UF 50 years 
ago to take classes and make history. 
She was one of 14 black students to in-
tegrate the university in 1963. She was also 
the ﬁ  rst African American to graduate from 
the UF College of Journalism and Commu-
nications.
Williams returned to her alma mater to 
address a new generation of students Thurs-
day as part of UF’s annual Martin Luther 
King Jr. celebration. 
Williams’ speech kicked off eight other UF 
events over the next two weeks to celebrate 
the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. These 
events will be co-sponsored by various or-
ganizations including the Reitz Programming 
Board and the Black Graduate Student Orga-
nization.  
The opening ceremony, attended by 160 people, initiated a conversation about the 
impact of black history, said PJ Jones, an as-
sistant director of UF Multicultural and Di-
versity Affairs.
“We wanted to get voices in the room of 
our heroes and giants who are still alive who 
can speak to Dr. King’s legacy,” Jones said. 
Williams had an ecstatic spirit when she 
spoke, said Tylah Eady, a 24-year-old Afri-
can American studies senior. 
“She’s a ﬁ  ghter,” Eady said. “She never 
stopped working toward her education.”
On Wednesday, the Reitz Programming 
Board and the Black Graduate Student Or-
ganization will host a guided conversation 
with Ron Stallworth, who was the ﬁ  rst Afri-
can American ofﬁ  cer in the Colorado Springs 
Police Department, said Harrison DeVoe, 
co-director of the ﬁ  lms committee for Reitz 
Programming Board.
His story of investigating the Ku Klux 
Klan was the subject of the recent Spike Lee 
ﬁ  lm, “BlacKkKlansman,” DeVoe said.
The Reitz Programming Board and the 
Black Graduate Student Organization are spending $20,100 to bring Stallworth to cam-
pus, said DeVoe, a 20-year-old political sci-
ence sophomore. 
The Q&A will cover perception of Stall-
worth’s story, his take on the police and the 
process of making the ﬁ  lm with Spike Lee 
and Jordan Peele, said Erin Ferguson, the 
chair of the event for the Black Graduate Stu-
dent Organization. 
Ferguson, a 23-year-old clinical and 
health psychology doctoral student, said the event would show the audience the perspec-
tive of someone on the ground ﬁ  ghting the 
system.
“We hope that they are able to take away 
lessons about today’s climate and draw con-
nections between Ron Stallworth and what 
he has to say and the legacy of MLK,” Fer-
guson said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgUF holds two weeks of MLK eventsUPCOMING MLK CELEBRATION EVENTS 
Jan. 16: A Conversation with Ron Stallworth at 6:30 p.m. in the Rion Ballroom
Jan. 19: Guest Lecture by Gladys L. Mitchell-Walthour: “Black Identity and Continuing 
Black Movement Activism in Brazil in an Era of Repression” at 7 p.m. in Ustler Hall
Jan. 18: Showing of the ﬁ  lm  “Maestra” at 7 p.m. in Ustler Hall
Jan. 21: MLK Day of Service at 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Rion Ballroom
Jan. 22-24: MLK’s Legacy and the Afro-Latinx Experience in the Americas: Three Introduc-
tory Workshops at 7:10-8:40 p.m. each evening in the Reitz Union 2201
Jan. 25: Interfaith Friendship Service: “T owards Oneness. T owards Peace” at 7 p.m. at the 
Gainesville Baha’i Center
Tuesday in the Spring, retreats and diver-
sity trainings and pay a one-time $50 fee for 
their uniform of labeled polos.
They’re most known for their skill-
ful backward walking through Turlington 
Plaza as up to 100 UF hopefuls and their 
parents follow behind. They point out the 
“french fries” behind the Marston Science 
Library as they quickly answer questions 
during the 90-minute tours that snake along 
UF’s campus.
They also host prospective athletes, at-
tend events at UF President Kent Fuchs’ 
house and hand out limited-edition T-shirts 
during football season, said Marti Stein, a 
22-year-old UF nutritional sciences senior 
and Cicerone. 
Their jobs are comparable to Florida 
State University’s student guides, who are 
paid, wrote Julie Rubin, FSU’s associate 
director of admissions, in an email. The 
University of Central Florida pays its guides 
Florida’s minimum wage, which is $8.46 an 
hour, said Luke van Blaricom, UCF’s senior 
assistant director of undergraduate admis-
sions. 
Cicerones must work a minimum of 20 
hours per semester for at least three semes-
ters. 
If the Alumni Association were to pay 
one Cicerone an $8.46 minimum wage, the 
Cicerone would earn just over $500 before 
taxes. 
That would add up to a minimum bud-
get of about $38,000 to pay the 75 Cicero-
nes for part-time work for three semesters. 
In comparison, the Alumni Association 
reported having more than $3.5 million of 
total revenue in its most recent tax return 
documents. 
‘Doing it from our heart’
About 70 to 100 students work under-
neath the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce as Cam-
pus Diplomats, said 21-year-old Cristina 
Cantero, a Campus Diplomat.
Cantero, a UF materials science and en-
gineering senior, spends about two hours 
a week working as a Campus Diplomat. In 
a busy week, she works about ﬁ  ve hours. 
Cantero said she doesn’t need to be paid 
for something that isn’t time-consuming.
“It sounds cheesy, but we’re doing it 
from our heart,” Cantero said.Campus Diplomats and Cicerones’ un-
paid labor has inspired dozens of memes 
mocking UF’s decision to not pay student 
workers.
Josh Perez, a 21-year-old Campus Dip-
lomats executive director, said the jokes 
aren’t wrong. Students know there is no 
pay when they sign up. Instead, Perez said 
they sign up to gain professional connec-
tions and preparation.
Just seven miles away at Santa Fe Col-
lege, campus ambassadors get full tuition 
scholarships for 12 credit hours each se-
mester, instead of hourly pay, Cheek said. 
The 12 Santa Fe Ambassadors work 
nearly 100 hours in the year.
$3 an hour
Preview staffers work nearly 1,000 
hours in one summer.  
Preview, the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce’s 
freshman and transfer student orientation 
program, is another student involvement 
organization mentioned in the student la-
bor conversation.
Despite being paid, some Preview staff-
ers think the wages are not enough.
Rachel Wisolmerski, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology sophomore, spent more than 70 
hours a week working during the summer 
after paying out of pocket for a mandatory 
class in preparation for Preview. Preview 
pays staffers a $2,700 stipend, a dorm room 
in Broward Hall and $863.50 in meal tickets 
and declining balance for food, Wisolmer-
ski said. 
When the cash is divided over the av-
erage 70-to-85-hour work week, the pay is 
about $3 an hour. With the food and dorm 
money included, Wisolmerski said it equals 
to about $6 an hour. 
Preview staffers sign a contract that for-
bids them from holding a job that would 
conﬂ  ict with the program, Wisolmerski 
said.
After three rounds of interviews, 44 Pre-
view staffers were picked. The competitive 
nature of student organizations will keep 
them unpaid or low-paying jobs, Wisolm-
erski said.
“Whether you pay the Cicerones or not, 
people are going to apply, and people are 
going to get in because it’s an awesome ex-
perience,” she said.
Not everyone can do it
Some students and alumni disagree with these jobs being volunteer-based because of 
the amount of money UF makes each year.
Andrew Cushen, a 22-year-old UF alum-
nus, wrote in a February 2018 opinion col-
umn to The Alligator that the idea of unpaid 
labor disguised as volunteer work disad-
vantages low-income students. 
“Unpaid labor takes privilege, and we 
need to see students without privilege given 
the opportunity to participate and succeed 
in every dimension of campus life,” Cushen 
wrote. 
Cushen said he thought it unacceptable 
of UF to “position this as a privilege instead 
of a job.”
Jeremiah Tattersall, an Alumni Asso-
ciation member and Alachua County La-
bor Coalition lead organizer, said this is a 
repeat example of UF’s inadequate labor 
practices, similar to when hourly workers 
went unpaid while campus was closed dur-
ing Hurricane Irma in 2017.
“(Being a Cicerone) opens a lot of 
doors,” Tattersall said. “But what doors 
are being opened, and for whom, if the 
only people who that’s really accessible to 
are people who have the kind of incomes 
where they can work for free?”
Staff writer Taylor Roth contributed to 
this report.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org CICERONES,  from pg. 1About 800 students apply for just 75 Cicerone spots.
HOW TO BE A CICERONE 
• Maintain a 2.75 GPA
• Complete 20 or more event 
credit hours for at least three 
undergraduate semesters
• Be a Student Alumni Association 
member 
• Be in good standing with the 
university 
• Be selected after a group and an 
individual interview
• Attend two mandatory new member 
retreats in February and March
• Attend two-hour general body 
meetings every Tuesday of the 
Spring semester
• Pay a one-time $50 fee for a uniform 
upon acceptanceFRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Make a difference!
Become a Volunteer Crisis Line Counselor for
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Sixty hours of in-depth training are  
provided in active listening, crisis intervention, 
and suicide prevention.
Volunteering is an opportunity to impact the 
lives of fellow community members and gain 
life-enhancing communication skills.
Training begins:
January 12, 2019
For more information, please contact: 
Jan Greene at 352-264-6782 • jgreene@alachuacounty.us
or check out http://www.alachuacounty.us/crisis
Crisis Center training is a six-week training program (run three times a year) consisting of one 
full Saturday followed by six weeks of Tuesday and Thursday nights from 6:30-9:30p.m. - 
AND two four-hour sessions which can be flexibly scheduled to accommodate your schedule. 
The training requires a strong commitment – both of time and energy.
JENNIFER REID WILL BE THE 
THIRD CANDIDATE RUNNING. 
Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
A third candidate with no political back-
ground has entered the Gainesville mayoral 
race.
Jennifer Reid, 33, of Gainesville, said she 
has no experience in municipal government, 
but on Jan. 5, she announced she will run for 
mayor.
“I went big,” Reid said. “I want to inspire 
another mom or another struggling citizen in 
the city of Gainesville to stand up and ﬁ  ght and go big to change something they dislike.”
If elected, Reid said she wants to bring 
transparency to the city budget. She also wants 
to support public safety personnel and city em-
ployees.
Her opponents are incumbent Mayor Lau-
ren Poe, who announced his run for a second 
term in November, and Jenn Powell who an-
nounced her campaign in December.
The city’s regular election for mayor and 
the District 4 Commissioner will be March 19. 
Voter registration closes Feb. 19. 
While Poe doesn’t know Reid, he said he 
welcomes her to the race.
“You’ve got to convince several thousand 
people to hire you,” Poe said about the may-oral position.
For about two years, 
Reid, a mother of two, has 
been a legal assistant and 
owner of Klinc Treats and 
Designs, where she sells T-
shirts. 
In October, she became 
the Parent Teacher Associa-
tion secretary at Littlewood 
Elementary School. Since September, she has 
been a Guardian ad Litem volunteer, where 
she said she visits children who’ve been sepa-
rated from their families and makes sure they 
have a voice in the court system.
Powell, who is also a mother and part-time legal assistant, said she’s looking forward to 
running against someone with similar life ex-
perience. 
“I think it’s awesome there’s another work-
ing mom,” Powell said. “You know, it’s a big 
step to throw your hat into the ring. So I’m 
looking forward to debating issues with her.”
Reid said she considers herself a nobody in 
Gainesville, but decided to take action after a 
business associate told her she should consider 
running for ofﬁ  ce. 
“My plan is just to get my name out there 
and get the citizens aware that I’m ﬁ  ghting for 
them,” Reid said.
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgGainesville mayoral race gains a third candidate 
THE PARK UPDATES WILL COST 
$1 MILLION.
T aylor Girtman & Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writers
The Wild Spaces and Public Places team 
is in the process of completing 30 community 
projects in Gainesville. 
Director Betsy Waite presented the team’s 
progress to the Gainesville City Commission 
Thursday afternoon at a General Policy Com-
mittee meeting. Wild Spaces and Public places 
is a half-cent sales tax that passed in 2016 to 
improve parks and environmental spaces.
Some of the projects discussed included re-placing the boardwalk at Duval Park, making 
improvements to Northside Park and restoring 
the Hartman House at Hogtown Creek Head-
waters Nature Park. 
Another project in progress is the Kiwanis 
Girl Scout Park, which will have a new face 
and possibly a new name later this year.
On Wednesday evening, Waite presented 
the Kiwanis park renovation plan to the neigh-
boring community at its main building, at 810 
NW Eighth St.
The renovations will include a modern 
playground, new plants, removing invasive 
species, a lighted path, parking and updating 
the nearly 64-year-old building, Waite said. 
Future building purposes include youth STEM programs and public meetings.
Waite anticipates construction to begin in 
the summer and span nine months.
Lorraine Duerden, 38, has lived near the 
park for about 13 years and brought her two 
young cousins to the park multiple times. 
“I know they need to make some improve-
ments on it, and I’m looking forward to see 
what happens,” she said.
On April 19, the project received $1 million 
from the commission, Waite said.
Neighbors at the meeting hope to localize 
and simplify the park name to Oakview Park, 
after the neighborhood. Waite said they need 
50 petition signatures to make the change.
In 1955, the Kiwanis Club of Gainesville constructed the building, which was previous-
ly used as a regional ofﬁ  ce and training space 
for North Florida Girl Scout troops until 2014, 
Waite said.
Though the club no longer owns the park, 
they hope it still serves the community well, 
said 20-year-member John Woeste.
Woeste, 84, said he spent about 75 hours 
over the years caring for the building. He said 
the club is satisﬁ  ed with the project’s direction.
“Kiwanis is about children and youth,” 
Woeste said. “We want the facility to be used 
in some way or another for the beneﬁ  t of chil-
dren and youth in the community.”
tgirtman@alligator.org 
kelwood@alligator.orgRenovations come to Gainesville neighborhood parkReid
Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Students stepped into Mary 
Watt’s ofﬁ  ce in Fall 2016 and said 
the African American studies pro-
gram deserved to become a depart-
ment. 
“They felt it would give the pro-
gram higher proﬁ  le and greater au-
tonomy,” said Watt, the associate 
dean of the College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences.Now, after 50 years of being a 
program, the college has initiated its 
transformation into a department, 
Watt said.
“Since it mattered to them, it mat-
tered to us,” Watt said. 
A program is a collection of 
courses that compose a major or mi-
nor. A department is a unit of faculty 
for a speciﬁ  c academic specialty. 
The last time a program became 
a department in the college was in 
2010, Watt said.The potential department must 
consult Chris Hass, the associate 
provost for academic and faculty 
affairs. From there, the potential 
department must create a proposal, 
conduct a vote of affected faculty, 
gather input from various academic 
advisory boards and receive state-
ments of support from the dean, vice 
president and provost, according to 
UF faculty senate bylaw 22. 
“When we enhance our course 
offerings, program offerings, we are enhancing that learning experience, 
and it goes both ways,” Watt said. 
“I see the creation of the eventual, 
hopeful department of African Amer-
ican studies as one more enhance-
ment it adds.”
While the timeline of departmen-
tal status is ﬂ  uid as of now, the Af-
rican American studies program will 
welcome four tenured-track profes-
sors this year.
“In many ways, UF is behind,” 
said Manoucheka Celeste, an assis-
tant professor for the center for gen-
der, sexualities and women’s studies research and the African American 
studies program. “Right now we’re 
just catching up to what’s happened 
across the country.” 
This change doesn’t just affect 
students within the college, Celeste 
said. The program’s classes teach 
important analytical and empathic 
skills. 
“There is no one on this campus 
who doesn’t beneﬁ  t from African 
American studies,” Celeste said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgAfrican American studies program starts process to be department
The process was initiated by students.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
You’re deep asleep. You went to bed at 3 a.m. — still 
on your Winter Break sleeping schedule — when you 
hear it: that all too familiar beep beep beeping of 
your phone alarm. No, it’s not a bad dream. You 
really are looking at the questionably beige-colored 
ceiling of your dorm room. It’s the ﬁ  rst day of the Spring 
semester. And you better book it because your chem lecture 
started ﬁ  ve minutes ago.  
You grab the ﬁ  rst sweatshirt you can ﬁ  nd out of your not-
yet unpacked suitcase and run out the door. You stumble into 
your lecture hall, the room dead silent, save for the profes-
sor already explaining a formula that resembles hieroglyph-
ics more than anything in the English language. You make 
your way through the aisle of seats made only for the human 
equivalent of Flat Stanley when you knock over a backpack 
that was perched at the edge of your classmate’s desk. It hits 
the ground with a resounding thud.  
The professor turns to look you straight in the eye. He 
asks you what the name of the equation is on the board. You 
start to panic. With 300 pairs of eyes on you, you blurt out 
the only thing in your mind…
Darts and Laurels
Yes, we’re back to deliver some well-deserved darts and 
laurels, and maybe, just maybe, the government will take a 
lesson out of our book: It’s time to come back from break.
A dart goes out to our government and President Donald 
Trump for continuing the government shutdown, which will 
become the longest in United States history if it continues 
into Saturday. It’s time to get back to business and stop the 
partisan ﬁ  ghting. However, a laurel goes out to all of the 
government workers who continue to work without pay dur-
ing this shutdown. Workers are going on day 21 without pay, 
forcing them to stretch their dollar further than may be pos-
sible.
In other government news, a laurel goes out to more than 
a million felons who are now allowed to vote in Florida dur-
ing the next election season. Formerly incarcerated Florid-
ians received their right to vote after the November election 
and will reap the beneﬁ  ts during this new year. A dart goes 
out to anyone who isn’t utilizing their right to vote. The next 
election will be here before you know it, so you better be 
registered.
As we travel south in Florida, we look to Gov. Ron DeSan-
tis who just recently called for the resignation of the entire 
board of the South Florida Water Management District, all of 
whom are in charge of managing water from Orlando to the 
Florida Keys. After a year of Florida waterways struggling 
with algae blooms and run-off pollution, we see the need for 
a change in regards to our waterways and its management. 
We offer, albeit surprisingly, a laurel to DeSantis for tak-
ing Florida’s environment seriously. He announced a plan 
that included an extra $1 billion for Everglades restoration. 
However, we should mention, although his environmental 
plan is progressive, it makes no mention of the term “climate 
change,” or human involvement in environmental issues. 
We’ll be keeping an eye out for our governor in the coming 
years to see how his plans pan out.
In other, more positive UF news, our Gator family got a 
just a little bigger Thursday when UF royalty Tim Tebow an-
nounced his engagement to the 2017 Miss Universe Winner 
Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters in Jacksonville. A laurel to the happy 
couple and a warm welcome to Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters to the 
Gator Nation. We’re looking forward to the blue-and-orange 
themed wedding.
The current political atmosphere deserves 
a prime-time spot on TLC. The govern-
ment’s drama is reaching a high point 
this week. Capitol Hill’s heated debate 
over the border wall reached a peak at 
the end of 2018 when President Trump dug his 
heels in and demanded his border wall, to which 
Democrats expressed their disapproval. Twenty-
one days later and the U.S. is entering into the 
longest government shutdown in its history.
Approximately 800,000 government employ-
ees are without pay during this shutdown, according to The 
New York Times. Leaving workers and their families with-
out paychecks
I consider the government shutdown an absolute out-
rage and so should you.
Let us consider a few government mechanisms we rely 
on to help you grasp the expansive damage of a govern-
ment shutdown. We’ll begin with the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, a facet of government we trust to regulate the 
sanitation and production of all the food we consume. Cuts 
to funding from the shutdown forced the FDA to tempo-
rarily suspend 40 percent of routine food inspections, ac-
cording to NPR. Remember the romaine lettuce and E. coli 
scare that just ended? CNN reports that 62 people fell ill 
from that outbreak. The FDA was fully funded and staffed, 
with all of its routine inspections underway when that food-
borne illness swept the nation. Who knows what could slip 
through the cracks with nearly half of FDA food inspections 
suspended?
We won’t be able to consume our semi-inspected food 
without money, which we rely on to come from the IRS, 
who help us to obtain our grants, student loans and other 
forms of aid. The shutdown’s interference with IRS funding 
creates roadblocks for processing some students’ ﬁ  nancial 
aid.
“The shutdown has impacted some students’ ability to 
access [tax return transcripts],” said Christina Lamb, senior 
associate director at the Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial Affairs at the University of Florida.
These transcripts are necessary for the veri-
ﬁ  cation of student or parent income, a determi-
nant factor of students’ ﬁ  nancial aid eligibility. 
University administrators across the nation re-
port that “disruptions at the Internal Revenue 
Service are hindering college students from 
receiving federal student loans and grants,” ac-
cording to The Washington Post. Lamb noted 
that this issue impacts “a small number of stu-
dents” at UF. She further explained that the 
Department of Education released guidelines to schools 
this week outlining acceptable alternative documentation 
for the tax return transcripts the IRS provides. These al-
ternative procedures allow universities to resolve delays 
in processing students’ ﬁ  nancial aid. With the Ofﬁ  ce for 
Student Financial Affairs reporting more than 70 percent of 
UF students reliant on some form of ﬁ  nancial aid, includ-
ing myself, I’m alarmed to learn the shutdown complicated 
ﬁ  nancial aid for some students.  
Instead of arguing about the wall, we need to discuss 
building a bridge between Democrats and Republicans. I 
know both parties could use more tact in handling their dif-
ferences, but President Trump is clearly the person we need 
to back down. From his infuriating and deceptive lies about 
the “border crisis” to his immature exit from important ne-
gotiations, the president is dragging this shutdown on for 
selﬁ  sh and costly reasons. President Trump needs to admit 
that his wall is a weak and critically ﬂ  awed plan. Think of 
what the president could achieve if he threw his toddler-
like rage into an idea that was actually going somewhere.
Despite his immaturity, President Trump isn’t in a boy-
band, so taking a page from NSYNC’s book and “Bye Bye 
Bye”-ing from a crucial meeting doesn’t win him any popu-
larity. If he’s looking for direction from pop icons, President 
Trump should take Ari’s advice and say “Thank U, Next” 
to his border wall.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism freshman. Her 
column appears on Fridays.It’s OK to be angry over the government shutdown
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
There’s nothing better than 
a week to get back into 
the swing of things. School 
might have technically 
started Monday. But let’s 
be honest, it doesn’t really start 
until next week.
It’s been awhile since you’ve 
seen friends or hung out at your 
favorite bar, and it has probably 
been even longer since you’ve 
had a quiet night to yourself if 
you spent the holidays with fam-
ily. With all of these options; how 
should you actually be spending 
syllabus week? The answer is sim-
ple: preparing.
All it takes is a nighttime stroll 
past Midtown to see most of the 
university doing the opposite. Let 
me be the ﬁ  rst to tell you: The bars 
are not going anywhere. There will 
be plenty of other nights out and, 
don’t worry, J.J’s and The Swamp will still be lurking around the cor-
ner to take your money.
Rather, your free time is one 
of the most precious resources 
the ﬁ  rst week of a semester. I 
don’t want to scare you, but 
when you’re done reading this, 
you should probably start reading 
over the quiz and exam schedule 
for your classes. I’ll bet you didn’t 
realize your professor scheduled a 
quiz due at midnight, or he also 
scheduled your midterm two days 
before Spring Break.  
There’s a perception that the 
next couple weeks will be exactly 
like syllabus week: carefree, fun 
and a lot like high school. I’m 
going to serve as your friendly 
reminder that, more than likely, 
your ﬁ  rst exam is not too far off, 
meaning I’d get a head start on 
studying.  
So, how does your extra free time this week relate to the rest of 
the semester? Spending it wisely 
now will give you the upper hand 
on most of your class for weeks to 
come.
Let’s start with some basics on 
how to ensure a successful sylla-
bus week. A sureﬁ  re way to make 
a bad impression on your class-
mates the ﬁ  rst week is asking for a 
piece of paper or a pencil (or some-
times even both). Instead of taking 
a shopping trip with friends, take a 
shopping trip to Target for school supplies. The dollar bin there is 
more fun anyway. This way you’ll 
be ready for next week and the 
weeks to come when you have to 
start hunkering down with notes.
You know those textbooks 
you needed to order off of Ama-
zon? If you place that order this 
week, there’s a pretty good chance 
they’ll arrive early next week, and 
if you have Amazon Prime, well 
then, you just might be ahead of 
the game. You’ll be ready for any 
quizzes or discussions that are 
looming in the not-so-far-distant 
future.
Are you not sure about a class 
or professor? There’s a reason they 
call syllabus week drop/add peri-
od. There’s no excuse to be in a 
class you’re not happy with. The 
long lines and packed ofﬁ  ces are 
daunting this week, I know. But 
take advantage of alternative re-sources like email or appointments 
to avoid the wait if you need to.
Most importantly, spend this 
week working on yourself. Self-
care isn’t a joke, and it’s whatever 
you want it to be. Maybe it’s read-
ing a book or wearing a face mask 
while your favorite movie plays in 
the background. Spend this week 
in a way that will ensure your own 
success. The same way a house 
with a strong foundation is built 
to last, your semester will be built 
to last if you make your syllabus 
week productive.
There are so many ways to 
spend syllabus week. Spend it do-
ing something that is going to al-
low you to lay down a solid foun-
dation for the rest of the semester.
Elijah Rawls is a UF journalism 
senior. His column appears on 
Fridays. The best way to spend syllabus week doesn't include another night in MidtownI hope I’m not the only 
one who feels a slight 
tug in their chest when 
they hang out with their 
guy friends. Guys, we 
can talk sports, exercise, 
video games or anything pop 
culture related, but there al-
ways seems to be a lull in the 
conversation after the normal 
talking points are exhausted. 
Sometimes, I ﬁ  nd that I catch a friend’s 
words caught in his throat. I can tell 
there is something bothering him, but 
the words to explain whatever it is never 
make it to the surface.
In a study done by the Center for 
Disease Control published in August 
2017, the issue of suicide among high 
school and college-aged teens shows 
that men are nearly three times more 
likely to lose their lives to suicide than 
women.  
I felt those depressive episodes my-
self throughout my senior year of high 
school, with the mounting pressures 
of college applications and high-level 
classes. Weary days in school turned to 
nights of procrastination and a vicious 
cycle of neglecting family, friends and 
homework. I was constantly in a bad 
mood, rarely breaking out of my shell 
without a tremendous effort from my-
self and from close friends. 
I knew I had a strong support group, 
but I didn’t seek out help. My parents 
came from conservative homes in a re-
ligious country, and the idea of seek-
ing help with my mental health was 
almost shunned. When my siblings or I 
felt down and tired, we would be repri-
manded. Our aversion to being together 
as a family was considered an insult to 
my parents. When in reality, we would 
feel overwhelmed and simply needed 
time to recover and relax.
When I got to college, it was the free-
dom and exposure to explore mental 
health programs which ﬁ  nally pushed me to seek help. This free-
dom to talk about how I was 
feeling, to not onlt a pro-
fessional but to my friends 
helped to pull me out of 
some of those bad moods.
I do my best to talk with 
my friends about how I might 
be feeling, whether it’s over 
my course load or my past 
relationships. I even made a 
resolution to try to seek therapy to help 
with my own anxiety.
These topics are understandably, dif-
ﬁ  cult for guys to discuss or even think 
too long about. Us guys, we tend to 
close ourselves off from showing emo-
tions while we’re young, in some cases 
because of family or our peers. It isn’t 
a weakness to talk about what you feel, 
especially if it's been bothering you.
It’s great to have friends you can 
hang out with, go to the gym or watch a 
game with. What’s even better is being 
able to be there for your friends when 
they need someone to talk to.
The friends we surround ourselves 
with may not have it as together as we 
think they do. Guys tend to hold back 
on personal stories and even traumas 
that may show a side of themselves 
they’re uncomfortable revealing to oth-
ers. It can come from a fear that people 
may look at us in a negative light. When 
our guy friends seclude themselves, we 
don’t question it. We sometimes just 
assume they’re okay and miss out on 
being there for them when they are in 
need of help.
Guys, next time you’re on campus, 
take a moment to actually say hi and see 
how your friend is doing. Maybe their 
day is going great or maybe it isn’t. My 
only hope is that you make sure they 
feel that it’s OK to talk about it.
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism 
sophomore. His column appears on Fridays.Guys, it’s time for some real talk
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org
Elijah Rawls
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s always tea time in Student 
Government land. One of the 
fascinating developments over 
Winter Break was the news of 
Young Americans for Freedom 
suing Student Government over 
claims of free speech violations. 
(Long story short, YAF wanted mon-
ey to bring speakers in; SG said no.)
Now, I know many folks may 
dismiss this as an attention ploy, 
but I see a couple of good points in 
the thick of things. I’ve watched YAF try to get 
funding for a couple years now, and I think it’s 
worth a column or two to talk about this lawsuit 
and link it to some of the peculiarities of our SG. 
SG, ever committed to transparency, has been 
particularly mum on the matter, so I guess it’s 
up to me to try to step up to the podium.
Now, because this is about a lawsuit, I know 
someone, somewhere in Tigert Hall is sweating, 
hoping I’m not about to say something fool-
ish. You see, the thought did cross my mind 
I’d get some email from an administrator after 
writing this ﬁ  rst column telling me to watch my 
words and fear for my life, but luckily, this is a 
case related to free speech and our administra-
tion just had to reafﬁ  rm its commitment to free 
speech. So, I suppose I have a “get-out-of-jail-
like-Smith-Meyers” card, and I can basically say 
anything.
But not to worry, for legal purposes, I will 
contend that I am uniquely unqualiﬁ  ed to talk 
about anything SG related. You see, I’ve applied 
(if my personal spreadsheet is accurate) to 67 
different seats on various standing committees 
in our Senate and have received a grand total 
of zero, so I clearly lack any qualiﬁ  cations and 
knowledge that would make anything I have to 
say about this case worthy of being uttered in 
court (let alone read in a newspaper).
Anyhow, there are a couple of “weird” things 
that made my eyebrows quiver as I read through 
the 45-page lawsuit. First off, the people being 
sued; it’s the Board of Trustees plus Gator dad 
UF President Kent Fuchs and VP of Student Af-
fairs David Parrott. Almost all of these people, I 
personally feel, had no direct link to the whole funding shenanigans except for per-
haps the Student Body president, 
who serves on the Board of Trust-
ees. Really, this whole ﬁ  ght is cen-
tered on the actions of students, not 
university administrators. Perhaps it 
is just standard to sue the trustees, 
perhaps administrators could have 
stepped in. I’m unsure.
Now, I don’t mean to generalize 
political leanings into a binary, but I 
think it’s worth commenting on how 
YAF and many of the power brokers in SG are 
conservatives. So, this isn’t necessarily your 
stereotypical case of conservative students get-
ting dunked on in a liberal campus.
One of the actions YAF is taking issue with 
is a recent revision to our ﬁ  nancial code that 
bars student organizations from receiving fund-
ing for honorariums or speakers through the 
allocations committee (what YAF had been at-
tempting to do). The chairs of the allocations 
and budget and appropriations committees are 
listed as the authors and according to state voter 
records; both are registered Republicans. That’s 
going to be interesting to explain in court.
Now, I’ll mention what I think is SG’s view-
point since I’m fair and balanced like Fox News; 
I can see that SG might have viewed YAF as try-
ing to bite off more than its share of the $50,000 
allocated to non-budgeted student organiza-
tions. The lawsuit mentions 871 student organi-
zations not being on that budget cycle (though 
only those who qualify for funding from Allo-
cations can draw from that 50,000). If a single 
organization wants to ask for $5,000 for a single 
speaker for a single event, that’s already a de-
cent chunk of the money that’s supposed to go 
toward many organizations.
There’s a lot to talk here: funding for other 
political organizations, a lack of appeals system 
and so on. Luckily, just like this lawsuit, there’s 
more to come in the future
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area Senator. His column 
appears on Fridays.Checkmate, conservatives?
A curious glance into the SG lawsuitColumn Column
Column
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
Fun &  Fitness
2019
Contact Your Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline
Wed. Jan.  30 
Run Date
Wed., Feb. 6Help students gain a healthy perspective by advertising in 
The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is dedicated to 
giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday, 
Jan. 21 due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
DISPLAY: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463
In Honor Of The 
Man And His Dream
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertisingThe DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
THE CHEESECAKES WERE 
FEATURED ON THE UBER EATS 
SERIES “UNPACKED. ” 
Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Valery Jean-Bart remembers Sunday 
evenings in the kitchen with his mother, 
Marie José Labossière. Eggs, sugar and 
cream cheese would be laid out on the 
counter as the duo tried out new cheese-
cake recipes each week. 
Baking together became a ritual to stay 
positive after Marie José was diagnosed 
with stage 4 terminal breast cancer in June 
2008. 
Over the next four years, Jean-Bart and 
his mother baked a new cheesecake ﬂ  a-
vor every Sunday until she died in August 
2012. They created 240 original recipes to-
gether.
“She would stay up late watching the 
Food Channel,” Jean-Bart said. “She would 
always have notes on the side of her bed 
of things she saw during that whole week. 
She would pull a note, one of her scribbles, 
and tell me ‘Let’s do this ﬂ  avor.’”Jean-Bart, a 41-year-old UF civil engi-
neering alumnus, now keeps her memory 
alive through Val’s Cheesecakes at three 
locations in Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas. 
He still uses some of their original recipes.
Val’s Cheesecakes has more than 200 
different ﬂ  avors, including Neopolitan and 
sweet potato, some of his mother’s favor-
ites. Whole cheesecakes cost $50, slices 
cost $8 and jars of cheesecake cost $6.49. 
In December, the business was featured 
on the Uber Eats docu-series “Unpacked,” 
which can be viewed on Facebook and 
YouTube. The episode follows Jean-Bart 
and his journey in creating Val’s Cheese-
cakes. 
“I think a lot of people can relate to 
the way he channels baking to honor his 
mom’s memory,” said Vidya Rao, the lead 
producer of “Unpacked.” “We found his 
commitment to his craft incredibly inspir-
ing.”
Although Jean-Bart graduated from UF 
in 2000 with his bachelor’s degree, he de-
cided to quit his job at a civil engineering 
ﬁ  rm to open up a cheesecake shop. 
He opened his ﬁ  rst location on June 30, 
2015, in Dallas, which cost $14,000 for the 
construction and about $3,000 for the oth-
er products necessary to 
run the business. 
“I think my mother is 
a very hard worker. She 
has to do everything her-
self; she doesn’t ask for 
help,” Jean-Bart said. 
“All the things I am say-
ing are statements about 
her, but also how I see 
myself as well. The apple 
doesn’t fall far from the 
tree at all.”
Val’s Cheesecakes has 
grown over the last four 
years with more than 
15,000 followers on In-
stagram, 4,000 likes on Facebook and 1,000 followers on Twitter. 
Jean-Bart hopes to franchise Val’s 
Cheesecakes in Florida within the next ﬁ  ve 
years. 
Despite the immense growth of his loca-
tions, Jean-Bart still remembers those Sun-
day evenings with his mother as the root of it all. 
“It’s more than cheesecake,” Jean-Bart 
said. “It’s about the relationship between a 
mother and a son.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgUF alumnus opens cheesecake business to honor late mother
Ingredients:
16 oz of cream cheese
8 oz of ricotta cheese
1 cup of sugar
2 teaspoons of hazelnut extract
1 teaspoon of lemon
5 eggs
Instructions:
Mix all of the ingredients together in the order 
they’re listed.
Bake at 425 degrees (F) for 15 minutes.
Reduce heat to 300 degrees (F) for 2 hours.Val’s Classic 
Ricotta CheesecakeRecipe
Courtesy to The Alligator
Valery Jean-Bart, a 41-year-old UF alumnus, is all smiles as he poses in front of 
one of his three locations of Val’s Cheesecakes in T exas. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
ABOVE: Sarah Carswell, a 60-year-
old member of the National Women’s 
Liberation group, used red paint to 
help create a temporary mural in 
honor of the 46th anniversary of the 
Roe v. Wade decision. “It’s so close 
to being turned back that one ounce 
of apathy can turn into kitchen table 
abortions, which I have seen, which 
is etched into my mind and can 
never happen again, ” she said.
LEFT: Women paint on the 34th Street 
Wall Thursday to commemorate 
the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade 
decision legalizing abortion. The 
painting event was organized with the 
National Women’s Liberation group 
and Planned Parenthood to raise 
awareness for the group’s annual 
fundraiser Saturday at The Wooly.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   
 9
Painting with a Purpose
Photos by Chris Day  |  Alligator StaffTHE NEW SERVICE WILL 
TAKE RIDERS TO THE 
ROSA PARKS STATION.
Danielle Ivanov
Contributing Writer
It was still dark out as Ter-
rance Dix started his East 
Gainesville route in microtransit 
bus 601 Thursday morning.
As dawn approached, the 
12-passenger microbus picked 
up its ﬁ  rst passengers outside 
their homes. 
His microbus that day was 
one of two the Regional Tran-
sit System began using Monday 
morning, said Chip Skinner, a 
City of Gainesville spokesperson. 
The buses will pick residents 
up at their homes from 5:30-9 
a.m. on weekdays and take them 
to the Rosa Parks Downtown 
Station, at 700 SE Third St. The 
bus will also take them from the 
station back home from 4:30-8 
p.m. 
Dix said he believes the bus 
will beneﬁ  t riders because they’ll 
no longer have to rush. 
“I think this will be better 
for the east side because the big 
buses can’t ﬁ  t down here,” he 
said.
The city paid $250,000 with 
city and county gas tax funds to provide East Gainesville resi-
dents with the new free transit 
service for a year, Skinner said. 
The bus will pick up residents 
who request a ride. To request, 
East Gainesville residents can 
call 352-393-7433. 
RTS staff decided there was 
a need for a transit to cover the 
difference from people’s homes 
to the bus stop after analyzing 
customer feedback, Skinner said. 
A service app is being developed 
for future users, and if the buses 
are successful, the service may 
expand to other city and county 
neighborhoods within a mile of 
bus stations.
The system was designed 
to help those like Mark Jones, 
who stood at his usual bus stop  
Thursday morning wearing a 
black ball cap. 
He expected to see Gaines-
ville’s typical long blue RTS bus 
roll up, but instead, Dix stopped 
his smaller, sleeker bus in front 
of Jones. 
Jones, a 46-year-old navy 
veteran, ﬁ  gured he might as 
well get in. Then, he discovered 
an easier way to get to work at 
Campus Scooters in Butler Plaza 
without bearing a chilly motor-
cycle ride. 
“It’s just too d--- cold,” he 
said. “[The microbus is] just 
more convenient. I love it.”10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
Danielle Ivanov / Alligator Contributor 
Gainesville started using two microtransit buses Monday in East Gainesville that will pick up residents 
outside their homes and take them to the Rosa Parks Downtown Station, at 700 SE Third St.  The city 
paid $250,000 to use the buses for one year. 
Microtransit bus service begins in East GainesvilleBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, January 22, 2019 at 11:00 A.M.
Premium Precious Metals, LLC.
3000 Sterling Road, Suite 29
Hollywood, FL 33021
For sale: Fischerscope X-Ray XDAL 237 • 
Thermo Scientific Niton XL2 100 Precious 
Metal Analyzer • Thermo Scientific Mobile 
Test Stand Niton XRF Analyzer • Ambrell 
Complete Foundry System • Scales • Melting 
System • Tools • Exhaust System and more!
Catalog and photos available at www.moec -
kerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 9-11AM. 15%-18% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#CACE-18-026768
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS
info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     1-11-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N      1-11-1-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYAlligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.WANTED SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING
INFLUENCER!!! MAKE UP TO $150 PER
WEEK!!!! Looking to brand & build strong
social media following across all platforms
(Instagram,Facebook,YouTube,Twitter)
for aesthetic business. Candidate must be
currently majoring in marketing or already
social influencer on social media. Strong
photography, video background and website 
background preferred. Expectation posting
daily, video recording/ideas/&editing along
with helping with brand ideas and website.
1-11-19-2-14
Biologist Wanted for Part-Time Employment: 
Run a 3D Digital PCR
Biologist with extensive digital PCR experi -
ence wanted. Envision one to two days a 
week running non-diagnostic blood samples 
for local non-profit research organization. 
Co-authorship on papers possible. Contact 
jclement@betterhumans.org      1-23-19-5-
14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
★★★★★ Five Star Pizza ★★★★★
on Tower Road is now hiring Delivery 
Drivers, Pizza Makers and Phone Personnel. 
Full Time and Part Time positions available. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St.    1-18-
19-5-1414 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      1-11-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Lung Cancer? Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket. 
For Information - 855-259-0557      1-11-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
*RESIDUAL INCOME:
Discover the power
of SMS marketing at smsbiz.net
1-11-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, January 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Old gas station 
freebie
4 One holding all 
the cards?
10 “__ run!”
15 Texter’s 
cautioning letters
16 Take to the skies
17 “The Phantom 
of the Opera” 
setting
18 Indigent ones 
hiding among 
bales?
21 Like much 
ordinary history
22 Japanese volcano
23 Long walk
24 Author Jong
25 Ascended
28 Stark in “Game 
of Thrones”
29 Holders of poor-
taste gifts?
31 Must
33 Presidential 
nickname
34 Type of pitcher
35 Result of 
smashing a 
piñata during a 
hurricane?
41 Food industry 
headgear
42 Barrel contents
43 __ cuisine
44 Script for an 
absurdist play?
51 PHL stat
52 Calls
54 Lavender asset
55 Gillette brand
57 Like Dorothy 
Parker’s humor
58 Pollen site
59 Concept for 
creating difficult 
crossword 
puzzles?
63 Gaucho’s tool
64 Gift to an 
audience
65 “Road to __”: 
Hope/Crosby film
66 Wee, jocularly
67 Ancient 
eponymous 
advisor
68 Ernie with irons
DOWN
1 Stately dance
2 Ancient Egyptian 
deity3 How one might 
wax, but not 
wane
4 Ambush
5 Passionate
6 Architect  
Maya __
7 2002 W.S. 
champs, 
nowadays
8 Hydrocarbon gas
9 Kids
10 Traveler’s aid, 
briefly
11 Censor’s target
12 Prepares for, as 
a profession
13 Cited on the 
road
14 Required from
19 Harbor sight
20 The Gershwins’ 
“Embraceable __”
25 Arid Asian region
26 Pair in a field
27 “Is it ever hot 
today!”
30 Hudson and 
James
32 3-Down pugilist
34 Count (on)
35 Foyer 
convenience
36 Winter birth, 
perhaps37 Commonly 
hexagonal 
hardware
38 Not superficial
39 Purse relative
40 Pop radio fodder
41 London’s Old 
Vic, for one
44 Corporate 
source of the 
Elmer’s Glue 
logo
45 Random 
individual46 Agitation 
metaphor
47 Wrath, in a hymn
48 “When!”
49 “Bam!” chef
50 Some HDTVs
53 1-Acr. marking
56 Book after John
58 Minute Maid 
Park player, to 
fans
60 Jewelry giant
61 Lavs
62 “Just kidding!”
By David Poole
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/10/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/10/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, January 10, 2019
ACROSS
1 Online shopping 
units
7 8 Series 
automaker
10 Comics possum
14 Eagerly accept
15 Dinner table boors
17 Pinch pennies
18 Strictly religious
19 __ out a living
20 “My bad”
22 “Kidding!”
23 Toklas’ life partner
24 Cupid cohort
28 “The Hunger 
Games” president 
Coriolanus __
30 Flaps
32 “A Little 
Nightmare 
Music” composer 
P.D.Q. __
33 Hot under the 
collar
36 Canadian coin
38 Lowbrow stuff
40 58-Across type 
meaning “black 
dragon”
41 Disney’s Montana
42 Lamb’s lament
43 See 27-Down
44 Whole lot
46 Hamburger’s 
home
50 Hallowed
52 Starters
55 Durham sch.
56 ’70s-’90s 
Pontiacs
58 See 40-Across
59 Common 
campaign 
promise, and 
what four black 
squares in this 
puzzle create
62 Tailor’s measure
64 Person-to-person
65 Rather thick
66 See 38-Down
67 Frowny-faced
68 Chicken
DOWN
1 Mary-Kate, Ashley 
and Elizabeth
2 S’pose
3 “Do I __ eat a 
peach?”: Eliot
4 Prefix with graph 
or gram
5 “Groundhog Day” 
director Harold
6 Mid-Mar. honoree
7 Trite saying8 Sheep prized for 
its wool
9 Power unit
10 Kiosk with a 
camera
11 Ref. work whose 
2018 Word of the 
Year is “toxic”
12 Miracle-__
13 Mac platform
16 In vogue
21 First word in 
titles by Arthur 
Miller and Agatha 
Christie
25 Flutist Herbie
26 Vaper’s need, 
informally
27 With 43-Across, 
feeling often 
fought
29 British courtroom 
fixture
31 Blackthorn plum
34 Bloemfontein’s 
land: Abbr.
35 Rhine whines
37 Ipanema 
greeting
38 With 66-Across, 
German 
philosopher 
buried in 
London’s 
Highgate 
Cemetery39 “Bus Stop” 
dramatist
40 Not as current
41 Busy airport
42 Hand-dyed with 
wax
45 Place to put on 
a suit
47 Filmmaker  
with a unique 
style
48 Anxiety
49 Disgraced
51 Go sour53 “Hasta  
mañana”
54 “The Beat with 
Ari Melber” 
network
57 Avant-garde 
sorts
59 Hiddleston  
who plays  
Loki in  
Marvel films
60 Santa __
61 Boomer’s kid
63 RR stop
1.  Plainly, clearly
1.  Pants5.  Avoid, fend off
2.  Composer, conductor6.  Two times
3.  Lavatory 7.  Situation ____
4.  Solution MPSLYI
KSCSALTEARV
WCETI
EMROATS
ERANTILOYDCEM
DYREEMANSWERS: 1A-Simply  5A-Avert  6A-Twice  7A-Comedy
1D-Slacks  2D-Maestro  3D-Latrine  4D-Remedy  B-Tom Clancy1-11-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “Fundamentally, I think 
of myself as a storyteller, not a writer.”
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 TicketsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Louisville graduate transfer joins Gators
Linebacker/defensive end Jonathan Greenard offciailly enrolled at UF and 
will be eligible to play immidiately for the 2019 season. He is coming off a 
wrist injury that kept him out last season. In his two seasons at Louisville, 
Greenard collected 9.5 sacks and 70 tackles.Former UF goalie Kaylan Marckese  
was selected by the New Jersey's 
Sky Blue FC in the fourth round of 
the 2019 National Women's Soccer 
League draft.GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
When the No. 3 Florida Gators 
take to the O’Connell Center to 
face off against the Missouri Tigers 
tonight, they’ll be missing one of 
their standout gymnasts.
Alyssa Baumann, the return-
ing sophomore and two-time All-
American, fell off the uneven bars 
during the team’s practice session 
Thursday. Baumann was trans-
ported to Shands Hospital for a 
precautionary evaluation, but ac-
cording to team officials, the 2018 
All-SEC and All-Freshman gymnast 
is “sore, but otherwise in good 
spirits.” Despite the injury’s seem-
ingly pedestrian nature, team offi-
cials said that there is currently no 
timetable for her return.
Baumann, whose freshman year 
was a driving force in the team’s season that eventually culminated 
in an NCAA Super Six appearance, 
will certainly be missed during the 
team’s grudge meet against Mis-
souri, one of two teams that de-
feated them in SEC play last year. 
Baumann’s injury piles on top 
of the loss of fellow sophomore 
Jazmyn Foberg, who had surgery 
on her elbow in November. The 
team’s freshmen and underclass-
men may be in an even brighter 
spotlight by necessity when the 
O’Connell Center comes alive to-
night.
Easing the Absence
With Baumann and Foberg out 
of the picture, both of whom con-
tributed in two rotations during the 
team’s appearance in the Super Six, 
it will be up to the team’s remain-
ing gymnasts to step up on short 
notice. Baumann is listed as an all-
arounder, and she was a 2018 All-American on beam and floor. 
In that regard, senior Alicia 
Boren can certainly help ease the 
absence. Boren is a star on the 
floor, achieving her collegiate best 
score of 9.95 nine times throughout 
her career. She also earned Second-
Team All-American for her talents 
on the balance beam last year on 
top of the floor and all around 
designations. While Baumann and 
Boren would usually be a dynamic 
duo during meets, Boren’s skills on 
Baumann’s events could well make 
up for her absence.
Foberg’s events were the vault 
and bars, and while she doesn’t 
quite lay claim to the accolades 
Baumann achieved during her 
freshman year, she remained a sta-
ple of the lineup, appearing in all 
but one meet in the 2018 campaign. 
Junior Amelia Hundley’s presence Star gymnast injured, out for season-opener against Missouri
Alligator File Photo
UF gymnast Alyssa Baumann was taken to Shands Hospital for a 
precautionary evaluation after falling off the uneven bars in practice.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Mike White was fresh off a win against 
Arkansas on Wednesday when he joined 
SEC Network broadcasters Barry Booker 
and Taylor Zarzour at their table. 
The Florida men’s basketball team sur-
vived a late push by Arkansas to claim its 
first conference win 57-51. So naturally, 
Zarzour asked White about his thoughts 
on the matter.
White’s first words were simple 
enough, yet tell the story of the past week 
for the Gators.
“Two games in a row where we’re 
playing with a lead late and didn’t handle 
it great,” he said.
UF really didn’t play well down the 
stretch in its past two contests. 
It lost to South Carolina on Saturday af-
ter the Gamecocks erased a 14-point defi-
cit in the second half, winning on a last 
second full-court inbound heave to Chris 
Silva for a dunk.
It looked to be the same on Wednes-
day.
Florida nearly blew a 16-point lead this 
time around. It was a two-point contest 
with just a minute left in the game.
But what helped the Gators stay in the lead and win against the Razorbacks was 
its free-throw shooting, something that 
was missing in the final minutes of the 
South Carolina game.
They got the ball to guard KeVaughn 
Allen, the best all-time free-throw shooter 
in program history (86.9 percent), who 
made enough to keep Florida ahead.
“I’m confident in my ability to take my 
time and knock them down,” Allen said of 
his free-throw shooting.
He made two with 12 seconds left to 
make it a four-point game. When Arkan-
sas missed its next shot, Allen made two 
more, putting the contest out of reach.
“We made enough plays down the 
stretch but had the wrong mentality late 
in the game, both offensively and defen-
sively,” White said.
It’s a different story than when the 
Gators played South Carolina. Florida 
went 4 of 8 from the charity stripe in the 
final 7:17 of the game. Center Kevarrius 
Hayes had a chance to take the lead with 
three seconds remaining but only made 
one of his throws and tied the game. 
Those four added points could have 
potentially made the difference in the 
game during that span, but it allowed the 
Gamecocks to edge the Gators late.Back-to-back blown leads 
leaves UF wanting answers
I’ll give you a minute to stop 
laughing at the headline.
Get it out of your system, 
because I’m dead serious. 
The Browns could be one 
of the league’s best teams next 
year.
Cleveland announced the 
hiring of interim offensive coor-
dinator Freddie Kitchens as its 
next head coach on Thursday. 
After a long-term search rumored to include 
the likes of Oklahoma coach Lincoln Riley 
and… uh… former Secretary of State Con-
doleezza Rice, the Browns made the right 
hire.
They chose to zig while others zagged, 
and I think that’s commendable. Most teams 
in the NFL seem to be chasing after the next 
Sean McVay, the criteria for which is, more 
or less, young, offensive-minded and... chis-
eled? I don’t know. 
As a result, teams are reaching for any-
one with a semblance of offensive inno-
vation without regard to their prior track 
record (*cough cough,* Cardinals). Either 
that, or they go the opposite extreme and 
lock down a washed-up retread that will 
prove to be little more than a short-term 
bandage (I’m looking at you, Tampa Bay).
Instead, the Browns actually made the 
hire that made the most sense for their or-ganization, and it’s going to pay 
off big time.
Kitchens replaced the former 
offensive coordinator, Todd Hal-
ey, when he and head coach Hue 
Jackson were fired after Week 8. 
Cleveland was 2-5-1 at that time, 
but finished the season going 5-3 
with fringe playoff hopes in the 
final weeks. The Browns looked 
like a competitive NFL team 
a year removed from an 0-16 season, and 
Kitchens’ role in that can’t be understated. 
Rookie quarterback Baker Mayfield pro-
gressed tremendously under his tutelage. 
Mayfield became more efficient through-
out the year, averaging an 81.7 rating 
while Haley called plays but improving to 
a 109.7 average rating under Kitchens. He 
went from averaging about 245 yards and 
an 8-to-6 touchdown-to-interception ratio to 
about 282 yards and a 19-to-8 ratio in the 
last eight games. He ended up throwing for 
3,725 yards and a rookie-quarterback record 
27 touchdowns. 
Keeping Mayfield in the same system 
that allowed him to thrive as a rookie is a 
big win for the Land.
Cleveland is the only team that drafted 
a quarterback in 2018 that should feel con-
fident it landed a franchise guy, and the The Cleveland Browns will win the 
AFC North (and maybe more) in 2019Nothing But Nettuno / Opinion
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
in those same events could be ben-
eﬁ  cial for the lineup. Hundley is a 
four-time All-American, and she 
earned Second-Team All-American 
honors in the uneven bars.
Despite her injury, Foberg will 
still do her best to contribute to-
night.
“(Foberg) is deﬁ  nitely still a 
huge part of this team,” said junior 
Rachel Gowey. “Even on the side-
lines, being able to hear that one 
voice on an event is so much help.”
Freshmen in Greater Role
While the veteran presence on 
the team will do its best to step 
up in lieu of the two sophomores, 
the six new freshmen the team re-
cruited in the offseason will need 
to come out ﬁ  ring as well.
The majority of the team are 
underclassmen, and while the 
team’s three sophomores have had 
a taste of the pressure with UF’s 
expectations, the squad’s six fresh-
men have not. With the injuries to 
Baumann and Foberg, the team’s 
freshmen could possibly ﬁ  nd them-
selves in a bigger role than they ini-
tially anticipated.
The season opener is the ﬁ  rst competition the incoming class 
will have at the O’Connell Center, 
which holds a capacity of a little 
under 10,000 people and often 
draws high attendance. It even sold 
out the arena in last year’s meet 
against LSU.
Boren made sure to give them 
advice as the pressure became 
more apparent leading up to to-
night’s meet.
“Take it one day at a time,” 
Boren said. “They’ve been kinda 
nervous, but I’m just like, ‘It’s just 
another day.’”
“Obviously, the crowd is a 
big change,” freshman Savannah 
Schoenherr said. “I’ve never com-
peted in front of that many people, 
so that’s going to be a huge differ-
ence to me.”
Despite the freshman jitters and 
growing pains, Jenny Rowland is 
conﬁ  dent that there’s nothing left 
for Florida to do on Friday than to 
go out and compete.
“This team is deﬁ  nitely pre-
pared gymnastically,” Rowland 
said. “We’ve done all that we can 
in the gym to prepare them for 
what’s about to happen.” 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Meet starts at 6:45 p.m.
Mistakes like that will only 
hurt the Gators when they face 
No. 3 Tennessee at the O’Connell 
Center on Saturday. If Florida 
does jump out to a big lead in 
that game, it will easily lose it if it 
continues to play the same way.
UF will need a near-ﬂ  awless 
performance to win, and that in-
cludes getting those free points 
whenever the opportunity arises.
“When we got up 15, we were 
different,” White said. “Hopeful-
ly, we learn from that. We didn’t 
learn from it Saturday, obviously, 
but hopefully, with two in a row, 
we will.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 14Gators face No. 3 Tennessee on Saturday
Browns have built a solid offensive core around him. 
Nick Chubb and Antonio Callaway impressed as rook-
ies, while Jarvis Landry and David Njoku have proved 
to be weapons. There’s no reason to think the Browns’ 
offense couldn’t be among the league’s ﬁ  nest next 
year, and as the Colts, Saints and Chiefs showed this 
year, that could be enough.
It’s not like the cupboard is completely bare on de-
fense, either. The unit ranked 30th in the league this 
year, but young guys like Myles Garrett, Denzel Ward 
and Damarious Randall should anchor an up-and-com-
ing defense that could still use some work.
The Browns aside, the AFC North seems ripe for 
the picking. Pittsburgh missed the playoffs this year. 
With Ben Roethlisberger’s future in question and no 
clear successor in place and future Hall-of-Fame re-
ceiver Antonio Brown likely on his way out, the Steel-
ers could take another step back in 2019. 
Baltimore drafted quarterback Lamar Jackson to re-
place Joe Flacco, and he played well enough to save 
the season and claim a division title. But with Jack-
son’s development still very much a work-in-progress, 
the Browns could take advantage, despite the fact that 
the Ravens return the league’s top defense.
Oh yeah, and the Bengals ﬁ  nally emerged from for-
mer coach Marvin Lewis’ 16-year pit of despair. But 
with a new head man and an aging roster, 2019 could 
be a transition year in Cincinnati. For once in a very 
long time, the path to the playoffs looks incredibly 
manageable for the Browns.
But why stop there?
Most teams that ﬁ  nished at the top of the AFC this 
year still have a good deal of uncertainty moving for-
ward, aside from Kansas City. The clock is ticking for 
New England. Houston continually disappoints in the 
playoffs, and the Chargers will have to compete with 
Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs to win the AFC West. 
Maybe, just maybe, a playoff run isn’t out of the ques-
tion for Cleveland.
So, NFL be warned: The Browns could make a big 
splash next season.
Tyler Nettuno is a sports writer at the Alligator. You 
can follow him on Twitter @TylerNettuno or contact 
him at tnettuno@alligator.org. Alligator File Photo
The Florida gymnastics team features nine underclassmen, six of whom are freshmen competing 
in their first collegiate meet. "They've been kinda nervous, but I'm just like, 'It's just another day, '" 
senior Alicia Boren (pictured) said.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen scored 18 points during Florida's 57-51 win over 
Arkansas. He went 11 of 12 from the free-throw line.
TOP PLAYERS
AGAINST ARKANSAS
KeVaughn Allen:  
18 points
5 rebounds
11-of-12 free-throw shooting
Noah Locke:  
10 points 
5 rebounds
4-of-8 shooting
Andrew Nembhard:  
5 rebounds
4 assistsCOLUMN,  from pg. 1416   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The South Carolina Gamecocks led from 
tip-off to the ﬁ  nal whistle at the Colonial 
Life Arena in Columbia, South Carolina, on 
Thursday night. They handed the Florida 
women’s basketball team its third-straight 
SEC loss and seventh-consecutive road de-
feat, winning 71-40.
Here are three observations as to why 
UF remained winless in the SEC after Thurs-
day’s matchup:
Defensive Breakdown
Florida (4-12, 0-3 SEC) entered the confer-
ence matchup on a two-game streak where it 
went into halftime with the lead. That streak 
was snapped thanks to a 22-2 South Carolina 
run to start the game, and the Gators went 
into intermission down 37-23. 
The No. 21 Gamecocks (11-4, 3-0 SEC), 
which made just 10 percent of their three-
pointers in their previous two games, 
notched 4-of-6 shooting from beyond the arc during the early run and eight total three-
pointers for the game. UF coach Cam New-
bauer dared South Carolina to beat his team 
with deep shots, and it backﬁ  red. 
“They made their shots, and we didn’t,” 
coach Cam Newbauer said after the game. 
“You won’t win many games when that hap-
pens.”
South Carolina went on a 12-2 run in the 
third quarter to put the game away, this time 
with physical drives to the basket through 
the wide-open middle of Florida’s zone de-
fense. Newbauer’s inability — or unwilling-
ness — to adjust his defensive scheme dug 
the Gators into a bigger hole. 
Rebounding    
As if the Gamecocks’ offense needed any 
help, the Gators’ failure to box out effectively 
only added to the already numerous issues 
they faced. 
South Carolina outrebounded UF 45-31 
during the game, including 16 offensive re-
bounds leading to 17 second-chance points. 
The Gamecocks were simply more physi-
cal in the paint than the 
undersized Florida for-
wards, especially 6-foot-
1 Kristina Moore, who 
found herself on her back 
several times and looked 
more frustrated each 
time she was thrown to 
the hardwood. 
UF will need to pri-
oritize rebounding before 
its next game on Sunday 
against Missouri.
Offensive disappear-
ances
Florida’s two leading 
scorers, guards Funda 
Nakkasoglu and Delicia Washington, struggled all evening. The duo 
combined for 13 points on a dreadful 5-of-
21 shooting night to encapsulate a game that 
Florida will look to forget as soon as possible.
Guard Kiara Smith was the lone bright 
spot for Florida with 13 points on 4-of-7 
shooting. With her ﬁ  fth game with double-
digit points, Smith will be expected to shoot 
a higher volume of shots going forward.“She played excellent,” Newbauer said. 
“With some of the others on the offense 
struggling, she really stepped up. We’re ex-
cited for this Sunday’s game, and hopefully, 
she can keep it going.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgFlorida still winless in SEC after loss to South Carolina
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Kiara Smith led the team with 13 points on 4-of-7 shooting during UF's 
71-40 loss to South Carolina on Thursday.
Sports Meme of the Week 
River Wells / Alligator Staff