We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A new festival
The Native American festival was held in Gainesville this past 
weekend for the ﬁ  rst time, pg. 8
For the veterans
Vietnam Veterans were honored in Alachua County, pg. 9Gators drop series to Ole Miss
Catcher Jordan Roberts and the UF softball team 
lost their third SEC series in a row, pg. 14MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 75
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Photo Finish
Junior Grant Holloway stumbles over the ﬁ  nish line during Saturday’s 4x400-meter relay at the Pepsi Florida Relays 
at James G. Pressly Stadium. The Gators ﬁ  nished second in the event with a time of 3:03.25. Read the story on pg. 14.  
THE UF FACULTY SENATE 
PRESIDENT OPPOSED THE 
DECISION
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer 
Faculty and non-student mem-
bers of UF will pay more to park on 
campus soon. The UF Board of Trustees ap-
proved the proposal to increase 
non-student decals by 5.5 percent, 
or by $18, as the third phase of the 
plan to fund the new parking ga-
rage, which is currently under con-
struction at the commuter lot on 
Gale Lemerand. It is scheduled for 
completion in February 2020. 
The orange and blue decals will be $396, compared to the prior 
$378, effective May 1, according to 
the meeting notes. 
Faculty Senate President Katie 
Vogel-Anderson opposed. 
“I appreciate the new parking 
garage that increases net parking 
spaces,” Vogel-Anderson said. “I 
just don’t feel in favor of this regu-
lation to increase parking prices for faculty.”
Parking decals had a 7 percent 
increase in May as part of the plan 
to pay for the new garage. As of 
2018, the new garage had a maxi-
mum budget of $34.2 million.
The approval of parking de-
cal increases was just one of the 
board’s key actions on Friday, 
which concluded a two-day meet-ing which started Thursday after-
noon. 
At the Friday meeting, the trust-
ees also approved 18 new appoint-
ments to the boards of ﬁ  ve Direct-
Support Organizations, which  
have been set up to support the 
university, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. UF Board of Trustees increases cost of non-student parking decals 
SEE BOARD MEETING,  PAGE 4By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF placed a West African dance profes-
sor on paid administrative leave in October 
following a claim of sexual harassment. He 
taught for 14 years.
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Title IX Compliance and a di-
vision of UF Human Resources, Employee Re-
lations, led two investigations of former pro-
fessor Mohamed DaCosta. The Title IX ofﬁ  ce had ﬁ  rst received an email alleging he sexually 
harassed a woman by “making inappropriate 
comments and sexting her,” according to pub-
lic records from the university. 
It is unclear whether the woman is a stu-
dent or an employee. A “sext” is a text that is 
sexual or sexually suggestive in nature.
Records show DaCosta cannot read or 
write English well, and other people had ac-
cess to his UF emails.
Originally from Boké, Guinea, DaCosta ﬁ  rst came to UF as a guest per-
former in 1997, and the uni-
versity created a permanent 
position for him in 2003. 
His salary as of Fall 2018 
was $31,449.10.
The Alligator ﬁ  rst re-
quested public records from 
UF in November after a 
student told a reporter that 
DaCosta, who was a master lecturer at the School of Theatre and Dance, resigned and his 
students were not told why. Records detailing 
the investigation and its conclusion were re-
ceived Thursday.
Title IX ensures that if a student or employ-
ee experiences sexual harassment, sexual as-
sault or gender-based discrimination, schools 
are responsible for stopping it and preventing 
any recurrence.
The investigation paperwork The Alligator UF professor placed on leave after ‘sexting’ accusation
SEE DaCOSTA,  PAGE 3DaCosta
MORE THAN $3.2 MILLION WAS RAISED
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Chapstick, portable chargers, tennis balls and costumes. 
These are some of the things that Madison Gore brought 
with her to Dance Marathon Saturday. 
Gore, an 18-year-old UF political science freshman, 
danced with her sorority, Alpha Epsilon Phi, for 26.2 hours 
to raise money for sick children.
Gore signed up for Dance Marathon in September as 
soon as she knew her sorority would participate. 
“I had heard in high school that UF Dance Marathon 
was the Dance Marathon to participate in so I signed up as 
soon as I could,” she said. 
Dance Marathon is a 26.2 hour-long fundraiser where 
students raise money for the Children’s Miracle Network 
Hospitals, which provides ﬁ  nancial aid to cover costs that 
insurance companies don’t fully cover. UF Health Shands 
Children’s Hospital is part of that network.
The teams raise money for 74 miracle families, which 
are families that have children who are being treated at 
Shands.
This year, Dance Marathon beat its record by raising 
$3,230,025.23. Last year it set a record when participants 
raised $3,026,420.19.
Over the past 25 years, UF has raised more than $18.2 
million and danced for 704.2 hours, according to a state-
ment provided by Dance Marathon.Dance Marathon 
hits new record
SEE DM, PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING
TODAY
Campus Earth Week
When: Monday-Saturday, 
opening ceremony 6 p.m. 
Monday
Where: University Auditorium
What: The UF Office of 
Sustainability will celebrate 
Campus Earth Week. On 
Monday, the week will open 
with a keynote lecture, Q&A 
and book signing by Julian 
Agyeman, a researcher, expert, 
author, scholar and originator 
of the concept "just sustain-
abilities," the intentional in-
tegration of social justice and 
sustainability. The event is 
free and open to the public. 
UF’s Office of Sustainability 
will celebrate Campus Earth 
Week with a series of events 
taking place from Monday to 
Saturday. After the keynote 
speech, the rest of the week 
will follow with the annual 
Sustainability Showcase on 
Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. at the Reitz Union. This 
activity fair will feature more 
than 20 campus and commu-
nity organizations represent-
ing a variety of sustainability 
topics. The week of events will 
conclude with Clean-Upalooza, 
the first campus clean-up and 
invasive plant removal event 
at UF, from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. on Saturday. Volunteers 
can register at one of four con-
servation areas on campus. 
Information about all of the 
Campus Earth Week events can 
be found at http://sustainable.
ufl.edu/2019-campus-earth-
week/ or by emailing info@
sustainability.ufl.edu.
 
Elegance of Science winners to 
present their work April 1 at 
Florida Museum
When: Noon-1:30 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History, Lucille T. 
Maloney Classroom
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History and Marston 
Science Library will host 
the free annual Elegance of 
Science art contest to show-
case art inspired by the re-
search, scientific tools or con-
cepts of UF students, faculty 
and staff. This year’s winners 
will present their submissions. 
Refreshments will be served. For more information on the 
Elegance of Science competi-
tion, visit www.floridamuse-
um.ufl.edu/event/eos-awards.
RPB Presents: Jaboukie Young-
White
When: 7-8:30 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Grand 
Ballroom
What: Known for his hilari-
ous social media presence 
and quick wit on shows like 
The Daily Show, comedian 
Jaboukie Young-White will 
perform for free for UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 Card. No 
tickets are required. 
The OG is getting pranked
When: 10 a.m.-1 p.m.
Where: Krispy Kreme, at 306 
NW 13th St. 
What: The original glazed 
donut shape is changed on 
April Fool’s Day. People in 
their wackiest outfit will get a 
free original glazed donut in a 
surprise shape. There will be 
kids activities throughout the 
day, including coloring, donut 
decorating, a photobooth and 
giveaways. The Chick-fil-A 
cow and the Alachua County 
Sheriff Youth and Community 
Research Unit’s ice cream 
truck will make an appearance.
WEDNESDAY
RPB Presents: Greetings from 
Florida
When: Noon-3 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, North 
Lawn 
What: Students can experi-
ence iconic attractions from 
around Florida. There will be 
a Wynwood Wall photo booth, 
do-it-yourself Mickey ears, a 
mechanical gator and surfing 
at Panama City Beach. The 
event is free for UF students 
with a Gator 1 Card. 
Take Back the Night: March 
and Rally to End Sexual 
Violence
When: 5:30-8:30 p.m. 
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: Survivors are invited to 
share their stories at an open 
mic and participate in a dem-
onstration supporting them 
and supporting ending sexual 
violence. There will be free 
T-shirts to participants while 
supplies last. From 5:30 to 6 
p.m. there will be poster mak-ing, activities, performances 
and the T-shirt giveaway. From 
6 to 6:15 p.m. Maddy Coy from 
Chant Practice will speak. 
From 6:15 to 7 p.m. demon-
strators will march. From 7:15 
to 8:30 p.m. there will be more 
speakers, an open mic and an 
art display. 
THURSDAY
Chocolate and Wine Tasting
When: 6:15-7:30 p.m. 
Where: Downtown Wine and 
Cheese, at 113 N. Main St. 
What: For $15 a person, at-
tendees can sample perfect 
pairings of wine and chocolate. 
There will be happy hour all 
night with $5 glasses of wine. 
Attendees also get discounts on 
all bottle purchases. Advance 
tickets available at www.down-
townwineandcheese.com.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Corrections: In an article titled “‘No 
es No:’ Dissecting rape culture 
on college campuses, ” that ran in 
Friday’s edition, Edward Zambrano 
is the assistant chairperson for cul-
tural awareness of Sigma Lambda 
Beta Fraternity. The Alligator re-
ported differently.
In an article titled “UF College of 
Journalism Hall of Fame inductee 
dies at 96, ” that ran in Friday’s edi-
tion, a scholarship typically goes to 
two students and ranges between 
$1,000 to $2,000 each. Stuart 
Newman was also one of the 
College of Journalism’s oldest liv-
ing alumni. The Alligator reported 
differently. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  64° LOW  56°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 75MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
received was signed by a Title IX investigator 
and dated on Oct. 15, but the time range of 
when the sexual harassment occurred is cen-
sored from the records.
Evidence found in the Title IX investigation 
led Employee Relations to begin another for-
mal investigation of DaCosta at the same time. 
This second investigation began on Aug. 6. 
In the records, a letter to former College 
of the Arts Dean Lucinda Lavelli notiﬁ  ed her 
that an employee within her college was be-
ing investigated. Lavelli served as dean from 
2006 until current Dean Onye Ozuzu started 
in August.
Records from the Employee Relations in-
vestigation show DaCosta violated UF Infor-
mation Technology policy and violated two 
regulations by providing falsiﬁ  ed records. 
His birthdate differs on records, ranging nine 
years. Some state he was born in 1968, while 
others say he was born in 1959. 
DaCosta told the investigator that record 
keeping in Guinea is poor, so his Guinean 
passport showed the wrong birth year. 
In multiple emails from DaCosta’s address 
to the Title IX investigator Paige Cook, some-
one responded on DaCosta’s behalf. DaCosta 
said in the records that students helped him answer emails and texts because his education 
in Guinea was poor.
At least two students had access to his UF 
email and phone. UF policy says accounts and 
passwords cannot be used by anyone but the 
employee or student the account belongs to.
DaCosta declined to answer questions 
about these investigations when contacted 
Friday. 
A letter signed by Dean Onye Ozuzu on 
Oct. 29 notiﬁ  ed DaCosta that he was being 
placed on paid administrative leave after the 
investigation. DaCosta ﬁ  led a resignation let-
ter on Nov. 20 and did not give any reason in 
his letter. 
Ozuzu declined to comment when con-
tacted in Fall.
Though records last described DaCosta as 
on administrative leave with pay, it is not im-
mediately clear if he is still being paid.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando, who was 
contacted Friday, said he was unable to pro-
vide answers until at least today. 
Cook spoke with the woman who allegedly 
received sexts and verbal inappropriate com-
ments from DaCosta. The woman provided 
Cook with a timeline of the instances and 
information from witnesses, according to the 
investigation report. 
The woman told Cook the texts were from 
DaCosta, and she viewed them as inappropri-ate. The record said that the “text messages 
are now inaccessible.” 
Some exhibits included were text screen-
shots received by the woman from DaCosta’s 
phone number and a photograph provided by 
her that she allegedly received from DaCosta. 
The woman could not be reached for com-
ment because her name and information were 
censored in the records. The records show 12 
people listed as witnesses were interviewed in 
the sexual harassment investigation. 
About nine UF students, faculty and staff in 
total declined to comment or did not respond 
by deadline when contacted about DaCosta’s 
resignation. One employee at Santa Fe College 
declined to be quoted Friday when asked if 
DaCosta still works at the school.
DaCosta’s name, email and phone number 
are still listed on Santa Fe College’s directory. 
Alora Haynes, the Santa Fe College ﬁ  ne arts 
chair, could not be reached for comment. 
Constance Darrisaw, a 21-year-old UF ento-
mology and nematology senior, said in Octo-
ber she was surprised to hear rumors circulat-
ing in one of DaCosta’s two dance classes that 
he may be in trouble. 
She noticed all semester he seemed cau-
tious not to touch students when showing 
dance movements to the class. Darrisaw said 
she did not hear anything about the professor 
inappropriately texting a woman while in the 
class, but she heard other rumors. 
Rachel Chozick, a 21-year old UF business 
administration senior, also took DaCosta’s West African dance class in the Fall. 
“I never saw him as that kind of person,” 
Chozick said. “In class, he was very passion-
ate about teaching, and that’s the only side I 
ever saw.”
Chozick said DaCosta did not show up 
to class one day in November. He never re-
turned. 
Chozick and Darrisaw both said they re-
membered seeing a man observe the class and 
take notes while DaCosta was still teaching. 
The students were never told who this person 
was or why he was there. 
Darrisaw said the man taking notes later 
told the class DaCosta would not return to 
teach but did not provide any other informa-
tion. The university determined that the fre-
quency and severity of any physical or verbal 
conduct were “physically threatening or hu-
miliating” and that the “conduct unreasonably 
interfered” with DaCosta’s ability to do his 
job, according to the records.
Though the records state there wasn’t suf-
ﬁ  cient evidence DaCosta’s conduct involved 
touching or touching of a sexual nature, UF 
determined the impact of the conduct to be 
sufﬁ  cient. The records concluded that the sex-
ual harassment allegation was proven. 
If you have any details regarding this 
case or any other similar cases involving UF 
faculty, staff or employees, please contact 
reporter Angie DiMichele at adimichele@
alligator.org or on Twitter at @angdimi.DaCOSTA,  from pg. 1He declined to answer questions4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019More than 5,000 people participated, in-
cluding 825 students dancing, who helped 
raise funds, the statement said.
Of the funds raised for Shands, 48 percent 
goes to its research, 42 percent goes to its pa-
tient care and 10 percent goes to its educa-
tion, said Connor Bennett, the Dance Mara-
thon finance manager. 
One of the teams that participated was the 
UF American Medical Student Association, 
which raised money for Bennett, who is part 
of a miracle family. The group met Bennett 
last year at an event. “We instantly fell in love. He’s a little bun-
dle of energy and joy,” said Amanda Marti-
nez, a 22-year-old UF microbiology and cell 
science senior.
Martinez’s team raised more than $15,000 
for Bennett. They set up multiple donation 
drives on Venmo, a smartphone app that al-
lows people to send money to each other.
Gore and her sorority raised money for 
brothers Jude and Oliver. They were born 
three months early and spent those months 
in Shands’ Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
Now at 7 years old, the boys face issues 
with asthma and some allergies, Gore said.
On her own, she raised more than $800.  
Her sorority raised at least $25,000.“It’s so nice to see them as just kids 
hanging out with us after all they’ve been 
through,” she said. “It’s really cool seeing it 
all come together and seeing all the families 
we’ve been raising money for.”
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgONLINE VOTING WAS 
LAST ON THE BALLOT IN 
SPRING 2017
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer 
Some UF students are reviving 
an effort to implement online vot-
ing in Student Government elec-
tions. 
Michael Russel, a UF political 
science master’s student, started 
a petition to be considered by the 
UF SG Supreme Court on Wednes-
day. The petition strives to re-
verse a 2016 ruling that counted 
abstentions, a vote neither for or 
against, in the total vote count of 
an election, the 23-year-old said.
Because of this ruling, amend-
ments including online voting 
were unable to meet the three-
fifths threshold to pass, he said. “Every SEC school has re-
mote online voting. Every major 
university in the state of Florida 
has it,”  Russel said. “In terms of 
online voting, UF is pretty behind, 
and it’s mostly because of our 
constitutional limits on it.”
SG online voting is available 
at universities such as Univer-
sity of North Florida, Texas A&M 
University and the University of 
Georgia. 
If the case is taken on by the 
UF SG Supreme Court, another 
meeting will be scheduled to 
formally hear the matter from 
the writer of the petition and an 
opposing voice, if there is one, 
Russel said. The amendments af-
fected by this reversal would then 
be restored to the Student Body 
Constitution. 
The argument is based on ar-
ticle nine, section four of the Stu-
dent Body Constitution, which states that Florida laws are supe-
rior to SG codes, Russel said. Ac-
cording to Florida election codes, 
abstentions do not count in the 
final vote count. 
In Spring 2016, online voting 
received 6,047 “yes” votes and 
2,751 “no” votes. It appeared on-
line voting passed with 69 percent 
of the vote. 
However, the Supreme Court 
ruled on June 25, 2016, that ab-
stentions count in the total vote 
count. Therefore, the 1,896 peo-
ple who did not vote either way 
were counted into the total vote 
count, and online voting did not 
pass with a three-fifths majority.  
Russel worked in the Ac-
cess Party administration under 
Student Body President Joselin 
Padron-Rasines as the legislative 
director. He said he was also the 
chair of the online voting task 
force. Russel said he revived Global 
Vote, a coalition that seeks to 
partner with students and SG of-
ficials to raise awareness about 
online voting. The Facebook page 
restarted Wednesday after a two-
year hiatus. 
Online voting isn’t a partisan 
issue, but Russel said he has 
reached out to both Inspire and 
Impact parties. 
Senate Minority Leader Ash-
ley Grabowski said online vot-
ing would benefit both parties 
by increasing voter turnout, par-
ticularly for people who may be 
studying abroad or have physical 
barriers to voting in-person.
“It’s going to give more people 
a voice,” Grabowski said. 
Members of Impact party 
could not be reached for immedi-
ate comment.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgPetition may bring online voting to UF’s campus
Online Voting Timeline
Feb. 17, 2016: Online voting seems to 
pass with more than 6,000 votes. 
June 25, 2016: UF Student Government 
Supreme Court rules that abstentions 
count in total vote count. This over-
turned the implementation of online 
voting. 
July 26, 2016: UF SG Senate puts online 
voting back on the ballot for 2017. 
Feb. 22, 2017: Online voting receives 
1,883 “yes” votes, 794 “no” votes and 
4,192 abstentions. 
March 27: Michael Russel submits a 
petition to the UF SG Supreme Court to 
reverse how abstentions are counted. 
April 3: UF SG Supreme Court will hear 
a petition on how to count abstention 
votes, which could implement online 
voting at UF. 
The Direct-Support Organizations re-
ceiving the new appointees include the UF 
Citrus Research Development Foundation, 
UF Alumni Association, UF Investment Cor-
poration, UF Research Foundation and UF 
Leadership and Education Foundation. 
The board also approved the following 
namings of philanthropic individuals on 
university facilities: Kathy and Tom Shan-
non Family Concourse (West Side of Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium), Gator Band Alumni 
Association Pavilion, Kincart Family Gar-
dena and Adam Michael Rosen Neuromedi-
cine Clinic.
The board meeting was not met without 
controversy. Divest UF, a student activ-
ist group, protested outside Emerson Hall 
while the meeting broke for lunch. When 
the meeting reconvened for public com-
ment, seven members of the organization 
spoke. 
“We’re pressuring admin and the Board 
of Trustees to pull [money] out of toxic in-
dustries, including fossil fuel corporations, 
private prisons and other human rights 
violations,” said Jojo Sacks, a 20-year-old 
UF anthropology senior and a student orga-
nizer for Divest UF. 
In response, the university released a 
statement saying the UF Investment Corpo-
ration Board voted to adopt an enhanced 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
policy. 
This will call for a thoughtful and ho-
listic review of investment decisions that 
incorporate environmental, social and gov-
ernance factors, the statement says. 
“My generation is the one that will be-
gin to feel the impacts of climate change,” 
Sacks said to the board. “As students, we 
will not allow our institutions to put corpo-
rate greed ahead of humanity. Collectively, 
our voices will be heard.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgBOARD MEETING,  from pg. 1A student group 
protested, spoke
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Andrew Jensen, the overall director of Dance Marathon 2019, rocks out during the Savants of Soul’s performance 
Saturday night in the O’Connell Center. Dance Marathon lasted for 26.2 hours and raised $3,230,025.23 for children at 
UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital and Children’s Miracle Network.
DM,  from pg. 1About half of funds raised goes to research
Dance Marathon over the years
2018: $3,026,420.19
2017: $2,724,324.19
2016: $2,434,315.18
2015: $2,015,307.17
2014: $1,528,330.16MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THE DUO WILL JOIN 
MORE THAN 40 INVENTORS
By T amarra Thal
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will reach double digits in the Florida 
Inventors Hall of Fame.
On March 26, the Hall of Fame announced 
that a UF alumnus and a UF professor will be 
inducted into the 2019 cohort. Eight other UF 
afﬁ  liated individuals are already inducted, said 
Holly Behrend, the program manager for the Florida Inventors Hall of Fame. The duo will 
be inducted Sept. 20.
“Inventions have to have a signiﬁ  cant im-
pact on society and be commercialized in 
some way,” Behrend said. “It doesn’t have to 
be something new. It can just spark something 
else.” 
Richard Yost, a UF chemistry professor, 
was selected for his invention of the triple 
quadrupole mass spectrometer, an instrument 
used to determine a molecule’s structure, Yost 
said. His invention, which is used daily in drug 
development, disease testing, food safety and environmental studies, generates over $1 bil-
lion in annual sales, he said.
Chris Malachowsky, an alumnus of the UF 
College of Engineering and co-founder of the 
Fortune 1000 technology company NVIDIA, 
was selected for his invention of the graph-
ics processing unit, which creates interactive 
graphics, Behrend said.
Other notable inductees include Herbert 
Wertheim for his invention of the ultraviolet 
light dye absorbers for eyeglass lenses and Rob-
ert Cade for Gatorade, Behrend said.
The list, which started in 2013 and now has more than 40 people, brings innovative talent 
in Florida to light, Behrend said. The selection 
committee doesn’t share why it chooses can-
didates but says that it’s difﬁ  cult to choose be-
tween inventors.
Candidates must have at least one U.S. pat-
ent, be afﬁ  liated with Florida and be nominat-
ed by someone, Behrend said. 
About six to eight people are inducted into 
the list each year, Behrend said. 
“This is a great recognition for the develop-
ment of innovative instruments and their im-
pact on science and human health,” Yost said. UF alumnus and professor to be inducted to 2019 Florida Inventors Hall of Fame
HE HAD A $5,000 BOND
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Gainesville man was accused of 
dragging a pregnant woman from a car 
Thursday. 
At about 10 p.m., a woman and her 
daughter were sitting in the front passen-
ger seat of Jonathan Timothy Conde’s car, 
according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
The woman is pregnant with his child 
and they live together, the report said.
While the passenger door was open, 
the 23-year-old man drove forward and 
the woman fell out of the car, the report 
said. She repeatedly told Conde to stop, 
but he kept driving. She was dragged 
on the ground while trying to keep her daughter from falling 
out of the car.
A witness saw the in-
cident and tried to help 
the woman by yelling 
at Conde to stop, the 
report said.
He admitted to dep-
uties that he acceler-
ated the car twice. He 
knew her daughter was in the car and 
that she was pregnant, the report said. 
Conde was charged with aggravated 
battery on a pregnant victim and child 
neglect without great bodily harm, the 
report said. 
He bonded out of the Alachua County 
Jail Saturday on a $5,000 bond. 
Conde could not be reached for com-
ment.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgACSO: Man accused of causing 
pregnant woman to fall from car
SHE HAD A $15,000 BOND
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A woman employed by an oral surgeon was 
accused on Friday of embezzling more than 
$150,000 from him. 
On Dec. 1, Heather Candace Hushelpeck, 
43, of Gainesville, was ﬁ  red from her job at a 
Gainesville oral surgeon’s ofﬁ  ce, at 6801 NW 
9th Blvd., for failing to explain two credit card 
transactions, according to an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
One transaction was on Oct. 15 for $1,300 
and another was under the name of a former 
employee for $7,500, the report said.
Hushelpeck returned on Dec. 4 to reinstall 
Quickbooks, an accounting software, on a com-
puter, the report said. 
When asked why the program was deleted, 
Hushelpeck said she deleted it to update it and started crying, the report said. 
She admitted to an ofﬁ  ce em-
ployee she stole money for at 
least a year by writing checks 
to herself, using credit card 
refunds and chargebacks. 
She made payments to 
the Star Center Theatre and 
to the Howard Bishop Mid-
dle School PTA, the report 
said. She also underreported her income on IRS 
forms.
She embezzled $156,126.25, the report said.
Hushelpeck was charged with embezzle-
ment, fraud and larceny of more than $100,000, 
the report said. 
She bonded out from the Alachua County Jail 
Saturday on a $15,000 bond. 
Hushelpeck could not be reached for 
comment. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgWoman accused of stealing 
more than $150,000 from employer
Hushelpeck
Conde
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumn“For The Kids.” It has a nice ring to it. 
After all, helping sick kids is important. Many of us want to 
support the kids in their recovery. That’s what Dance Marathon 
is about, being there “For The Kids.” But, what does that actu-
ally mean? Does that mean you’re spending your time meeting 
children and learning about their stories? Are you raising money in hopes of 
fighting against a child’s disease? We hope so because that’s all we’ve been 
told, and it’s all the proof we have. Your word and a simple slogan.
Dance Marathon is a year long effort by students across the country to raise 
money for sick children that ends in some kind of celebration. At UF, money is 
raised for over 77 miracle families that end in an event in the O’Connell Center 
where students stay on their feet for 26.2 hours. UF’s own Dance Marathon 
program raised the second most amount of money in the nation last year. On 
Sunday, Dance Marathon at UF raised $3,230,025.23, which is about $200,000 
more than the previous year. That is an incredible amount of money for an 
incredible cause. According to Dance Marathon at UF’s website, 48 percent 
of the money raised goes to research, 42 percent goes to patient care and the 
last 10 percent goes to education. All of the money goes to UF Health Shands 
Children’s Hospital. We understand helping sick children is a wonderful cause, 
however, we have a few questions.
Where exactly does all of the money go? For example, what are the names 
of the research grants given out each year? What does patient care mean? Does 
that mean new beds for children, or does that mean there are more nurses 
hired each year? What are people being educated on, and why does it cost 
more than $300,000 to do it? These are simply questions of accountability. We 
want to be able to celebrate that these kids are truly reaping the benefits of the 
work hundreds of students have put into each Dance Marathon event, but it 
can be hard with a largely ambiguous account of where $3 million goes. 
How the money is raised is also another question of accountability. Some 
of Dance Marathon’s money is raised through Venmo, an app that makes it 
easy to send money back and forth, but it only works with a bank account 
connected. People often request $1 “For The Kids,” and we may not think too 
much about it. Who are we to deny a $1 to a sick child, an amount of money 
that wouldn’t even pay for a cup of coffee? In the grand scheme of things, it 
seems insignificant, but it still allows you to pat yourself on the back. You did 
something good.
The problem is, you have no idea where that $1 went. Maybe it went to 
the kids, but maybe it went into someone’s bank account. You don’t know 
because there is no proof. The lack of transparency is concerning for us be-
cause, in the end, it’s supposed to be “For The Kids.” It may sound cynical 
to be asking these questions. You may think that we should trust in a system 
that is made to help sick children. That’s why we have to ask these questions, 
for those kids, for the hospital that is relying on that money and for you, the 
one who is spending your hard-earned money on a belief that it’s going to 
help someone. We’re asking for transparency and maybe a receipt instead of 
a “like” on Venmo.
Dance Marathon is a year long program consisting of multiple events and 
is generally a major part of Greek life philanthropy. A lot of Dance Marathon 
programming and advertising is done through social media. The slogan, “For 
The Kids,” is effective and plastered across every type of social media. It can 
be thrown on any Instagram caption involving an obscene amount of neon 
and fanny packs. It’s about as personal as the paragraphs that are copied and 
pasted on Facebook asking for money on the day of Dance Marathon. It’s about 
as personal as slapping someone’s Instagram handle on your story, proving 
they’ve paid their dues. After all, it’s “For The Kids,” not for a few extra fol-
lowers, right?
Dance Marathon at UF continues to get bigger each year, and it continues 
to raise more money. However, we still don’t know exactly how that money is 
spent or who is reaping the benefits. We believe there should be more trans-
parency when it comes to helping sick children. There are major issues with 
how the money is raised and where the money is going. We’d love to put the 
questions to rest and to be able to say Dance Marathon is really “For The Kids.”Dance Marathon and what  
“For the Kids” means 
This is the sweetest spot in Gainesville
For my next trick, I am going to 
guess your favorite place in the 
world. Close your eyes and think 
of this place and of where you’d 
rather be than where you are. 
Imagine the environment. The sounds. 
The smells. The sights. Have you 
thought of it? Great. Now, open your 
eyes, and I will guess what you were 
thinking of. 
Too easy. You were thinking of 
Sweetberries. I knew it. It was obvious because 
Sweetberries is everyone’s favorite place. Do you 
think I mean a favorite place in Gainesville? No, I 
mean the entire universe. Sweetberries surpasses 
all other places ever known to man. Boston? Never 
heard of her. New York City? Irrelevant. Epcot? 
Close second. London? Sounds like a city that 
would cancel your study abroad randomly. Sweet-
berries would never cancel your summer plans. 
Sweetberries is where you would go to lament 
your sadness over said canceled plans. 
The food, environment and customer service 
are what makes Sweetberries the crown jewel of 
Gainesville – no, of the universe. First, I’ll begin 
by describing the menu, which ranges from soups, 
salads and wraps to sandwiches and custards. 
Their turkey sandwich is without fail the best tur-
key sandwich I could ever ask for, and they also 
nail the dessert side of things. I’m someone who 
does not like ice cream or sweets, but I beg my 
friends to get late night Sweetberries frozen cus-
tard with me regularly. Their Kookie Koncrete is 
where it’s at, with Oreos and cookie dough thor-
oughly blended into a rich vanilla custard, result-
ing in a creamy blend of perfection. When they ask 
what side you’d like, get the homemade macaroni 
salad. You won’t regret it. I could eat at Sweetber-
ries every meal for the rest of my life. The environment is also lovely. It’s 
simultaneously soothing and conducive 
to a productive study session. I spend 
a lot of time there working or reading. 
Rather than taking me to Starbucks for 
a study date, bring me to Sweetberries, 
the real way to my heart. On the inside, 
art covers the walls and stained glass 
hangs from the windows, sending color-
ful prisms dancing across the room. On 
warm, sunny days, you can sit and eat 
on a large deck with an oak tree in the center. Out-
door bulb lights draped across the patio make for 
an ambient setting, and there is regularly someone 
playing guitar outside. There’s also plenty of free 
parking, so if you’re worried about getting towed 
or having to pay for a spot, don’t be. Sweetberries 
is home to a relaxing, down-to-earth atmosphere, 
but the best part of this quaint little restaurant is 
the customer service. 
Regardless of how your day is going, the folks 
at Sweetberries will be sure to put a smile on your 
face. They always greet me with a warm “Hello.” 
Next time you go, be sure to say hey to Keevil for 
me. He always goes above and beyond to ensure 
that my experience at Sweetberries is perfect and 
knows my order by heart. In fact, he’s more than 
just a waiter at Sweetberries. He’s my friend. 
Sweetberries is the best place on earth if you 
like fresh food, a relaxing place to spend time with 
friends or get ahead on your studies and a positive 
customer service experience. If this article hasn’t 
convinced you yet, try it out for yourself. You’ll 
be pleasantly surprised about how lovely a shop 
Sweetberries is, and you’ll never want to eat any-
where else. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Former Vice President Joe 
Biden made Nevada state 
legislator Lucy Flores 
feel “uneasy, gross, and 
confused” at a campaign 
rally in 2014, according to an 
essay published by The Cut. 
Flores explains in her essay that 
Biden came up from behind her, 
smelled her hair and kissed the 
back of her head. 
“He proceeded to plant a big slow 
kiss on the back of my head. My brain 
couldn’t process what was happening. I 
was embarrassed. I was shocked. I was 
confused,” Flores said.
Shortly after publication of Flores' ar-
ticle, Bill Russo, Biden’s spokesperson, 
released a statement in which he claimed 
neither he nor Biden ever noticed Flores 
might have felt uncomfortable around 
Biden. That being said, he also clariﬁ  ed 
Biden strongly believes Flores should 
have the right to share these allegations 
with the public and he is pleased to see a 
change in our society that gives her this 
opportunity.
Biden himself, however, stayed silent 
on the issue until he released a statement 
Sunday morning. He did not deny any 
of the claims made by Flores, but he did 
attempt to clarify his lack of intent. He 
explained that in his political and pub-
lic life, he has “offered countless hand-
shakes, hugs, expressions of affection, 
support and comfort.” He went on to 
explain he never believed any of these 
acts were inappropriate but is happy to 
listen respectfully if it is suggested that 
they were. At the end of his statement, 
he stressed the fact that he never meant 
to make anyone feel uncomfortable.
As of right now, the allegations re-
main a “he said, she said” situation, 
and it is still unclear whether or not this 
type of behavior is a pattern for Biden. 
Regardless of the validity behind Flores’ 
claim, the rest of America and I would have liked to hear an apology 
from Biden – not just a clari-
ﬁ  cation of his intentions.
When I ﬁ  rst read Biden’s 
statement, I was actu-
ally pretty pleased. After I 
thought over the situation, 
though, I realized I shouldn’t 
be complacent with what 
he said and neither should 
Flores. I realized after rereading his re-
sponse that I only found it acceptable 
because I have become desensitized to 
inadequate responses on the part of our 
male politicians.
In 2016, I saw Donald Trump get 
elected into ofﬁ  ce after he dismissed nu-
merous sexual assault allegations with 
substantial merit behind them. Through-
out his time in ofﬁ  ce, allegations con-
tinue to roll in and he has continued to 
ignore them and gaslight the women who 
have come forward. In 2018, I watched 
the Senate turn a blind eye and conﬁ  rm 
Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, 
despite his utter disrespect and grotesque 
behavior in response to the allegations 
brought forth by Christine Blasey Ford. 
Neither of these men apologized, in fact, 
they further belittled the women who 
came forward.
This type of response has become so 
normal that even Biden’s lackluster at-
tempt at self-preservation almost passed 
as a sincere apology. We have forgotten 
what it means to be sincerely apologetic. 
It is important to note that the allega-
tions against Biden are far less severe 
and extreme than those against Trump 
and Kavanaugh, but that doesn’t make 
them any more acceptable. Whether or 
not Biden’s intentions were crude, the 
public and Flores deserve an apology, 
not a defense.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science 
and journalism senior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.Joe Biden, do better than those before you Column
Everyone has been in this po-
sition: You recently applied 
for a promotion, a job, a 
program or an internship. 
You put your all into the ap-
plication and you think it’s in the 
bag. Sadly, a few weeks later, you 
get an email notifying you that 
you were not selected for this op-
portunity. You’ve been rejected. 
You start to think about what went wrong. 
Why didn’t this company or school see what 
you have to offer? You begin to wonder what 
you could have done differently. Rejection is 
never fun. It’s a gut-wrenching feeling that 
leaves you insecure, sad and alone. It’s that 
time of the year when people are applying 
for new opportunities. While some will get 
wonderful news, others will get rejected. 
How do you deal with this? 
 First and foremost, learn from your re-
jections. Oftentimes, when you’re rejected 
from an opportunity, you feel helpless. You 
had no say or power in the situation and 
feel as if there’s nothing you can do. Wrong. 
There’s always something for you to do. Try 
emailing the company or school that rejected 
you and ask for tips on what you can do bet-
ter next time. I know this can be awkward. 
You don’t want to be that person who won’t 
leave an employer or school alone because 
you got rejected. I’m telling you to be open 
to criticism and let it build you into a stron-
ger person. Take back some of the power 
you may feel you have lost when you got 
that rejection letter or email. In a short, yet 
respectful, email, ask the employer to iden-
tify the key qualiﬁ  cations you were missing 
in your background. If you’re lucky, recruit-
ers and admission advisors will tell you ex-
actly what you were missing. Chances are if 
you’re applying for similar positions, you’re 
most likely missing the same qualiﬁ  cations 
that caused you to lose out on your last job. 
Once you know, you can work on improv-
ing. Knowledge is power. Let’s use it to our 
advantage.
Next, it’s important to stop comparing 
yourself to others. I’m guilty of this. I ﬁ  nd myself comparing my success to 
people who aren't even in the 
same industry. Thoughts like 
“Why can’t I get a residency at 
this hospital” creep into my head. 
I don’t work or want to work in 
the medical ﬁ  eld. This sounds 
crazy, right? However, I was com-
paring my success to others. This 
is extremely unhealthy. After hav-
ing a conversation with a close friend, I real-
ized what I was doing wrong and corrected 
myself. However, it’s easier said than done. 
Rejection can hurt 10 times worse when 
you’re comparing yourself to other people. 
So, when you ﬁ  nd yourself doing it, make a 
conscious effort to stop. Also, social media 
is not your friend. Think about it. When you 
compare yourself to others, at that moment, 
what are you doing? I’ll bet that you’re 
scrolling through social media. If this is a 
problem for you, it might be helpful to take 
a break from social media, especially when 
you’re dealing with rejection or waiting to 
hear back from a school or employer. People 
walk different paths to reach success. The 
path a friend or colleague takes may be com-
pletely different from yours. That’s okay.
Lastly, don’t let rejection deﬁ  ne you. I’ve 
learned rejection isn’t something you can 
run from. At some point in time, you’re go-
ing to get rejected. Somehow you are going 
to have to ﬁ  nd a way to deal with rejection 
and the feelings that come with it. However, 
rejection doesn’t mean that you aren’t tal-
ented or that you don’t have what it takes to 
be a part of that organization. It just means 
that it isn’t your time yet. Don’t start mak-
ing sweeping generalizations about yourself 
and your skills when you get rejected. You 
are not incompetent. Don’t forget who you 
are and what you bring to the table. Always 
keep your head up, push through, work on 
yourself and never give up. You’ll get that 
congratulatory email one day.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column normally appears on Fridays.You got rejected. Now, what do you do?Column
Happy April Fools’ Day, Gators! 
The time for humor, jokes and, 
of course, pranks both large and 
small is upon us. While I enjoy the 
merriment of the holiday as much 
as anyone else, this column is not a joke. In 
fact, it is a serious column on a somewhat 
serious issue: how to prank responsibly.
For as long as anyone can remember, 
one of the few constants on April Fools’ Day 
has been companies and websites pranking 
their viewers in various ways. The website 
“April Fools’ Day on the Web” lists 215 
pranks by companies and internet person-
alities in 2018 alone, and I’m sure today 
will bring even more pranks of all shapes 
and sizes. Some of them are quite amusing, 
such as a Google adding a "Where’s Waldo" 
game to Google Maps, the video game Rock-
et League making its car toppers huge, or 
the chat platform, Discord, launching an @
Someone feature which pings a random per-
son on Discord. Users can have some fun 
with these pranks and have a good laugh 
before moving on with their day. After all, we still need to get our work 
done.
Others, however, cross the line 
from amusing to irritating, as they 
make it harder for non-celebrants 
to go about their work. Perhaps 
the most notable example of this 
is Google’s Gmail, which on April 
Fools’ Day 2016 added a "send 
and mic drop" button, where 
users could use a Minions gif to close out 
an email thread. Unfortunately, that "mic 
drop" replaced the "send and archive" but-
ton, so "send and archive" users who in-
stinctively pressed the button found that 
they were unexpectedly closing threads in-
volving coworkers, bosses, future employ-
ers, etc. Google apologized later in the day 
and removed the joke, saying the feature 
should not have been located near impor-
tant buttons.
In light of Google and other over-eager 
prankster companies’ mistakes, Microsoft 
sent out an internal memo prohibiting em-
ployees from conducting any public April Fools’ Day pranks this year, ac-
cording to The Verge. Many have 
praised this, but personally, my 
feelings are mixed. I’m supportive 
of it if it means Microsoft won’t 
release any bad pranks. However, 
another part of me feels like this 
is throwing the baby out with the 
bathwater. If done right, an Aprils 
Fools’ Day prank. whether by a 
company or by an individual, can be fun 
and can brighten up people’s day.
So, how do you craft a good April Fools’ 
Day prank? How do you craft a practical 
joke that is both funny and doesn’t interfere 
with people’s normal activities? Here are 
my guidelines:
1. Don’t take away features people 
use. This is pretty self-explanatory. Just 
because it’s April 1 doesn’t mean people 
will stop working and won’t need to use a 
certain feature, and the people who use the 
feature you’ve taken away will be quite up-
set. Even if it makes things a bit more clut-
tered, you’re better off adding more than taking things away.
2. Don’t make it too intrusive. This 
one can be a bit tricky. You need to ﬁ  nd a 
middle ground between making the prank 
so apparent that people who don’t want to 
take part will be annoyed by a prank domi-
nating their vision, but also not so subtle 
that people can barely see it. Examples 
could include a small symbol on the web 
page or a link in a blog post.
3. Don’t be malicious. This one is more 
for people than companies. Whatever you 
do for a prank, just remember they’re sup-
posed to be fun practical jokes, not chances 
to hurt someone or make their day harder. 
If it’s done in good fun and the other person 
will appreciate the joke, then go for it.
That’s all there is to it. I hope this column 
gives you some tips on responsible prank-
ing because this will be my last column. Ha! 
April Fools! I’ll be back next week!
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. 
His column appears on Mondays.It's April Fools' Day, and it's time you learned how to prank responsiblyColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgAnede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Jose Hernandez, a performer from Iztacalco, Mexico, stares down the camera Saturday after performing a traditional Mashika dance 
during the inaugural Gainesville Native American Festival at the Alachua County Fairgrounds, 3100 NE 39th Ave. The event celebrated 
Native American culture with a variety of performances and vendors, and hundreds of people attended the event.
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Fabian Fontenelle, 59, speaks to visitors at his booth 
Saturday during the Gainesville Native American 
Festival. Fontenelle is from the Zuni and Omaha 
tribes and lives in the village of Zuni in New Mexico. 
“It’s very important to share culture and tradition but 
not to give away what’s private and sacred, ” he said. Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Skylar Prescott, 12, inspects multi-colored dream catchers Saturday at the 
Gainesville Native American Festival.
MORE THAN 4,000 
PEOPLE ATTENDED
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The rhythm of the drums 
drew in a crowd as a Native 
American couple stomped to 
a Northern Plains song at the 
Alachua County Fairgrounds 
this weekend. 
More than 4,000 people 
came to the three-day event, 
which ran from Friday to 
Sunday, at the fairgrounds, 
at 3100 NE 39th Ave. It 
showcased Native American 
culture through dance perfor-
mances from tribes and dem-
onstrations of hunting skills.
The festival cost more 
than $25,000 and was mostly 
self-funded through admis-
sion costs and vendors who 
paid to sell their products 
at the event, said Pablo De-
Luna, 50, the event organizer 
and part of the Native Ameri-
can Apache tribe. 
DeLuna has hosted an an-
nual Native American festival 
in Brooksville, Florida, for 
the past six years. He decid-
ed to bring one to Gainesville 
after receiving suggestions 
to do so from people who 
traveled to Brooksville from 
northern Florida for the fes-
tival, he said. 
“These kind of festivals — 
powwows, as they’re called, 
sometimes — I hate to see 
them die out,” DeLuna said. 
“Unfortunately, we’ve lost a 
couple over the years.”
American Indians and 
Alaska Natives alone make 
up 0.3 percent of the Alachua 
County population, accord-
ing to the U.S. Census Bu-
reau.
Pat Sutton, 72, from the 
Native American Wampa-
noag Tribe, traveled from 
Rhode Island to sell home-
made hair ties and earrings. 
She traveled from festival to 
festival for the last 20 years 
selling items.
“We had a real heart-to-
heart connection,” she said. 
Gainesville resident 
Stephanie O’Hair, 38, has 
been interested in Native 
American culture since she 
was 6 or 7 years old when 
her stepfather went with her 
to her first Native American 
festival. She also feels con-
nected to the culture because 
her great-grandmother was a 
part of the Native American 
Cherokee tribe.
“As an adult, I would try to 
find them, and you couldn’t 
find them anywhere,” O’Hair 
said. 
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgNative American Festival comes to Gainesville for the first timeMONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Kenneth Sassaman, an 86-year-old Korean War veteran and Gainesville resident, listens to a speaker 
Saturday at the Vietnam veterans tribute event at Kanapha Memorial Park, at 7400 SW 41st Place. 
Sassaman served in the U.S. Army in the 25th division and 27th regiment, which was known as the 
“Wolfhounds. ” “When these Vietnam veterans came home, they were treated like dirt, ” he said. 
“Their recognition for them is fantastic. They deserve it, more than deserve it. ” 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
T ed Marshall, a 68-year-old Vietnam War veteran and other veterans reenact the last patrol of the Vietnam War Saturday at the Vietnam veterans tribute event. 
Marshall has taken part in the remembrance reenactment with The Last Patrol group for 25 years and is its first canine handler. Marshall served in Vietnam in 1971 
and 1972 with the Air Force Security Police and wears some of the same equipment he wore during the war when reenacting. “We’re living history, ” he said. 
MORE THAN 500 
PEOPLE WERE IN THE 
MOTORCYCLE PARADE
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Seven veterans dressed in 
military combat uniforms and 
camouflage face paint walked 
one by one into the center of a 
field. 
Smoke flares were thrown 
ahead as they carried guns and 
saluted fallen soldiers, reenact-
ing what a patrol in Vietnam 
may have looked like. 
The reenactment was one of 
the ways Alachua County gave 
veterans a proper welcome 
home after 50 years.
The county held its first Viet-
nam War veterans memorial 
event with a motorcycle parade 
preceding it.
The rumbling engines of more 
than 500 people on motorcycles 
could be heard on the eight-mile 
ride as Vietnam veterans went 
from Malcom Randall VA Medi-
cal Center to Kanapaha Veterans 
Memorial Park.
After jets flew over the crowd 
commencing the ceremony, 
various veterans shared stories 
about their time in the war. Oth-
er speakers included U.S. Rep. 
Ted Yoho; Charles Chestnut IV, 
the Alachua County Chairman; 
and Kim Davis, the director of 
the Alachua County Veterans 
Services. 
There were also food trucks, 
local resources for veterans and exhibits of authentic weapons 
and vehicles from the Vietnam 
War.
The Alachua County Veterans 
Services and the North Florida/
South Georgia Veterans Health 
System hosted the event. It was 
funded from $6,500 in dona-
tions.
“As much as you plan and 
hope to see an event turn out 
this well, it’s still mind-bog-
gling to see all of them riding 
down the street and pulling in 
together,” said Daniel Henry, 
the spokesperson for the North 
Florida/South Georgia Veterans 
Health System.
Henry said the tribute was 
planned because of the atmo-
sphere surrounding the war, 
which led to an unwelcoming 
crowd when soldiers returned.
“These guys were spit on 
and protested against,” he said. 
“A lot of them would take off 
their uniforms or hide the fact 
that they were in the military to 
avoid backlash.”
Ted Marshall, 68, of Tampa, 
served in Vietnam with the air 
force from 1971 to 1972. He’s 
participated in veteran remem-
brance events and reenactments 
for 25 years. He said the event 
gave him the opportunity to 
teach others about his time in 
the war and ensure the memo-
ries aren’t lost.  
“We’re living history,” Mar-
shall said. “We’re like a time 
machine.” 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgAlachua County Vietnam veterans attend first tribute 10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thousands of dollars 
and national recognition 
became a reality for Nancy 
Fichtman Dana on Thurs-
day.
Dana, a UF education 
professor, was announced 
as one of three ﬁ  nalists 
for Baylor University’s 
2020 Robert Foster Cherry Award for Great 
Teaching, which recognizes teaching excel-
lence in undergraduate education. 
Dana is the ﬁ  rst professor from UF’s Col-
lege of Education to be a ﬁ  nalist for this 
award, said Ester de Jong, the director of 
the School of Teaching and Learning. If she 
wins, Dana will teach in residence at Bay-
lor University throughout the Fall 2020 or 
Spring 2021 semester. 
“It’s such a wonderful recognition for 
the work that she does, and it’s such a good 
match,” de Jong said. “I’m delighted for 
her.”
Finalists receive $15,000, and the School 
of Teaching and Learning at UF will also re-
ceive $10,000 to fund additional resources 
and research, Dana said. The ultimate win-
ner will receive $250,000 and their home 
institution’s corresponding department will 
receive $25,000. 
“I was incredibly humbled and hon-
ored,” she said. “It’s an exciting opportuni-
ty to have a platform to talk about teaching 
and for me, that’s something I’ve devoted 
my career and life to.”
In October, Dana will travel to Baylor 
University in Waco, Texas. Finalists will 
participate in several days of lectures, class-
es and interviews, which will determine the 
ultimate winner in Spring 2020, she said. 
This includes a public talk given on each 
ﬁ  nalists’ respective discipline.In 2003, Dana began to work as a faculty 
member for the College of Education, she 
said. 
For the past 16 years at UF, Dana pub-
lished more than 10 books about teacher inquiry, a ﬁ  eld where teachers study and 
adapt their own methods of communicating 
the material to students. She plans to use 
her prize money to further her research.
Elizabeth Currin wrote a letter in support of Dana’s nomination. Currin was Dana’s 
student, teaching assistant and advisee. 
Currin said she has known Dana as both 
a great educator and a friend.
“I want other people to see what I see and 
know what I know about her,” she said. “It’s 
very afﬁ  rming to know that beyond UF, she’s 
getting that recognition she deserves.”UF professor named ﬁ  nalist for national teaching award
Dana
Finalists recieve $15,000 and could win $250,000
Nicole Needles / Alligator Staff
Great American Cleanup
Volunteers showed up to Albert “Ray” Massey Park, at 1001 NW 34th St., early Saturday morning for the annual Great 
American Cleanup. Participants split up into different groups and spread throughout Gainesville to pick up trash. At 
noon, the volunteers went back to the park to celebrate their hard work with food, a raffle and prizes. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds8 Electronics12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"PT JOB - 12 - 15 HRS / WK
Pleasant, upbeat & energetic person for light 
office work in a chiropractic office.
Mon, Wed, & Fri afternoons
 $12.50 / hr. text or call 352-215-5060    4-1-
19-3-14
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. 
Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, 
love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. 
Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO 
CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before 
applying.     4-17-19-10-14
Cashiers, Gate Attendants and Grounds 
Staff (High Springs) Ginnie Springs Outdoors  
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy work-
ing with the public. High energy and low dra-
ma is a must! Must be at least 18 years old. 
Must have your own transportation and avail -
ability to work nights, holidays and week-
ends. Seasonal employment. Apply in per-
son ONLY 9am - 4pm weekdays. NO phone 
calls! GPS Address: 5000 NE 60th Ave. High 
Springs, Florida 32643     4-8-19-5-14
EARN $250-$1000 WEEKLY:
Financial Freedom offers legit work from 
home jobs.  No exp req'd, training provide, 
easy sign-up.  Free info:  www.earncash -
weekly.site 815-977-5383    4-5-19-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYCopytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St
PLEASE APPLY IN PERSON
4-1-19-5-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesMONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (oWptional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatest
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Jake Braun
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/01/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/01/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 1, 2019
ACROSS
1 Half a fluid oz.
5 Ancient Peruvian
9 Jalopies
14 “I’m __ here!”: 
“Adios!”
15 “North by 
Northwest” actor 
Grant
16 Grownup
17 Unpredictable leg 
joint problem
19 Coffee sweetener
20 Be on the same 
page
21 Butter square
23 Old AT&T rival
24 Camera largely 
replaced by its 
digital version, for 
short
25 Beef named for 
a bone
30 Golfer’s booking
32 Diplomatic accord
33 Ancient Icelandic 
text
34 __ McMuffin
36 “The Deep” 
director Peter
37 Sally, to Charlie 
Brown
41 Poe’s one-word 
bird
44 Stars are seen 
in it
45 Bars on candy 
bars, e.g.: Abbr.
49 Disparaging 
word
52 “Let me say this 
again ... ”
54 “Love, Simon” 
co-star
56 Lawyer’s gp.
57 Inventor Whitney
58 $200 Monopoly 
props.
59 Fable writer
61 Hooves-on-
cobblestone 
sounds
64 Cry for today, 
and a hint to the 
starts of 17-, 
25-, 37- and 
54-Across
67 Lone Ranger’s 
pal
68 Con job
69 Blend by melting
70 Actress Spacek
71 Locking device
72 Went really fastDOWN
1 How food may be 
salted
2 Broke into and 
stole from
3 Mixed with a 
spoon
4 Walk nervously 
to and fro
5 “Eww!”
6 Indian bread
7 French pancake
8 “Yes, captain”
9 Is suffering from, 
as a cold
10 College address 
suffix
11 Make larger
12 Appease
13 Bowling x’s
18 “Felicity” star 
Russell
22 Bowling pin count
26 Chatted with 
online, briefly
27 Pleads
28 Lid inflammation
29 Rip to shreds
31 Opposite of giveth
35 USO show 
audience
38 Broadcast with 
greater image 
resolution, as TV 
shows39 Fat-free milk
40 Spare in a Brit’s 
boot
41 Turns down
42 Ill-fated  
1967 moon 
mission
43 “__ of sugar-
plums danced 
in their heads”: 
Moore
46 Green bowlful
47 Last train car48 Attached using a 
Swingline
50 U.K.’s continent
51 Defeat decisively
53 Airline to  
Tel Aviv
55 Pet adoption org.
60 Letters before 
gees
62 Halves of qts.
63 Tofu source
65 Dorm VIPs
66 Mischief-maker
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/29/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/29/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, March 29, 2019
ACROSS
1 Result of littering, 
maybe
4 Recipe direction
8 Round paths
14 Airport info
15 Minorca, por 
ejemplo
16 Promote
17 Frantic activity at 
a clothing sale?
19 How some insults 
are veiled
20 Luster
21 Electric guitar 
effect
23 Meh
24 Comedy bit
26 Wooden bird 
sculpture?
28 Recreational walk
31 European relative 
of aloha
32 Financial claim
33 Heroic poetry
35 Scheming wife of 
Augustus
40 With 42-Across, 
white-collar 
crime ... and 
a hint to four 
Across answers
42 See 40-Across
44 Mongol invader
45 “__ Tired”: 
Beatles “White 
Album” song
47 Long-gone time
48 Plant with 
therapeutic sap
50 Ball VIPs
52 Cereal maker’s 
storage building?
56 Longtime NBC hit
57 Drive-in need
58 Ivan IV, from 
1547 to 1584
60 Passageway
64 Theater company
66 Dispassionate 
bivalve?
68 Fairy tale sibling
69 Logician’s adverb
70 “Really? Me?”
71 Tired
72 Precious
73 Favorite
DOWN
1 Coat holders
2 Wasatch Front 
state3 Opposite of 
embiggen
4 Traffic stopper, 
perhaps
5 Leb. neighbor
6 Diamond 
concern
7 Spicy sauce
8 Capital NNW of 
Albany
9 Cheer syllable
10 Euphoria
11 “You don’t need 
to tell me”
12 Home of the 
Drillers of Class 
AA baseball
13 Watch 
surreptitiously
18 Colorful tropical 
flower
22 Middle 
management 
issues?
25 Cheer
27 Satchmo’s 
birthplace, briefly
28 Narrow opening
29 Turner with 
numbers
30 Enjoy an easy 
chair
34 Monastic leaders36 Charmingly 
pastoral
37 Member of a 
Baroque consort
38 Memo heading
39 Survey range 
components
41 Meh
43 Takes badly?
46 Threatened
49 These days
51 Charm
52 Spa features53 Like much of 
Oregon
54 Make amends
55 “I give up!”
59 Uncommon
61 Open-handed 
blow
62 Unconvincing, as 
an excuse
63 Put out
65 Energy
67 NY airport named 
for a mayor
1.  Eyebrow ____
1.  Hoisting machine5.  ____ tender
2.  African country6.  Stiff
3.  Not lawful7.  Member of the Navy
4.  Black widow ____LIPECN
LPUEYLALELG
IDRGI
AEIGRIN
LGELILALOSRAI
SDPREIANSWERS: 1A-Pencil  5A-Legal  6A-Rigid  7A-Sailor
1D-Pulley  2D-Nigeria  3D-Illegal  4D-Spider  B-Ellis Island4-1-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: New York City mayor Fiorello La Guardia 
worked at ____ ____ from 1907 to 1910.
BONUS1. Between 1980 and 1989, a mem-
ber of the Boston Red Sox led the A.L. 
in walks for a season five times. Name 
either of the two Boston players to do it.
2. True or false: Slugger Jose Can-
seco had more strikeouts than hits 
during his major-league career.
3. When was the last time before 
2016-18 that Army’s football team 
went to consecutive bowl games?
4. Other than James Harden, who 
has scored the most points in a single 
game for the Houston Rockets?
5. In the 2018-19 season, Tuuk-
ka Rask became the career leader in 
goaltender victories for the Boston 
Bruins. Who had been No. 1?
6. Who was the last driver to win the 
pole for the Daytona 500, then capture 
the race itself?
7. Who was the last teenager to win a 
women’s singles title at a Grand Slam 
tennis tournament?
Answers
1. Dwight Evans (1981, ‘85, ‘87) 
and Wade Boggs (‘86, ‘88).
2. True. He had 1,942 strikeouts and 
1,877 hits (including 462 home runs).
3. It was 1984-85.
4. Calvin Murphy had 57 points in a 
game in 1978.
5. Tiny Thompson had 252 victories 
for Boston (1928-38).
6. Dale Jarrett, in 2000.
7. Maria Sharapova was 19 when 
she won the 2006 U.S. Open.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 1, 2019King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
NCAA Final Four has been set
The NCAA T ournament has its Final Four, which will take place on April 6. 
Michigan State defeated Duke to earn the last spot, while T exas T ech downed 
Gonzaga, Virginia beat Purdue and Auburn upset Kentucky. Auburn will face 
Virginia at 6:09 p.m., and T exas T ech will play Michigan State at 8:49 p.m.Florida swimmer Maxime 
Rooney finished fourth in the 
100-meter butterfly at the NCAA 
Championships in Austin, T exas. 
Find out how the Gators did, read 
story pg. 16.BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida left fielder Austin Lang-
worthy had arguably his best game 
of the season on Sunday afternoon.
The Williston, Florida, native 
collected two multi-base hits: an RBI 
double in the bottom of the second 
that scored right fielder Wil Dalton 
and a two-run bomb over the right 
field wall in the bottom of the fourth 
to give the Gators a 4-1 lead.
Langworthy’s performance at Al-
fred A. McKethan Stadium in Game 
3 of Florida’s series with Alabama 
led UF to a 6-3 victory and a sweep 
of the Crimson Tide.
The junior has had a tough start 
to the season, hitting just .206 enter-
ing the game.
“I knew eventually it would turn 
around for me,” Langworthy said. 
“You got to start somewhere.”
Three other Florida players had 
multiple hits on the day, including 
first baseman Kendrick Calilao. He 
picked up his 32nd RBI of the year 
in the eighth inning, a team-high.
The Gators (20-10, 4-5 SEC) 
were put in a precarious position 
when starter Jack Leftwich was pulled early due to a blister on his 
throwing hand.
Leftwich pitched only one in-
ning, giving up four hits and one 
run.
“It’s something he’s been deal-
ing with for five weeks now,” 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It just 
opened up in the first, you could see 
the blood on his pants."
Gainesville native Hunter Ruth 
relieved Leftwich in the top of the 
second and pitched well against the 
Crimson Tide (20-9, 2-7 SEC) for 7.2 
innings.
Ruth gave up four hits and one 
earned run and struck out five. The 
right-hander’s effort earned him his 
first win of the season.
“I knew it was a possibility,” 
Ruth said of the early appearance. 
“I didn’t know it was going to be 
that early, but I kind of just men-
tally prepared myself yesterday…
keeping an open mind.”
Ruth was relieved by southpaw 
Jordan Butler with two outs in the 
top of the ninth inning and received 
a standing ovation from the crowd.
“It’s been my dream,” Ruth said 
of pitching in front of the home Gators sweep Alabama behind dominant pitching
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida left fielder Austin Langworthy hit an RBI double and a home run during Florida's 6-3 win 
over Alabama on Sunday at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium.
SOFTBALL TRACK AND FIELD
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Ole Miss shortstop Mikayla Allee didn’t 
know the feeling of hitting a home run as 
a collegiate player. 
The freshman stepped into the box 
in the third inning against two-time All-
American pitcher Kelly Barnhill with only 
five hits all season and a .104 batting av-
erage. 
All of those struggles at the plate 
melted away when Allee unleashed on 
a 2-1 pitch up in the zone. She smacked 
Barnhill’s offering down the left-field line 
and well over the wall for her first career 
home run. 
Allee’s solo homer was one of two on 
Sunday for the No. 22 Rebels, as they 
defeated the No. 6 Gators 3-1 at the Ole 
Miss Softball Complex. Ole Miss (24-9, 
5-3 SEC) won its first series over UF since 
2007, and Florida (29-8, 3-6) lost its third SEC series to start the season. 
The first bomb came in the first inning 
off the bat of Abbey Latham, who also 
took Barnhill deep for a walk-off grand 
slam in the eighth inning on Saturday 
night. 
“Give Latham credit,” coach Tim Wal-
ton said in a television broadcast. “Two 
swings in a row, two home runs. She’s 
done a good job on that rise ball, that’s 
for sure.”
UF’s ace entered the contest with 17.2 
innings and 268 pitches of work in the se-
ries. She threw an additional six innings 
and 84 pitches on Sunday and picked up 
her fifth loss of the campaign. 
The defense behind her wasn’t as reli-
able as it normally is. Florida came into 
the weekend leading the nation in fielding 
percentage but committed two errors in 
the rubber match and six over all three 
games. By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Sophomore Hakim Sani Brown was 
seemingly passive in his handoff to junior 
Grant Holloway. He was not aggressive 
enough in actually getting the baton in 
Holloway’s hands to continue the race. 
But once Holloway got the baton in his 
hand, he ran the second curve flawlessly. 
Senior Ryan  Clark anticipated Holloway 
coming at exactly the perfect time, and 
the next handoff was executed seamlessly. 
Clark crossed the finish line in first place 
with nobody close to him. 
The Florida men’s 4x100-meter relay 
team, along with other potential UF na-
tional champions, highlighted the Florida 
Relays over the weekend. In only the sec-
ond meet of the outdoor season, those ath-
letes showed that there is plenty of work 
to do before postseason competition.
The 4x100 team's time of 38.69 came in second among all heats. Only Athletics 
Canada ran faster at 38.34. Even still, the 
Florida men’s 4x100-meter relay team ran 
the third-fastest time in the nation. 
This relay team, consisting of Sani 
Brown, Holloway, Clark and junior Ray-
mond Ekevwo, has legitimate potential 
to win a national championship. It only 
trails LSU and Houston, who have times 
of 38.41 and 38.45, respectively. Since the 
4x100-meter is the shortest relay, it is the 
one where handoffs matter the most. One 
bad transfer of the baton, like Florida had, 
costs serious time. A clean run could pos-
sibly bridge the time between UF and the 
other two schools.  
“We haven’t run that fast here at Flor-
ida Relays before,” coach Mike Holloway 
said. “But it’s not about what we run here. 
We’ll see what happens in 10 weeks at the 
national championships.” 
On the women’s side, senior Yanis Da-Florida falls to Rebels, drops 
third-straight SEC seriesUF leaves Florida Relays 
with fixable mistakes 
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE TRACK,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Different players for Florida’s 
women’s tennis team have had 
their moments in the spotlight.
It was Ida Jarlskog who 
clinched multiple victories to be-
come the Gators’ No. 1 tennis 
player earlier this season. On Fri-
day, freshman Marlee Zein regis-
tered her second match-clinching 
victory in the win over LSU. Vic-
toria Emma had her opportunity 
Sunday against Texas A&M in Col-
lege Station, Texas.
Florida claimed its second-
straight victory over a top-25 op-
ponent on the road Sunday, hand-ing No. 12 Texas A&M its fifth 
loss of the season in a 4-2 win. 
Emma overcame a second-set slip 
and defeated Tatiana Makarova to 
clinch the victory for the Gators 
and her fifth win this season.
“It’s about a complete team 
performance, and we’ve had dif-
ferent people stepping up and 
get crucial wins all season long,” 
coach Roland Thornqvist said in a 
release. “Tonight that player was 
Victoria (Emma). She was the 
tougher player for all three sets.”
Florida (9-8, 6-4 SEC) started 
the match strong, claiming its first 
doubles point in two matches. 
Transfer tandem Jarlskog and Ts-
veta Dimitrova had its best victory of the season, defeating its first 
ranked opponent in No. 55 Renee 
McBryde and Katya Townsend 
(6-1). Kessler and Emma subse-
quently fell to No. 63 doubles pair 
Makarova and Jayci Goldsmith on 
Court 1 in a 6-3 battle. Freshman 
duo Zein and Sydney Berlin pulled 
out a tight victory over No. 67 Ri-
ley McQuaid and Lucia Quiterio in 
a tiebreaker 7-6 (6-3) to seal the 
opening point for the Gators.
Though Florida captured the 
doubles point, Texas A&M (18-5, 
6-4 SEC) broke even almost im-
mediately. 
The Aggies picked up a point 
following just three games on 
Court 2 after McCartney Kessler medically withdrew due to injury. 
No information on the severity of 
Kessler’s injury was released.
Berlin did her best to keep 
Florida in the match, notching her 
second-straight SEC victory over 
Dorthea Faa-Hviding 6-4, 6-0 af-
ter a dominant second-set perfor-
mance. McQuaid quickly evened 
the score at two apiece after de-
feating Dimitrova in three sets 
6-3, 4-6, 6-1. 
Zein and Emma both broke 
through in their respective first 
sets to win them easily. Both saw 
their opponents fight back, how-
ever, with Makarova capturing 
the second set in just eight games 
over Emma, while McBryde took the freshman to a tiebreaker and 
barely forced another set. 
In the third set, it was all Flori-
da. Zein left no room for McBryde 
en route to a 6-2 third set victory 
and the Gators third point. Emma 
finished off Makarova 7-5 and 
claimed Florida’s fifth road vic-
tory.
“To me, the true sign of men-
tal toughness in this game is how 
you respond when you get to a 
third set,” Thornqvist said. “Our 
players made the right decisions 
to close out the matches and that 
was the key difference.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgEmma, Zein triumph in three-set thrillers to propel Florida over Aggies LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The first half between the Florida women’s 
lacrosse team and Temple went back and 
forth, with the Gators holding a 6-5 lead head-
ing into the break.
Owls midfielder Bridget Whitaker tied the 
game less than two minutes into the second 
half, but that did not swing the momentum.
UF held Temple scoreless for the next 20 
minutes and recorded nine consecutive goals 
on its way to a 15-8 victory on Saturday, giving 
Florida its first conference win of the season.
The Gators (6-6, 1-0 American) went on a 
9-0 run by:
Controlling the draw
Florida controlled eight out of the 10 draws 
that took place during its 9-0 run in the second 
half.
Sophomore midfielder Shannon Kavanagh, 
UF’s primary draw taker, won three draw con-
trols in that span.
Junior midfielder Brianna Harris and soph-
omore defender Sabrina Cristodero followed  
with two draw controls apiece, while junior 
defender Cara Trombetta had one.
Four of those eight draw controls led di-
rectly to goals for the Gators — all of which 
were scored in 45 seconds or less.The other four draw controls resulted in 
three turnovers and a successful Temple clear-
ance, but Florida regained possession of the 
ball and scored each time.
Disciplined goalkeeping
Senior goalkeeper Haley Hicklen was at 
fault for the Owls’ first goal of the game.She left her cage to chase a ball that had 
gone behind her net and out of bounds.
Possession was awarded to Temple and 
Whitaker reacted quickly, putting the ball 
back in play while Hicklen was out of her net.
Whitaker found midfielder Jen Rodzewich 
near the top of the crease, and Rodzewich fired 
a shot past the outstretched arm of Hicklen.However, the AAC Preseason Goalkeeper 
of the Year redeemed herself in the second 
half.
She posted three saves during UF’s 9-0 run 
to keep the Owls off the board for nearly 20 
minutes.
Hicklen’s 12 saves against Temple were 
her third-most this season, and her .632 save 
percentage was her second-best.
The Gators allowed only eight goals on Sat-
urday, their second-lowest total of the season.
Sharing the ball
Florida’s nine goals in its run were scored 
by seven different players.
Sophomore attacker Grace Haus led the 
way with three, while six other players, in-
cluding freshman attacker Hannah Mardiney, 
notched one.
Mardiney had not scored in three straight 
games, but her goal at the 12:04 mark of the 
second half was her second of the day against 
the Owls.
Senior attacker Lindsey Ronbeck also 
scored during the Gators’ 9-0 run.
The AAC Preseason Attacker of the Year 
has scored at least one goal in 23 straight 
games, the third-best mark in program history.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUF’s second-half outburst led to its first conference win
MEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The moment after Lukas Greif clinched 
the match in a third-set tiebreaker to give the 
Gators men’s tennis team sole possession of 
first place in the SEC, Oliver Crawford jumped 
on top of him, followed by the rest of his 
teammates. 
It was a celebration that showed the im-
portance of the win.
Greif’s win capped off a 5-2 win for No. 
2 UF over the No. 7 Aggies on Sunday at the 
Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville.
“It feels unbelievable,” Greif said. “I can’t 
thank the guys that cheered me on enough 
because I couldn’t have done that without 
them.”
Both teams entered the match undefeated 
in SEC play. The winner would have the best path to the SEC regular season championship. 
With the Gators’ win, they are off to their best 
start in conference play since 2005 when they 
started 11-0. They just need to win two of 
their final matches against Alabama, Auburn 
and South Carolina to take the trophy.
Regardless of the outcome, a streak was 
going to end on Sunday. Florida (17-2, 9-0 
SEC) entered on a 10-match winning streak 
against ranked opponents. The Aggies (17-4, 
7-1 SEC) won 14 in a row, highlighted by a 
victory over No. 1 Ohio State on March 11. 
They also came in with a 21-match winning 
streak in the SEC dating back to 2017.
In their 16th-consecutive match against a 
top-50 opponent, the Gators fell in doubles 
for the second-straight match. Senior McClain 
Kessler and sophomore Duarte Vale fell 6-3 
on Court 1. On Court 2, the Aggies took the 
point when sophomore Crawford and fresh-
man Sam Riffice lost 6-4. Florida’s match on Court 3 with junior Johannes Ingildsen and 
senior Alfredo Perez was cut short, despite 
coming back from a 5-1 deficit to make it 6-5.
UF responded in singles as it won the first 
set on all six courts, but TAMU matched it 
in the second set. A third set was forced on 
Courts 3, 4 and 5 by No. 32 Valentin Vacherot, 
No. 76 Barnaby Smith and Noah Schachter. 
On Court 6, Vale did not allow a third set, 
beating Austin Abbrat 6-4, 6-2 to even the 
match at one. Soon after, No. 51 Riffice gave 
the Gators the lead with 6-3, 7-6 (7-3) win 
over No. 62 Hady Habib. 
The lead was extended to 3-1 after Craw-
ford beat No. 77 Juan Carlos Aguilar 6-2, 
6-4. Crawford’s celebration angered Aguilar 
and the Aggies’ coaching staff, with Aguilar 
screaming curse words at the umpire, and 
Crawford and Aggies’ coach Steve Denton 
yelling at Florida coach Bryan Shelton. 
Vacherot defeated UF’s sophomore Andy Andrade 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 to make it 3-2.
Despite Florida’s lead, there was a nervous 
energy in the air. Greif’s match on Court 5 
seemed destined to head to a tiebreaker in the 
third set as Greif and Schachter traded games. 
On Court 4, Ingildsen trailed Smith in the 
third set 3-1. It was still a match the Aggies 
had a strong chance of winning. 
That didn’t happen, though. Greif won 
his tiebreaker 7-3 to clinch the match with a 
6-1, 3-6, 7-6 win. Ingildsen then roared back 
to take his match 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 and put the 
Gators ahead 5-2.
Crawford said the focal point is still the 
same despite the huge win.
“Our focus is day-by-day,” Crawford said. 
“We are just trying to get better and improve.”
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgGators take top spot in SEC with win over Texas A&MChris King / Alligator Staff
Attacker Lindsey Ronbeck scored three goals in Florida’s win over T emple on Saturday.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019
The Rebels scored their third 
run on an errant sequence follow-
ing a Latham strikeout. With cen-
ter fielder Kylan Becker on first, 
Latham struck out, and Becker 
advanced to second on a passed 
ball. First baseman Amanda Lo-
renz made a fielding error on 
the throw from catcher Jordan 
Roberts, which allowed Becker 
to scamper all the way home and 
Latham to run safely to first. 
The Gators had a decent day 
offensively but couldn’t convert 
on scoring chances. They drew 
four walks and out-hit Ole Miss 
seven to four but left 10 runners 
on base. 
Florida scored its only run in 
the third inning with small ball. 
Third baseman Hannah Sipos 
doubled to left-center field, ad-
vanced to third on a ground out 
and scored on a single to the 
shortstop by second baseman 
Hannah Adams. 
UF had runners in scoring po-sition in every subsequent inning, 
including a bases-loaded opportu-
nity in the fourth, but each threat 
ended with Roberts or right field-
er Danielle Romanello. 
Romanello struck out in the 
fourth and grounded out in the 
sixth. Roberts, who went 0 for 4 
with three strikeouts, struck out 
in the fifth and seventh innings, 
each time with runners on first 
and second. 
Roberts struck out twice to 
Molly Jacobsen, who got the save. 
Jacobsen entered after 4.1 innings 
from victorious pitcher Brittany 
Finney and limited Florida to two 
hits in the final 2.2 innings. 
“She’s done a really good job,” 
Walton said of Jacobsen. “I think 
there are a lot of teams in this 
league that are going to have a 
chance to lose two or three games 
every weekend, and a lot of teams 
that have a chance to win two or 
three games every weekend. It’s a 
pretty good league.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Florida left 10 runners on base despite out-hitting Ole Miss
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Gators catcher Jordan Roberts went 0 for 4 during Florida's 3-1 loss to Ole Miss on Sunday.
vid is another potential national champion. In her first 
triple jump performance of the outdoor season, David’s 
last two jumps were over 14 meters, her best one at 
14.05. That gave her a 37-centimeter lead over the next 
best in the country, sophomore Alex Madlock from Bay-
lor. 
“It took me a little while to get there,” David said. 
“The third one and the last one I figured it out.” 
The men’s and women’s 4x400-meter relay teams 
both sit in the national No. 2 ranking after Saturday. 
The men’s team runs senior Jabari Hill, sophomore 
Chantz Sawyers and junior Denzel Villaman before an-
choring Holloway. Florida was in fifth place when Hol-
loway grabbed the baton. He passed four runners to fin-
ish in second with a time of 3:03.25, only behind Iowa’s 3:03.10, which is now the fastest time in the nation.
Getting Holloway the baton a fraction of a second 
sooner gives the relay team legitimate championship 
potential. 
The women’s time of 3:27.76 lost to South Carolina 
by .23 seconds. That team runs sophomore Taylor Man-
son, sophomore Nikki Stephens, freshman Doneisha 
Anderson and then highlights senior Sharrika Barnett. 
Barnett currently has the fastest 400-meter dash time, 
50.96, in the nation. Her 49.7-second split was also the 
fastest time for the relay to almost win it. Barnett knows 
how to make that faster. 
“I need to use my arms more,” Barnett said. “Be re-
laxed, but not too much.” 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.org
 TRACK,  from pg 14Yanis David jumped 14.05 meters in triple jump
crowd. “Since I was a kid, I came here and watched countless 
pitchers do incredible things…pitching in front of all of these 
people from Gainesville, my hometown, it’s really special.”
Florida came into the weekend struggling in conference play.
A series sweep against an SEC opponent is something the 
Gators desperately needed to stay competitive in the league.
“You really don’t want to fall behind the eight ball too 
much,” O’Sullivan said. “I mean, 1-5…when it takes more than 
one weekend to get back to .500, that’s when it starts to become 
a daunting task, so it was an important weekend for us.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14Ruth allowed four hits 
and one earned run
SWIMMING AND DIVING
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
Another season for the men’s 
swimming and diving team has 
come and gone, extending a 
streak of conference dominance 
and contending for a national 
championship in the process.
Florida remained relatively 
competitive throughout the en-
tirety of this past week’s NCAA 
Championships in Austin, Texas, 
ultimately finishing in sixth place 
with 164 points, still far from a 
dynastic California team, who 
has combined with Texas to win 
nine of the last 10 champion-
ships. Stripping the four-year title defense away from Texas, Cal 
earned its first title since 2014, 
with a scintillating 560-point to-
tal.
Through the first two days, 
the Gators found themselves in 
fifth place, needing any sort of 
late-minute performance or spark 
that could jolt them back into title 
contention.
That spark never came.
The third day of competition 
on Friday equated to more of the 
same — strong performances but 
not quite enough. Junior Maxime 
Rooney led the Gators’ effort, 
clocking the highest individual 
finish for UF of the entire champi-
onships. A fourth-place finish in the 100-meter butterfly final was 
more than sufficient to earn him 
a First-Team All-American nod 
for the ninth time in his collegiate 
career.
Freshmen Kieran Smith and 
Kacper Stokowski, juniors Grant 
Sanders and Khader Baqlah 
and the relay team of Stokows-
ki, Smith, freshman Will Davis 
and junior Marco Guarente also 
earned at least one All-American 
honor.
“The biggest thing that stood 
out tonight was the resilience of 
our guys,” coach Anthony Nesty 
said in a release. “Tonight was 
fantastic. The IM, Fly, Free, Back 
and Medley Relay all showed up for us tonight.”
Saturday, the final day of 
NCAA action, saw  more UF suc-
cesses. Sophomore Clark Beach 
earned his first All-American hon-
or with a First-Team nod for his 
sixth-place finish in the 200-meter 
backstroke final. Smith finished 
seventh in the same event’s con-
solation final, earning his sixth 
All-American award as well.
In total, 16 Florida swimmers 
earned All-American accolades, 
including six first-team and 10 
honorable-mention honors. For 
the seventh-consecutive year, the 
Gators placed the highest of any 
SEC program at the champion-
ships.It concludes a year highlighted 
by a 9-1 overall record, includ-
ing a victory over  then-No.1 
Texas on the road, and a seventh 
straight SEC title, won in com-
manding fashion.
The Gators proved that they 
have the ability to compete on a 
national level and can build off 
this experience into next year’s 
campaign.
“I am incredibly proud of this 
team and their enormous perse-
verance at this NCAA Champion-
ship,” Nesty said. “We remain 
dedicated and motivated to pur-
sue our team goals.”
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgGators end season in sixth place at NCAA Championships