We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Nicole Byer no longer coming to speak at UF
The event was canceled a week after being publicized, pg 4
How to use UF’s new football ticket app
Learn how to use the newly estbalished football app ahead of 
the season, pg 5
,
,
Gators’ oﬀ  ensive line faces tough 
challenge in Miami
Florida replaces four starters heading into 
matchup against vicious ‘Canes defense , pg. 1 1FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 2
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Lily Strickland/ Alligator Staff
Kayla T ellez, a 20-year-old UF psychology junior, takes a selﬁ  e with UF President Kent Fuchs on Tuesday 
at Plaza of the Americas. Fuchs traveled around campus taking photos and giving out free shaved ice for 
students for the ﬁ  rst day of fall classes. “It was amazing. I felt like I met a celebrity, ” T ellez said. “It’s my ﬁ  rst 
year on campus, and I’m super excited and it’s just like the cherry on top. ”
BACK TO SCHOOL
PRESIDENT JACKSON 
SASSER ANNOUNCED 
RETIREMENT IN JANUARY
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
After 17 years of serving as the 
president of Santa Fe College, Jack-
son Sasser declared his upcoming 
retirement in February 2020. 
He said he expects one thing 
from the new president: “every-
thing.” 
Since the announcement in Jan-
uary, more than 60 applicants from 
across the country have rushed to 
bid for his position — and only 
seven are left standing. These 
semiﬁ  nalists were chosen by Santa 
Fe College’s 18-member Presiden-
tial Search Committee, which was 
formed this January in anticipation 
of Sasser’s leave. 
The seven will undergo further 
interviews in front of the committee 
on Sep. 4 and Sep. 6, after which an 
undetermined number of ﬁ  nalists will be chosen, said Search Com-
mittee Chair Tom Mallini. Then, it’s 
up to Santa Fe’s Board of Trustees 
to choose who will become the col-
lege’s next president in October or 
November. 
Sasser +said he isn’t worried 
about the school’s future with the 
choice being in their hands, he said.
“My conﬁ  dence is at 100 percent 
that the board will select a president 
that will not just continue the good 
things, but that will take this college 
to a whole new level,” he said. 
The semiﬁ  nalists were chosen 
based on a proﬁ  le set up by Santa 
Fe stakeholders: the college’s facul-
ty, administration and board mem-
bers, Mallini said.  
They want someone who pri-
oritizes diversity and equality while 
being able to advocate for the col-
lege in Florida legislative meetings 
and represent the college on a na-
tional level like Jackson Sasser has, 
he said. 
Although Sasser isn’t involved in Santa Fe College chooses 
presidential semiﬁ  nalists
SEE SANTA FE,  PAGE 3
THE ORDINANCE WOULD 
REQUIRE ALL BREEDERS 
TO HOLD A VALID 
BREEDING LICENSE 
Priya Dames
Metro News Assistant
Tensions ran high as city com-
missioners and Florida pet breed-
ers debated the possibility of new 
pet breeding regulations in Alachua 
County. 
The Alachua County Commission met Tuesday afternoon to discuss 
a new ordinance that would make 
breeding licenses a requirement for 
both hobby and commercial pet 
breeders within the county. A deci-
sion was not made on the ordinance, 
and commissioners decided to table 
it to conduct research. 
Ed Williams, the director of Ala-
chua County Animal Services, said 
the number of unsterilized dogs ad-
mitted to Animal Services has risen 
from 68 percent in 2017 to 73 per-cent in 2018.
A new licensing program, which 
would require a license for breeders 
themselves rather than only licenses 
for individual animals, may provide 
a way to begin combating these sta-
tistics, Williams said. He thinks an 
existing state breeding law isn’t ad-
dressing the issue.
“There’s a state law in place for 
breed regulation, but it’s designed 
to be a consumer protection mech-
anism and gives people recourse in case they buy an animal from a 
breeder and there are problems with 
it,” Williams said.
Animals are currently registered 
individually, Williams said. Steril-
ized and microchipped animals cost 
$10 per year to register, and unster-
ilized animals cost $40 per year to 
register. 
Susan Smith, the president of the 
Florida Association of Kennel Clubs, 
a federation of dog clubs, said a 
breeder licensing program would be unnecessary because of these exist-
ing laws that regulate breeding.
As the board collaborates with 
dog clubs to ﬁ  ne tune the condi-
tions of the ordinance, Smith hopes 
the county will work to better un-
derstand the dog breeders’ point of 
view.
“We would really like to work 
with you on this,” Smith said. “Let’s 
get this done.”
@priya_dames
pdames@alligator.orgBy Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
A blue and orange box stood in the middle 
of Turlington Plaza.
Gator Growl staffers wearing cowboy hats 
and boots chanted, counting down while coun-
try music played in the background. A crowd 
of about 100 students ﬁ  lled the plaza to learn 
who would headline the annual homecoming 
concert.The box was lifted up to reveal a staffer 
holding a sign with a picture of country mu-
sic singer Chase Rice, who will headline the 
Homecoming concert on Oct. 4 at Flavet Field. 
Youtube star and UF alum Cameron “Scoot-
er” Magruder will host the event.
Rice, who is a former University of North 
Carolina football player, is known for his song 
“Eyes On You” and also came in second place 
on the reality television show “Survivor: Nica-
ragua” in 2010.Tickets can be purchased on Turlington Pla-
za or online through Ticketmaster, said Gator 
Growl executive producer Corben Champoux. 
General admission is $25 for non-UF students 
and $15 for UF students. A unique code will be 
emailed to students to redeem the discounted 
price. Pit Passes, which bring concert goers 
closest to the stage, cost $50.
An opening act will be announced at a later 
date, Champoux said. She declined to conﬁ  rm 
how much Rice and Magruder would be paid. 
The Alligator made public records requests for 
the contracts.
Champoux said this year’s theme is “This is Gator Country,” which is why Rice was picked 
to perform. She believes the student body will 
react positively to the announcement.  
“He’s just such a good artist and has so 
many top hits,” she said. “I think it’s going to 
go over really well.”
Sebastian Mallory, a 21-year-old English and 
information systems junior said he was disap-
pointed to hear the announcement on social 
media. Mallory, like some other students in 
the crowd, speculated that the performer might 
be “Old Town Road” singer Lil Nas X, who is 
known for wearing eccentric cowboy hats.
County Commission discusses potential pet breeding licensesCountry singer Chase Rice headlines Gator Growl 2019
He will perform Oct. 4 at Flavet Field
SEE GROWL,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  89° LOW  72°
WHAT'S HAPPENING
THIS WEEK
CWC 4th Annual Bowling 
Fundraiser
When: Today, 5:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: Alley Gatorz Bowling 
Center, 2606 NE Waldo Road
What: The CWC is celebrating 
11 years of hands-on work in the 
community to ease the utility bur-
den for local residents. Grab your 
bowling shoes and head over to 
Alley Gatorz for a little bit of fun-
draising and a whole lot of fun. 
This will be the organization's 
fourth year hosting the event, and 
they are hoping to make it the 
biggest and best yet. 
Pride Night at World of Beer
When: Today, 9 p.m.
Where: World of Beer 
What: WoB will be joined by the 
Pride Center of Gainesville to cel-
ebrate and support the diversity 
of Gainesville. The event will 
include a half-priced Pride Night 
menu including food, draft beer 
and spirits. After 9 p.m., guests 
can enjoy comedic stylings from 
"Keg of Laughs" in the Cellar. 
Tessa Violet and The Forum
When: Thursday,  Doors 8 p.m. / 
Show 9 p.m. 
Where: High Dive
What: YouTuber singer-songwrit-
er Tessa Violet will be perform-
ing with opening act The Forum. 
In the time since her last three 
singles have exploded, Tessa has 
gone from an acoustic-leaning 
solo artist, to an inspirational 
female fronting a shredding live 
band, anchored by drummer Jess 
Bowen. Tickets are available 
online at Hear Again Records 
with a $1 service charge as well 
as at the High Dive box office in 
downtown Gainesville. Prices for 
the show are $15 in advance and 
$17 the day of the show. ‘Battle of the Beasts: Crocs vs 
Gators’
When: Thursday,  6 to 9 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History
What: Florida Museum scientists 
will debate alligators vs. croco-
diles with the audience choosing 
the winner through real-time on-
line voting. Guests may also  par-
ticipate in a trivia hunt for prizes 
and experience live animals in 
the “Crocs” exhibition with Katie, 
the exhibit’s animal keeper. Food 
and beverages will be available 
for purchase from a cash bar and 
food trucks. For more information 
or to buy tickets, visit www.flori-
damuseum.ufl.edu/event/battle 
or call 352-273-2045.
The Florida Vintage Market 
When: Saturday, 1 to 6 p.m.
Where: High Dive
What: Gazzelli Sport Vintage 
presents The Florida Vintage 
Market. The event is free for all 
ages and will include a variety of 
live performances and local ven-
dors. Vendors will include Gaz-
zelli Sport Vintage, The Vintage 
Hypebeast, Deli Fresh Blessing, 
Style Recycled, Reinvinted and 
Y-Naught. 
Phillips Center Open House and 
UFPA On Sale Party 
When: Saturday, 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: University of Florida 
Performing Arts will host its first 
open house on Saturday, Aug. 
24. The event will include food, 
prizes and a free ticket giveway 
to performances for the rest of 
the season. UFPA stall will lead 
guests through a backstage tour 
of the Philips Center to areas 
rarely seen by the public. 
First International Food Truck 
Rally
When: Sunday, 3 to 8:30 p.mWhere: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company
What: First Magnitude Brewery 
and MA Entertainment partnered 
to bring the First International 
Food Truck Rally on Sunday. The 
rally will include dishes from 
different international cuisine as 
well as performances from live 
artists including Iris, la Dama del 
Mambo, Bill Fote Trio and DJ 
Music. 
Student Services Relocates to 
Smathers Library
When: M-F, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: 100 Smathers Library
What: Student services for admis-
sions, registrar, student financial 
affairs and the bursar will be relo-
cated from Criser/Peabody Halls 
to 100 Smathers Library. This one 
location for these services has 
been designed for students’ con-
venience during fall peak time.
NEXT WEEK
TranQuility Free Clothing Swap
When: Aug. 26 at 6:30 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center 
What: TranQuility and Gainesville 
Free Store will be hosting a 
clothing swap party at the Civic 
Media Center. This event is free 
and open to the public. If you 
are able, bring up to 10 items to 
donate or swap. The organizers 
have asked for clothing, toiletries, 
makeup, binders, breast forms, 
packers and stand-to-pee (STP) 
devices.
SEPTEMBER
Fall Student Government 
Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25 
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Fall SG Elections will be 
held Sept. 24 and 25 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at locations 
across campus. 
Absentee ballots requests, due 
by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should be 
submitted online at www.sg.ufl.
edu/elections. These elections 
will determine the 50 senators 
who represent the students living 
on and off campus. 
Party registration will run Aug. 22 
at 9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as fol-
lows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 2
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Sam ThomasEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgLokelah Blanc, avenue@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
,
,
LAUREN POE EXPERIENCES 
SOCIAL MEDIA CRITICISM 
FOR A TWEET REGARDING 
ANTI-FASCIST GROUPS 
By Kalli Johnson
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
is garnering criticism online for his 
tweet defending antifa, a movement 
of anti-fascist groups in the U.S.
The controversy, which has re-ceived attention from residents on 
social media, followed a tweet Poe 
posted Sunday in response to Presi-
dent Donald Trump’s tweet stating 
he would consider labeling antifa, 
the left-wing group, as an “organiza-
tion of terror.”
In response to the president, Poe 
tweeted, “As protesters clash at a 
far-right rally in Portland, Trump 
suggests naming antifa a terrorist 
group, @realDonaldTrump. Antifa 
stands up to hate, misogyny, racism 
and bigotry.” He also included a link 
to an article about the protest.
Poe told The Alligator he is not 
taking any sides.
“I don’t have a status on antifa,” 
he said. “My tweet was about the 
president’s suggestion that he was 
going to declare them a terrorist or-
ganization which is incredibly mis-
placed.”
Gainesville Police Ofc. Bobby 
White, who became known as “Bas-
ketball Cop” after a 2016 video of 
him playing basketball with a group 
of boys went viral, responded direct-
ly to the mayor’s tweet. He repeat-
edly questioned Poe’s stance on the 
anti-facist group.
“Are you pro-antifa?” White 
asked the mayor. “Do you realize 
that Antifa is who we as law en-
forcement were preparing for when 
Richard Spencer came to town?”
He then followed up with anoth-
er tweet, asking, “So, are you pro-
antifa?”
White declined to comment on 
his exchange with Poe. 
Local members of the far-left 
group exist in Gainesville. In Oct. 
2018, they protested white suprema-
cist Richard Spencer’s speech at UF. 
After the event, three alt-right Spen-
cer supporters shot at a crowd of 
people.
“I have no patience for antifa’s vigilantism and their willingness to 
use acts of violence or destroy prop-
erty,” Poe said, “but they do not 
employ any ideologies or tactics that 
are meant to terrorize the popula-
tion.”
Antifa has no uniﬁ  ed structure 
or national leadership and can vary 
in every city, according to USA To-
day. Members do not always abstain 
from violence, and the movement’s 
primary goal is to “stop neo-Nazis 
and white supremacists from gain-
ing a platform.”
Other comments on Poe’s tweet 
called attention to the violent actions 
antifa groups have taken in the past. 
William H. Russell Jr., a 58-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said the mayor 
was wrong to Tweet in defense of 
antifa groups.
“For a mayor — a public ofﬁ  cial 
— to come out and support antifa 
and then turn around and backtrack 
and say that he doesn’t advocate vi-
olence, I’m sorry to tell you Mr. Poe, 
but if you advocate antifa you’re ad-
vocating violence,” Russell said. 
He said he believes antifa groups 
pose a threat to both the safety and 
the opinions of the Gainesville com-
munity. Russell added that he thinks 
the mayor should resign or be re-
moved from ofﬁ  ce. 
 A post on the Gainesville Word 
of Mouth Facebook page about the 
tweet received more than 580 com-
ments before being deleted.
Resident Ceciley Meeks, 29, said 
she feels that Poe’s tweet was well-
warranted.
“When we have people like Rich-
ard Spencer thinking they get to have 
a platform for their white supremacy 
in Gainesville, we have a problem,” 
Meeks said. “Poe stood up for Antifa 
and I think that’s great.”
@Kallidain
kallijohnson@alligator.orgGainesville Mayor faces backlash over 
antifa tweet from ‘Basketball Cop’
the selection process, he 
has his own presidential 
wish list: a commitment 
to establishing equity, 
promoting international 
perspectives and build-
ing facilities that meet the 
students’ needs. 
These acts would be 
a continuation of what 
Sasser has spent his ca-
reer establishing. Under 
his leadership, Santa Fe 
College created a sup-
port program for African 
American males called 
‘My Brother’s Keeper,’ 
implemented an ‘Inter-
nationalizing the College’ 
initiative that makes sure 
global perspectives are 
included in every course 
and built four new cam-
puses, according to the Florida Chamber of Com-
merce. 
“The person that is se-
lected by this board will 
be someone that will rec-
ognize and appreciate the 
culture of excellence and 
the culture of respect that 
exists at this college,” 
Sasser said. “This is an 
exciting time for a new 
person to come in with 
new commitments, new 
ideas, to serve students 
and serve communities 
better.” 
Editor’s Note: The 
Alligator will publish 
proﬁ  les of all seven 
semiﬁ  nalist presidential 
candidates on Friday.
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgSANTA FE,  from pg. 17 semiinalists  “Gator Growl has been hit 
or miss to be honest,” Mallory 
said. “It was the ﬁ  rst big event 
I went to as a freshman, and I 
can imagine a lot of freshmen 
are going to miss out on the 
event because they’ll be turned 
off either by the genre or the 
relatively unknown headliner.”
Meanwhile, some country 
music fans are excited to see 
Rice perform. Bailey Cadden, a 20-year-
old UF early childhood educa-
tion junior, was recruiting for 
her sorority Theta Alpha on 
Turlington Plaza when she 
heard the announcement. Cad-
den said she’s a fan of Rice. 
“I think it’s nice to change 
it up a little bit from the other 
music styles they have had in 
the past,” Cadden said. “I like 
country music, so I think it’ll 
be fun.”
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgGROWL,  from pg. 1YouTuber will host
THE SEMIFINALISTS:
Edward T. Bonahue 
• Provost and vice president for 
academic affairs at Santa Fe College  
Andrew W. Bowne  
• Senior vice president and chief 
operating ofﬁ  cer at Ivy T ech 
Community College in Indiana  
Paul Broadie II 
• President of Housatonic Community 
College and Gateway Community 
College in Connecticut  
Beverly Moore-Garcia 
• Former president of the Kendall and 
West campuses of Miami Dade College 
Kevin Alexander Pollock 
• Former president of Montgomery 
County Community College in 
Pennsylvania 
Bryan Reece 
• Former president of Norco College in 
California 
Carmen M. Simone
• Vice president and dean at the 
University of South Dakota Community 
College 
Information from Santa Fe College 
Communications Manager Jay Anderson
4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
F a c e b o o k .   4 3 6  S E  2 n d  S t .   w - s a t  1 1 - 7 ,  s u n  b r u n c h  1 0 - 3   
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 
pm. Serving Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and 
more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 151 1 NW 
2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat. welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 
5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts 
and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. In -
door and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-
9649 . Introducing the Side Car 
Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. 
Open LateSHE WILL RESEARCH 
SEAGRASS, MARINE LIFE 
IN CEDAR KEY
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF graduate student is learning 
how seagrass plays a role in combat-
ing the effects of climate change. 
Jamila Roth, a 24-year-old UF 
ecology doctoral student, was award-
ed a $30,000 graduate research schol-
arship sponsored by the Florida Sea 
Grant College Program and the Na-
ture Coast Biological Station (NCBS) to study seagrass at a UF marine sci-
ence lab in Cedar Key.
“I am very excited to work on 
this research and I am very grateful 
for the funding from NCBS and the 
Florida Sea Grant,” Roth said. “I am 
honored to receive this scholarship 
from these two organizations that I 
greatly admire.”
The Florida Sea Grant College Pro-
gram is a university-based initiative 
seeking to conserve coastal resources 
and enhance economic opportunities. 
The Nature Coast Biology Station, 
where Roth will be studying, facilitate 
conservation and sustainability ef-
forts in the Nature Coast area through research, education and public out-
reach. 
Savanna Barry, a regional sea 
grant agent at the Nature Coast Bio-
logical Station, said seagrass plays a 
crucial role in marine environments.
Seagrass is a ﬂ  owering plant that 
grows in shallow water and is a vital 
part of marine ecosystems. 
“Seagrasses are what we call 
a foundation species,” Barry said. 
“They create entire ecosystems just 
based on their presence.”
The plant helps combat climate 
change by storing carbon dioxide 
from the atmosphere. Since 1879, 
Earth has lost 29 percent of the known area coverage of seagrass be-
cause of algal blooms, warming tem-
peratures and boating, according to a 
study done by the School of Marine 
and Tropical Biology at James Cook 
University.
But there’s hope for seagrass. Roth 
is researching how diversity in sea-
grass species impacts resilience in the 
ecosystem. Her research ﬁ  ndings can 
be used to develop new restoration 
methods such as enforcing seagrass-
conscious boating practices and cre-
ating more resilient populations, she 
said. 
Laura Reynolds, a UF assistant 
professor of coastal ecology, has been 
Roth’s mentor throughout her re-
search. She said Roth will work in the 
Big Bend region of Florida near the 
Gulf of Mexico, which contains one of the two largest seagrass beds in the 
continental United States. 
“What she really wants to do is 
make a difference in conservation 
and restoration,” Reynolds said. 
“This will help facilitate interactions 
and help her make connections.”
Roth said she hopes to use the 
scholarship to improve the public’s 
understanding of what makes sea-
grasses able to withstand difﬁ  cult 
conditions like climate change.
“With all of my research, I hope 
to produce relevant, realistic ﬁ  ndings 
that translate well into practice and 
have implications for seagrass con-
servation and restoration,” Roth said.
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.org
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
New technological developments 
could lead to a more effective way 
to study diseases and change how 
drugs are developed. 
UF researchers began developing 
a system to study Type 1 diabetes 
through the islet in the pancreas, 
which makes insulin, said Cherie Sta-
bler, a UF biomedical engeineering professor. The system will be made 
with new cell-based technology that 
will mimic the islet and allow for test-
ing of different drugs and therapies.
Type 1 diabetes is an autoim-
mune disorder in which immune 
cells recognize the cells that produce 
insulin as being foreign. The immune 
cells attack the islet, so people with 
Type 1 diabetes cannot produce in-
sulin. A lack of insulin can be lethal, 
Stabler said. “I was always interested in trying 
to come up with medical interven-
tions that could treat many different 
conditions,” she said.
Cell therapies and treatments are 
primarily tested on animals. Because 
of the biological differences between 
mice and humans, the UF research-
ers are creating an organ on a chip 
that will imitate the pancreas and can 
be a tool for treatments.
“If we can understand the factors that initiate the disease, as well as 
ways in which the immune cells are 
killed, we can possibly come up with 
interventions,” Stabler said. 
This system was created because 
of advancements in types of stem 
cells, said Clayton Mathews, a pro-
fessor at UF’s College of Medicine. 
Researchers can grow adult cells 
in cultures and turn them into im-
mune cells, Mathews said. 
UF’s Center for Cellular Repro-gramming and other resources have 
given the researchers a competitive 
advantage when it comes to develop-
ing this technology, Matthews added. 
“What we really want to do is be 
able to use this system to ask ques-
tions about what happens in four di-
mensions,” Mathews said.
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgTHE EVENT WAS 
CANCELED A WEEK 
AFTER BEING PUBLICIZED
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Tonight, Nicole Byer was going 
to spend an evening among Gators, 
or so students thought for about a 
week. 
The Reitz Programming Board announced a live show with the TV 
personality in the Reitz Union on 
Aug. 9, but the event was canceled 
less than a week later, said Tori 
Chin, the board’s vice president of 
external affairs. 
Byer is the host of Netﬂ  ix’s 
“Nailed It!,” a show about home 
bakers. She also has a web series 
with MTV, “Loosely Exactly 
Nicole,” and was formerly on the 
network’s series, “Girl Code.” 
The comedian spoke at UF in 2015, according to Alligator 
archives. 
RPB negotiated between $10,000 
to $20,000 to host Byer, which 
would have come from student ac-
tivity fees. However, the exact price 
was never determined because the 
contract was not ﬁ  nalized, Chin 
said. 
“We thought Nicole had an au-
dience that spans across a lot of 
different groups and that would be 
great for UF’s campus,” Chin said. However, the event was 
canceled due to scheduling 
conﬂ  icts with the performer, said 
board president Janzen Rich. The 
team still does not know if it will 
reschedule Byer’s performance or 
sign a different entertainer.
“We want to ﬁ  nd someone with 
the same diversity goals that we 
represent in our events and also 
someone who has the same target 
audience of that college crowd,” 
Rich said. Brooke Faer, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology senior, was planning on 
attending the event to learn more 
about Byer. She said she was disap-
pointed and hopes they replace the 
event with someone similar.
“I just think she’s really funny on 
the Netﬂ  ix show so I was interested 
in seeing what her comedy was 
like,” Faer said.
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgUF grad studies seagrass, climate change
UF researchers develop new technology to study diabetesComedian Nicole Byer no longer speaking at UF todayWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Albert the Alligator leads the “2-bits, 4-bits” cheer for a crowd of about 2,000 students Tuesday evening in the stadium. The cheer was created by George Edmundson, also known 
as Mr. Two-Bits, who passed away in July. UF is hosting a competition for students to apply to be the new Mr. Two-Bits in an effort to keep the tradition alive. Students who are 
interested can post a video explaining why they should be the next honorary Mr. Two-Bits with the hashtag #StudentTwoBits to be considered. The contest closes Monday.
FANS CAN MANAGE 
TICKET NEEDS THROUGH 
THE APP
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Students don’t have to wait for 
hours in the sun outside Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium for football tickets 
anymore — There’s an app for that.
UF launched the Florida Gators 
App on Aug. 1, which will allow 
fans to buy, claim and sell their tick-
ets straight from the app. Students 
can manage their tickets online and 
be admitted to the game using their 
phones, said Andrew Case, director of customer relationship manage-
ment and analytics of the University 
Athletic Association.
This method of claiming tickets is 
meant to be more convenient, Case 
said. Here’s how:
• Students can use their 
TicketMaster account to 
purchase season tickets or 
single-game tickets in the 
student section.
• Students can claim their tick-
et online during the week of 
the game instead of having 
to go to the student ticket 
office.
• Students can link their 
emails with their friends and 
buy adjacent seats. Students are able to link up to 14 tick-
ets before having to create a 
block, a process that requires 
a separate application. 
• Once the tickets have been 
claimed, students are as-
signed a seat that will be 
added to their digital wallet.
• On game day, students 
should have their digital tick-
et and Gator 1 card ready. 
Students can transfer tickets 
amongst one another, and non-stu-
dents can resell tickets through the 
app, Case said. Current students can 
also purchase guest tickets that al-
low non-students to sit in the student 
section.
“That helps reduce fraud because we know that they have a verified 
ticket through TicketMaster, and it’s 
going to get them into the game no 
matter what,” Case said. 
Mobile ticketing was never at-
tempted in the past due to a lack of 
strong internet connection on game 
days, but Case said this should be-
come easier with the stadium’s im-
proved Wi-Fi this Fall. 
“With the addition of that con-
nectivity, we feel like it’s the right 
time to move toward a more digital 
ticketing experience,” he said.
Evan Setley, a 20-year-old UF 
construction management junior, 
thinks digital ticketing is ingenious, 
especially after the long process that 
he went through the past two years to claim tickets.
“I would have to get all my 
friends tickets and everything, text 
them, meet up with them to get their 
Gator 1’s and everything and wait in 
line on Thursdays to get my tickets,” 
Setley said. 
Setley is looking forward to the  
upcoming football season, as he 
thinks that the Gators will have a 
better year.
“I think it’s going to be really ex-
citing, sitting with my friends and 
having another great season tailgat-
ing,” he said. “I think it’s going to be 
a lot of fun.” 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgGuide to game days: How to use UF’s new football ticket appEditorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Social media and fast fashion’s toxic relationship
I can’t deny that I love a good deal. When 
most people see a sale, they immediately 
perk up and probably spend a little more 
than they should. This, unfortunately, is 
especially true in retail shopping. Many 
people don’t realize how affected they are by 
the advertising they see, especially online.
It seems like fashion is worth more than 
an education. The fashion industry makes 
over $2.4 trillion and is steadily increasing in 
value. The internet has exposed people across the globe 
to different types of artistic expressions and cultures. 
However, fast fashion seems to be one of the highest-
grossing sectors of this industry. Its production requires 
little uniqueness or creativity, yet people still love it. 
Fashion’s importance in our lives is increasing, and 
we’re doing nothing to stop it.
According to the National Retail Foundation, back-
to-school shoppers spend more money on clothes than 
school supplies. On average, each family in the survey 
planned to spend $236.90 on clothing, compared to a 
mere $122.13 on notebooks, pencils, backpacks and 
lunchboxes. What was most shocking was the fact that 
college shoppers spend more money on clothes than 
they do on food. Unfortunately, it seems like we are 
being inﬂ  uenced to prioritize luxuries over our needs.
If you feel like you’re addicted to social media, you 
aren’t alone. In 2017, CBS reported that 30% of individ-
uals between the ages of 18 to 24 feel like we are addict-
ed to social media. Basically, nearly one in three of your 
classmates has an addicted. Out of all the social media 
platforms, Instagram seems to have the most growth 
in popularity. Between the years 2014 and 2017, the 
amount of active users on Instagram grew more than 
357%. It has grown exponentially in the past few years, 
and an alarming amount of people trust Instagram mar-keting over other advertisements.
People feel connected to inﬂ  uencers. They 
see pictures of them nearly every day and 
envy the perfect life depicted in their stories. 
In 2017, Time magazine named Instagram 
the worst social media site for your mental 
health. We lose ourselves in the need to be 
like what we see online. We do things that 
are not beneﬁ  cial to us, such as buying an 
excess of trendy clothing. Why do we put so 
much importance on appearance and the maintenance 
of a false persona?
The answer is simple. It’s easier to be fake than to 
handle our own issues. Many people who use social 
media for hours at a time are looking to ﬁ  ll a social 
void that they may not realize they have. Young adults 
who spend more than two hours a day on social media 
are more likely to feel isolated and excluded, according 
to an article from the American Journal of Preventive 
Medicine. How do these individuals get rid of these neg-
ative feelings? They drown them by buying the luxuries 
advertised by wealthy inﬂ  uencers in order to become a 
part of a false community.
We need to get out of this rut. Although I ﬁ  nd it 
amazing how social media has grown and how indi-
viduals across the globe are able make a living spread-
ing their creativity and connecting, we are forgetting 
about important things that are essential to our individ-
ual growth. The next time you’re thinking about buying 
into the newest trend, think about how social media is 
inﬂ  uencing your desires and consider visiting your local 
thrift store for your needs instead. 
Zora Viel is a UF journalism sophomore.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Department of Justice 
is stuck in the ‘60s
The United States Department of Justice longs for a 
return to simpler, more ignorant times: when men 
were manly, women were womanly and you could 
tell what was between a person’s legs by whether 
they were wearing a skirt or trousers. Because in the 
olden days, that was incredibly important knowledge. You 
had to know what reproductive organ a person had so you 
knew how to treat them, how much to pay them, whether you 
were attracted to them, which bathroom they should use and 
whether or not to ﬁ  re them. 
The DOJ stated that it’s not sex discrimination for 
employers to require their employees to fulﬁ  ll sex stereotypes. 
In a recent article by CNN, the DOJ had an outdated stance 
on sex discrimination and gender expression. The department 
believes employers can ﬁ  re someone for being transgender or 
refusing to conform to sex stereotypes, such as sex speciﬁ  c 
dresscodes, without violating the Civil Rights Act. 
This does not bode well for our future employability. We 
may as well start researching self-employment options now, 
since the ﬁ  rst time a boss tells us we can’t wear pants to work 
because they aren’t feminine will be the last time that boss 
tells us anything. 
If the DOJ has its way, we won’t even have legal recourse. 
Basically, the DOJ’s stance is that it is not a violation of your 
rights for your employer to dictate your clothes and appearance 
based on whether you have a penis or vagina. Nevermind your 
gender identity or that not everyone has a place in a binary 
system. 
According to the DOJ’s logic, federal protections are not 
intended to protect everyone. In a legal brief submitted on 
Friday to the Supreme Court, the DOJ argued that the 88th 
U.S. Congress only had cisgender humans in mind when they 
passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
According to the DOJ, “sex” was narrowly deﬁ  ned 55 years 
ago by 416 white congressmen, 5 black congressmen and 14 
congresswomen as biological sex. Therefore, applying the 
protections of the Civil Rights Act to transgender, nonbinary 
and gender nonconforming people would be an over-reaching, 
illogical extension of the law. Only cisgender-men and 
cisgender-women have the privilege of federal protection. 
Like us, the United States Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission doesn’t agree with that. The commission is the 
agency mandated by Congress to enforce the Civil Rights Act 
and investigates employment discrimination claims. Even 
though it is under the authority of the DOJ, the commission 
would not endorse the DOJ’s brief.
Outdated, sexist and transphobic deﬁ  nitions seem to 
be the DOJ’s bread and butter. It recently surfaced that 
the DOJ changed the way it deﬁ  nes sexual assault and 
domestic violence. Sexual assault is now deﬁ  ned in terms of 
misdemeanor and felony law violations. 
The deﬁ  nition of domestic violence is now limited to 
physical abuse, with no acknowledgement of the psychological, 
emotional, manipulative or coercive forms abuse can take. 
These new deﬁ  nitions roll survivors’ rights back an estimated 
50 years, to a time period the DOJ seems more comfortable 
with. 
We, however, are not comfortable. We will not stand by 
quietly, like well-behaved women in skirts, while the DOJ 
tries to turn back time “to the good ole days.” We demand 
the equal protection guaranteed to all individuals by the 14th 
Amendment. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITOR
Zora Viel
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Chompin’ at the bit: Players to watch
T ake a look at players to watch in the upcoming 
Volleyball season, pg 11Gators gear up for a challenging 2019-20 season
Let’s take a look at the players who are set to make an impact this year.
Pg 12THE BAND IS STARTING THE FALL 
SEMESTER OFF BY OPENING 
FOR THE GAINESVILLE SHOW OF 
TESSA VIOLET’S WORLD TOUR.
Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Local indie pop-rock band, The Fo-
rum, will ﬁ  nd themselves bracing the 
crowd for YouTube singer- songwriter 
and headliner Tessa Violet on her world 
tour Thursday. 
The Central Florida based band with 
Gainesville roots is opening for  “Crush” 
singer Tessa Violet at the High Dive on 
Thursday. Tickets are $15 in advance 
and $17 at the door. Doors open at 8 
p.m. and the show begins at 9 p.m.
The Forum was founded in 
Gainesville during late 2015 after vo-
calist Michael Higgins met his future 
guitarist Nick Wheeler and bassist Ja-
cob Farrell through craigslist ads. The 
band rounded out its current iteration in 
December 2018 when drummer Ethan 
Klohr joined the group.
The inspiration for the band name 
came from meeting each other online.
The Forum jumped on the opportu-nity to open for Tessa Violet after seeing 
that she was coming to Gainesville. The 
band immediately reached out to the 
High Dive to try and grab a spot.
Patrick Lavery, the Facility and 
Events Manager of the High Dive, hap-
pily obliged.
“The Forum is one of the best bands 
in Gainesville and they were very excit-
ed to open the show. It was a no brain-
er,” Lavery said.
Michael Higgins, 23, sees the show 
as an opportunity to reach a broader 
audience.
“I’m interested to see what kind of 
crowd it draws. I think it will deﬁ  nitely 
be a new crowd of people that probably 
haven’t seen us before in Gainesville,” 
Higgins said.
A week after playing with Tessa Vio-
let, The Forum are returning to perform 
with some of the state’s largest regional 
bands at the Heartwood Soundstage.
The Forum will perform alongside oth-
er Florida bands ﬂ  ipturn, The Hails, King 
Complex, Glass House Point and Drive-
way. The show begins at 6 p.m. and tick-
ets are priced at $10 online for students 
and friends of Heartwood, $12 online for everyone else, or $15 at the door. 
“That lineup is interesting because 
I feel like we all grew up together in 
the music scene the last three years in 
Florida,” Higgins said. “It’s really cool to 
have that collection of artists all in one 
night back in Gainesville. We all have 
such respect for each other.”
Before solidifying what Higgins de-
scribes as a “huge opportunity,” The Fo-
rum has been consistently hitting shows 
around Florida, creating new music and 
expanding their presence.
Higgins said the best part of perform-
ing around Florida is seeing fans across 
the state come back to their shows. 
“My favorite part is seeing the peo-
ple that you’ve reached in those places 
come back and then meeting new peo-
ple,” Higgins said. “It’s really cool to get 
that group growing and coming back 
and it’s a testament to the work we’ve 
put in to get back there and connect 
with those people.
The band plans to release a new 
single in the fall, but gave no further in-
formation about the record. 
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.org
By Cassidy Hopson
Avenue Staff Writer
The Atlantic will call out the 
numerals of Queen Bey’s birthday 
one last time this September. 
To celebrate this birthday made 
famous for its introduction to the 
song “Get me Bodied,” Beyhive 
members of all ages are welcome 
to come and enjoy the ﬁ  nal install-
ment of the Bey Day celebration. 
The event will take place, Sept. 7,at 
The Atlantic located on 15 N. Main 
St. at 9 p.m. 
Bey Day creator and host Tyler 
Francischine said guests can antici-
pate a packed evening. The night 
will begin with a Be Queen Bey lip 
sync contest, during which a hand-
ful of attendees will sing and dance 
along to the Beyoncé song of their 
choice. The audience will crown a 
winner who will be the “queen of 
the night.” After the contest, over 
three hours of nonstop Beyoncé 
music will be played by DJ Young 
Turk, Francischine said.
Francischine said he started 
Bey Day in 2016 to bring Beyoncé 
fans together in an inclusive space where they could have fun.
“Unlike a lot of DJ’d dance 
events where you feel like you 
can’t let loose because there’s a 
creep around every corner trying 
to close in on you, Bey Day is all 
about empowerment and freedom 
of expression,” Francischine said.
As her fans will know, Beyon-
cé’s favorite number is four - she 
was born on Sept. 4, her husband 
Jay-Z was born Dec. 4, the pair 
have the number tattooed on their 
hands in place of a wedding ring 
and named daughter Blue Ivy af-
ter the roman numeral of the same 
value.
To honor the superstars admi-
ration for the number, Francishine 
said he felt he needed to make this 
celebration the last. 
“It just seemed like time to re-
tire after four years,” said Fran-
cischine. “I don’t think Beyoncé 
would approve of doing the same 
thing that many times in a row.”
@CassidyHopson
cassidyhopson@gmail.comTHE OUTDOOR FESTIVAL 
WILL FEATURE ARTISTS 
AND BANDS FROM ALL 
OVER FLORIDA
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
Whether it is your ﬁ  rst year at UF 
or your ﬁ  fth, Heartwood Soundstage 
is welcoming all students back to 
the swamp with the music that 
Gainesville has to offer. 
Heartwood Soundstage, 619 S. 
Main St., will be hosting a Back to 
School Festival on Saturday, Aug. 31 
from 6 to 11 p.m. The event is welcome to all ages 
providing, food and music. Vendors 
including vegan and vegetarian 
options like Radha’s Kitchen will 
serve food. The event will feature 
bands from all over Florida includ-
ing King Complex, ﬂ  ipturn, Glass 
House Point, The Forum, The Hails 
and Driveaway. 
Tickets will cost $10 online for 
students and friends of Heartwood, 
$12 online for everyone else, or 
$15 at the door. They are expecting 
between 500 and 600 people, said 
Yasmeen Benhallam, a marketing 
manager for Heartwood.
This event will be much larger 
compared to other Heartwood 
festivals of the past, Benhallam. 
She hopes the event will encourage UF students to interact 
more with the Gainesville 
community. 
“A big goal for us in the past 
few months has been bringing the 
UF student body into the commu-
nity as well so they can experience 
the arts and music scene that we 
have that’s so underappreciated 
here,” Benhallam said. 
The Heartwood is working to ex-
pand the audience at their festivals 
through varied bookings, Benhal-
lam said. Many of the performers 
are excited for students to be ex-
posed to their music.
“We’ve performed at Heart-
wood a handful of times in the past 
two years and when we were in-
vited to perform at an event of this 
magnitude, we couldn’t say no,” 
said Robbie Kingsley, the 24-year-
old lead singer of The Hails.
Nicole Touzan, 23, a Gainesville 
resident who works in marketing 
and design says she’s excited about 
the event because of all the great 
music. 
“These bands are basically at 
the forefront of Florida’s indie-alter-
native scene and being in a crowd 
at their concert makes it only that 
much more epic,” Touzan said. 
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduThe Forum set to perform at the High Dive and Heartwood Soundstage
The Atlantic schedules last 
Beyoncé birthday celebration Celebrate back to school at Heartwood
MUSIC
MUSIC
 MUSICCourtesy to The Alligator
The Forum recently completed their May tour, where the 
group visited South Carolina, Georgia and T ennessee as well 
as multiple Florida cities.
Courtesy to The Alligator
On July 19, the band announced the release of their most recent single 
“Comet. ”
festivals of the past, Benhallam. 
She hopes the event will 
8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
HOW IT AFFECTS BUSINESS, 
MENTAL HEALTH AND LIFE 
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
If you’re a millennial or in Generation Z, odds are you’ve 
heard the phrase, “It’s because you’re always on that phone” 
many times. That statement and its variations all express con-
cern about an apparent social media addiction.
Social media’s implications go beyond constant usage and 
people posting ‘Happy Birthday’ messages to each others’ Face-
book walls. It’s reshaped the way our generation views busi-
ness, connection and even ourselves. 
“You’d be a fool if you think it’s [social media] going any-
where,” media expert and UF alumna Isabella Silverio said.
The growth of apps like Facebook and Instagram have creat-
ed new avenues for businesses to market their products. Many 
companies now use native ads and inﬂ  uencer marketing. 
Alessandra Mayr, a UF public relations senior, has more 
than 17,000 followers on Instagram and thousands of likes 
on each picture. She has partnerships with Victoria’s Secret’s 
PINK, the dating app Hinge and other brands, making her a 
bonaﬁ  de inﬂ  uencer.  
According to Mayr, Hinge paid her $500 to make one Insta-
gram post and $600 for two Instagram stories. She said Victo-
ria’s Secret PINK compensates her with gift cards to buy their 
products. 
Ads, whether they are delivered at the hands of an inﬂ  u-
encer or not, saturate the online space. 
“Companies are using social media to grow their business, 
and that’s because their ideal clients are hanging out on social 
media,” Silverio said.Mayr said the brands she’s worked with encouraged her to 
be original and authentic with the content she posts.
“They want your posts to be organic. They don’t want it to 
look like an ad,” Mayr said. “You should sound like you in your 
caption so people actually believe what you’re saying.” 
Having your followers trust you as an inﬂ  uencer is every-
thing if you want to grow and monetize your account, accord-
ing to Silverio. 
“When we’re on Instagram, we’re looking for connection,”  
Silverio said. “What are things about you that are very relatable? 
What are things about you that other people ﬁ  nd interesting?”  
One of Mayr’s connection points with her audience is de-
rived from her personal story and perhaps the sense of pride 
and identity her followers ﬁ  nd in it. Mayr was born in Honduras 
and moved to the States when she was 16. 
“They see me as this sorority girl that moved to the U.S., 
speaks English and is ‘trendy,’ but then randomly I’ll post 
something in Spanish or that I’m at a Honduran soccer game. 
People get really excited,” she said. 
More than 80 percent of Mayr’s followers are from Honduras. 
With this demographic in mind, she said she constantly thinks 
of what content she can post for them. 
“When you have resonance in your social media, then it’s 
creating a touchpoint with the person on the other side,” Silve-
rio said. 
“I’m very grateful,” Mayr said, “but at the same time being 
an inﬂ  uencer is a lot of pressure.”
The pressure and discomfort that many face, inﬂ  uencer or 
not, because of the pervasiveness of social media is another one 
of its implications. 
Instagram, with its sometimes highly edited pictures, has the 
power to distort reality. 
Mayr warns that our Instagram proﬁ  les are an idealized ver-
sion of us. “If you get out of hand with it, you can start believing that you look like your photos even though you know that you 
edited it so much,” she said.  
To create a healthy relationship with social media, Silverio 
suggests creating boundaries with it. You are responsible for 
how you interact with the apps and the content that you choose 
to consume. 
“If you’re on Instagram and you’re constantly being trig-
gered by that girl who dated your ex-boyfriend, unfollow them. 
Who cares?” she said. 
The media mogul said creating a safe space for yourself on-
line is especially important if you want to make money from 
your Instagram. 
“If you want to monetize off your personal brand, be an in-
ﬂ  uencer or be a business owner, it requires you to be so dialed 
into what you’re doing that no one else matters,” Silverio said. 
“Any deviation or distraction [because of] what other people 
are doing or what other people are thinking about you is rob-
bing you of your mission.” 
Silverio urges people to call into question the content that 
they’re consuming. 
“Hold yourself to a higher standard and consume better con-
tent,” she said. 
One way you can start the process of ﬁ  ltering your feed is by 
muting people and posts that trigger you. 
“The mute button is awesome,” Silverio. 
Comparison of yourself with online inﬂ  uencers, especially 
the ones promoting name brands and going on paid vacations, 
is often a triggering source for many Instagram users. 
To that end, Silverio said, “Realize that you’re a real human, 
and this girl does that for a living. This is what inﬂ  uencers are 
supposed to do.”
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comJEREMY HUNTER IS NOW 
PREPARING FOR THEIR 
SET AT THE FEST MUSIC 
FESTIVAL
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
Jeremy Hunter’s YouTube suc-
cess began by accident. After pur-
chasing some recording equipment, 
Hunter began demoing ska songs, a 
genre of popular music originating in 
Jamaica, and posting them on Face-
book.
“I recorded a Christmas cover in 
2016, ‘Feliz Navidad,’ and that got a 
half a million views on Facebook. It 
wasn’t even that good, but it got so 
many views,” Hunter said. “I posted 
a New Year’s one and that got like a 
million views. I was like, ‘You know what, I should make a channel.’”
Now, the 24-year-old musician, 
who goes by the name Skatune 
Network online and has amassed 
more than 80,000 subscribers on 
YouTube, is playing their own set 
at FEST 18 and is ﬁ  nally a full-time 
musician. 
Hunter’s ﬁ  rst introduction to 
playing music wasn’t as natural as 
most would think, as he was forced 
to join band in sixth grade and play 
the trumpet for years. 
“I wasn’t the best band kid. It 
wasn’t my favorite thing to do at 
ﬁ  rst,” they said. “Over time I slowly 
became ‘the band kid.’ I guess it’s 
the curse that eventually engulfs 
your skin after you do two or three 
years of it.”
After their initial success on Face-
book, Hunter had another bout of 
good luck when their next cover of the song “January 10th, 2014” by 
The World Is a Beautiful Place was 
shared by the band’s social media.
Within a week of launching their 
channel, Hunter had more than 
2,000 subscribers.
Over the next year and a half, 
Hunter continued the video-making 
grind, creating ska covers of songs 
across genres and more, including 
covers of TV show theme songs, the 
Jackson 5 and movie soundtracks.
In April 2018, Hunter caught their 
big break when their version of the 
Mii Channel theme went viral.
“When that blew up, that’s when 
this became my full-time job,” Hunt-
er said. “That whole time I was doing 
it as a side thing, because it wasn’t 
making me a lot of money. It took 
me a year to make money through 
it. But once that blew up, I gained 
a huge following and since then it’s 
been doing pretty well.”
Hunter’s ﬁ  rst experience with ska 
music wasn’t so typical. They found 
the band Less Than Jake through a 
song in “Digimon: The Movie” when 
contemplating their music favorites.
“I liked the Digimon movie 
soundtrack, so I downloaded that 
and found Less Than Jake,” Hunter 
said. “Then I found a Reel Big Fish 
song by accident, I thought it was a 
Less Than Jake song, and I was like, 
‘Oh my gosh, there are more bands 
like this.’”
After graduating high school, 
Hunter started school at Broward 
College before eventually transfer-
ring to Santa Fe, but that wasn’t the 
only reason Hunter decided to come 
to Gainesville.
“FEST was probably 35 percent 
of why I moved to Gainesville,” they said. “I love FEST and the culture 
that surrounds it.”
Hunter had their ﬁ  rst experience 
performing at FEST in 2015 playing 
with Detroit-based ska band We Are 
The Union, who coincidentally were 
Hunter’s favorite band.
At the time, We Are The Union 
had been playing as a four-piece 
without a horns section. Lead singer, 
guitar player and songwriter Reed 
Wolcott, 32, saw a video Hunter had 
uploaded covering one of their songs 
and invited him to join the group.
“A mutual friend of ours sent me 
that video and said, ‘Jeremy should 
play trombone with you at the 
FEST.’ I watched the video one time 
and went ‘Yup,’” Wolcott said.
Wolcott reached out to Hunter 
and asked if they wanted to play. 
Since then, Hunter has performed 
in almost every We Are The Union 
show, which Wolcott said helped re-
vitalize the band.
“Jeremy was genuinely excited 
to play the shows. It brought a fresh 
energy to everything,” Wolcott said. 
“It really made it fun in a way that 
it hadn’t been in the past few itera-
tions.”
We Are The Union went on to re-
lease their fourth studio album titled 
“Self Care” in 2018 with Hunter writ-
ing most of the horn lines. This year 
the roles are reversed and We Are 
The Union will play as the backing 
band to Hunter’s solo project, “Ska-
tune Network.”
Currently, Hunter is preparing 
for a vinyl release through Boston 
based record label Counter Intuitive 
Records.
Jake Sulzer, 26, the founder 
and label head of Counter Intuitive Records said he is excited about the 
upcoming release.
“Jeremy is one of the most tal-
ented musicians I have encountered, 
and their speciﬁ  c style led me to be-
lieve they would be able to make a 
fun and interesting project,” Sulzer 
said.
Hunter’s musical involvement 
expands even further as their side 
band 11:59 ﬁ  nished a brief tour 
around Florida and the Southeast 
last month.
Pedro Sanchez, 28, drummer 
for 11:59, connected with Hunter 
in 2018 after they reached out and 
asked him to join the band. Hunter 
had been working on the project for 
years but had never been able to get 
it fully off the ground.
“Once I joined, we were able to 
start playing out live. The project 
and the songs under that project 
name have existed for years, it just 
never had been able to be as consis-
tent as it is now,” Sanchez said.
Over the past few years, Jeremy 
Hunter has found success playing 
a genre of music that most people 
would say peaked in the ’90s before 
fading to near irrelevance.
Hunter disagrees with this senti-
ment.
“So many bands have been 
playing before and after the ‘90s 
and it’s been relatively the same size 
[in exposure],” they said. “I think 
it’s more of people’s perception of 
the genre. People think it died, but 
I don’t think they pay attention to 
anything outside of those big bands 
that blew up in the ﬁ  rst place.”
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.org
UF students, experts get real about social media Gainesville musician’s successful “Skatune Network” YouTube
LIFESTYLE
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Jeremy joins band  We are the Union for a 2017 concert.
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Please recycle this newspaper.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
"Our liberty depends on the freedom of the 
press, and that cannot be limited without be-
ing lost." –Thomas JeffersonSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-4-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
MATTRESSES!
TWIN SETS $69 FULL$99
QUEEN$149 KING$199.
352-376-0953              8-23-19-5-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     8-28-
19-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-4-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
1 BR 1 mi E of mall in nice teacher’s 
house. Shared bath $550 inclusive.
Prefer female. 352.514.5249    8-23-3-1
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    8-28-10-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       12-4-19-43-2BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jim Bordoni and C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/21/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
COD MA IM S SOPH
AN O EX IS T TR OO P
BL OO DL IN E ACUR A
BY RD S BA RN TI L
AN DI JA CK ETSI ZE
GO IN GU P TH AN OS
EWE EDEN EVEN T
ST OR YT IM E
ATSEA CORA KA N
SH OW ME GA ND AL F
LESS ON PLAN IT LL
ORO VO LE TA RO T
NORT E AF TE RL IF E
GA RB O ST OV E NI A
DY AN MY WA Y AT M
08/21/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, August 21, 2019
ACROSS
1 Half of a stiff price 
to pay
4 Chinese food 
additive
7 Breed from 
Honshu
12 Sob story 
makeup
14 __ Nui: Easter 
Island
15 Jell-O flavor
16 Food for the kitty?
17 *British-owned 
American hotel 
chain
19 Robert the Bruce, 
for one
20 Speak with style
21 Latin “to be”
22 *Went on foot
24 Boys
26 Actress Longoria
27 Substitute for
30 Cat Deeley’s role 
on “So You Think 
You Can Dance”
33 *Wind chill factor 
relative
35 Jobs title, once
36 Represent 
inaccurately
37 Web access co.
38 *Three-time U.S. 
Open champion
41 “Semper fidelis” 
is one
43 Veterans
44 Refuge for 
couples?
45 Italian automaker
46 *Subject of much 
debate
51 Golfer’s transport
53 Night calls
55 Radius neighbor
56 With “The,” 
one of 50 since 
8/21/1959, as 
hinted at by 
the answers to 
starred clues
58 Eyeglass frames
59 Have more 
People come to 
the house?
60 City near 
Anaheim
61 Dueling sport
62 Midler of “Hello 
Dolly”63 Leb. neighbor
64 Cap initials at 
Busch Stadium
DOWN
1 Knee-deep (in)
2 Chop-O-Matic 
maker
3 Anti-harassment 
movement
4 New Zealand 
settler
5 Paint spill sound
6 Stable pace
7 In the style of
8 Entered, as data
9 “That went right 
over my head”
10 Truckloads
11 Heche of 
“Psycho” (1998)
13 Fixed charge
14 Valerie Harper 
sitcom
18 Get rid of
23 Christmas __
25 Boxer who beat 
Frazier twice
27 Ball game 
delayer
28 Tuxedo part
29 Former Canadian 
MLBer30 Repeat
31 Happy __
32 Leading edge 
of cooler 
temperatures
33 Cuts down
34 Yale alum
36 Thin soups
39 Peter the Great, 
e.g.
40 401(k) kin, briefly
41 CT scan relative
42 “Sounds good”44 Utterly confused
46 White with frost
47 Furry swimmer
48 Berth places
49 Not yet 
achieved,  
as a goal
50 Art class item
51 Atkins no-no
52 Toward shelter
54 Some parlors, for 
short
57 Stun
By Kevin Christian and Kristian House
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, August 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 New England fish
4 Seriously injures
9 Frosh, next year
13 “Should I take 
that as __?”
14 Are
15 Boy Scout unit
17 *Pedigree 
ancestry
19 Luxury Honda
20 “Eight Miles High” 
band, with “The”
21 Farm building
23 Up to, in ads
24 The Beatles’  
“__ Love Her”
25 *Suit tailor’s 
concern
28 Prospective 
elevator 
passenger’s query
30 Villain played by 
Josh Brolin in 
most “Avengers” 
films
31 Flock female
32 Biblical paradise
34 Olympics segment
35 *Nightly ritual for 
young children
38 On the ocean
41 Red Sox 
manager Alex
42 Topeka’s st.
45 “I want to see”
47 “The Lord of the 
Rings” wizard
49 *Teacher’s 
outline
52 “__ all work out”
53 Barcelona gold
54 Field mouse
55 Diviner’s deck
56 Opposite of sur
58 “Field of Dreams” 
subject, and 
where both parts 
of the answers 
to starred clues 
can go
61 Movie legend 
Greta
62 Appliance with 
burners
63 Actress Vardalos
64 Cannon of 
“Heaven Can 
Wait” (1978)
65 Sinatra classic 
with Anka lyrics
66 PIN requester
DOWN
1 Sauerkraut, 
mainly
2 “Just this second”3 Desperate
4 Drugs from docs
5 Rose of Guns N’ 
Roses
6 Three on a 
sundial
7 “Hardball” cable 
channel
8 Rib eye, for one
9 Baseball 
great Musial’s 
nickname
10 Beast fought by 
47-Across
11 Canadian french 
fries dish
12 Where land and 
sky seem to 
meet
16 Most colorless
18 Chief Norse god
22 Like some mil. 
officers
25 Weaponless 
self-defense
26 Mimic
27 Goalie’s goal
29 “Hurry!”
33 It has both Kings 
and Queens 
counties, briefly
35 Uses needle and 
thread
36 Roman robe
37 Persian Gulf 
republic38 Comparable in 
duration
39 “Not Taken” 
place in a Frost 
poem title
40 “My  
apologies”
42 Catastrophic 
New Orleans 
hurricane
43 The whole 
shebang
44 Cardinals or 
Falcons46 Frequent 
co-producer of 
U2 albums
48 Dashboard 
feature
50 Suffix with proto- 
or cyto-
51 Southpaw
55 Low card
57 Sched. question 
mark
59 Disabled car need
60 “2 Fast 2 Furious” 
actress Mendes
08/19/19
10  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-4-19-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    12-4-19-43-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
Facility in Alachua looking for student to 
maintain grounds, tractor work, light con-
struction, handyman repairs. 4-6 hr wk. $17/
hr. Flexible schedule.
Send summary of experience and contact 
info to biopressadmin@gmail.com.     8-30-
19-7-14
Got what it takes? Seeking FT & PT Sales 
Staff. Friendly, honest and motivated athletic 
minded people welcome. Must have regular 
availability at least 20 hr/wk and 1 weekend 
day. Apply in person 1504 NW 13 St Lloyd 
Clarke Sports. 1 mile N of UF on 13 st.    
8-26-19-4-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-7-19-
21-14
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices 15 Services
PUZZLEANSWERS
PUZZLE
SOLUTION BELOW
SOLUTION BELOWFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
T ebow set to speak to team before kickoff Saturday
The former Heisman-winning Gators quarterback will speak to the football 
team before they take the ﬁ  eld in Orlando against the Miami Hurricanes. 
Kickoff is set for 7 p.m. Former volleyball pin hitter and 
All-American Shainah Joseph 
was selected for the Canadian 
NORCECA Champions Cup 
roster Tuesday.
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
The offseason ﬁ  nish line is 
ﬁ  nally in sight for Gators volley-
ball fans with just two days re-
maining until the team hits the 
court against UCF. It’s the ﬁ  rst 
time Florida will compete since 
an early NCAA Tournament exit 
at BYU last season.
Florida will take on the 
Knights in the O’Connell Center 
Saturday at 1 p.m. for its exhibi-
tion match and Fan Day. 
There haven’t been too many 
changes since UF fans last saw 
the Gators in action. Alumnae 
Taelor Kellum and Allie Mon-
serez left the team in capable 
hands with some strong leaders 
in seniors Allie Gregory, Morgyn 
Greer, Chanelle Hargreaves and 
Rachael Kramer.
With the new additions of ju-
nior transfer T’ara Ceasar and 
sophomore transfer Anaya Mar-
tin, Florida could be in for an-
other reputable season.
Let’s take a look at some of the players who are expected to 
make a big impact this year:
On the kill
It’s no surprise that Kramer is 
in for the best season of her col-
legiate career. The senior middle 
blocker has played a vital role on 
the team since she stepped on 
the court three years ago.
The 6-foot-8 middle blocker 
doesn’t shy away from the op-
portunity to put down a good kill 
or shove the ball back in some-
one’s face with a stuffed-block.
At the end of the 2018 season, 
she received four honors for her 
efforts on the court: AVCA All-
American Honorable Mention, 
VolleyballMag.com All-America 
Honorable Mention, AVCA All-
Region and All-SEC.
Kramer hit a season-high 17 
kills last season at Northern Ari-
zona on Sept. 7, which contrib-
uted to the 267 kills she recorded 
last year. She also logged 170 
blocks, the most recorded by any Chompin’ at the bit: 
Players to watch FOOTBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida football 
team is experiencing 
unfamiliar continuity 
under center in return-
ing starting quarterback 
Feleipe Franks. The 
same cannot be said for 
the offensive line, the 
unit charged with pro-
tecting the focal point of 
the Gators offense.
The ﬁ  ve-man unit 
consisting of redshirt 
senior Nick Buchanan, 
redshirt juniors Stone 
Forsythe, Brett Heggie 
and Jean Delance and 
redshirt freshman Chris-
topher Bleich has been 
one of the biggest talk-
ing points surrounding 
the team this offseason. 
Buchanan is the only re-
turning starter to a line 
that lost four starters, 
most notably Jawaan Taylor, a second round 
pick in the 2019 NFL 
Draft.
“There’s a lot of 
new, young guys out 
there,” said John Heve-
sy, co-offensive coordi-
nator and offensive line 
coach. “We can’t shoot 
ourselves in the foot.”
Despite the offen-
sive line’s inexperience, 
Hevesy sees depth in 
the unit.
“There’s six, seven, 
eight I think could go 
in there and play that I 
feel comfortable with,” 
he said.
Hevesy said that he 
now knows the offen-
sive linemen better in 
terms of their in-game 
abilities since joining 
the coaching staff in 
2018. He added that 
the unit improved on 
minimizing penalties 
during camp and in 
scrimmages, but noted the difference between 
friendly practices in the 
indoor practice facility 
and a true hostile envi-
ronment.
The offensive line 
will be tested in Orlando 
for a neutral site game 
against the Miami Hurri-
canes at Camping World 
Stadium Saturday night.
Miami had one of 
the top defensive line 
units in all of Division I 
last season. UM returns 
two starters from 2018 
(junior defensive end 
Jonathan Garvin and 
senior defensive tackle 
Pat Bethel) to a front 
line that accumulated 
40 sacks a season ago, 
the ninth-most in the 
nation.
Hevesy praised the 
athleticism of the Hur-
ricanes’ defensive line, 
but said he feels good 
about his unit, jokingly 
adding that he had no choice.
“They’re very fun-
damentally sound,” 
Hevesy said. “They play 
hard, they attack the 
ball, they attack every-
thing they do. So, it’s 
just a matter of, for us, 
again, executing our of-
fense.”
Heggie, who ap-
peared in nine games 
last season and played 
both guard positions, 
said that the unit’s big-
gest improvements have 
been its consistency and 
communication.
“If you have those 
two things, you can re-
ally play well together 
up front,” he said.
Heggie added that 
the offensive line is 
about three quarters 
of the way through its 
game plan for Miami. 
“I’d say we’re ready 
to go, we just come out 
here every day and we try to put it all together,” 
Heggie said.”And we’re 
going to make mistakes 
but we go in and try to 
ﬁ  x them everyday with 
ﬁ  lm.” 
Any mistakes the 
unit makes will be mag-
niﬁ  ed on the national 
scale in the ﬁ  rst clash 
between the Hurricanes 
and Gators since 2013.
“We’re the younger 
group out of all of them, 
so we’ve got to hold our 
own and do our job,”  
Hevesy said. “We’ve got 
great skill players at the 
quarterback, at the run-
ning back, at the receiv-
ers, tight end, all those 
guys.
“So we’ve just got to 
give them an opportu-
nity to make a play.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgGround zero for Week 0: the line of scrimmage
Football Playoﬀ  
Making a good team a great 
team is rarely cut and dry. 
Florida won 19 games in for-
mer coach Jim McElwain’s 
ﬁ  rst two years, but failed to 
reach the ultimate stage.
Coach Dan Mullen doesn’t have 
to look far for a roadmap on how it’s 
done, though.
One of Florida’s biggest rivals – Georgia – built 
off of a solid ﬁ  rst year from coach Kirby Smart, im-
proving from an eight-win campaign in 2016 to a 
College Football Playoff berth in 2017.
It’s a long shot, but Florida will look to do some-
thing similar this season. Coming off a 10-win sea-
son in Mullen's ﬁ  rst year, it already has a head start 
on where Georgia was two years ago.
The biggest difference between the Bulldogs’ 
2016 and 2017 campaigns was the team’s offensive 
production. Led by Sony Michel and Nick Chubb, 
Georgia had the SEC’s best rushing attack in 2017. 
The emergence of true freshman quarterback Jake 
Fromm allowed Georgia to improve from the con-
ference’s No. 11 scoring offense in 2016 to No. 3 
in 2017. 
Florida’s offense will have to take a similar leap 
this year to replicate Georgia’s rise. UF had the No. 
5 scoring offense in the SEC last year – good, but not 
good enough if it wants to be in the College Football 
Playoff discussion. The passing offense (10th in the 
SEC) needs to improve in particular.That responsibility falls on quarter-
back Feleipe Franks. The redshirt junior 
quarterback will have to replicate the 
success he had in the last four games 
of 2018 (eight touchdowns passing, 
four rushing and zero interceptions) for 
Florida to compete for a playoff spot.
UF’s defense and running game, 
which are two of its strongest facets, 
will need to make incremental improve-
ments like Georgia did in those areas.
The Gators’ most important contest 
on the schedule is the Florida-Georgia game. Bar-
ring any surprises, there’s a good chance that game 
decides the SEC East division. UF needs to win the 
division if it wants to make the College Football 
Playoff. End of story.
Georgia lost to No. 10 Auburn 40-17 two years 
ago and still made the College Football Playoff. Sim-
ilarly, Florida could afford to drop one SEC game in 
the regular season that’s not UGA. 
The most similar game on UF’s schedule this 
year is its Oct. 12 visit to No. 6 LSU. The selection 
committee will give a pass to a team that loses to 
a highly-ranked SEC opponent, but that’s the only 
slip-up UF can have.
The odds are slim, but it’s possible. At the very 
least, their performance last year makes it a discus-
sion worth having for the Gators. A UF team that 
runs the table during the regular season but loses 
the SEC Championship Game will probably make 
the College Football Playoff. A one-loss SEC cham-
pion UF team would absolutely make the cut. 
If Georgia did it coming off an eight-win season, 
why can’t Florida do it coming off a 10-win season?The blueprint UF can follow to the College Green Eggs and Sam
Sam Campisano
Twitter: @scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 12Chris King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt senior center Nick Buchanan (66) is the 
only returning starter on the Gators' offensive line.
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team had a dis-
appointing 2018-19 campaign. The 
Gators made it to the NCAA quarterﬁ  -
nals in 2017 but ﬁ  nished with a losing 
record for the ﬁ  rst time in program 
history last year. 
UF also failed to reach the NCAA 
Tournament — a competition it has 
qualiﬁ  ed for each of the last 15 years 
— following a 1-0 overtime defeat 
to Arkansas in the SEC Tournament 
semiﬁ  nals.
Now, the Gators are preparing to 
make their 25th season as memorable 
as the ones that came before them. 
However, the loss of 11 seniors and 
one of the more challenging sched-
ules in the country stands in their 
way.
Let’s take a look at the players 
who are set to make an impact this 
year.Players to watch
Senior goalkeeper Susi Espinoza 
has big gloves to ﬁ  ll. She’ll replace 
Kaylan Marckese, who holds the pro-
gram record for most career shutouts 
with 29.
Espinoza has only started in 
seven games during her three years 
at Florida, posting a 6-1 record and 
combining for 21 saves. The Welling-
ton, Florida, native’s previous perfor-
mances should instill conﬁ  dence in 
coach Becky Burleigh and the defense 
at the start of the 2019-20 campaign.
Another player to watch is grad-
uate transfer Vanessa Kara, who 
played three seasons at Drexel before 
redshirting in 2018.
Kara is a versatile attacker who 
can wreak havoc at both the mid-
ﬁ  eld and forward positions. She was 
selected to the All-Colonial Athletic 
Association First Team in 2016 and 
2017. In her freshman year, Kara 
set Drexel’s single season record for goals (11) and points (25), which was 
good enough to earn her CAA Rookie 
of the Year and Second Team honors.
Kara will need to replace the pro-
duction left behind by former mid-
ﬁ  elder Lais Araujo, who ﬁ  nished sec-
ond on the team in goals (5) and third 
in assists (4). Araujo’s 14 points were 
tied for most on the team with then-
sophomore forward Madison Alexan-
der (six goals, two assists).
Games to watch
The Gators will learn a lot about 
their team early on in the campaign.
After the season opener against 
Florida Atlantic on Friday, UF will 
play four straight opponents ranked 
in the preseason United Soccer 
Coaches Top 25 poll.
One of those contests includes a 
trip to Tallahassee to take on No. 1 
Florida State. The Gators have lost the 
past two meetings against the Semi-
noles and were unable to ﬁ  nd the back of the net in either match.
On Sept. 29, Florida goes on the 
road to face Vanderbilt, a team the 
Gators met twice last season. 
The Commodores defeated UF 2-1 
at home during the regular season, 
but Florida came away with a 1-0 upset victory in the SEC Tournament 
quarterﬁ  nals.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeplayer on the team by 33.
Pin hitters Paige Hammons, 
Thayer Hall and Holly Carlton 
will also play a prominent role 
this season. 
Hammons and Carlton were 
two of four players — also in-
cluding Kramer — to play in all 
123 sets last season. 
Hall, however, sat out seven 
matches in a month (including 
two three-set losses to Kentucky 
and Tennessee) with an undis-
closed injury.
With a healthy recovery, she’s 
expected to be back on her game with anticipation from ardent 
Gators fans.
On the net
Marlie Monserez, the younger 
sister of former setter Allie Mon-
serez, will most likely take over 
on the setting front.
She played in a modiﬁ  ed six-
two rotation last season, which 
always features three hitters in 
the front row and the setter in 
the back row, with her older sis-
ter and fellow right-side attacker/
setter Carlton.
The younger Monserez 
shouldn’t have any issues given 
she played a major role in Flori-
da’s offense last season, notching 
playing time in all 33 matches. She ﬁ  nished the year with 437 
assists and posted two double-
doubles in her freshman season.
Martin could also have an 
opportunity to help recreate the 
modiﬁ  ed rotation Florida used 
last season. She played in 10 
matches during her freshman 
season at Louisville before trans-
ferring to UF in January.
In the backcourt
Gregory’s presence on the 
back end of the court is crucial as 
the libero enters her senior sea-
son. She ﬁ  nished off 2018 with 
514 digs, playing in every set of 
every match.
She’ll be assisted in the back 
row with plenty of company in 
Hargreaves, Riley Fischer and 
Paula Cerame. The three com-
bined for 119 digs on the year.Florida’s defense held strong 
last season, and it’ll need to be 
even better this year if the team 
expects to beat last season’s 26-7 
(15-3 SEC) record.
By the numbers:
Home games: 18
Road games: 12
Tournaments: 3
SEC Matchups: 18
Longest stretch of home games: 4, 
Honda of Gainesville Gator Invi-
tational
Longest stint of road games: 3, 
two times in the latter half of the 
season
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 11 UF has 18 home games
Alligator File Photo
Senior middle blocker Rachael 
Kramer notched 267 kills in 
2018, tying for ﬁ  rst on the team.
SOCCER
Gators gear up for a challenging 2019-20 season
Alligator File Photo
Coach Becky Burleigh's team is in for one of the toughest years in 
program history. UF has one of the harder schedules in the nation. 
