We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
New Composting Station in Reitz Union
The receptacles are on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor across from Starbucks and 
Pollo Tropical, pg 5
Construction underway at Reserve Park
The park is scheduled to ﬁ  nish in February 2020, pg 5GATORS OFF TO WCWS
The UF Softball team will face No. 13 Okla-
homa State on Thursday, pg. 10
TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 90
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Soccer legend Abby Wambach 
– who played at UF between 
1998 and 2001 – was elected to 
the National Soccer Hall of Fame 
on Saturday.
The 38-year-old thrived while 
playing for the United States 
women’s national soccer team 
between 2001 and 2015, scor-
ing 184 goals in 256 appear-
ances. Wambach’s goals tally 
is a record total for both men 
and women  at the international 
level.
Wambach appeared in four 
FIFA Women’s World Cups, 
ﬁ  nally winning the competition 
in 2015. Other accolades include 
two Olympic Gold Medals (2004 and 2012), six U.S. Soccer Player 
of the Year awards and the 2012 
FIFA World Player of the Year 
award.
As a Gator, Wambach helped 
lead her school to the only na-
tional championship in program 
history in 1998 and won four-
straight SEC titles. Her 96 goals, 
50 assists and 10 hat tricks are 
all Florida records. She was in-
ducted into the University of 
Florida Athletic Hall of Fame in 
2012.
Wambach, who was elected 
in her ﬁ  rst year on the ballot, 
called it an “amazing” honor in 
a video posted to the National 
Soccer Hall of Fame’s Twitter.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgTHE LEAPFROG 
GROUP GRADED
 THE HOSPITAL  
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Errors in medical 
prescriptions and surgery 
led UF Health Shands to 
receive a barely passing 
grade for hospital safety.
The C grade was as-
signed to Shands by The 
Leapfrog Group, a nonproﬁ  t 
that collects and reports on 
hospital safety and quality, 
said Erica Mobley, director 
of operations for the organi-
zation. 
North Florida Regional 
Medical Center in 
Gainesville received a B, 
and the nearest hospital to 
receive an A was Putnam 
Community Medical Center 
in Palatka, Florida. 
In general, the hospitals 
with higher scores dem-
onstrated better in patient 
safety and the processes they have implemented to 
prevent any mishaps at the 
hospitals, Mobley said.
There are 28 measures 
of safety performance used 
to score the hospitals, she 
said. These measures fall 
into two categories: policies 
and processes in place at the 
hospital to prevent errors, 
and the rate at which errors 
occur.
From the 28 performance 
measures, The Leapfrog 
Group turns it into a single 
composite score, which 
is then translated for the 
grade, she said. 
The methodology used 
by The Leapfrog Group was 
developed with guidance 
from a national panel of pa-
tient safety experts, from in-
stitutions including Harvard 
University and Johns Hop-
kins University, she said. 
Leapfrog uses two main 
sources of data to collect 
information to grade the 
hospitals, she said. One set 
Abby Wambach elected to 
National Soccer Hall of FameUF Shands Hospital 
receives ‘C’ for 
hospital safety 
The Associated Press
Former Gators soccer player Abby Wambach was announced as 2019 inductee into the National 
Soccer Hall of Fame on Saturday. Her 184 goals are a record for all U.S. soccer player, male or female.
Ray Davis, an 80-year-old Gainesville 
resident and a retired master sergeant in 
the United States Army, salutes the ﬂ  ag 
Monday during the Memorial Day Cer-
emony 2019 at Forest Meadows Memo-
rial Park East. Davis is a member of The 
Sons of the American Revolution and 
has reenacted with Revolutionary War 
era clothing for 18 years. Davis recited 
“A T oast to the Flag” by John J. Daly fol-
lowed by the Pledge of Allegiance. “The 
ﬂ  ag is the very emblem of our nation. And 
who are we as a nation? The greatest na-
tion in the history of mankind, ” he said. 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
SEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 7SEE SHANDS,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.HIGH  97° LOW  72°
Got something going on?  Want 
to see it in this space? Send an email 
with “What’s Happening” in the 
subject line to lbreneman@alligator.
org. T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit 
entries before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not 
appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
Black Films Matter: Rafiki
Go to the Hippodrome Cinema, 
25 SE Second Place, to appreciate 
a tender love story between two 
young women in a country that 
still criminalizes homosexuality. 
Though it was initially banned 
in Kenya for its positive portray-
al of queer romance, "Rafiki" 
won a landmark supreme court 
case chipping away at Kenyan 
anti-LGBTQ legislation. It is be-
ing shown as part of the Black 
Films Matter series. The movie 
starts at 7:30 p.m.  Don't miss 
this enthralling tale of women 
who are forced to choose be-
tween happiness and safety.
CMC Weekly Poetry Jam 
Tired of competing with the 
chatty crowd at the back of the 
bar? Got some new material you 
want to try out on an attentive 
audience before submitting it 
for publication? Nervous about 
sharing your work out loud for 
the first time? Just want to get 
something to get off your chest? 
Check out the Civic Media Center Thursday night for Gainesville's 
longest-running open mic poetry 
reading - 25 years and count-
ing. All styles invited: from Beat 
to Baroque, formal to freestyle, 
spoken word to academic and 
everything in between. The 
event goes from 8 p.m. until 11 
p.m. and happens every week.
Artwalk Gainesville
On Friday, 22 venues will 
host the city's Artwalk. Civic 
Media Center, First Magnitude 
Brewing, AUK Market and 
Maude's Classic Cafe are just a 
few of the places you can see the 
work of Gainesville's talented 
artists. Check out the Artwalk 
Facebook page for the full list of 
details.
C & G Yoga in the Brickroom
Stretch into the weekend with 
Cypress and Grove Brewery 
Co. Yoga. Every Saturday from 
noon until 1 p.m. classes focus 
on connecting breath, mind and 
body through slowing down and 
moving in a mindful way. With a functional movement emphasis, 
you can expect to notice how 
your body feels as you move 
through different postures that 
incorporate a healthy range of 
motion and primal movements. 
Set to an eclectic mix of mu-
sic from rock to folk to nature 
sounds, this class is appropri-
ate for all levels of practice. 
Donations welcome to support 
the instructors. Please bring your 
own mat and towel.
Experiencing the Other
On Friday, the Theatre for 
Community Change, Ignite 
Applied Theatre, and Your 
Authentic Self Work will be 
hosting an interactive workshop 
at the Civic Media Center start-
ing at 7 p.m. For this interactive 
workshop, we will collectively 
discover personal connections to 
stories of incarceration through 
role play, improvisation and im-
age work. The event is free.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 90
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Katherine Moore
Meagan DiPolo
Noura Al-Rajhi
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
PhotographersLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie DeFrietas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Chris KingSam ThomasKaylyn Ling
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Emily Perpich,
TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
is collected from the federal government 
via medicare,  and the second is derived 
from a voluntary survey administered to 
hospitals. 
“If a hospital doesn’t participate in our 
survey, we have some secondary data 
sources (where) we are able to obtain 
some of that missing data,” Mobley said. 
The reason Shands received a C is be-
cause it scored below the national aver-
age for both medication errors and out-
come measures like wounds opening up 
after surgery and cuts and tears resulting 
from medical treatment, she said. 
“For both of these errors, this hospi-
tal scored significantly worse than the 
national average,” Mobley said, “so that 
would have contributed to the C grade as 
well.”  
However, Shands’ score for medica-
tion errors might be affected as Shands 
did not participate with The Leapfrog 
Group, she said. Therefore, the group 
wasn’t able to test if the technology the 
hospital uses to prevent medication er-
rors is working properly. 
“If a hospital doesn’t participate in our survey then they don’t complete this test, 
and we have no way of knowing whether 
the equipment is working well,” Mobley 
said. “All we know about this hospital is 
the amount of technology they have.”
Despite this, The Leapfrog Group will 
not grade a hospital if it doesn’t feel it’s 
accurate, she said. 
“If a hospital is missing so much data, 
we will not give them a grade because we 
still want to assure that it’s an accurate 
reflection of their performance,” Mobley 
said. 
To Shands, the score it received is not 
an accurate representation of the quality 
of the hospital’s care. 
Since the hospital does not participate 
in the Leapfrog process, it did not provide 
exhaustive data about its hospital system, 
Rossana Passaniti, UF Health Media Rela-
tions Coordinator, wrote in an email.
“The letter grade attributed to UF 
Health does not accurately reflect the 
quality and expertise of care provided by 
our dedicated teams of UF Health physi-
cians, nurses and staff,” Passaniti wrote 
in an email. 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgSHANDS,  from pg. 1
25 SENATORS WERE 
APPOINTED TO 
VACANT POSITIONS
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Colin Solomon felt well pre-
pared for his interview with the 
Student Government Senate sum-
mer replacement committee. He 
was being interviewed by the 
committee for the vacant seat of 
Mackintosh Joachim (Inspire, Dis-
trict D).
Solomon, a 19-year-old UF 
criminology sophomore, brought 
the committee a packet that in-
cluded his cover letter addressed 
to Committee head and Senate 
Pro Tempore Emily Dunson, his 
resume, an idea sheet and a copy 
of a resolution he had written 
and passed through the Senate last semester.
Equipped with what he needed 
for the interview on Thursday, 
Solomon said he was hopeful he 
would retain the summer replace-
ment seat for District D.
About seven hours later, Solo-
mon left disappointed. 
Out of eight people on the com-
mittee, only two people voted for 
him to retain the position he had 
been appointed to a month earlier. 
“When I asked what more I 
could have done, I was met with 
silence,” Solomon said. “Not a 
single member of the group was 
willing to lend me advice for po-
tential further interviews or other-
wise.”
There were 25 new Senate 
members appointed by the com-
mittee. Of those 25, only 13 had 
been previously appointed by ab-
sent Senators on April 23. 
The new summer appointments have altered the composition of 
the Senate, said Ashley Grabows-
ki, Senate Minority Leader. 
The percentage of Inspire 
Party-affiliated senators dropped 
from about 34 percent to about 26 
percent. This means Inspire will 
not have enough senators to block 
Student Body President Michael 
Murphy’s executive nominations 
to the SG Supreme Court if they 
do not support the potential can-
didates, Grabowski said. 
Nominations and approval for 
agency heads, cabinet chairs, cab-
inet directors and executive secre-
taries will also be impacted by the 
new composition of the Senate.
Solomon said during delibera-
tions only Grabowski was willing 
to have a discussion about his re-
appointment and out of the eight 
people present, only Grabowski 
and Senator Stephen Singleton 
looked over the documents he brought before voting.
However, he is not giving up, 
he said. Solomon plans to apply 
for other open Senate seats, con-
tinue to attend Senate meetings 
and comment during public de-
bate.
The way the committee han-
dled the summer replacements 
was in violation of SG rules, 
Grabowski said. She said the 
committee only needed to ap-
point enough senators to attain 
quorum, which would have been 
three seats. Instead, the commit-
tee filled 25 seats.
Many of the committee’s ap-
pointments were voted on without 
any discussion or review of the pa-
perwork that had been submitted 
by candidates, Grabowski said.
“I am ashamed to be on the 
same committee as those people, 
and they don’t deserve to be re-
ferred to as leaders,” Grabowski said.
Senate Pro Tempore Emily 
Dunson, who was the chair of the 
committee, said they followed all 
protocols outlined in the SG Rules 
and procedures. 
“I wanted to ensure all statu-
tory requirements were satisfied 
for this meeting and that ground 
rules were established to ensure 
all applicants were interviewed in 
a timely manner,” Dunson said.
Dunson also said even with 
the new appointees there are still 
more vacant seats that will be 
filled in the coming weeks. She 
said the committee will recom-
mend potential candidates to fill 
the rest of the positions, and the 
Senate will hear the recommenda-
tions and vote on them. 
@charlie_daffron 
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG Committee approves summer replacements for vacant senate seatsChris Day / Alligator Staff
UF Health Shands received a C grade for safety from The Leapfrog Group. Shands was 
cited for medication errors and outcome measures, like wounds opening after surgery. 
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the 
modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a 
wide array of desserts and treats made 
daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side Car Our 
Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open LateBREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises 
daily since 1990. Egg & cheese 
with bacon, ham, or sausage 
on a Thomas’s english mufﬁ  n 
or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-
0376. Your order will be ready 
when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-ﬁ  , 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh 
bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle 
soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  
Come try our new specials! 
Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this ad 
and get 10% off your order!
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE ALLEGEDL Y 
TOLD THE VICTIM, 
“I’M GOING TO 
SHOOT YOU DEAD”
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Gainesville Police re-
sponded to an incident 
Wednesday afternoon after 
two Gainesville men were 
seen arguing over a pos-
sible stolen vehicle.
The argument began in 
front of a residence at 648 
NE 15th St. Marco Fernan-
dez Grissett, 38, left and re-
turned with what one wit-
ness described as a riﬂ  e or 
shotgun, according to the 
arrest report. 
When the witness lost sight of Grissett, he called 
police. 
The argument between 
the two men continued 
at the back of the resi-
dence. Grissett allegedly 
approached the unarmed 
man and said, “I’m going 
to shoot you dead,” while 
pointing the riﬂ  e at him, ac-
cording to the report. 
According to the report, 
the unarmed man curled up 
on the ﬂ  oor fearing for his 
life.
Grissett ﬂ  ed but was 
later apprehended by ofﬁ  -
cers. Grissett initially told 
ofﬁ  cers he was running 
from someone with a gun. 
Later, Grissett said he was 
involved in an argument 
with the man but still de-
nied having a weapon.Ofﬁ  cers found a loaded,  
.22 caliber riﬂ  e hidden in 
the laundry hamper at the 
back of the residence where 
the incident occurred. A 
resident of the house said 
she had never seen the riﬂ  e 
before and there was no 
reason for it to be in the 
hamper.
Grissett was charged 
with aggravated assault and 
possession of a ﬁ  rearm by 
a convicted felon. He was 
found guilty of carjacking 
without a ﬁ  rearm or weap-
on in October 2000, accord-
ing to the report. 
Grissett remains in cus-
tody in lieu of $45,000 
bond.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgArgument leads to assault charge
HE TOLD POLICE HE INTENDED 
TO GO TO CHIPOTLE
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Driven by hunger, a Hawthorne man 
barreled down State Road 20 at 140 
mph toward a Jacksonville Chipotle on 
Wednesday. However, his quest ended in 
handcuffs, rather than a burrito, after he 
caused a three-car collision.
FHP Trooper Brett Pittman was on 
routine patrol of SE Hawthorne Road near 
35th Street when Scott Patrick Sorenson, 
37, sped past his marked patrol car in a 
BMW. Sorenson continued heading east, 
changing lanes erratically. He passed 
two other marked patrol cars parked on 
the side of the road with their emergency 
lights on and failed to move over.
A high-speed chase ensued, during 
which Sorenson forced a dump truck and 
a passenger van to take evasive action from his path. Shortly before 2 p.m., So-
renson collided with two other vehicles.
Sorenson came to a stop after the acci-
dent but refused ofﬁ  cers’ requests to exit 
his vehicle. He was forcibly removed by 
authorities.
While in custody, Sorenson claimed 
ofﬁ  cers on the scene were terrorists and 
stated they had caught “the evilest moth-
erf----- in the history of the United States 
of America,” according to the arrest re-
port. He told ofﬁ  cers he was on his way 
to Chipotle in Jacksonville.
The report said he had trouble balanc-
ing and smelled strongly of urine during 
the investigation.
 Sorenson was charged with a DUI, 
four counts of DUI damage to property or 
persons, reckless driving, ﬂ  eeing police 
and resisting an ofﬁ  cer. 
Sorenson remains in custody in lieu of 
$85,000 bond.   
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan drives 140, causes accidentTUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
THE NEW STATION IS ON THE 
FIRST FLOOR OF THE REITZ UNION
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
UF has launched its ﬁ  rst on-campus food 
compost station so students and faculty can 
dispose waste in an environmentally friendly 
way.  
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability started this 
new composting program, which consists of 
six colored trash cans at the Reitz Union, to 
reduce the amount of waste going into land-
ﬁ  lls, said Allison Vitt, outreach and commu-
nications coordinator for the Ofﬁ  ce of Sus-
tainability. 
The station is set up on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor across from Starbucks and Pollo Tropical in 
the Reitz. It includes receptacles for liquid, 
paper/cardboard, glass/plastic/metal, com-
post and landﬁ  ll materials. 
The biological decomposition initiative at 
UF started in 2014, but dividing the waste 
was done behind the scenes, Vitt said. This 
would be done in places like UF dining halls, 
where plates and cups were put on a convey-
or belt and employees would decide which 
waste goes into compost. 
“We’re interested to see what it looks 
like when an individual walks up and has to 
make that decision of what can and can’t be 
composted, as opposed to an employee that’s 
behind the scenes and has been trained on 
it,” Vitt said. 
The ofﬁ  ce partnered with Business Ser-vices Division, Gator Dining Services and 
PepsiCo Recycling in designing this compost 
station titled “#GatorsBEATWaste station.”
The university may put up more #Gators-
BEATWaste stations in the future, depend-
ing on the success of this pilot program, she 
said. 
“If all goes well and people are really re-
ceptive to it and the compost is not being 
contaminated, then I think there’s a really 
good possibility that we may try to expand 
this further on,” Vitt said. 
During the ﬁ  rst few weeks of this initia-
tive, there will be sustainability volunteers 
near the station during peak hours of 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. explaining which waste goes 
where, she said. 
“The hope is that we can use this as a way to really try to reﬁ  ne our messaging and 
ﬁ  nd a way to educate the general public and 
the campus community about composting,” 
Vitt said. 
Christian Chiong, a 19-year-old material 
science engineering sophomore, spends the 
majority of his time studying in the Reitz. 
Chiong said the Reitz is the perfect place 
to set up this station because there are so 
many current and future UF students dispos-
ing of trash in there daily. 
“I think that recycling and composting is 
important because it reduces the amount of 
waste and will improve the overall health of 
our earth,” Chiong said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.org
THE 10-MONTH PROJECT 
IS EXPECTED TO FINISH 
IN FEBRUARY 2020
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
True to its name, Wild Spaces 
and Public Places has given east 
Gainesville a new public place for 
residents to go wild. 
City Commissioner David 
Arreola said Reserve Park, which 
has recently broken ground, is 
scheduled to ﬁ  nish construction 
in about 10 months. However, the 
plan for the park ﬁ  rst came before 
the City Commission in 2016, and 
it has been an ongoing design pro-
cess for at least the last year.
The park is funded by a half-
cent sales tax that was approved 
by voters in 2016. Wild Spaces 
and Public Places splits these funds between Alachua County 
and the city of Gainesville. In 
Gainesville, these funds have 
been allocated to projects that 
were on the original referendum, 
including Reserve Park, Arreola 
said.
“Really, it’s just a great addi-
tion to a neighborhood. We want 
to see more investment in our east 
side park system, so this is one 
of those major investments that 
were made,” Arreola said.
Notable features include a 
playground for small children, 
picnic areas and a trail.
“The park is going to be a 
beautiful green space for every-
one to enjoy,” Arreola said.
Elijah George, 36, and his son 
Charlie, 3, are no strangers to the 
family-friendly atmosphere of 
Gainesville’s parks. A landscape 
architect from St. Augustine, George sometimes drives all the 
way to Gainesville to visit Depot 
Park.
“I love the community envi-
ronment here because it feels very 
welcoming and friendly,” George 
said. It seems like everybody’s 
generally in a good mood, and I 
don’t know if that’s because of 
the people, the way that it’s de-
signed or a combination.”
Not only does George spend 
time at Gainesville’s parks dur-
ing his leisure time, but he also 
worked on designing Reserve 
Park.
Amenities such as a ﬁ  tness 
obstacle course and community 
garden will provide visitors with 
an open space to enjoy the out-
doors but will not have as many 
structured activities and programs 
as a larger park like Depot Park, 
George said. “To me, it seems like Depot 
Park was made for a larger com-
munity overall,” George said. 
“But with Reserve Park, I imagine 
residents in that area will most likely be the main user group. It 
just feels more like a community.”
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgUF Oﬃ   ce of Sustainability launches composting station  
Construction begins at new Reserve Park in East Gainesville
Courtesy of the city of GainesvilleThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Unspoken Rules 
defining Instagram
There’s no written rulebook to social media. But hu-
mans’ knack for teetering between conformity and indi-
viduality has resulted in a set of unspoken social media 
guidelines the college-aged population seems to follow. 
The most obvious: “like for like.” This phenomenon  
requires users to return the like to those followers who like their 
posts. It works almost as an insurance plan. Double tap on a 
follower’s photo, and you’re basically guaranteed for them to 
do the same on your next post. If you think people “like” your 
post because of its originality or beauty, don’t be mistaken – it 
is probably because you liked their post beforehand. The same 
goes for comments. Comments even more so require reciproca-
tion because it is a direct and open assessment on the post. The 
more obvious one’s approval, the more likely it will be need to 
be reciprocated. 
Instagram stories require no call to action from followers, 
which may be the reason for its inception and popularity. Un-
der current unspoken law, Instagram stories are reserved for 
photos too cool not to share but not interesting enough for its 
own posts, which requires an obscene amount of brainpower 
to concoct. Nothing says “happy birthday” like 15 of your clos-
est friends publicly acknowledging your existence via Instagram 
story. No governing body said it out loud, but if your friend didn’t 
post about your birthday: 1) it’s not really your birthday, and 2) 
they’re not really your friend. 
 As with any rulebook, a section exists for cases involving 
inebriation. Crazy college nights are meant to be shared with the 
world. But according to current unofﬁ  cial social media norms, In-
stagram is no place to do so. This social media platform is where 
life looks perfectly put together like a 1,000 piece jigsaw puzzle 
assembled by a child prodigy. Snapchat is the safe haven of slop-
piness. Drunken videos and pictures hold a special place here. 
As one might expect, each platform allows for a certain level of 
authenticity. Snapchat and Twitter tie in regards of most carefree 
and judgement free.
With all the uppityness that surrounds Instagram, it may be 
time to unravel the norms of social media and make the platform 
more casual. Humanity has expressed itself in different ways for 
thousands of years. Social media is just the most recent mode of 
self exposure. 
Social media could be useful in authentically showing hu-
manity if we tried our best not to be so planned and perfected. 
Summer may even be the ideal time to experiment with rebelling 
against the social media norm. While everyone is sharing images 
of vacation spots and posed group photos, posting an unedited, 
uninteresting, unplanned photo may stand against the rest and 
show the reality of life. (Also with everyone vacationing, there’s 
less likelihood of having to explain yourself to the masses when 
you go on an Instagram bender.)
Posting only the highlights of life is tempting, but it is easy. 
There is something to be gained by sharing the mundane and te-
dious aspects of humanity. So much of Instagram is just showing 
off the acmes of life. The perfection mentality behind Instagram 
perpetuates this idea that the hardships in life are not worth shar-
ing. Tucking away hard or boring aspects of life won’t make them 
any more fun to go through. More casual photos and video could 
be the road to a more authentic sharing experience online. Don’t 
feel the need to like for like may use your better judgement and 
like a photo on some other factor besides if the owner of the post 
liked your last post. 
Now, that the unofﬁ  cial guidelines are out in the open – it’s 
time to break them. Set ﬁ  re to the rules. Give the algorithm a run 
for its money. It’s not like Instagram shows all your followers 
your posts anyways. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORColumn
Picture this: you’re going through your 
dating apps for the third time today 
hoping to ﬁ  nd something real. After 
swiping left on every guy with “here for 
a good time, not a long time” in his bio, 
you ﬁ  nd him. He has no bad tattoos, no sleazy 
pick-up line and, most important of all, he’s not 
holding a ﬁ  sh in any of his photos. 
As Farmer Hoggett says to his pet in the mov-
ie “Babe,” “that’ll do pig, that’ll do.” You swipe 
right. It’s an instant match.
After going on a few dates, the lack-of-ﬁ  sh charm begins 
to wear off. Things start to get boring with him, and you ﬁ  nd 
yourself missing that sweet, melodic sound of matching with 
someone on Tinder. It’s time to end things. You decide to 
screen his calls, ignore his texts and move on with your life 
feeling free and relieved.
For those who don’t know the term, “ghosting” refers to 
the act of terminating a romantic relationship by cutting off 
contact with the other person completely, almost as if the 
relationship never existed.
In a study by Psychology Today Magazine, 20 percent of 
participants admitted to ghosting someone. By those stats, 
one in every ﬁ  ve people has ghosted someone at some point 
in their lifetime. 
So why do people ghost? Because it’s easy, and millen-
nialism is all about working smarter not harder. At an age 
where it seems everyone is anxiety-prone with self-esteem is-
sues, formal breakups can be soul-crushing even at a casual 
level. Ghosting lets the relationship end in a neutral place 
where things aren’t positive, but they’re not necessarily neg-
ative either. It’s the purgatory of romance.
While it might be the least energy-consuming way to 
end a relationship, is it entirely guilt-free? It depends on the 
situation. In this case, and in other short-term relationships, 
ghosting provides a way to send a message (metaphorically, of course) without making things too emo-
tional. Sometimes people just don’t click. If 
the relationship was not formally deﬁ  ned 
as an exclusive relationship by both parties, 
disappearing with no notice is a ﬁ  ne choice. 
If they’re not your girlfriend/boyfriend/part-
ner, then their title won’t change when you de-
cide to leave them. 
On a more serious note, ghosting your partner 
from a long-term relationship is unacceptable. If 
a person has spent the time getting to know your 
favorite movies, most embarrassing stories from 
childhood and your preferred place to grab Boba 
tea, you should spend the time to give them an 
explanation. Face-to-face interactions are not just 
highly recommended but mandatory. It might be 
uncomfortable, but it shows the other person that, although 
you no longer wish to be with them, they are still deserving 
of your respect.
To quote Neil Sedaka’s hit song from the ‘60s, “Breakin’ 
up is hard to do.” It’s pretty awkward most of the time, and 
someone always ends up crying. But it doesn’t have to be ter-
rible. If you’re breaking up with someone, plan what you’re 
going to say beforehand. No one likes breakup conversa-
tions, especially impromptu ones. If you are being broken up 
with (or once you realize it) take your time in responding. 
Think up any burning questions you might have for that per-
son, because you might not have a chance to ask them in the 
future. That relationship, failed as it may be, is just a chapter 
in your book of life. 
Being a “ghost” doesn’t make someone a bad person 
just like being ghosted doesn’t mean someone is not wor-
thy of being loved. Whether you’re ghosting someone or 
getting ghosted yourself, the healthiest thing to do is not 
dwell on the situation but think of the good times that 
have happened with that person instead. 
In other, more dated words, keep calm and swipe on.
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication 
major. Her column appears on Tuesdays. To All the Boys I’ve Ghosted Before
Saying everything while saying nothing at all.
Amanda 
Martinez
opinions@alligator.orgAh, Millennials.
The stars of so many clickbait headlines. If 
the frantic headlines are to be believed, 
Millennials are serial killers of napkins, 
dinner dates, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. work days, 
soap bars, wine corks and sex. What 
shall the ﬁ  endish Millennials do next?
The New York Times Opinions columnist Bret 
Stephens has the answer. He wrote an article on 
May 17 adding to the pile of anti-Millennial polemics. Re-
sponding to Joe Biden’s comments about having “no empa-
thy” for young people and their problems, the conservative 
Stephens chimed in to agree with the Democratic presidential 
candidate, saying Millennials and Generation Z “[specialize] 
in histrionic self-pity and moral self-righteousness.” Oh boy. 
First, it would help to establish some deﬁ  nitions. Accord-
ing to the Pew Research Center, “Millennials” refer to those 
born between 1981 and 1996. Those born between 1997 and 
2012 are considered “Generation Z.” While those two groups 
are lumped together by Stephens and many others, they are 
not at all the same. 
Millennials remember 9/11 and how it shaped them. Gen 
Z-ers don’t remember or were born after the September 11 
attacks and have only known a post-War on Terror world. 
Most Millennials are now in the workplace and live indepen-
dent lives. The oldest Generation Z-ers have only just gradu-
ated with the rest still in college or having not even started.This is important because an example Ste-
phens cites of “Millennials gone wild” is activism 
on college campuses. As aforementioned, many 
Millennials have already graduated, so when Ste-
phens talks about anything involving college cam-
puses, most likely the students involved are part 
of Generation Z. It should really be Generation Z  
in the headline of Stephens’ article, not Millenni-
als. If you’re going to attack a whole generation, 
at least attack the right one.
But, that’s nitpicking compared to the thrust of Stephens’ 
argument: Millennials get in a tizzy over every perceived in-
justice, particularly at colleges. Is this exclusive to Millenni-
als? The integration of Southern colleges in the 1950s and 60s 
was fraught with protests and violence, and the 1960s and 
70s saw anti-war protests. Just as then, ‘Millennials’ (who 
are really Generation Z) are protesting what they see as injus-
tice. While people like Stephens would argue Millennials are 
doing more to shut down free speech than to protest injus-
tice, it’s fair game for students to protest people with racist, 
sexist, homophobic or generally reprehensible viewpoints. 
What we’re seeing today isn’t Millennials/Generation Z 
being whiny and intolerant. Rather, we’re seeing a group of 
young people who are fed up with how things are and want 
to be heard. Is it too unreasonable to ask we listen to them?
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays. A rebuttal to Bret Stephens and other Millennial critics
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
· No Weekends
· Gain Sales Experience
· Flexible Work Schedule
· Learn Prospecting SkillsADVERTISING SALES REP POSITION
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
***Applicants must be enrolled in classes at the University of Florida or Santa Fe College***HELP WANTED
1. Internship Credit Hours  Earn credit hours while interning
2. Valuable Skills Team work and client relations
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative
4. Build Your Resume
5. Hands On Training
6. Flexible Schedule
7. No Weekends!ADVERTISING INTERNS
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Intern Coordinator
intern@alligator.org
Applicants must be enrolled in classes at 
the University of Florida or Santa Fe CollegeHELP WANTED
Emmitt Hill, 37, and his 12-year-old son Calvin, look at gravestone markers Monday. 
The markers memorialized U.S. service members who died in Iraq or Afghanistan 
since 2001. Hill, who enlisted in the army in 1999 and served for 8 years, looked to 
pay his respects to his high school friend who died in Afghanistan in 2010. 
Eddie Thomas (right), an 85-year-old 
Air Force veteran and Gainesville 
resident, performs a three-volley 
salute Monday with other members 
of the Korean War Veterans 
Association. Thomas served from 
December 1954 to January 1956. 
“It means a lot to help remember 
the guys that gave their lives and 
anyone who is still serving, ” he said. 
Chris Day / Alligator StaffThe Memorial Day Ceremony 2019 was held at Forest Meadows Memorial Park East on Monday. The 
event featured a presentation of the colors by the Vietnam Veterans of America and the Milton Lewis 
Young Marines. Remarks were made by Mayor Lauren Poe and Congressman T ed Yoho, the United States 
Representative for Florida’s 3rd Congressional District. Gold Star Families, which are families of soldiers 
killed in action, who live in Alachua County were also honored at the ceremony . Additionally, on NW 8th 
Ave., the Gainesville chapter of Veterans For Peace placed one paper tombstone for each U.S. service 
member who lost their life in Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001 for the Memorial Mile 2019 event.  Gainesville honors military heroes past and present 
Dennis Nickerson, a 78-year-old United States Coast Guard veteran, Navy veteran 
and High Springs resident, salutes Monday while 16-year-old Jayden T anner and oth-
er members of the Buchholz High School Marching Band perform the “T aps” bugle call.  
Nickerson said he attends the Memorial Day celebration every year. Chris Day / Alligator StaffSam Thomas / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDHouse for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,000/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-30-19-102-2
GREAT FOR UF STUDENT
3BR/3BA, 2-story condo behind Gainesville 
Sun Office. July 1st, $875 / mo each. nghe@
msn.com or phone 352-327-2931    5-30-19-
6-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1050/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard,
large closets, pets welcome, no application
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100        8-13-19-24-2
ONLY 4 LEFT...1/1's Available for UF 
Students for the Fall! Quiet student com-
munity on Archer. $865-$900 includes water, 
gas, basic cable and Internet. Call Erika at 
352-373-2700      6-6-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Did you know? Africa is the only continent with 
land in all four hemispheres.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Trump MAGA wearers hate this hat for 
mocking theirs Make A Hole Go A Way of 
course the MAGA on this hat is much lager 
than all of the other. Go to Gville Craigslist and 
type in Blue Hat to see the hat and contact info.     
5-30-19-4-10
Honda EU7000is 7000w Inverter
Generator 120/240v, 
18 hours. never an issue. $800! Contact: 
7864924736     6-6-19-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Time to sell your synthesizer? Your hockey 
stick? Looking to buy one? Check out the For 
Sale section for great results. 
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Did you know? Continental plates drift as fast 
as fingernails grow.ACCOUNTING RESEARCH ASSISTANT/
FULL AND PART TIME
Join our exciting, fast-paced Content 
Production team and assist with writing, edit-
ing, and publishing the best review and study 
materials available. Our Content Production 
Department crafts the products that the 
rest of the departments support. Content 
Production is dedicated to providing our cus-
tomers the most up-to-date knowledge trans-
fer systems. Many of our team members are 
students and from the University of Florida, 
Santa Fe College, and Embry Riddle. We of-
fer an engaging, challenging work environ -
ment; flexible schedules; great benefits; ca-
sual dress; and a positive work environment. 
Drug test and background check conducted 
when job offer is extended.
DESCRIPTION:
Perform customer support through emails. 
Critical reading, editing and research are ad-
ditional responsibilities. This is an ideal po-
sition for new accounting graduates looking 
for full time while they study for the CPA or 
accounting students that would like to learn 
while they earn. We have a great success 
rate of ARA's who pass the CPA on the first 
try. Assist with special projects, as needed. 
Miscellaneous other duties as needed.
Perfect for graduating students who are 
looking for full time work and want to work 
in Gainesville for the next year or accounting 
students that are in their fourth or fifth year of 
study and can work at least 15 hours a week. 
Students will receive $14.00/hr during the 
training period, $15.00/hr upon completion 
and $16.00 after successful completion of 
the 90 day period.
REQUIREMENTS
● Must be able to work on-site in Gainesville, 
Florida.
● Typing 40+ wpm.
● 4th or 5th year Accounting student that 
has taken auditing and tax classes or is in 
the process of starting auditing and tax or are 
graduating. 
● 3.0+ GPA.
● Must be available at least 15 hours per 
week. Full time is available during the sum-
mer or throughout the year. 
● Able to work in a library environment.
Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    
6-6-19-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
Did you know? On Good Friday in 1930, the 
BBC reported, “There is no news.” Instead, 
they played piano music.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Did you know? “Horizontal refreshment” was a 
19th century slang term for sex.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Researchers at the University of Florida are 
looking for cigarette smokers to participate in
a study involving incentives for quitting. If 
interested, call the Behavioral Health and 
Technology Research Clinic at 352-273-
2151 or email us at motiv8@psych.ufl.edu.    
6-4-5-20
Making paper from recycled paper reduces 
the related contribution to air pollution 95%.
PLEASE RECYCLE THIS NEWSPAPER!Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
P/T babysitter,$12/hr, help take kids age 10-
16 to summer activities. Experience babysit-
ting, car needed. I pay for gas as well. Email 
to rosenson@ufl.edu      5-28-19-5-14
OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-6-19-
8-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Long sails
8 Interrupt, with “in”
12 Unsightly sight
13 Christens with oil
17 Frigid
18 Game that’s 
pointless for one 
team?
19 Director Howard
20 Sighs of pleasure
22 Like dad jokes
23 Aberdeen 
resident
25 Symbol on Nike 
stores
27 Put a strain on
28 1980s sitcom ET
29 Junior in the Pro 
Football Hall of 
Fame
30 “Love __ reason, 
reason none”: 
Shak.
32 Volleyball court 
divider
33 Half a matched 
set
34 Disturbed state
37 Google 
alternative
39 MBA or Ph.D.
41 Villainous Vader
42 Combo in the ring
44 Jagged rock
46 Neither 
companion
47 Pawn
48 Aviation prefix
49 It’s not true
50 “Now I get it!”
52 Leaves confused
54 Sushi ingredient
55 Tangle behind 
many a desktop
57 Type
58 Circle div.
59 Teach bit by bit
61 “Here’s the best 
part”
65 Lasting forever
66 In plain sight
67 Like hollandaise 
sauce
68 Removed from 
power
DOWN
1 Chill (out)
2 Olive or Castor of 
toondom
3 *The next one 
starts in 2026
4 Natty neckwear
5 Cross the 
threshold6 Stat for Jacob 
deGrom
7 Actress who won 
a Golden Globe 
and an Emmy 
for “Once and 
Again”
8 Low opera voice
9 Granite State 
sch.
10 *Iffy
11 Jackson 5 
brother
14 Arctic spectacle 
... and what 
the answers to 
starred clues 
have?
15 Sushi ingredient
16 “Come Sail 
Away” rock band
21 *Rare medical 
service these 
days
23 Japanese 
electronics  
giant
24 Concealing no 
weapons
25 Drop in on
26 Moo __ pork
29 *Exhibiting
31 Song syllable
35 Hard to read, 
facially36 Number of 
Chicago Cubs’ 
World Series 
wins
38 Platte River 
native
40 Zeus or Ares
43 Authorized, 
briefly
45 Horace’s “__ 
Poetica”
50 Boo-boo
51 Help for a 
stumped solver53 Lulu
54 Back in style
56 Raison d’__
58 Escalator part
60 Internet 
connectivity 
annoyance
62 “Killing __”:  
TV thriller  
starring  
Sandra Oh
63 Land in l’eau
64 Australian airport 
code
By Evan Kalish
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/24/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/24/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, May 24, 2019
ACROSS
1 Muscle at one 
end of the 
Achilles tendon
5 Dream __
9 Ground-hitting 
sound
14 __ 2600, Class 
of 2007 National 
Toy Hall of Fame 
inductee
16 Ebb
17 Alaska governor 
after Murkowski
18 Mission 
statement?
21 Bandies words
22 Baseball mascot 
originally titled 
“Lady”
23 La, in the key of E
25 Ballet move
27 Drink suffix
28 For nothing
29 Get gas
31 Position 
statement?
33 Black fur
37 Big name in big 
trucks
38 Restoratives
40 Lead-in to bake 
or shell
41 Lid maladies
43 Impact 
statement?
45 __ best
47 What many dress 
in during winter
48 Tricky person
51 Looking up
52 Gently towel off
53 Author Allende
55 Clean __
56 Closing 
statement?
62 First name in 
Fighting Irish 
history
63 Vacation home 
asset
64 Arabian 
Peninsula 
resident
65 Go after
66 Board-making 
aids
67 Sun blocker
DOWN
1 A dealer might 
flip one
2 Adored, with “up”
3 Escape
4 New perspectives5 Squirt
6 Wheat spikes
7 Critter with three 
left legs
8 “Doesn’t do it for 
me”
9 “We have 
enough details, 
thanks”
10 Buds
11 High-altitude 
pack animal
12 Prepared with 
a cue
13 Low-risk 
investment
15 Affect adversely
19 Mixologist’s tools
20 Expressionist 
painter Nolde
23 Slovene neighbor
24 Pert
25 Ingot valuation 
factor
26 Parasite
28 Places for some 
rats
29 Ted Williams’ 
field
30 Large animals 
whose 
taxonomic order 
is obsolete
32 Brit’s bonnets, in 
the States34 Downer?
35 David who 
voiced George 
Steinbrenner on 
“Seinfeld”
36 Mobile lifesavers
39 Peace in the 
Middle East?
42 Can’t-miss wager
44 Bit of needlework
46 Tulane’s home, 
informally
48 Burning needs?
49 In unison50 Full range
52 Pickup 
attachments
54 Pre-release 
stage
55 All-in-one dinner
57 Rite Aid rival
58 Optima, for one
59 Big name in 
pickups
60 Palindromic 
peace activist
61 Locks lacking 
keys
05/23/19
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
1. Since 1970, five college baseball 
teams have won back-to-back College 
World Series. Name three of them.
2. True or false: Although Hall of 
Fame pitcher Jim Palmer gave up 303 
home runs during his 19-year major 
league career, he never surrendered a 
grand slam.
3. Who is the only Florida State 
football player to be the No. 1 overall 
pick in the NFL Draft?
4. Name the player who holds the 
NBA record for most playoff games 
played?
5. Who was the last NHL player 
before Calgary’s Johnny Gaudreau in 
2019 to have a six-point game?
6. Who holds the record for most 
career medals in Olympic speedskating?
7. In 2019, golfer Dustin Johnson 
became the fifth player in the past 50 
years to reach 20 career PGA wins 
before the age of 35. Name two of the 
other four to do it.
Answers
1. Southern Cal, Stanford, LSU, 
Oregon State and South Carolina.
2. True. 
3. Quarterback Jameis Winston, in 
2015.
4. Derek Fisher, with 259 playoff 
games.
5. Dallas’ Jamie Benn, in 2013.
6. Ireen Wust of the Netherlands, 
with 11 medals (2006-18). 
7. Phil Mickelson, Johnny Miller, 
Tom Watson and Tiger Woods.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 27, 2019King Features Weekly ServiceFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Alonso on pace to set Mets' rookie home run record
Former UF ﬁ  rst baseman Pete Alonso has hit 17 home runs this season and 
is on pace to break Daryl Strawberry's rookie record of 26. Alonso is tied for 
third in Major League Baseball in home runs.Junior Grant Holloway clocked 
the fourth-fastest 110-meter 
hurdle time in collegiate history 
at the NCAA East Preliminary 
on Saturday (13.10 seconds).SOFTBALL
TRACKyear
By Jack 
Braverman
Sports Writer
 
It was an adventur-
ous weekend for the 
Gators softball team.
At its conclusion, 
Florida was headed 
to its third-consecu-
tive Women’s College 
World Series, and 
10th in program his-
tory.
UF now heads to 
Oklahoma City to 
compete among the 
seven other Super Re-
gional winners for its 
third national title, and ﬁ  rst since 2015. 
The No. 5 Gators will 
be joined in their 
WCWS bracket by 
No.1 Oklahoma, No. 
8 Alabama and No. 13 
Oklahoma State, who 
is set to open against 
Florida on May 30th.
A Game 1 shutout 
over the No. 12 Vol-
unteers set the initial 
tone in the Super Re-
gional,, with senior 
ace Kelly Barnhill de-
livering a three-hit, 
seven strikeout per-
formance to put the 
Gators a victory away 
from a trip to Okla-
homa City among the 
NCAA’s ﬁ  nal eight.
That victory seemed inevitable, as 
Florida had not given 
up a single run up 
to that point in this 
year’s NCAA postsea-
son play and had an 
offense slowly start-
ing to produce more.
Saturday’s Game 
2 walk-off loss to 
Tennessee put Florida 
in different territory. 
Barnhill proved 
vulnerable, if only for 
a little, giving up three 
earned runs in her 
13th loss of the year. 
Sophomore Natalie 
Lugo walked in the 
game-winning run in 
the ninth-inning, and 
the Volunteers forced 
multi-sport 
UF career
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
The Florida softball team had 
just won its second national cham-
pionship in as many years. Rob-
ert Reed watched his freshman 
daughter, Megan, sprint from the 
dugout with the rest of the 2015 
squad to join the celebratory dog-
pile. The moment for Robert was 
bittersweet. His daughter was 
now a national champion, but she 
was also no longer a softball play-
er, a sport she’d been in for ﬁ  fteen 
years.
“When we were at the World 
Series that year, she told us she 
was basically done,” Robert said. 
“It damn near killed me.” 
Megan’s decision to walk away 
from softball stemmed back to the 
end of her high school career. 
“My love for softball wasn’t 
the same even coming into col-
lege,” Megan said. “It wasn’t as 
fun to play. But I was getting re-
cruited and I had kind of accepted that, so I decided to still stick with 
it and try.”
When she graduated from 
Strawberry Crest High School in 
Dover, Florida, in 2014, she left 
a decorated softball career in the 
rearview mirror on the way to 
Gainesville. 
She was a three-time all-con-
ference selection, two-time Tampa 
Tribune all-Hillsborough county 
ﬁ  rst-team selection, 2013 second-
team all-state selection and holds 
the school’s record for home runs 
in a season (nine). 
During the recruitment pro-
cess, Florida was always the fa-
vorite. 
“I had a bunch of different of-
fers, but Florida always just felt 
like home,” Megan said. “This 
was deﬁ  nitely my number one 
choice of where I wanted to go.” 
Other schools did peak Reed’s 
interest, however. 
“LSU gave her a lot of atten-
tion; she loved that school from 
day one,” Robert said. “Eastern 
Kentucky was willing to give her 
everything under the sun. They 
basically told Megan ‘show up 
with a pair of shorts and we’ll 
take care of the rest.’” 
Part of the reason she ultimate-
ly decided to go there was because her sister, Nicole, was already 
there. While she was also a soft-
ball player in high school, Nicole 
excelled in academics, and she 
went to undergrad in Gainesville 
from 2010-2013 and started at 
UF’s law school in 2014. 
“She deﬁ  nitely got more of the 
brains of the family and I got more 
of the athletic genes,” Megan said. 
“When we were younger, we had 
normal sister bickering, but when 
I got here our relationship really 
took off. If I was having a bad day, 
I could just go to her apartment 
and it was like a getaway even 
though she lived 10 minutes away 
from me.”
While her relationship with her 
sister was stronger than ever, her 
love for softball was not. Even a 
national championship was not 
enough to keep her playing. 
“I knew it wasn’t what I was 
supposed to be doing here,” Me-
gan said. “But I still wanted to be 
a Gator, and I still wanted to be an 
athlete.” 
That desire to keep playing 
sports led to a visit with coach 
Steve Lemke, the throwers’ coach 
for Florida’s track & ﬁ  eld team.
“I had done track in like mid-
dle school, and so I thought ‘I’ll be 
a shot putter,’” Megan said. Her dad had his doubts. 
“I told her ‘you don’t do 
track, you’ve never done track, 
and they have a really good 
team,’” Robert said. “Coach 
Lemke asked if she had ever 
thrown before. She said ‘well, 
does eighth grade count?’ He 
said no.” 
As inexperienced as Megan 
was, Lemke recalled somebody 
else that was in a similar situa-
tion to Megan. 
“We’d had another girl a 
few years before that came 
from the softball team, and she 
was successful. She was third 
in the SEC (for javelin),” Lemke 
said. “It had been done before.” 
That girl was Star Sansone, 
who placed that SEC mark in 
2009. But Sansone did not do it 
throwing the shot put, she did it 
by throwing the javelin. Lemke 
had the same idea for Megan. 
“She just thought because she 
was strong in softball, she could 
throw the shot or the discus,” 
Lemke said. “I told her it’s a dif-
ferent kind of strength. We have 
girls that can bench press over 300 
pounds. To be successful, that’s 
the kind of strength you need in 
those events. Coming with a soft-
ball background it just seemed to me that javelin would be the most 
natural.” 
While attempts to put down a 
softball and pick up a spear are 
rare, Lemke was open to it over 
a decade ago with Sansone and, 
ultimately, with Megan in 2015 
because of her natural arm talent. 
“With softball, at least they 
have the basic skill set that poten-
tially can throw the javelin well 
because most softball players can 
throw,” Lemke said. Gators return to WCWS 
for third-consecutive 
Softball player turned javelin thrower concludes SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 12
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 12Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida will advance to its third-consecutive Women's College World Series following a walkoff 
hit from outﬁ  elder Jaimie Hoover against the T ennessee Volunteers on Sunday.
Megan Reed has the seventh best 
javelin throw in UF history 
(48.67m).
TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
 
The streak continues.
On Monday, the Florida baseball team 
learned its postseason fate during the NCAA 
Tournament Selection Show, sneaking into 
the tournament to extend its NCAAs appear-
ance streak to 12.
The Gators will travel to Lubbock, Texas, 
to join Army, Dallas Baptist and host Texas 
Tech.
Third-seeded UF (33-24) will play second-
seeded DBU (41-18) at 8 p.m. on Friday after 
No. 1 Texas Tech (39-17) and No. 4 Army 
(35-24) get the regional underway at 4 p.m.
It marks the first since 2013 that Florida 
won’t host an NCAA Regional.
After a quick departure from the SEC 
Tournament last week, UF was fearing the 
possibility of missing the NCAA Tourna-
ment for the first time under coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan, who took over in 2008.
D1baseball.com’s final projected NCAA 
field had the Gators as the final team in, 
placing them 64th out of 64 teams.
When the results were unveiled, howev-
er, UF wasn’t even in the last four in.
The team’s high RPI, brutal schedule and 
impressive array of RPI top-50 wins proved 
too much for the committee to truly consider 
leaving the team out.
The Gators were the 10th team from the 
SEC to make this year’s field, the most of any conference.
UF has been on the rise over the last few 
weeks, sweeping the Missouri Tigers during 
the final regular season series. 
The team will need to use every bit of mo-
mentum it has earned recently as two top-25 
teams await in Lubbock.
The Texas Tech Red Raiders earned the 
eighth-overall seed and a host regional site 
after finishing first in the Big 12 before losing 
to West Virginia in the Big 12 Tournament 
semifinals.
Texas Tech won 13 games against RPI 
top-50 teams, held an impressive 25-6 re-
cord at home and finished in the top 10 of 
D1baseball.com’s most recent top 25.
The batting lineup features some pop, 
highlighted by infielder Cameron Warren (14 
home runs, 67 RBIs), Co-Big 12 Player of the 
Year infielder Josh Jung (11 home runs, 53 
RBIs) and Second Team All-Big 12 infielder/
outfielder Dylan Neuse (eight home runs, 48 
RBIs).
On the mound, First Team All-Big 12 
starter Caleb Killian (8-3, 3.89 ERA) and re-
liever Dane Haveman (2-1, 2.08 ERA in 28 
appearances) could give the Gators issues if 
the two teams meet.
UF and Texas Tech last met in the 2018 
College World Series, splitting two games in 
Omaha.
The Dallas Baptist Patriots, Florida’s first 
opponent, has the most wins out of any team 
in the Lubbock Regional at 41.Ranked 24th in the most recent D1base-
ball.com top 25, DBU dropped a 16-3 deci-
sion to Indiana State in the Missouri Valley 
Conference Championship.
The Patriots won the regular season MVC 
title and defeated other Texas teams in major 
conferences including Texas A&M and TCU 
on their way to a 5-3 record against the RPI-
top 25.
Making its sixth-straight NCAA Tourna-
ment appearance, DBU is led by infielder Bryce Ball (17 home runs and 52 RBIs) and 
starting pitcher MD Johnson (9-2, 2.46 ERA).
In order to extend their Super Regional 
appearance streak to five, the Gators will 
need to show consistency on the mound and 
in the batter’s box to defeat two of the best 
teams in the country.
 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgFlorida clinches NCAA berth as third seed in Lubbock Regional
Alligator File Photo
Since Kevin O’Sullivan took over as coach in 2008, UF has made the NCAA T ournament 
12 consecutive times and has an overall record of 530-253.
TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Historic.
That could be one word used to 
describe the Florida men’s tennis 
team’s 2018-19 season.
It reached the Final Four for 
only the third time in school his-
tory and the first time since 2005. 
Its 25-4 record was its best since 
2000, Florida’s first Final Four ap-
pearance.
UF won the SEC regular season 
championship for the first time 
since 2005 and finished the confer-
ence season undefeated for the first 
time in sixteen years. Five Gators 
were also given bids at the NCAA 
Individual Championships.
Despite all its success, Florida’s 
season ended like every one before 
it: without an NCAA Champion-
ship.
This season seemed like it 
would be different. The Gators be-
gan the season ranked No. 4 with 
an Elite Eight appearance the year 
before. After winning their first five 
matches, they lost two out of the 
three matches played at the ITA 
National Team Indoor Champion-
ships in Chicago.
After those losses, Florida went 
on a remarkable run. It won its 
next 15 matches, with nine wins 
coming against teams ranked in 
the top 30, including wins over then-No. 2 Wake Forest, then-No. 
7 Texas A&M and then-No. 10 Mis-
sissippi State. The Gators rolled 
into the SEC Tournament at home 
and seemed ready to win the it for 
the first time since 2016. Those 
dreams were dashed by Tennes-
see, who beat the Gators 4-3 in the 
semifinals.
Florida recovered in time for 
the NCAA Tournament, beating 
FGCU, FSU, Tennessee and Baylor 
to reach the Final Four.
In the semifinals, UF was over-
matched by Texas and lost 4-2, 
falling short of that championship 
goal. The Longhorns would go on 
to beat defending champions Wake 
Forest and win the first title in 
school history.
In spite of the loss, the Gators 
have a lot to look forward to when 
next season comes around.
They will be returning nine 
players next season, and the team 
will most likely be led once again 
by Oliver Crawford. The sopho-
more ended the season ranked No. 
9 in the country and finished with a 
record of 16-8, including wins over 
some of the nation’s top players.
Freshman Sam Riffice will play 
a big role on the team as well. Rif-
fice entered UF as the No. 2 recruit 
in the country and lived up to the 
billing, finishing 19-7. Florida is 
hoping Riffice and fellow freshman 
Lukas Grief make improvements before their second season. Other 
players who are expected to play a 
big role are Duarte Vale, Andy An-
drade and Johannes Ingildsen.
The Gators will be losing two 
key contributors in seniors Mc-
Clain Kessler and Alfredo Perez. 
Both leave Florida will plenty of ac-
colades. Perez was a two-time All-
American for singles and doubles 
while Kessler was an All-American 
in doubles in 2018, although both 
players had a reduced role this past 
season.
Incoming freshmen Blaise Bick-
nell and Will Grant could fill the 
void left by Kessler and Perez. 
Both are five-star blue chip recruits 
and will be coming to Gainesville 
next season. According to Tennis 
Recruiting Network, Bicknell, from 
Miami, is the No. 15 recruit in the 
country, and Grant, from Orlando, 
is No. 25.
“Super, super proud of these 
guys,” coach Bryan Shelton said 
in a release after the loss to the 
Longhorns. “They’ll remember this 
championship. They’ll remember 
this season. All we can look at is 
what we have in front of us. I love 
our guys. The guys that are com-
ing back are going to be better than 
ever.”
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgAfter Final Four appearance, Gators future is bright
Alligator File Photo
Senior Alfredo Perez was a two-time All-American for singles 
and doubles play in 2018.
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS 
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSHe believes that at least get-
ting a chance is more likely in the 
throws because it is harder to tell 
how good somebody can be right 
away. 
“I think we’re very good about 
at least giving people a chance in 
the throwing events,” Lemke said. 
“In the sprints or something you 
can pretty much tell right away if 
they can be at a certain level. In the 
throws it’s almost like you have 
to give them an extended tryout 
to see how they could pick up on 
things. You can’t say after a week 
‘yeah, you can do it’ or ‘yeah, you 
have no chance.’”
Lemke let that semester be Me-
gan’s extended tryout the follow-
ing fall. The potential was there, 
but she was nowhere near where 
she needed to be. She redshirted 
that track season to fully develop 
into a real thrower. 
“Javelin is very technique (driv-
en). If you’re off just a little bit it 
can completely change the throw,” 
Megan said. “That was very differ-
ent because in softball you don’t 
have to throw exactly the same ev-
ery single time, it can just be rela-
tively in an area.” 
That process was tough on Me-
gan. Someone who was fluent all 
her life in one athletic language 
had to learn an entirely new one. 
It was especially tough when the 
man who gave her the chance was 
watching. 
“At first it was very scary. I 
didn’t want to be bad at javelin, 
but obviously I didn’t know what 
I was doing,” Megan said. “I’d 
always be really nervous when he was watching me.”
Now, the girl that was once ner-
vous to throw in front of her own 
coach is a top-10 javelin thrower in 
her conference, finishing eighth at 
the SEC Championship in Fayette-
ville, Arkansas, in early May.
Out of all the challenges she 
had faced, one of the biggest ones 
for Megan had nothing to do with 
form or technique. It was being 
alone. 
“No one’s out there helping me. 
Once I get on the runway, it’s just 
me. It’s all up to me on how I do,” 
Megan said. “In softball you might 
have a bad day or a bad game, but 
like, your teammates can still pick 
you up and make you look better 
than you did.”  
Even though she only competes 
in one event by herself, Megan and 
her biggest fan have still invested 
in the rest of the Florida track and 
field team. She and her dad have 
taken the team aspect of softball 
and applied it to the track team by 
rooting for and encouraging every-
body else.
This past weekend, Megan’s 
athletic career concluded in Jack-
sonville, Florida, at the NCAA 
East Preliminary Round. Many of 
her teammates moved on to the 
NCAA Championships in Austin, 
Texas, and Megan and Robert will 
be watching and cheering on their 
squad. 
“I’m not a track dad. Never was, 
never followed it,” Robert said. 
Megan’s journey, however, has 
converted him. 
“We stay from the first event to 
the last race.” 
gmarsh@alligator.org
@GrahamMarshUFTRACK,  from pg. 10Reed originally played 
a Game 3 win-or-go-home 
bout at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium.
There was an uncertainty 
that the Gators had not faced 
in NCAA play thus far, a first 
game where the season was on 
the line.
Barnhill delivered in 
Sunday’s elimination game, 
tossing six innings of shutout 
ball and keeping her team ahead of Tennessee. But when 
a solo-shot from Haley Bearden 
tied the game for Tennessee in 
the seventh inning, Barnhill 
once again faced adversity.
Florida fought back, and 
a shutout inning followed by 
a walk-off single from Jaimie 
Hoover scored first baseman 
Amanda Lorenz and gave Barn-
hill the support she needed, 
earning the Gators their spot in 
college softball’s Elite Eight.
It’s a triumph for the Gators, whose season-long trials and 
tribulations ultimately resulted 
in a return visit to a place where 
which they have had so much 
success.
“That feeling is unbeliev-
able,” Hoover said in a release. 
“I am so happy I could to that 
for my team.”
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 10UF will play No. 13 Oklahoma State
Sports Meme of the W eek
River Wells / Alligator Staffoutfielder 