We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Newberry opts out of Tobacco 21 
It’s the only city in the county that opted out, pg. 4
UF Chispas honors undocumented students
The club fundraised for scholarships, pg. 3SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperIs Florida better oﬀ   with Trask?
Football beat writer Sam Campisano thinks 
quarterback Kyle Trask is outplaying Feleipe 
Franks so far, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 27
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
HE HAS A 
$1 MILLION BOND
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A 61-year-old man is accused of kill-
ing his stepson in his home after ﬁ  ght-
ing with him about a damaged car.
On Monday night, James Ed-
wards was arrested and accused of 
murder after shooting Jacob Knight, 
24, in the chest after Knight acciden-
tally damaged Edwards’ car on the 
way to a local store, according to an 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce ar-
rest report. 
Edwards claimed Knight was beating 
him, so he shot his stepson with a gun he kept on the night-
stand by his bed, 
according to the re-
port. A witness tried 
to break up the ﬁ  ght 
but noticed Knight 
was shot when she 
pulled him away. 
Deputies noted 
Edwards had injuries to his face 
after the incident, according to the 
report. Edwards told the 911 opera-
tor he shot Knight and stayed on the 
line until law enforcement arrived 
on the scene.
Edwards told authorities he is 
a registered nurse, but authorities 
wrote he didn’t aid Knight at any 
point. Knight died from his injuries.Deputies wrote Edwards was 
drinking, but the witness, who 
wished to remain anonymous, told 
The Alligator he barely had anything 
to drink. 
County records show Edwards 
was previously arrested for domestic 
battery in 2013.
“I never want to look at him 
again, but he was not a bad person,” 
the witness said Tuesday night.
Edwards remains in the Alachua 
County Jail on a $1 million bond 
on a ﬁ  rst degree murder charge 
as of Tuesday night, according to 
county records.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMan accused of killing stepson 
after argument over car damage
Edwards
READING RULES
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
John Stevens, 9, and his brother Luke, 7, sit in a buggy reading as they wait for their mom to help their 
younger brother pick out a book during the Friends of the Library Fall 2019 Book Sale Tuesday. The 
sale lasts from Saturday to Wednesday, and all proceeds go to the Alachua County Library District and 
area literacy projects.By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Supreme Court Justice Clar-
ence Thomas, who has had a 
three decade long stay in the 
court, will teach a short course at 
UF for law students this Spring.
Thomas and Kathryn Mizelle, 
a 2012 UF law alumna and his 
2018-2019 clerk, will co-teach a 
class on the First Amendment’s 
religion clauses next semester, 
Laura Rosenbury, dean of the 
UF Levin College of Law, wrote 
in an email to law students on 
Oct. 3. Mizelle made history as 
the ﬁ  rst UF law alumnus to be a 
Supreme Court clerk in 2018.
“We are very excited to wel-
come both Justice Thomas and 
Ms. Mizelle back to campus,” 
Rosenbury said.
The class will meet nine times from Jan. 21-31 and accept 35 
applicants, according to an Oct. 
3 email Jason Nance, UF Levin 
associate dean for academic af-
fairs, sent to law students.
Thomas was nominated to 
the Supreme Court by President 
George Bush in 1990. During 
his 1991 conﬁ  rmation hearings 
chaired by former Vice President 
Joe Biden, Anita Hill, who for-
merly worked for Thomas at two 
government agencies testiﬁ  ed 
that she was sexually harassed 
by Thomas. He denied the ac-
cusations, calling the hearings a 
“high-tech lynching.” 
Thomas is assigned to the 
11th Supreme Court circuit, 
which includes Florida. He co-
taught a different UF law class 
in 2016 and spoke on a panel in 
2010. Supreme Court Justice to 
teach UF law course
ABOUT 6,500 STUDENTS 
PARTICIPATED IN  
SURVEY
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost half of all UF students 
who took a 2019 sexual assault 
and misconduct survey reported 
experiencing at least one form of 
harassment. 
The full results of the AAU 
Campus Climate Survey on Sex-
ual Assault and Misconduct show 
reported sexual misconduct or 
violence toward undergradu-
ate women and men, as well as 
graduate women, increased since 
a 2015 survey. Student awareness 
of available resources also signiﬁ  -
cantly increased. 
Students who reported identi-
fying as non-heterosexual or with 
a disability were nearly twice as 
likely to experience non-consen-
sual sexual contact, according to 
the 2019 survey. Approximately 
14.8 percent of undergraduate and graduate students who iden-
tiﬁ  ed as transgender, non-binary 
or gender non-conforming report-
ed nonconsenual sexual contact.
The study was conducted in 
partnership with the Association 
of American Universities and 
with 32 universities besides UF 
as a followup to the 2015 survey, 
according to a UF press release. 
In Spring 2019, 6,561 students 
who are 18 or older responded. In 
2015, 1,997 students responded. 
UF’s student population consists 
of about 56,000 students. 
Results show nearly one in 
three undergraduate women and 
nearly 8 percent of men experi-
enced nonconsensual sexual con-
tact in 2019, and 45 percent of all 
UF students experienced at least 
one type of harassment.
Reported awareness of cam-
pus resources such as the Ofﬁ  ce 
of Title IX Compliance increased 
from 14.6 percent to 44.9 percent 
since 2015. Awareness of the 
University Police Ofﬁ  ce of Victim Sexual misconduct reports 
rise across student groups SEE THOMAS,  PAGE 5
SEE RESULTS,  PAGE 5CO-TEACHER IS FIRST UF ALUMNUS TO BE A 
SUPREME COURT CLERKT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  59°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
GCM Food Fest
When: Thursday, 5 to 9 p.m. 
Where: Celebration Pointe
What: Come enjoy great food 
from over 50 of Gainesville's 
restaurants all in one loca-
tion. Gainesville Community 
Ministry (GCM)  teamed up with 
Celebration Pointe to close the 
avenue in front of the Nike store 
and the Tommy Hilfiger store and 
fill it with music, food, beer, wine 
and kids activities. Admission to 
the 2019 GCM Food Festival is 
free. Meal and drink tickets will 
be sold a la carte for $2 each. 
National DEA Drug Take-Back 
Day Event
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. 
Where: Alachua County Library 
Partnership Branch, 912 NE 16th 
Ave.
What: The Alachua County Health 
Promotion and Wellness Coalition are partnering with the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office and the 
Drug Enforcement Administration 
(DEA) to host an event to prevent 
abuse and misuse of drugs. The 
public is invited to anonymously 
drop off any expired or unused 
medications at any of the four 
specified locations: Gainesville, 
Archer, Micanopy and Alachua. 
The Gainesville drop-off location 
is at the Alachua County Library 
Partnership Branch. 
Ghouls Night Out Halloween 
Dance and Costume Party 
When: Oct. 31, 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 
Second Ave.
What: Hosted by Lady Grinning 
Soul, the High Dive is hosting a 
Halloween Costume Party and 
costume contest. The contest will 
have three prizes: first prize wins 
$100, second prize gets their bar 
tab covered and third prize will 
win two free tickets to any High 
Dive show. Tickets are available 
online at the Hear Again Records website with a $1 fee and at the 
High Dive box office with no fee. 
Prices are $5 in advance and $7 
the day of the show for those 21 
or older. All guests under 21 will 
have a $3 additional charge. 
UF Libraries Fall Festival
When: Oct. 31 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North Lawn
What: The UF Libraries are bring-
ing the best of what they have to 
offer to the Reitz Lawn. There 
will be free T-shirts, snacks and 
games. Join them for demonstra-
tions of resources, crafts, therapy 
dogs, music and the opportunity 
to learn more about how the li-
braries can help you succeed at 
UF. For more information, con-
tact Barbara Hood at bhood@ufl.
edu.
Chris Kattan & Friends at High 
Dive 
When: Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 2nd 
Ave.
What: The Saturday Night Live 
veteran, stand up comic, actor 
and author comes to Gainesville 
for the first time for an unforget-
table night at High Dive.  Tickets 
are available online, at Hear 
Again Records with a $1 fee and 
at the High Dive box office with 
no fee. General admission seating 
is $25 in advance and $28 the day 
of the show.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 27
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
$7,000$6,534
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Bianca Cegatte, the UF Chispas vice president of marketing, hangs a butterﬂ  y on a tree 
Tuesday afternoon in Turlington Plaza as part of the I Stand With Immigrants Day of Action. 
The event, hosted by Chispas UF, invited students to paint small wooden butterﬂ  ies with the 
colors of their home country’s ﬂ  ag or colors that represented something important to them. 
‘We have support’: UF Chispas celebrates immigrant students
THE GROUP RAISED 
SCHOLARSHIP FUNDS FOR 
UNDOCUMENTED STUDENTS
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students hung butterﬂ  ies on 
trees in Turlington Plaza. Some were 
painted with random designs, while 
others were painted with ﬂ  ags.
UF Chispas, a club that advocates 
for immigrants’ rights, raised $285 on 
I Stand With Immigrants Day of Action 
Tuesday. The money will go toward its 
Out of the Shadows scholarship, which 
supports undocumented and DACA-
recipient students.
Bianca Cegatte, Chispas’ vice presi-
dent of marketing, said the club has 
celebrated this day, which was created 
by immigration and criminal justice 
reform group FWD.us, for four years. 
Chispas honors this day annually to 
show students there is a community for 
immigrants and allies on campus. 
Cegatte, a 21-year-old UF business 
administration junior, said it’s impor-
tant for Chispas to hold public events  
as it is the only student-run organiza-
tion on campus that advocates for im-
migrant rights. 
“At UF, the immigrant community 
is very underrepresented and hidden,” 
Cegatte said. “This just showcases that 
we have support, and we’re not ﬁ  ght-
ing for a small amount of people.”
Cegatte said she immigrated to the U.S. from Brazil with her mother when 
she was about 7 years old. She hopes to 
be an immigration lawyer in the future. 
“I know what it’s like to grow up 
amongst communities that don’t un-
derstand you, don’t know you, maybe 
don’t speak your language,” Cegatte 
said. “I know how hard the process is.”
One of Chispas’ main campaigns is 
Boot the Braids, a movement which 
protests Wendy’s for not being part of 
the Fair Food Program. The program 
is a partnership among farm workers 
and retail food companies for humane 
wages and working conditions. 
 Gators Dream Forward, the organi-
zation’s other major initiative, shares 
campus resources and information 
with undocumented students. About 
8 percent of UF’s Fall 2018 student 
population is undocumented or inter-
national students, according to UF’s 
enrollment website. 
Cristian Vasquez, an 18-year-old UF 
international studies freshman, went to 
the Chispas table in Turlington because 
he believes in their advocacy. As the 
son of two Colombian immigrants, he 
said protecting immigrants is especially 
important in today’s polarized political 
climate.
“Every immigrant deserves a 
chance,” Vasquez said. “We all start 
off as immigrants anyway.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICRAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its 
Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside 
the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-
9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection:  World’s Best Coffee, 
Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily since 
1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-
375-0376. Your order will be ready when you arrive 
5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open every-
day 5am — 7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Electric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!
IT IS THE ONL Y CITY IN THE 
COUNTY TO  OPT OUT
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County residents un-
der 21 will have a harder time 
getting their nicotine ﬁ  x, except in 
one city. 
Following a recent decision by 
its city commissioners, Newberry 
is the only city in Alachua County 
where the age limit for purchasing 
tobacco products is 18. 
During their Oct. 14 meeting, 
city commissioners unanimously 
agreed to opt out of Alachua Coun-
ty’s tobacco ordinance that raises 
the minimum age to purchase 
tobacco to 21. The ordinance of-
ﬁ  cially went into effect Tuesday. 
Newberry City Commissioner 
Matt Hersom said while the com-
missioners don’t encourage young 
adults to use tobacco, they felt that 
the county’s ordinance was too 
overreaching. 
He said Newberry’s city com-
missioners should be able to set 
ordinances and restrictions in 
Newberry without the county in-
fringing on their rulings.
“We believe the best govern-
ment is a local government, and 
that’s [tobacco regulations] an is-
sue that should be addressed as a 
local issue,” Hersom said. 
Hersom also said he and other 
city commissioners perceived the 
county ordinance as a misguided 
attempt at regulating tobacco. 
“It only regulated the sale, not 
the possession of tobacco... so at 
18, somebody could still possess 
tobacco,” Hersom said. “That 
doesn’t solve the problem. That 
is just addressing a symptom of a 
larger issue.” As Newberry is located less 
than ﬁ  ve miles away from the 
county’s western border, city 
commissioners worried residents 
would simply drive into Gilchrist 
County to purchase tobacco. 
Stoney Smith, general manager 
of Hudson Food Stores in New-
berry, said he’s worried about the 
effect the ordinance will have on 
businesses outside of Newberry. 
He fears that if 18 to 20-year-old 
smokers are unable to purchase 
tobacco products in other areas of 
Alachua County, the businesses 
that sell these products could lose 
proﬁ  ts. 
Smith said city and county 
commissioners also failed to men-
tion whether property values will 
be reduced during their recent 
meeting because a reduction could 
help businesses stay aﬂ  oat after a 
loss in sales. 
He said he doesn’t want to 
prevent residents under 21 from 
shopping at his store in a state 
where legal adulthood begins at 
18.
“We can give a young man or 
woman a gun and go out there 
and tell them to protect our coun-
try, but you can tell them they 
can’t buy a legal product in a state 
where the legal age is 18 is a little 
bit crazy,” he said. 
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.org Newberry opts out of 
Tobacco 21 ordinance
14-YEAR-OLD GIRL 
KILLED, ANOTHER INJURED 
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities are still searching 
for the man responsible for killing 
a 14-year-old Micanopy girl in a 
hit-and-run accident last Wednes-
day. 
According to a press release 
from the Florida Highway Patrol, 
Hannah Brown was struck and 
killed by a vehicle traveling on the 
wrong side of County Road 346 
while she walking with two other 
teenagers. Brown was pronounced 
dead at the scene. 
Madison Bass, 14, and Michael Germond, 13, 
were also walk-
ing with Brown 
at the time of the 
incident, troop-
ers said. 
Bass was tak-
en to UF Health 
Shands Hospital 
with critical injuries, the release 
said. Germond was not hurt in the 
crash. 
The driver of the vehicle brieﬂ  y 
stopped and stepped out of his car 
before ﬂ  eeing the area, authorities 
said. 
He is described as a white male 
in his 30s with dirty blond hair. He 
was wearing a white shirt and blue 
jeans, the release said. His vehicle is described as an 
older model pickup truck, possibly 
a gray 1996 Ford Truck or Bron-
co. Authorities believe the truck 
would be missing part of the front 
grill and the entire left side mirror.
A candlelight service has been 
organized via Facebook at the Mi-
canopy Gazebo on Thursday at 6 
p.m., said Matt Surrency, the may-
or of neighboring Hawthorne. 
Florida Highway Patrol is in-
vestigating the crash. Anyone with 
information is encouraged to call 
386-754-6281 or 1-800-387-1290.
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgAuthorities searching for driver in 
fatal Micanopy hit-and-run crash
Brown
ORGANIZATION AIMS TO FUNDRAISE 
MORE THAN $650,000 IN 26.2 HOURS
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Dance Marathon members only have 26.2 hours to 
reach their goal of raising $650,000.
They didn’t let on-and-off rain Tuesday stop them 
from dancing, selling brownies, posting on social me-
dia and sending Venmo requests during Transform 
Today, UF Dance Marathon’s largest fundraising day.
The organization fundraises for children’s medical 
treatment at UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital. 
The sixth annual Transform Today began at 8 a.m. 
Tuesday and ends at 10:12 a.m. today. The $650,000 
to be raised over the course of 26.2 hours represents 
the 26.2 hours students dance during Dance Marathon 
in Spring. 
Last year’s $600,000 Transform Today goal was surpassed by $26,000, according to Alligator archives.
Dance Marathon will announce how much it raised 
during the event ﬁ  nale from 5 to 8 p.m. today on Fla-
vet Field. 
Alexa Khazzam, an 18-year-old UF exploring en-
gineering studies freshman, said she wants to dance 
next year with her Delta Phi Epsilon sorority sisters. 
This year, she’s fundraising through social media. 
“The kids are the future,” she said. “If we can’t 
help the kids, then who can help us?”
Henry Bu, a 19-year-old UF information systems 
freshman, bought a Dance Marathon shirt to support 
the cause. He said he wants to dance, and has raised 
$100 so far.
“It’s one of the biggest things at UF,” he said. “It’s 
something that we can get involved with and at the 
same time help the community.”
@Aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgRain doesn’t hinder DM Transform Today
Municipalities participating: 
• Hawthone
• Alachua
• Gainesville
• Archer
• High Springs
• WaldoWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
MORE THAN 40 PEOPLE 
DEMONSTRATED AGAINST 
PRESIDENT, CORRUPTION
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer
The Lebanese Gainesville community 
shared solidarity with overseas protesters 
Tuesday night. 
More than 40 people gathered in Bo Did-
dley Plaza to recognize recent protests in 
Lebanon calling for the resignation of Prime 
Minister Saad Hariri. Demonstrators waved 
red, white and green Lebanese ﬂ  ags while 
chanting “Revolution” and “F*** the presi-
dent” in Arabic. 
Norane Shehab, a 27-year-old Gainesville 
resident and event organizer, said the pro-
tests in Lebanon started after the Lebanese 
government decided to add taxes to the 
WhatsApp phone app, which offers inter-
national communication services such as 
texting, voice calling and video calling. 
“That was the tipping point for all of the 
protesters,” Shehab said. “We’re done with 
the sectarianism in our government.” 
The country’s political system, which designates power among the Christian, 
Sunni and Shia religious communities, is 
being criticized for its corruption, according 
to NPR. 
Nader El Ahmadie, a 30-year-old 
Gainesville resident who also organized the 
event, said he moved from Lebanon to the 
United States three years ago to ﬁ  nd a job 
after ﬁ  nishing school. He said the event was 
not a protest but an act of support for family 
and friends back home. 
“We’re shouting for every Lebanese to 
have the right to live with dignity in their 
own country and not be judged according 
to their religion or political views,” El Ah-
madie said.
Yasmine Hamzah, a 21-year-old UF bi-
ology senior, is a member of the Lebanese 
American Society and attended the event to 
defend her family’s home country, she said. 
She reiterated the call for Lebanese of-
ﬁ  cials to step down. 
“When we say all of them, we mean all 
of them,” Hamzah said. “And that’s refer-
ring to the politicians.”
@lina_ruiz48 
lruiz@alligator.org Lebanese community gathers to support overseas protests
Nushrat Nur / Alligator Contributor
Michel Chalfoun, a 20-year-old UF computer science junior, and Malek Shehab, a 19-year-
old UF industrial and systems engineering sophomore, hold the Lebanese ﬂ  ag and chant 
“Revolution!” in Arabic Tuesday night to stand in solidarity with the protestors in Lebanon. 
More than 40 people attended the protest.
Services nearly doubled from 30.7 per-
cent in 2015, according to the results. 
UF President Kent Fuchs addressed 
the preliminary survey results in his 
monthly Alligator column on Friday, 
noting that for UF to truly be great, “it 
must lead in eliminating sexual assault.”
UF Graduate Assistants United re-
leased a statement saying its group 
members not surprised by the increase 
in results in regard to graduate women 
because “so many offenders get away 
with it.”
The statement said it’s important to 
believe victims when they report inci-
dents, and the university needs to take a 
more proactive approach to investigating 
sexual misconduct.
“All campus leaders need to unequiv-
ocally express their support for survi-
vors, including everyone from President 
Fuchs to presidents of fraternities and sororities,” the statement said.
Since the beginning of Fall 2019, a 
former UF resident assistant is facing a 
charge of attempted sexual battery, a for-
mer UF football player was accused of 
rape and multiple occurrences of sexual 
violence on campus were made public. 
A UF student also came forward 
about being raped while on her way to 
the Homecoming football game on Oct. 
5.
The survey also showed 81 percent 
of UF students reported that sexual as-
sault and misconduct information was 
included at the university’s student ori-
entation, an increase from about 50 per-
cent since 2015. 
The release said UF offers legal ser-
vices, programs and presentations for 
students and rape defense classes, and 
it launched a campaign last year encour-
aging students to report sexual violence.
UF Associate Vice President for Stu-
dent Affairs and Dean of Students Heath-
er White said she hopes initiatives on campus will help decrease sexual mis-
conduct.
“The survey results solidify that a cul-
ture change needs to be made,” White 
said.
dcassidy@alligator.org
@danacassidy_RESULTS,  from pg. 1 ‘Many ofenders get away with it.’
Whitney Smith, UF Levin assistant 
dean for messaging and outreach, 
wrote in an email to The Alligator that 
administrators couldn’t share addi-
tional information until the Supreme 
Court sent Levin its media guidelines. 
The Alligator requested Thomas’ con-
tract with UF. 
Sloane Henry, a 29-year-old UF third-year law stu-
dent, is a member of “We Believe Survivors,” a student 
group she said was made in response to Thomas’ class 
and advocates for sexual assault survivors.
The organization will host a town hall at Levin next 
Wednesday and Thursday to play a video of Hill’s testi-
mony and hold an open discussion. Henry said Thomas 
“does not ﬁ  t the mold” of professors and mentors she 
encountered at the law school. 
Henry said the law school should know better than 
to bring Thomas again after the #MeToo movement and 
Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony against Justice Brett 
Kavanaugh. 
“Times have changed and he should not be welcome 
to campus,” she said. 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgTHOMAS,  from pg. 1
Thomas
If you or someone you know
 is in distress, here are 
available resources: 
National Sexual Assault Hotline, 
available 24 hours: 1-800-656-4673. 
National Suicide Hotline, available 24 
hours:1-800-273-8255.
Alachua County Victim Services and 
Rape Crisis Center: 352-264-6760
UF Counseling and Wellness Center: 
352-392-1575EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
Law student group responds to Justice Thomas’ class
UF law students have formed a new group called 
We Believe Survivors. It was created in response 
to the Levin College of Law’s invitation to Su-
preme Court Justice Clarence Thomas to teach a 
course on the religious clauses of the First Amend-
ment in Spring 2020. 
We Believe Survivors agrees with UF President Kent 
Fuchs’s recent statements in light of studies that reported 
on sexual assault increases on UF’s campus. Fuchs said: “In 
order for UF to be truly great, it must lead in eliminating 
sexual assault.” The student group is also glad that the dean 
of Levin, Laura Rosenbury, retweeted Fuch’s statement, add-
ing, “#UFLaw faculty, students, and staff are ready to help!” 
We Believe Survivors argues that sexual assault begins 
with a culture tolerating harrassment, unequal treatment, 
misogyny and violence. While people of all genders can be 
victims, women are disproportionately affected. According 
to an Alligator report on a recent Campus Climate Survey 
on Sexual Assault and Misconduct study, UF undergraduate 
reports of nonconsensual sexual conduct increased from 23 
to 26 percent for females and from 5 to 7 percent for males 
since 2015. The harassment and abuse experienced by wom-
en is often more acutely felt by women of color. 
Anita Hill, 63, a woman of color and professor at Brandeis 
School of Law, inspired We Believe Survivors’ mission. Her 
courage in the face of adversity remains a beacon of strength.
In 1991, she testified before Congress at the confirmation 
hearing of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Republi-
cans opposed her. Democrats berated her. She detailed hor-
rific acts of sexual misconduct perpetrated against her by her 
former boss, Thomas. Her words were not enough to change 
the minds of lawmakers, and Thomas was confirmed. 
Most UF law students today are aware of Christine Blasey 
Ford’s bravery and the backlash she faced from testifying at 
Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court confirmation hearing, but 
many are unaware of Hill’s testimony. Ford’s testimony gripped UF law students. Many profes-
sors canceled class so students could watch her speak live. 
Rosenbury even sent an email to all students acknowledging 
that, “These hearings and other world events may evoke a 
range of emotions.” Rosenbury then offered resources in-
cluding counseling services for those in need. Students ap-
preciated this acknowledgement and support as it was a dif-
ficult time for many.
Levin seems to understand the importance of believing 
and supporting survivors. The administration aided students 
during Blasey Ford’s testimony. On Twitter, Rosenbury of-
fered to help Fuchs in his efforts to address campus sexual 
assault. How do we square these instances of acknowledge-
ment, transparency and support with the Levin invitation to 
Thomas, a credibly accused sexual offender, to teach at the 
law school? We can’t help but note that, unlike Ford and 
Kavanugh, Hill and Thomas are black. Levin administration 
either doesn’t believe Hill, or doesn’t care if her accusations 
are true. Both of those possibilities are unacceptable.
We ask that Rosenbury and the Levin administration ex-
plain how the celebration of Thomas’ presence on campus 
will help address the culture at UF increasing campus sexual 
assault. If we come forward, will we be treated like Hill? Will 
we be ignored while our abusers are paraded as esteemed 
guests at our law school? Does Levin really believe survi-
vors? Or does Levin only believe survivors when their abus-
ers aren’t powerful?
We Believe Survivors hopes that the law school’s admin-
istration will acknowledge this discrepancy. At the very least, 
we hope that the administration will offer additional mental 
health services and counseling resources while Thomas is on 
campus as this will likely be even more distressing for survi-
vors than the Kavanaugh confirmation hearings. 
We Believe Survivors is a new student organization at the 
UF Levin College of Law.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Leave the racist 
costumes at the store
Halloween should be fun, not problematic. 
Cultural appropriation often rears its ugly head 
during Halloween, as many people find it cute or 
funny to dress as racist interpretations of other cul-
tures. Unfortunately, many people don’t realize their 
costumes are insulting. 
Here’s a good rule of thumb: If your costume has centuries 
worth of cultural significance and history behind it, it’s not a 
costume. It’s an insult.
Don’t put on that “Indian princess” costume that looks 
like a lame rebrand of Disney’s Pocahontas. Don’t glue a fake 
moustache to your face and throw on a sombrero to dress as a 
“loco hombre.” Have you considered being a Marvel character? 
Thanos maybe? 
And this isn’t just a problem with costumes.
Government officials tend to insult people of color, too. 
President Donald Trump recently compared the Democratic 
impeachment inquiry against him to a lynching. We aren’t sure 
if that statement would even be OK if our president was black, 
and it’s definitely not OK in this case. 
Phrases like lynching have a clear connection to black in-
dividuals. It’s inappropriate to undermine the struggles, hard-
ships and unfortunate deaths that black people had to endure. 
Black people suffered just for existing. Trump is “suffering” for 
being caught doing an entire country wrong. 
Words can be insulting. Most people outside the African 
American community know to avoid the N-word in everyday 
conversation. Not to mention, African Americans within the 
community debate whether or not it should continue to be said.
Unfortunately, pop culture seems to be ruining this. 
More people outside the black community are feeling com-
fortable saying the N-word due to its heavy use in rap songs. 
We get that you want to sing along, but skipping over one word 
isn’t that hard. A Kendrick Lamar fan had the unfortunate luck 
of forgetting to censor herself onstage, right in front of him. It 
was very embarrassing for everyone involved, to say the least.
What’s even more embarrassing is having an entire football 
team based on a group of people the U.S. has enslaved, raped 
and killed. Somehow, the NFL still allows the Washington Red-
skins’ name to exist.
Native Americans are people. They’re not fashion state-
ments, not mascots and certainly not costumes for people to 
look tacky in.
At least the Redskins team is one of the lowest ranked teams 
in the league. Maybe being outwardly racist drops you a few 
points. 
However, this wasn’t the case for the prime minister of 
Canada, Justin Trudeau, who just got reelected to office. Ap-
parently wearing blackface a countless number of times isn’t 
a big deal. 
We shouldn’t have to settle for less. Maybe we need to hold 
ourselves to a higher standard in order to properly respect the 
people who deserve it. We need more opportunities to learn 
about different cultures, and not just in specific concentrations.
History needs to be studied in order to have a holistic view 
of what happened. More national holidays need to stem from 
underrepresented cultures. The fact that only nine states of-
ficially recognize Indigenous Peoples’ Day says enough. We 
need to start educating ourselves about the lives of others.
Let’s not let history die for the sake of a cute costume.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Gators in the NFL
How have former Gator football players been faring  
so far this season? Pg. 11ﬂ  ipturn to perform at Heartwood Soundstage
The indie-pop band will join Brazen Youth Thursday night at 8 
p.m.  Tickets cost $10-15.Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
The Dixie Desperados play as the sun sets behind the Dreamville main stage during the 
T om Petty Birthday Bash at Depot Park Sunday evening.
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
A concertgoer watches The Mudpies perform during the T om Petty 
Weekend festival at the Heartwood Soundstage Friday night.
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Carrie Martinez, a visual artist based in Gainesville, works on the 
T om Petty tribute mural during the T om Petty Birthday Bash at 
Depot Park Sunday afternoon. Martinez and her husband, Jesus 
Martinez, have worked together on about 40 murals throughout 
town. The T om Petty tribute mural took about two days to complete 
and was auctioned off Sunday evening. The money from the auction 
was donated to the UF Health Shands’ Arts in Medicine program.
Gainesville gathers to celebrate life and legacy of Tom Petty
MUSIC
,
WHERE TO CELEBRATE 
GAINESVILLE PRIDE 
THIS WEEKEND
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
Put on your rainbow apparel and get ready 
for a weekend ﬁ  lled with Pride events as 
Gainesville offers an array of activities geared 
toward the LGBTQ+ community. 
1. Guts & Glory GNV will host a storytell-
ing event at The Wooly at 7 p.m. on Thursday. 
It is the second year it is hosting stories to cel-
ebrate Gainesville Pride, and the event is open 
to members of the LGBTQ+ community and al-
lies. Tickets are $15 for the general public and 
$10 for students. 
2. The Pride Community Center of North 
Central Florida will host its monthly Gay Movie 
Night on Friday. “Monster Pies” will be shown 
at 7:30 p.m. There is a requested $2 donation to 
cover snack costs. 
Though the showing was not speciﬁ  cally 
chosen for the weekend’s Pride events, Greg Al-
len, who has hosted Gay Movie Night for almost 
15 years, said he hopes the coinciding weekend 
will help draw a bigger crowd. 
“Seeing gay people represented in main-
stream movies helps LGBTQ youth feel they are 
a valued part of society,” Allen wrote in a mes-
sage. “[Media representation] also helps non-
LGBTQ youth see that their LGBTQ classmates/
friends are pretty much the same as them, with 
[the] same dreams and desires for a happy life 
that includes love and compassion and equal-
ity.”
3. Gainesville Pride Day will be celebrated 
all day Saturday with the annual parade and festival. Co-sponsored by the Pride Community 
Center and the City of Gainesville Department 
of Cultural Affairs, the parade will begin at noon 
on Seventh Street and West University Avenue. 
The festival in Bo Diddley Plaza will go until 
9 p.m. and will feature over 100 vendors and 
dozens of local music acts.
4. Starting at 9 p.m. on Saturday, Flourish~ 
A Pride Dance Party will be co-hosted by Con-
nect the Dots, a music, media and visual arts 
collective, and the Civic Media Center. It will 
feature sets by local DJs Aut Vel, Mannat and 
Sirat, who will be playing techno, hip-hop and 
perreo music. It is open to all ages and is dona-
tion-based.
Mannat Saraon, 21, will play an experimen-
tal electronic set with her twin sister, Sirat, in 
their ﬁ  rst show at the Civic Media Center.
“Queer spaces are important for both of us,” 
Mannat Saraon wrote in a message. “We hope 
to make everyone feel comfortable and espe-
cially aim to show the people some cool music/
sounds that they might have not heard before.” 
5. Daisy Nation will lead a free yoga class 
called Practice With Pride at noon Sunday. It 
will take place at the Pride Community Center 
and is open to everyone, both LGBTQ+ and al-
lies. It is organized by YogaLoka, a nonproﬁ  t 
which offers wellness services to traditionally 
marginalized communities. 
Earlier this year, YogaLoka started hosting 
monthly yoga classes as a way to offer a safe 
space for people in those communities, program 
director Liz Getman said. 
“Some individuals at the Pride Center have 
said they look forward to having a class post-
Pride event so that they can sort of unwind,” 
she said. 
mgoldwich@alligator.org
@morgangoldwichThe rainbow after the storm
,
Lifestyle8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
BEAUTY MARKS AIMED TO MAKE 
COSMETICS ACCESSIBLE AND 
AFFORDABLE FOR ALL
By Cassidy Hopson
Avenue Staff Writer
Alf Posen saw the need for an inclusive 
space in the Gainesville community to receive 
beauty care. That’s why he decided to create 
Beauty Marks, an event gathering a variety of 
cosmetic services into one space.
On Saturday night, Posen and other 
Gainesville community members hosted the 
Beauty Marks pop-up show at Moisturizer Gal-
lery, celebrating beauty, fashion and different 
types of body modiﬁ  cation for all body types, 
genders and identities.Attendees enjoyed haircuts, waxing, stick-
and-poke tattoos and more. DJ Wax Atom pro-
vided music for the event.
Other stations included manicures by Pearl 
Leonard and photo booths where guests could 
pick their own background and props. 
Posen envisioned a queer-friendly space for 
people to enjoy a wide variety of services at an 
affordable price. 
“I just like the idea of making things acces-
sible for more marginalized groups of people 
and especially people who don’t feel comfort-
able going into a salon atmosphere or tattoo 
shop atmosphere because they can be really 
anxiety-inducing and pricey on top of it,” he 
said.
Guests also had access to a free clothing 
shop at the event, courtesy of donations from 
the event organizers and La Chua Vintage. Julia Sanders, one of the event organizers, 
thought this would be a great way of giving 
back to the community.
“I had a whole bunch of clothes that I was 
about to donate to Goodwill, and I was like, 
‘I’d much rather that these go back into the 
community, back towards people that I know 
and people that would appreciate them,’” she 
said. 
In addition to setting up the free clothing 
shop, Sanders gave stick-and-poke tattoos at 
the event. 
Sanders tattooed Amada Kaschkarow, 31, 
who was excited about being able to get a tat-
too in a comfortable setting. 
“Especially for tattoo shops, a lot of times 
going in there, it doesn’t really feel super com-
fortable for me for a lot of different reasons,” 
Kaschkarow said. “I just think I get anxious in a lot of spaces where you’re supposed to be a 
certain way and it’s always nice to know it’s a 
safe space that just reduces anxiety.”
Kaschkarow said the event provided her 
with affordable self-care, which was especially 
meaningful for her as a mother of two children.
Sanders helped organize the event because 
the message of inclusivity and affordability 
resonated with her.
“We wanted to create a safe space for peo-
ple to show up and have fun and party but also 
feel good about themselves,” she said. “We all 
kind of came to an agreement about keeping 
the price for our services as low as possible to 
kind of just beneﬁ  t the community.”
chopson@alligator.org
@CassidyHopsonPop-up beauty show celebrates self-expression and inclusivity
LifestyleTHE INTERPRETATION OF 
THE GREEK CLASSIC WILL 
MIX TEXT WITH GUITAR
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
The Black C Art Gallery’s re-
invention of the classic “Oedipus 
Rex,” combines electric guitar and 
written text to tell the story from a 
new perspective: Jocasta, Oedipus’ 
mother who unknowingly becomes 
his wife.
The upcoming performance of 
“Oedipus Redux or ‘Which Man 
is That in My Bed?’” will show on 
Oct. 23 and 24 at 7 p.m. “Oedipus 
Redux” will run each night for 
about 45 minutes, and a talkback 
will be held after the show with the 
actors and director. Tickets cost $15 for general admission and $10 for 
students and seniors.
Lauren Warhol Caldwell, Artis-
tic Consultant at Black C Art, is the 
brain behind this performance. She 
worked with UF chemistry profes-
sor and musician Charles Martin to 
use the power of guitar and music 
to enhance a well-known story and 
its characters.
Caldwell wrote the Oedipus Rex 
interpretation after deciding she 
wanted to create a performance that 
combined written text with music.
“I thought, ‘You know what 
I’d like to do?’” Caldwell said. “‘A 
mashup of text and guitar, and 
ﬁ  nd out how that guitar can be an-
other character in a play, and how 
the marriage of that would come 
about.’”
Caldwell said she discussed this 
with Martin over coffee and, after brainstorming potential stories to 
work with, they fell in love with 
the idea of Oedipus Rex, a play that 
isn’t often used in today’s theaters.
Martin himself has a love for 
Greek tragedies and said he was 
particularly excited about diving 
into Oedipus Rex.
“I remember reading [Oedipus 
Rex] in high school and just being 
blown away at the writing and the 
depth of human emotion and at 
Sophocles’ understanding of the hu-
man condition,” Martin said. “And 
so I’ve always been in love with 
such plays.”
The theatrical interpretation is 60 
percent her own writing, Caldwell 
said, with the rest made up of the 
original work. The music performed 
will be snippets of Martin’s own 
songs that relate to speciﬁ  c mo-
ments of the piece, with one short original song written by both Martin 
and Caldwell.
Martin plans to use his vocals 
as well as each strum of his guitar 
to reinforce the plot and emotional 
content of Caldwell’s interpretation. 
“There’s a lot of tension in this 
play, and I accent that tension a 
lot,” Martin said. “I think in some 
ways, the song part of it is adding 
context to the story.”
“Oedipus Redux” differs greatly 
from the original because it is told 
from the eyes of Jocasta, Oedipus’ 
mother and eventual wife.
“You can’t really compare her 
to a modern woman, but you also 
don’t have to keep her in the trunk. 
I’ve sort of let her live and breathe 
and speak to us,” Caldwell said. 
“She is in full control of the story 
and how it’s told.”“Oedipus Redux” emphasizes 
many of the original story’s themes, 
such as the relationship between 
mortals and fate, and asks the au-
dience whether someone truly can 
escape their destiny. 
“One of the biggest questions 
is ‘Can we control our fate?’ And I 
think in the year 2019 you might get 
a multitude of answers about that,” 
Caldwell said. “But in the Greek 
times, if you were cursed by the 
gods, that was a whole different sort 
of pickle that you got yourself into.”
This piece will be Black C Art’s 
fourth live performance since 
Caldwell joined staff, and the gal-
lery expects to introduce more 
performances in the next year, she 
said.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgBlack C Art marries tragedy with music in ‘Oedipus Redux’ 
ArtSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Gorgeous Lake House. Fish, swim & ski. 
beautful Lake Winnott (near Melrose, FL). 
3br/2ba cement block built in '03. Split floor-
plan w/approx 12'x 42' glassed-in FL room w/
heat & air Concrete drive, boat ramp, fenced 
yd.18x31 enclosed RV/boat barn. Poss own-
er financing. Call for photo & addl info 352-
278-4644 Agents welcome. 4% commission.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Time to sell your Pog collection? Your 
Charizard card? Looking to buy one? Check 
out the For Sale section for great results. Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR unit. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 
352-672-8657    10-28-19-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
HERE IS A PLEASANT LITTLE GAME that will give you a message every day. It's a numer -
ical puzzle designed to spell out your fortune. Count the letters in your first name. If the 
number of letters is 6 or more, subtract 4. If the number is less than 6, add 3. The result is 
your key number. Start at the upper left-hand corner and check one of your key numbers, 
left to right. Then read the message the letters under the checked figures give you.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
1.  Skilled
1.  Modifies5.  Authorize, legislate 
2.  Nuclear ____6.  Horse-drawn vehicle
3.  Acute7.  Mourn
4.  Outburst, diatribeTRODAI
MSDANEACETN
GATON
EAROCTR
SNETIENVGREIE
RAEDTIANSWERS: 1A-Adroit  5A-Enact  6A-Tonga  7A-Grieve
1D-Amends  2D-Reactor  3D-Intense  4D-Tirade  B-Notre Dame10-23-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The University of ____ ____ 
was established in 1842. BONUS8 Electronics
SOLUTION ON PAGE 10SOLUTION ON PAGE 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Fun Fact: the University of al-Qarawiyyin in Fez, 
Morocco is the oldest college in the world. It has been 
continually operating since 859 AD.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14DWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day. Drivers needed
for taxi company. 
Contact us at (352)777-9488.       10-28-19-
8-14
Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-14
SIMEDHealth is currently seeking Full Time 
Certified Medical Assistants for several of our 
clinics in our Gainesville, FL office location. 
Apply on our website at www.simedhealth.
com.      10-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections
By Gary Larson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Victoria’s Secret 
purchase
4 US Open stadium 
named for a US 
Open winner
8 Calm
14 Couple’s word
15 Ostrich relative
16 Swaps
17 Treats for a 
comedian?
19 Scold harshly
20 Blacken on the 
outside
21 Name in the 
makeup aisle
23 Mars rover org.
24 Young newt
26 Treats for a 
teacher?
28 Headboard pole
32 “I’m down with 
that”
33 More likely to 
cause skidding
34 Santa’s reindeer, 
e.g.
36 Family game 
room
39 Semicircle, e.g.
40 Treats for an oil 
tycoon?
42 Wild way to go
43 Lawyer’s advice
44 Prefix with 
personal
45 Blender maker
47 “True Detective” 
rating
48 Browned in butter
50 Treats for a 
submarine pilot?
54 Pontiac muscle 
car
55 Way out there
56 Bel __: creamy 
cheese
58 Miranda __ of 
“Homeland”
62 Destroyed, as 
documents
64 Treats for a 
fisher?
66 Clothes line
67 Snakelike fish
68 Feel crummy
69 Drove on the trail
70 Some stay at 
home
71 Pooh palDOWN
1 Supervisor
2 Old character
3 Bizet’s 
“Habanera,” e.g.
4 Genesis vessel
5 Units in a ream
6 “His,” to Bierce
7 Bridge seats
8 Runner in the 
raw
9 Victorian __
10 Like porcelain 
teacups
11 Estes’ ticket-
mate
12 Give body to, as 
hair
13 “¿Cómo __?”
18 __ de chine: light 
fabric
22 Actors, often
25 Let bygones be 
bygones
27 Informs on
28 Media critic’s 
concern
29 Linen hue
30 They’re spotted 
in casinos
31 Taqueria order
35 Michael of “SNL”
36 “It’s a __!”37 Weapon with two 
accents
38 Unlikely 
candidate for 
prom king
41 Not charted
46 Brownstone 
porch
47 Fine line
49 Antediluvian
50 Item on a wrist
51 Earlier than, to 
poets52 Not as common
53 Put in stitches
57 Miracle Mets’ 
stadium
59 Drop from an  
eye
60 Jazz __
61 Sonja Henie’s 
birthplace
63 Play for a sap
65 Message 
afterthoughts: 
Abbr.
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 Barbecue 
glowers
6 Priestly robes
10 Cobblers’ tools
14 Neighborhood 
map on a city 
map, e.g.
15 Java neighbor
16 Former Iranian 
ruler
17 Classroom text
19 Deep sleep
20 Represent
21 Like a bike
23 Goes on to say
24 Summer on the 
Riviera
25 MLB Network 
analyst Martinez
28 Twinkling in the 
night sky
34 On bed rest, say
36 Lupino of “High 
Sierra”
37 Bird’s crop
38 Colorado native
39 Relief from the 
daily grind
42 “__ Am”: Alicia 
Keys album
43 Screen material
45 Sinus doc
46 Growing weary
48 Office spot with a 
coffee pot
51 Landlord’s 
income
52 Tell tall tales
53 Field of study
55 Pays some of
59 Closed in on
62 Cut __: dance, in 
old slang
63 Start of a sports 
season, and 
what each half of 
17-, 28-, 39- and 
48-Across can 
have
66 Hightail it
67 Trait carrier
68 Mozart’s “Così 
fan __”
69 Spill the beans
70 Taiwanese PC 
maker
71 Most common roll 
of two dice
DOWN
1 Prefix with 
gender2 How software 
was once sold
3 Queens tennis 
stadium
4 Johnny’s “The 
Big Bang Theory” 
role
5 Was 
conspicuous
6 Convent leader
7 Language of 
Southeast Asia
8 Hard punch
9 Many a Punjabi
10 One leading  
a Spartan 
lifestyle
11 Healthy bread 
type
12 Like a weak 
excuse
13 Roe source
18 Inc., in the U.K.
22 Slender 
aquarium 
swimmer
25 __ bob: vertical 
measuring tool
26 Diner
27 Gas at a truck 
stop
29 Connect with
30 Big deal
31 Whitewater ride32 “Who __?!”: “Join 
the club!”
33 Small sticks
35 Jetty
40 6, on a cellphone 
keypad
41 Insects with a 
painful sting
44 Stylist’s supply
47 Debate again
49 Hawaii’s  
Mauna __
50 Style54 Camping gear 
brand
55 Inane
56 Mystery writer 
Gardner
57 Tranquil exercise
58 On __: without a 
contract
60 1999 Ron 
Howard film
61 Go out with
64 WSW’s opposite
65 Japanese money
10/21/19
(SPOILER ALERT)
PUZZLE
SOLUTIONS
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
O'Brien earns Freshman of the Week honors
Cross country athlete Pamela O'Brien was named SEC Women's Freshman 
of the Week after ﬁ  nishing in eighth at the FSU Invitational on Oct. 11. She 
set her third personal-best time in a row at the meet.T ennis player McCartney 
Kessler won the ITA Southeast 
Regional singles title over 
Georgia's Lea Ma on Monday, 
securing a spot in the national 
championships next month.FOOTBALL
By Payton Titus
Sports Writer
Despite two losing sea-
sons in the last 10 years 
(2013 and 2017), Florida’s 
football program has con-
sistently turned out NFL-
caliber athletes, estab-
lishing it as the FBS team 
with the third-most ac-
tive players on a 53-man 
roster in 2019 with 35 
— including ﬁ  ve rookies 
(Vosean Joseph, Jordan 
Scarlett, Jawaan Taylor, 
C.J. Gardner-Johnson and 
Fred Johnson).
As we pass the halfway 
point of the collegiate reg-
ular season and approach 
the same benchmark for 
professional play, here 
are some prominent Flor-
ida alumni to watch in the 
coming weeks:
Eddy Pineiro, kicker, 
Chicago Bears
Eddy Pineiro was UF’s kicker in 2016 and 2017 
after transferring from 
ASA Community College 
in Miami. He is the most 
accurate kicker to ever 
play for Florida, having 
amassed the highest ﬁ  eld 
goal percentage in pro-
gram history, going 38 for 
43 (88.4 percent). 
Pineiro has made nine 
of 10 ﬁ  eld goal attempts 
and every extra point with 
the Bears this season. 
In Week 2, he made 
a 53-yard game-winning 
ﬁ  eld goal against the 
Broncos — the longest 
of his professional career 
(54-yards was his career-
long at UF). In that same 
game, Pineiro scored 10 
of the team’s 16 points — 
just enough to edge out 
a win in Denver. He also 
scored 10 of the Bears’ 16 
points in Week 4 in their 
16-6 win over the Minne-
sota Vikings.
Pineiro and the Bears will welcome the Los An-
geles Chargers to Chicago 
on Sunday at 1:00 p.m.
Demarcus Robinson, 
receiver, Kansas City 
Chiefs
Demarcus Robinson 
was the leading receiver 
for the Gators in 2014 
and 2015. He has 20 re-
ceptions for 312 yards 
and three touchdowns 
this year with Kansas 
City. Robinson averages 
15.6 yards per catch and 
completed a season-long 
44-yard catch against the 
Oakland Raiders in Week 
2 — his second receiving 
touchdown of the game.
Robinson will face 
Green Bay’s defense on 
Sunday at 8:20 p.m. when 
the Packers land in Kan-
sas City. 
Brian Poole, corner-
back, New York Jets
Brian Poole played de-fensive back for UF from 
2012 to 2015. He is one of 
three Gators on the Jets 
roster, including Jonot-
than Harrison and Marcus 
Maye.
Poole has recorded 28 
solo tackles, one forced 
fumble and one safety 
thus far in New York’s 
2019 campaign.
Poole has been solid 
in coverage this season, 
only allowing nine recep-
tions for 56 yards through 
Week 5. After being trad-
ed by the Falcons during 
the offseason, Poole is 
making a statement in his 
ﬁ  rst year in New York.
The Jets travel to Jack-
sonville this weekend to 
face off with the Jaguars 
on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
@ptitus25
ptitus@alliagtor.orgGators in the NFL: Week 7 update 
David Zalubowski / Associated Press
Kansas City Chiefs receiver Demarcus Robinson runs the ball 
against the Denver Broncos on Oct. 17 in Denver.
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Kyle Trask is completing his passes at a higher rate than Feleipe 
Franks did last year. The team is averaging 32.4 points a game under Trask.
I’m sorry, Feleipe Franks.
I’m sorry for knocking you 
while you’re down. You’re a 
good player who has tons of 
talent — intimidating physical 
size, formidable running ability, a 
rocket for an arm — and a bright 
future once that dislocated ankle 
heals. But…
Florida is a better team with Kyle 
Trask at quarterback.
There. I ﬁ  nally said it, as much as it pains 
me to do so. I didn’t want to rush to any con-
clusions, but ﬁ  ve-plus games into the Trask era, 
I’ve seen enough.
The numbers speak for themselves. In two 
of those games, Trask has thrown for more 
than 284 yards, which is Franks’ career high. 
He already has 14 touchdowns (Franks had 24 
in 13 games last year) and just four intercep-
tions (Franks had three in just three games this 
season). He is completing over 67 percent of 
his passes. Franks completed just 58.4 percent 
last year.
The result? Despite averaging over 70 yards 
per game less than it did last year on the 
ground, the Gators have still managed to put 
up 32.4 points per game when Trask starts.
Two-time SEC Player of the Year and current 
ESPN College GameDay analyst David Pollack 
said it best when he was in Gainesville:“The strength of Florida is 
their wide receiving corps,” he 
said. “(Trask) throws the ball bet-
ter down the ﬁ  eld. I think he’s got 
pocket presence more… His ﬁ  rst re-
action is throw, not run, so I think 
it ﬁ  ts the offense better with him at 
quarterback.”
Trask’s impact was immediate.
The Gators looked sluggish in 
their ﬁ  rst two Power 5 games of the 
season. They scraped by a Miami team (cur-
rently last place in the ACC Coastal division) in 
Week 0. They trailed Kentucky (currently last 
place in the SEC East) 21-10 late in the third 
quarter when Franks’ fateful injury occurred.
Trask, of course, led Florida on a 19-0 run in 
the fourth quarter at UK. He then led the team 
to a 34-3 win over Tennessee, a 38-0 win over 
Towson, a 24-13 win over then-No. 7 Auburn 
and a 38-27 win over South Carolina.
His only slip up came when UF lost 42-28 
against LSU (now No. 2), a game where Trask 
threw three touchdowns.
It’s impossible to know where the Gators 
would be if they hadn’t lost Franks, but it’s 
very possible they at least lose the Kentucky 
game.
Like I said, Franks is a good quarterback, but 
Trask’s accuracy makes Florida a better team 
with him on the ﬁ  eld.Florida is better with Kyle Trask under centerGreen Eggs and Sam
Sam Campisano
Twitter: @scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeSOCCER
MEN’S GOLFBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer 
In the past 10 matches, 
Florida’s soccer team is 8-2. 
That success followed a 2-3 
start to the season. The Gators 
— ranked No. 20 in the most 
recent United Soccer Coaches 
poll — head into the ﬁ  nal three 
contests of the regular season in 
the upper echelon of the confer-
ence.
On Thursday, Florida ﬂ  ies 
to Knoxville, Tennessee, to 
play the Volunteers (8-5-2, 2-4-
1 SEC). Three days later, the 
Gators will be back home in 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium for 
the ﬁ  nal time in the regular sea-
son to face South Carolina (11-1-
2, 5-0-2 SEC). UF should handle 
Tennessee, but the Gamecocks are another top-tier SEC team 
that Florida could certainly lose 
to. To avoid that, here is what 
needs to happen: 
Let the midﬁ  eld shoot
The Gators beat Auburn this 
past Friday 2-1 after trailing 1-0 
early on. Both goals, as well as 
assists, came from the foot of a 
midﬁ  elder. The ﬁ  rst goal was a 
cross from Carina Baltrip-Reyes 
to Kouri Peace, the second was 
from Cassidy Lindley to Parker 
Roberts. 
All of the midﬁ  elders, espe-
cially Lindley, pose legitimate 
threats to strike from distance, 
which has caused recent oppo-
nents to push further up defen-
sively when they hover around 
the top of the 18-yard box. That 
has allowed the midﬁ  elders without the ball to make runs 
past the ﬁ  nal level of defense 
and get one-on-one chances 
with the goalkeeper. 
Help Espinoza earlier
Goalkeeper Susi Espinoza 
has had to make too many one-
on-one saves early in matches. 
For example, against Auburn, 
a Tigers striker had a near goal 
that Espinoza barely saved with 
her left foot. Teams that score 
more effectively, such as South 
Carolina, are much more likely 
to make those chances count, 
and the odds of a Gators win 
could be much steeper than 
they have recently. 
Involve Kara
Graduate transfer Vanessa 
Kara has scored in spurts this season. She leads the team in 
scoring with eight goals, yet 
has only scored in ﬁ  ve matches. 
Three of those ﬁ  ve times she 
entered the scoring column, 
she doubled down, scoring 
two goals against Florida Gulf 
Coast, LSU and Texas A&M. For 
Florida to beat a team like South 
Carolina, the Gamecocks need 
to feel threatened by UF’s high-
est scorer. 
The midﬁ  eld shots have 
been there for the past few 
games, but the other two factors 
have not. Espinoza has been 
tested early as of late, and Kara 
has not scored in three straight 
games. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.org
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
This week’s performance from 
the Gators men’s golf team pre-
sented both positives and nega-
tives.
On one hand, Florida strung 
together a pair of under-par team 
totals for the ﬁ  rst time this fall, 
including a season-best 285 (3 
under) effort in Sunday’s ﬁ  rst 
round.
On the other, a second-round 
296 (8 over) dissolved any hopes 
of contending for a title and sent 
UF tumbling seven spots down the leaderboard, from which it 
never recovered.
The Gators ﬁ  nished seventh 
out of 15 teams this week at the 
UCF-hosted Tavistock Collegiate 
Invitational — tying the OFCC/
Fighting Illini Invitational for 
their highest ﬁ  nish of the fall. UF 
will enter its three-month mid-
season break with plenty to im-
prove upon.
It’s been a recurring theme 
throughout the fall slate of events 
— inconsistent form over the 
course of 54 holes restricting the 
men from gaining momentum.
Florida played admirably on Isleworth Golf and Country 
Club’s brutal championship lay-
out in Sunday’s ﬁ  rst round and 
trailed then-leader UCF by a mere 
ﬁ  ve strokes.
Monday’s second go-around, 
however, was a different story.
Junior John Axelsen continued 
his fall stretch of steady form at 
the No. 1 spot, carding a 71 (1 
under) on day two. But behind 
him, a pair of 73s from junior 
Chris Nido and freshman Ricky 
Castillo sent the Gators stumbling 
in the wrong direction. A 7-over 
79 from freshman John DuBois 
only added to the mess, and UF entered Tuesday’s ﬁ  nal round in 
ninth place.
“Today was not the day we 
were looking for,” coach J.C. 
Deacon said in a release follow-
ing his team’s second round. 
“(It) showed us that we have a 
long way to go if we want to be a 
championship team.”
Tuesday’s ﬁ  nal round ended 
the fall campaign on a high – 
Axelsen’s 74 was the best UF 
score on the day en route to a 286 
(2 under) team total – but it came 
too late.
For Deacon, building a win-
ning program over the next three months of hiatus will be a tall 
task, but an important spring sea-
son awaits.
“The next three months are go-
ing to be pivotal for all of us,” the 
veteran coach said. “We’ve got a 
lot to prove to ourselves and our 
competition.”
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgFlorida travels to Knoxville with 6-1 SEC record in tow
Gators 2nd-round woes result in 7th-place finishMargaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Cassidy Lindley has four goals and ﬁ  ve assists.
