We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
RA released on bond for being “high achiever”
The UF student was arrested and charged with battery, pg 5
Santa Fe president to give ﬁ  nal college address
President Sasser to host luncheon to discuss the status of the 
college, pg 8Everything UF did right against UTM
With SEC play starting Saturday, there are plen-
ty of reasons for UF fans to be optimistic, pg 11 
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 8
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Sophomore kicker Evan McPherson sings along to T om Petty’s “I won’t back down” Saturday after the third quarter of Florida’s 45-0 win over T ennessee Martin. 
McPherson scored Florida’s first points of the game, hitting a field goal on its opening drive.
Gov. Ron DeSantis is expected to 
make a major announcement at UF 
today. 
He will speak at Emerson Alumni 
Hall, at 1938 W. University Ave., at 
9 a.m., said UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando.  
Orlando said he is not at liberty to 
elaborate on why DeSantis is coming 
to speak or why the governor chose 
to make this announcement at UF. 
DeSantis spoke at UF on April 
9 at the Steinmetz Hall courtyard 
about environmental concerns. 
He announced his appointment of 
Thomas Frazer, the director of the 
UF School of Natural Resources and 
Environment, as the state’s ﬁ  rst chief 
science ofﬁ  cer, according to Alligator 
archives. 
UF College Republicans treasurer 
Jarrod Rodriguez said he can’t wait 
for DeSantis’ arrival. He said he thinks the Student Body will receive 
him well. 
“He’s delivered as governor. He 
has an extremely high approval rat-
ing,” Rodriguez said. “I think most 
recently during the hurricane he real-
ly represented how stable and strong 
of a leader he’s been for Florida.”
Rodriguez said he hopes DeSantis 
will announce his endorsement for 
President Donald Trump’s reelection 
campaign.  
“The president did a lot for De-
Santis, if you’ll remember, by en-
dorsing him,” Rodriguez said. “I 
would like to see Gov. DeSantis en-
dorse the president for his campaign 
for reelection. I think DeSantis un-
derstands that he would like to pay 
it back to the president.” 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgGov. Ron DeSantis 
to speak at UFTHE LATE FAN WAS HONORED 
THROUGH A PERFORMANCE BY HIS 
FAMIL Y, A MURAL AND T-SHIRTS
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
Before the Florida football players rushed the ﬁ  eld 
Saturday night, fans in the stands of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n 
Stadium were already on their feet, yelling.
“Two Bits! Four Bits! Six Bits! A Dollar! All for the Gators stand up and holler!”
George “Mr. Two Bits” Edmonson’s adult grand-
children — Kevin King, Chris King and Robert Ed-
mondson — and ﬁ  ve of his great-grandchildren, led 
UF football fans through Edmondson’s signature 
cheer.
Edmondson died on July 2 after leading the Gators 
in his famous chant for more than 60 years.
Will Pantages, the UF Athletic Association assis-
tant director of digital content, said the association Mr. Two Bits honored at ﬁ  rst 
UF home game of the season
THE STATE SAYS 
ORIENTATION FEES 
CAN’T EXCEED $35
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
It cost Amy Pearl, a single mother 
of two college students, about $600 
for her and her freshman daughter 
to attend UF’s orientation this 
Summer.
Half the money paid for sessions 
and her daughter’s overnight stay. 
The other half paid for a hotel room, food and gas. It wasn’t easy, she 
said — she sometimes works seven 
days a week to pay for expenses 
this high. 
“To come up with that much 
money, along with the expenses 
just to start college was a lot, but 
I wanted to be there for her,” Pearl 
said. “I’m not saying [Preview] 
shouldn’t happen, but it was too 
much for me.” 
Preview, UF’s freshman and 
transfer orientation, is a mandatory 
introduction to the university for 
all students. Florida’s 2019 state 
statutes say orientation fees for public universities shouldn’t exceed 
$35, but UF has charged more for at 
least a decade, according to records 
reported by the Gainesville Sun. 
Archived orientation pages show 
UF’s overall orientation prices were 
$90 in 2007 and between $125 to 
$200 from 2014-2018, according to 
the Sun’s reporting. FSU, UCF and 
FAMU separate the $35 orientation 
fee from other expenses, but UF 
didn’t do so until after Spring 2019. 
It is unclear if families will be 
refunded in the future. UF Preview prices broke state lawSEE TWO BITS,  PAGE 4
SEE PREVIEW,  PAGE 4
WON’T BACK DOWN
HE WILL MAKE A 
“MAJOR ANNOUNCEMENT” THIS MORNING
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff WriterT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019
HIGH  96° LOW  72°
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
Museum Nights: Noche de 
Museo
When: Wednesday
Where: Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art, SW 34th St.
What: The Harn Museum is 
displaying art from across Latin 
America. This fun-filled night will 
include a film screening of “De 
ollas y sueños” by the Gainesville 
Latino Film Festival and dance 
performances by Center for World 
Arts and Harn Museum Chore-
ographers-in-Residence. Join the 
gallery conversation, "Transcul-
tural Engagements," at 7 p.m. 
Both food and admission are free 
for all. 
Jazz on the Green
When: Saturday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Where: Celebration Pointe
What: Latin jazz group “Gosia 
and Ali” will play during the 
monthly celebration of Jazz on 
the Green. The event will feature 
food, drinks and lawn games 
as well as live music. Food will 
be available for purchase from 
Celebration Pointe's restaurants 
during the event, including The 
Keys Grill and Piano Bar, MidiCi 
The Neapolitan Pizza Company, Kilwins Gainesville, Decadent A 
Dessert and Coffee Bar.
Sugar Mama’s Pop Up Restau-
rant
When: Sept. 21, 6 to 10 p.m.
Where: I-75 Gainesville 
What: Southern food caterer and 
pop-up restaurant Sugar Mama’s 
Foods is making an appearance 
in Gainesville. The restaurant, 
which focuses on family gather-
ings, will pop-up in Gainesville 
near the end of the month. The 
menu features southern staples 
like fried chicken and sweet 
potato pie. 
.
Fall Student Government
Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25, 8:30 a.m. 
to 8:30 p.m.
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Absentee ballot requests, 
due by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should 
be submitted online at www.
sg.ufl.edu/elections. These elec-
tions will determine the 50 sena-
tors who represent the students 
living on and off campus. Party 
registration will run Aug. 22 at 
9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as fol-
lows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Hearoes for Hearing Benefit 
Concert
When: Sept. 29, 5 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: High Dive
What: Hearoes for Hearing 
presents its second annual benefit 
concert. The concert proceeds 
will benefit the cochlear implant 
patients at the UF Health Speech 
and Hearing Center. There will 
be raffles donated from local 
business sponsors. Soup to Nuts 
Food Truck will be available for 
purchasing refreshments. Tickets 
will be sold on Ticketfly through 
the High Dive website for $10, 
and can be purchased the day of 
for $15.  
October
Friends of the Library Fall 2019 
book sale
When: Oct. 19 to Oct. 23
Where: Friends of the Library of 
Alachua County, 430 North Main 
Street
What: The Friends of the Library 
is holding its annual Fall book 
sale. The sale will be held Sat-
urday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 
Sunday through Wednesday from 
12 p.m. to 6 p.m. The sale will 
include multiple items including  
books, comics, manga, artwork, 
posters, puzzles, DVDs, vinyl re-
cords, sheet music and the Collec-
tor’s Corner, which has a selection 
of first editions.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 8
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
WANTS YOU!
ALSO NEEDED: INTERNS!· No Weekends
· Gain Sales ExperienceTO BE AN 
ADVERTISING SALES REP
FOR FALL 2019
WANTS YOU!
· Flexible Work Schedule
· Learn Prospecting Skills
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
E-mail Resume to Intern Coordinator at
intern@alligator.org
**
All applicants must be enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe CollegeSamantha Wright takes a photo of 2-year-old Amira Wright holding a balloon animal Friday evening at Chomp the Block 
held at Celebration Pointe.  
Benjamin Mehrlich 
prepares to score a 
goal during a game 
of human foosball 
Friday at Chomp 
the Block. The event 
celebrated the kick-
off to gator football 
season and included 
food, live music and 
various games and 
activities for kids. Gator fans came together Friday as part 
of Chomp the Block, an event to cel-
ebrate the kickoff of football season in 
Gainesville. The event at Celebration 
Pointe included live music by the band 
Fast Lane, food from local restaurants 
and food trucks and activities for kids. 
The childrens activities included face 
painting, balloon animals from magician 
Magic Mike, a bounce house, hula hoop-
ing, coloring and a life-sized human foos-
ball game. UF mascots Albert and Alberta 
were high-fiving Gator fans, dancing 
along to the live music and posing for pic-
tures. The UF cheerleaders also led some 
Gator cheers and posed for photos. 
Deby Starr, 
vocalist of the 
band Fast Lane, 
sings onstage 
for the crowd 
at Chomp the 
Block on Fri-
day evening. Chomp the Block
Photo story by Allison Veliz4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019was responsible for the com-
memoration at Saturday night’s 
game.
“He [Edmondson] has be-
come synonymous with Florida 
football. He came to games for 
over 50 years and unfortunately 
just recently passed away,” Pan-
tages said. “He left behind an im-
portant legacy.” 
The association also put up a 
mural in Edmonson’s honor out-
side of gate one.
The mural features an image 
of Edmonson holding up his “2-
bits” sign as well as a brief de-
scription of Edmonson’s role at UF. It describes him as “one of 
the most legendary Gator fans” 
with a “love and passion” for the 
Gators. 
Before the game, the associa-
tion sold Mr. Two Bits-themed 
shirts outside of gate one for $10 
or $5 for students. The UF Book-
store sold the shirts for $28 on-
line. The shirts were also mailed 
to season ticket-holders with 
their tickets, Pantages said.
The yellow T-shirts with 
a printed-on orange and blue 
striped tie mimicked the outfit 
Edmonson wore during his time 
in the Swamp. UF football play-
ers wore helmet decals resem-
bling Edmonson’s orange and blue striped tie.
Shafer Magee, a 19-year-old 
UF engineering freshman, bought 
a shirt at the game. 
He said he could feel the re-
spect and pride that people felt 
for Edmondson.
“I think it’s important to hon-
or his legacy and all he’s done for 
the UF community,” Magee said. 
“We need to repay him for all 
he’s done for the Gators.”
noneill@alligator.org
@noroneillTWO BITS,  from pg. 1‘He came to games for over 50 years’ 
Courtesy to The Alligator
George Edmondons’s family led UF fans in his famous “two-bits” cheer at 
Saturday night’s game. The UF Athletic Association organized the cheer as 
well as a mural and t-shirt sale honoring the late “Mr. Two Bits. ”
UF opened an investigation 
in March 2019 to discover if it 
mischarged students, said UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
He sent The Alligator the same 
statement as the Sun and 
declined to comment further. 
“It came to our attention 
that we needed to increase 
the clarity and ease of our 
Preview registration program,” 
Orlando wrote in an email. 
“We immediately took action to 
revise the Preview registration 
process, increasing the 
simplicity of selecting various 
Preview options.”
The Summer 2019 sessions 
included a new $35 option 
featuring an advising session 
and informational packet. 
Alternatively, students could 
pay $150 to receive additional 
advising, an overnight stay in a dorm, meals and UF 
merchandise, according to 
UF’s orientation site. Parents 
had to find their own lodging, 
in addition to the $125 cost for 
their attendance.
Christian Lopez, an 18-year-
old UF international studies 
freshman, said he didn’t know 
they offered a less expensive 
option. His family paid more 
than $200 for him and his 
mother to attend Preview, 
excluding hotel and additional 
expenses. 
“My mom was upset,” Lo-
pez said. “She was confused 
about why she had to pay that 
much  — $200 — just to walk 
around.” 
UF’s orientation website 
isn’t clear about the option. 
The FAQ lists three Preview 
programs for first-year students 
: one for students who start in 
Summer B, Fall and in Innova-tion Academy; one for students 
in the Pathways to Campus En-
rollment program; and one for 
students who start in Summer 
A /C.
The site says the last two 
programs span one day, but 
the first is specified as a two-
day program without mention-
ing options, despite the recent 
changes. 
The $35 option is only 
mentioned on the “First Year 
Student Breakdown” webpage, 
which says it links directly from 
the orientation homepage, but it 
doesn’t. 
The website that formerly 
linked to Preview costs now 
shows a ‘Page Not Found’ error. 
“I didn’t see it anywhere,” 
Lopez said. “Did I have a good 
Preview experience? Yes. Could 
it have been cheaper? Yes.”
hdean@alligator.org
@hope_m_deanPREVIEW,  from pg. 1$35 option availableTHE PROTEST WILL BE 
ON SEPT. 17
By Ana Escalante 
Alligator Staff Writer
The distant dots of blue lights from emer-
gency phones are supposed to help UF stu-
dents feel safer when walking on campus 
alone at night. But on Fraternity Row, there are none. 
Now, a group of students and local ac-
tivists are calling on UF leaders to make a 
change.
On Sept. 17, UF students Emily Hyden, 
Alfredo Ortiz, William Zelin and Mark 
Merwitzer are partnering with the Gainesville 
chapter of National Women’s Liberation to 
protest the lack of blue lights on Fraternity 
Row.Blue Light Emergency Phones, commonly 
referred to as blue lights, are non-dial outdoor 
telephones that students can use to instantly 
reach University Police and share their loca-
tion. Fraternity Row is the only place on cam-
pus without the units.
At the end of the Spring 2019 semester, 
UF Student Government failed to pass a 
resolution that proposed adding blue lights 
across Fraternity Row. 
The demonstration is scheduled to be 
across the street from the Sigma Alpha Epsi-
lon fraternity house at 5 p.m., said Zelin, a 
21-year-old Inspire Party senator and UF po-
litical science and statistics senior. 
Both students and scheduled speakers, 
who will be announced at a later date, will be 
given the chance to voice their concerns and 
share their stories with demonstrators. Na-
tional Women’s Liberation will be hosting a 
sign-making night on Tuesday at 201 NE First 
St. in Suite 201.
All students involved in organizing the 
protest are addressing it from a nonpartisan 
stance, Zelin said. The majority of their frus-
tration lies with the inaction of SG and UF 
administration as a whole, rather than one 
specific party.
The students organizing the protest did not 
reach out to SG parties for support, Zelin said. 
Although they are willing to accept support 
from affiliated members of these groups, it does not mean the demonstrators endorse 
their ideas.
Senate President Libby Shaw and Student 
Body President Michael Murphy could not be 
reached for comment. 
“We’re not trying to point fingers. This 
isn’t about what happened in the past,” Zelin 
said. “We’re trying to work in the here and 
now to get this addressed.”
The goal of the protest is to allow students 
to have a voice when it comes to their safety, 
said Hyden, a 20-year-old UF international 
studies junior. She felt compelled to act after 
seeing campus maps and hearing news about 
the resolution failing.
“It isn’t just about raising awareness for 
sexual assault victims,” Hyden said. “It’s 
simply just student safety. What happens 
if you’re at a tailgate with your friend and 
she gets alcohol poisoning? What do you do 
then?”
Hyden is a member of Pi Beta Phi sorority 
and lived in the house during the 2018-2019 
school year. She said she didn’t feel comfort-
able walking home alone at night close to Fra-
ternity Row without a blue light in sight.
“I always had to look over my shoulder,” 
she said. “That’s not OK.”
@aescalante22
a.escalante@ufl.edu‘We’ve had enough.’: Students organize protest to add blue lights on Fraternity Drive
CLASSES WILL START IN 
JANUARY 2020
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can get a jump-start on their 
New Years’ resolutions at a new gym 
location this January. 
A full-sized Orangetheory Fitness, 
which will have a capacity of 900, will 
open January 2020. Plans to build the 
gym under The Standard were announced 
on Aug. 30, said Karen Tumbleson, the 
owner of the upcoming location and the 
Orangetheory on Clark Butler Boulevard. 
The permitting process is almost finished 
and construction expected to start soon. 
“We have a lot of people telling us they 
couldn’t find the time to work out because 
it’s too far away,” Tumbleson said. “Our 
current members are very excited about it 
because it gives them another facility to 
go to.” Gabriela Cruz, a 21-year-old University 
of South Florida health science senior, said 
she joined Orangetheory after seeing how 
much her parents, who live in Gainesville, 
enjoy it. She comes to Gainesville on the 
weekends and takes classes with her par-
ents at the Clark Butler location.
She said the new location will be much 
more accessible for her family, Cruz said.
“It’s super important to have access 
to an outlet in which to be active and 
release stress,” Cruz said. “I think having 
an Orangetheory location across from 
campus is going to be super convenient 
and it’ll increase the likelihood of college 
students getting into it.”
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.org Let’s get physical: New Orangetheory 
location to open under The StandardCourtesy to The Alligator
UF students are protesting the lack of blue lights on campus surrounding fraternity row. 
The nearest blue light is located at the basketball practice facility on Woodlawn Drive. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
A UF PROFESSOR 
CHANNELS SOCIAL JUSTICE 
ADVOCACY THROUGH ART
By Eli Rosen
Alligator Contributing Writer
The faces of women who have 
inspired change in the 21st century 
are on display at the Harn Museum 
of Art. 
These women are part of a new 
exhibition open from Aug. 23 to 
Jan. 5 that highlights studio faculty 
work from UF’s School of Art + 
Art History. 
The 53rd SA+AH Studio Art 
Exhibition is an annual joint ef-
fort from faculty to share their art 
with students, colleagues and the 
Gainesville community, said Dulce 
Román, the curator of the exhibi-
tion. This year is the Harn’s sixth 
time hosting the show.
The exhibit is meant to honor 
the diversity of faculty and their 
shared goal of fostering learning, 
innovation and creativity, Román 
said.
“A broad range of mediums 
is represented in the exhibition 
including sculptures, paintings, 
drawings, photographs, ceramics, 
ﬁ  ber arts, mixed-media, video and 
installations,” she said.
The free exhibit is open Tuesday 
to Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
and Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m.
Lisa Iglesias, an assistant profes-
sor and director of graduate studies 
in the School of Art + Art History, 
is one of the 25 faculty artists fea-
tured in the exhibit, Román said.
Román said she is excited 
to have Iglesias’ installation, 
“Groundwork,” in the exhibition as 
it is the only work in the exhibition 
involving pencil on paper. 
“Groundwork” is Iglesias’ open-
ended research project and series of drawn portraits of people who 
have contributed to social justice 
movements, Iglesias said. The goal 
of the project was to commemo-
rate the work done by women in 
the U.S. in the 19th, 20th and 21st 
centuries.
“I channel the power of art in 
constructing new realities, the 
privileges of being able to be an 
artist and educator in this world, 
the pleasure of making objects, 
the radical importance of nurtur-
ing connections between ideas and 
people and the potentials that lie 
within sitting quietly, labor and in-
teraction,” Iglesias said.
She said she will continue her 
work as an artist, teacher, individ-
ual and collective cultural producer 
and try to grow as a listener, ally 
and collaborator for social justice. 
Iglesias’ teaching career began 
in the College of Arts in 2014, Igle-
sias said. She is a two-time winner 
of her college’s Teacher of the Year 
Award and focuses her efforts on 
the UF community, in addition to 
the Harn.
“My role as teacher for my stu-
dents is a big part of my life — a 
part that I respect and try to do re-
ally well, everyday,” Iglesias said.
Brett Taylor, a 22-year-old UF 
alumnus and former student of 
Iglesias, has been able to take the 
skills he learned in her classroom 
and apply it to his work as a gradu-
ate assistant at The Ohio State Uni-
versity.
“Generosity is one of the biggest 
things I learned in Lisa Iglesias’s 
classes,” Taylor said. “Practicing 
generosity stretches far beyond the 
walls of the classroom and allows 
for productive change.”New Harn art exhibit 
to feature UF faculty 
HE WAS RELEASED ON 
HIS OWN RECOGNIZANCE
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF resident assistant recently arrested when 
a student told police he tried to sexually batter 
her was released from jail after a judge agreed he 
is a “high-achieving” student leader.
Ian Milaski, a 21-year-old UF economics senior, 
was released Friday on his own recognizance on 
both battery and false imprisonment charges after 
a motion to reduce his original bond of $125,000 
was granted, according to court records. 
Milaski was arrested Aug. 28 when a female 
student accused him of repeatedly asking her 
to have sex, grabbing her and trying “to ﬁ  nger 
her,” according to a University Police arrest 
report. Hours later, Milaski went to her dorm and 
tried lying next to her again until another person 
stopped him.
The motion to reduce Milaski’s bond said he 
wished to be released due to ﬁ  nancial difﬁ  culties 
as well as to complete his school assignments on 
time and help his parents in Cape Coral, Florida, 
prepare for Hurricane Dorian.
The attorney also wrote that further evidence 
will show the incident to be a “misunderstanding 
among platonic friends fueled by alcohol.”
The motion said Milaski is a teaching assistant 
who manages more than 40 other teaching assis-
tants, served 210 community service hours and 
is part of Phi Kappa Phi and Golden Key honor 
societies.
As part of his release, Milaski is being condi-
tionally monitored by a GPS and is not allowed to 
contact the victim or return to Alachua or Saraso-
ta County except for court appointments or “nec-
essary” events at UF, according to court records. 
UPD issued a trespass warning against Milaski 
after his initial arrest.
No court date is set yet, according to court 
records.
The attorney, Ronald D. Kozlowski, declined 
to comment further on Milaski’s behalf as of Sun-
day afternoon.
The victim, whose phone number was listed in 
the original arrest report, told The Alligator she 
is a UF sophomore and initially agreed to speak on Aug. 29. She has not responded to numerous 
text messages and phone calls since the initial 
contact. 
A Facebook proﬁ  le with the same name as 
the female student in the arrest report identiﬁ  ed 
herself as the victim of what appears to be an 
attempted sexual battery case that occurred the 
same night as the incident Milaski was accused 
of. It was posted hours after The Alligator ﬁ  rst 
contacted her.
The facts of the post matched the initial arrest 
report involving Milaski. She wrote that the ac-
cused male, who is a resident assistant at Weaver 
Hall, was drunk and tried to force himself on her 
despite heavy protests. The woman described 
how he picked her up, forced her back into the 
room and later followed her to her dorm to try to 
sleep with her again.
The post said she reported the incident and the 
individual is in jail, which Milaski was on the day 
of the post.
“I do not want this incident to be swept under 
the rug! I will continue to ﬁ  ght this and I will 
continue to ﬁ  ght him until the very end,” the post 
said.
The Alligator reached out to students who 
know Milaski, but each declined to speak on the 
record.
A Facebook proﬁ  le under Milaski’s name has 
previously posted motivational content on UF-ori-
ented Facebook groups. The proﬁ  le also posted a 
comedic video about sorority girls on Sept. 22, 
2017, that received hundreds of likes in the group 
“Swampy UF memes for top ten public teens.”
“One of the most sincere forms of respect is 
actually listening to what another has to say,” the 
proﬁ  le wrote, reciting a quote, in a post on the UF 
Class of 2022 (ofﬁ  cial) Facebook group in Aug. 
2018. 
He wrote further, “This is a good one. I’m very 
guilty of this sometimes.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF resident assistant charged 
with battery released from jailMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
The cost of beauty shouldn’t be the environment
People love makeup. More than a third 
of Americans aged 18 to 29 wear 
makeup on a daily basis, and another 
third use makeup several times per 
week. Despite gender stereotypes, 
even men have taken an interest in keeping 
up their appearances with beauty products, 
according to CNN. While I enjoy dismantling 
toxic masculinity and being able to express 
myself creatively, I can’t help but become 
frustrated with the amount of waste we’re 
producing that is harming our environment. 
The beauty industry is worth $532 billion and is 
projected to steadily grow, according to Business Insider. 
In fact, a report published by Zion Market Research said 
the market for beauty will be worth $863 billion by 2024. 
That’s great news for entrepreneurs who are looking to 
make it big in the industry, but it’s not so great news for 
the environment. 
The L.A. Times reported that 120 billion units of 
cosmetic packaging are produced every year. This makes 
sense because plastic for packaging is the biggest use of 
plastic across the globe.  Unfortunately, many of these 
units are single-use and will likely end up being disposed 
of in a wasteful manner. 
It seems like America needs to be a little bit more 
mindful of its waste. The U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency said in 2015 that 53 percent of plastic packaging 
was recycled. In other words, nearly half of the plastic 
packaging produced wasn’t recycled. What’s worse is 
that there is no guarantee that the things you want to 
recycle will be recycled. There simply isn’t enough space 
for these products anymore. 
Mass production is the root of the issue. In 2016, 
Business Insider reported it was actually cheaper to 
produce more plastic than to recycle it. The greed of companies and the vulnerability of consumers 
has led to a problem that seems irreversible. 
Luckily, there are other methods to get our 
products in an environmentally conscious 
way: pressuring companies to do so.
This has already occurred in the makeup 
industry. Many makeup brands have recently 
become cruelty-free, meaning the company 
stopped the use of animal testing for makeup. 
Big companies, such as Covergirl, probably 
stopped testing on animals to please the 
masses, but they have changed nonetheless. If the 
makeup industry can move forward with cruelty-free 
products, it can most deﬁ  nitely move forward with its 
plastic waste. 
Many beauty brands are already doing so. Lush claims 
more than 35 percent of all of their products come without 
packaging, and they have built three stores offering no 
packaging at all. With more than 900 stores across the 
world, Lush sets a good example of how businesses can 
be successful while also caring about the environment. 
You don’t have to get rid of packaging entirely to 
be environmentally friendly. Many beauty brands use 
biodegradable material that allows them to be zero 
waste. In fact, some of these brands even offer options 
to reﬁ  ll their products so that you can be sustainable and 
save some money as well. 
In essence, you don’t have to stop wearing makeup — 
just become more aware of its waste and care about how 
it’s produced and where it’s going to end up. It seems 
crazy that a tube of mascara could be killing the Earth, 
but with one being sold every two seconds, it’s crazier 
that no one has tried to do something about it sooner. 
Zora Viel is a UF journalism sophomore.Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.We are her sons: 
Is Nicki really done?
We are trying to take our medication and be okay, 
but we are now in a world without the Harajuku 
Barbie herself, Nicki Minaj. The self-proclaimed Fe-
male Weezy retired from the music industry Thurs-
day when she tweeted that she wants to focus on 
raising a family. 
Days have gone by, and she hasn’t called anyone her son. 
Instead, she’s having a biological family with her ﬁ  ance Ken-
neth “Zoo” Petty, who has received a signiﬁ  cant amount of 
backlash over his 2002 ﬁ  rst-degree manslaughter conviction. 
Now, we are left to wonder what made her leave when win-
ning was her protocol.
Frankly, we are not convinced that Minaj is throwing in the 
towel just yet. This seems to be more of a break to build hype for 
when she ultimately returns to release her ﬁ  fth album. She can’t 
just drop a meh “Megatron” single and a spicy “Hot Girl Sum-
mer” verse to leave us high and dry. 
Historically, Minaj had tumultuous relationships with many 
artists. A recent piece in The Telegraph pointed out that while 
Minaj’s fans were upset by the news of her retirement, there was 
radio silence from the music industry. Her most recent feud with 
Cardi B might be what really tipped the scales for Nicki and made 
her want to take a break from all the noise. The relationship 
between the two “raptresses” dates back to March 2017, when 
Nicki liked an Instagram post making fun of Cardi B’s rapping 
style. While we don’t have time to review the entire timeline of 
the past two years, we do know that the feud is supposed to be 
over because Mrs. Petty herself told us in a tweet, “We’re all so 
blessed. I know this stuff is entertaining and funny to a lot of peo-
ple but I won’t be discussing this nonsense anymore. Thank you 
for the support and encouragement year after year. Love you.”
So where did things go wrong? Were we having too much of a 
“hot girl summer” and focusing on Megan Thee Stallion? Was it 
anger toward Cardi resurfacing because she worked with Jennifer 
Lopez on the new movie “Hustlers”? (Nicki famously gave that 
confused look at J-Lo during her dance performance to Anaconda 
at the 2015 AMA’s.) Or, is it because we really stopped caring 
about her music when her album “Queen” all but ﬂ  opped and 
we only waited for her to spill tea on her podcast “Queen Radio?”
Whatever the reason, we will look back on her legacy with 
gratitude. Thank you, Nicki Minaj, for giving us the perfect way 
to call out haters. (“Miley, what’s good?”) We no longer say “Hi.” 
Instead, we say, “Keys to the Benz.”  We are not lucky, but we 
are blessed, yes, to have a had lyricist like her shape our middle 
school, high school and adult lives. Nothing beats blasting “Ro-
man’s Revenge” in your iPod headphones while stomping down 
the hallway on your way to gym class. Thanks for the conﬁ  dence,  
and for teaching us how to spell Prague. 
For the sake of posterity, here’s a list of our favorite Nicki 
Minaj songs or features to remember her impact. Be blessed. 
1. “Roman’s Revenge”
2. “Roman Holiday”
3. “Itty Bitty Piggy”
4. “Monster”
5. “Super Bass”
6. “Only”
7. “Your Love”
8. “Hot Girl Summer”
9. “Side to Side”
10. “Anaconda” 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora Viel
opinions@alligator.org
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, Hurricane Dorian 
rolled into the Caribbean as 
a monster storm. Although 
Florida was mostly spared 
from the storm’s destruction, 
the island nation of the Bahamas 
was not. The country’s prime 
minister referred to Dorian’s impact 
as “generational devastation.” 
Looking at the damage, you can see 
why: 60 percent of the homes on 
the Bahamian island of Abaco were destroyed; 
entire neighborhoods were ﬂ  attened; 70,000 
people were left homeless; and the current 
death toll of 43 is expected to rise drastically. 
It’s fair to say the hurricane devastated the 
Bahamas. The worst part is that Hurricane 
Dorian is not an anomaly.
Many people are aware of the serious dangers 
posed by climate change. For years, researchers 
have also been investigating a possible 
link between climate change and Atlantic 
hurricanes. The results so far aren’t promising. 
As a report from NOAA’s Geophysical Fluid 
Dynamics Laboratory concluded, “It is likely 
that greenhouse warming will cause hurricanes 
in the coming century to be more intense 
globally and have higher rainfall rates than 
present-day hurricanes.” 
Intensity isn’t the only thing about hurricanes 
that climate change could explain. An article 
from the nonproﬁ  t InsideClimate News looked 
at why hurricanes like Harvey, Florence and 
Dorian stalled in place. While there is still much 
debate over the speciﬁ  cs, the general consensus 
is that factors like the warming of the Arctic 
cause a slowdown in global winds in the tropics 
and mid-latitudes, which makes it harder for 
storms to move. As we just saw with Dorian, 
stalled storms can dump massive amounts 
of rainfall over a few days and cause serious 
ﬂ  ooding and damage. While this evidence is 
concerning, I should point out that we cannot deﬁ  nitively link any single storm 
to climate change. Rather, storms 
like Dorian ﬁ  t a pattern of stronger 
hurricanes supported by signiﬁ  cant 
research.
The evidence shows the 
relationship between climate 
change and hurricanes is, if not 
fully understood, at least compelling 
enough to warrant immediate 
action. Unfortunately, one place we 
can’t count on for decisive action on climate 
change is our federal government. The current 
president has denied human-caused climate 
change in the past. He withdrew from the Paris 
Agreement on climate change and the party he 
is part of, which still controls the Senate, also 
has a long history of denying humanity’s role 
in causing climate change. President Donald 
Trump and other Republican ofﬁ  cials may 
continue to bury their heads in the sand, but 
with more intense storms, global temperatures 
continuing to rise and entire island nations at 
risk of being submerged by rising sea levels, it’s 
becoming increasingly harder to ignore the dire 
risks posed by climate change.
It’s time for others to step up to the plate. 
The more than 400 U.S. mayors who pledged 
to continue to uphold the Paris Agreement after 
Trump’s withdrawal are leading the way, but 
county governments, state governments and 
private groups also have a role to play. Perhaps 
the most important thing you can do as an 
individual is vote. Vote for candidates who 
share your priorities on climate change. If you 
have the time and energy, volunteer for those 
candidates’ campaigns. The federal government 
may not be able to move forward on climate 
change, but that doesn’t mean all of us should 
be inactive. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Does climate change make hurricanes worse?Column
The phrase “taxation is 
theft” can be a meme or a 
serious political position, 
depending on who you 
ask. While it’s easy to 
dismiss the idea as the deranged 
babbling of an adamant free 
marketeer, I’d like to explain the 
politics behind the phrase and 
defend the idea that taxation is 
state-sponsored theft. To reach 
this conclusion, there are two ideas you 
must accept: The Non-Aggression Principle 
is valid, and all laws are ultimately only 
enforceable by violence. Let’s examine both.
The Non-Aggression Principle, or “NAP,” 
is the cornerstone of libertarian political 
philosophy. Its meaning varies depending on 
who deﬁ  nes it, but for now, let’s assume the 
following: The use of violence, coercion or 
intimidation to accomplish social or political 
goals is immoral, and the only acceptable 
use of violence is in defending one’s life, 
liberty or property. 
Without the NAP, there is no Libertarian 
Party, Ron Paul or Gary Johnson hijacking 
a third party he’s ideologically at odds with 
and running an underwhelming presidential 
campaign. The NAP is a value statement. 
You either believe in using violence to 
accomplish your goals, or you do not. 
The second premise is an observation 
on governance. For any government to 
accomplish its goals or enforce its laws, it 
needs the ability to use violence. Laws put 
in place without any tangible power are just 
suggestions, and law enforcement ofﬁ  cials 
become mere ﬁ  nger-wagging bureaucrats 
unable to act in any meaningful way. This 
is why we give the government a monopoly 
on violence. No other entity can lawfully 
arrest, detain, interrogate or kill those who v oppose it, but we grant the state 
these powers with the misguided 
hope that it will protect our 
fundamental rights. 
The conclusion that taxation 
is theft should be obvious. 
Governments tax their citizens 
without the consent of the 
individuals being taxed. If these 
citizens refuse to pay, measures 
will be taken to ensure their 
compliance. These measures will ultimately 
culminate with either conﬁ  scation of wealth, 
imprisonment or both. 
Similar reasoning can be applied to 
every stance political Libertarians take on. 
Libertarians are opposed to taxes because 
they take wealth from the taxed without 
their consent. They are in favor of free 
speech because laws restricting expression 
use ﬁ  nes or imprisonment to enforce them. 
They even oppose prohibiting destructive 
vices like prostitution and drugs because a 
utopian society isn’t worth betraying their 
ideology of nonviolence. 
During my time as a member of the 
Libertarian Party of Florida, I’ve had many 
opportunities to meet people from a variety 
of backgrounds. Some have been devout 
Christians. One was an Imam who gave a talk 
on Islam. Another was a homeless anarchist 
transgender prostitute. I think it’s fair to say 
that these individuals’ ideas of what an ideal 
society looks like are signiﬁ  cantly different. 
They’re all Libertarians, and the only thing 
they have in common is that they seek to 
change the world peacefully and not through 
the might of the state.
Cameron White is a UF computer science 
senior.Taxation is theft, and here are the reasons whyColumn
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.org
Cameron White
opinions@alligator.orgMICROPLASTIC IS FOUND 
IN THE OCEAN, SOIL AND 
FOOD 
By Hannah Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer  
UF students might not know 
about the sand-sized pieces of plastic 
in their food. 
The Florida Microplastic Aware-
ness Project is hosting events during 
Microplastic Awareness Month to 
change that.
Maia McGuire, a UF Sea Grant 
extension agent, founded the Micro-
plastic Awareness Project in 2015 in 
response to the threat it poses to our 
environment. On Friday, she will 
speak at the Environmental Sympo-
sium in Jacksonville about alterna-
tives to single-use plastics. 
“Awareness about microplastic is 
growing,” she said, “But there’s still 
a lot of work to do.”
On Sept. 21, the project will join 
the International Coastal Cleanup 
by hosting a cleanup in Cedar Key. 
At the event, volunteers can col-lect shoreline debris while learning 
about the consequences of marine 
pollution, McGuire said.
Plastic does not biodegrade, 
and it breaks down into extremely 
small particles that end up in the 
ocean and consumer products, said 
Savanna Barry, a UF Sea Grant 
extension agent. 
“It might be easier to list what 
doesn’t contain microplastics,” she 
said. 
Microplastic has also been found 
in soil where food is grown and in 
drinking water, Barry said. 
Although humans consume 
microplastic every day, scientists 
have not identified health risks, said 
Charles Grisafi, a National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration 
marine debris program regional 
coordinator.
However, as the number of 
pollutants grows, so does the interest 
in combating it.
“The problem is becoming 
very visible,” Grisafi said. “It’s an 
environmental issue that people can 
actually see.” UF begins Microplastic 
Awareness Month
KEEP ALACHUA COUNTY 
BEAUTIFUL RELEASED ITS 
ANNUAL REPORT
 
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
A local nonprofit carried its 
weight in trash-collecting from 2018 
to 2019.  
Over the year, 630,809 pounds 
of litter and debris was collected 
throughout Alachua County, and 
431,551 pounds of this amount was recycled. The annual report 
from Keep Alachua County Beauti-
ful, which was published Aug. 26, 
showed details and data of beautifi-
cation efforts such as graffiti and lit-
ter cleanup, said Gina Hawkins, the 
organization’s executive director. 
The organization received 
$881,276.95 from donations and 
grants to complete its programs, 
which included $79,100 of city and 
county funding, she said. For every 
$1 funded from local government, 
KACB returned $8.57 in value to the 
community. “Some of that was storm debris, 
so the number is a little high this 
year,” she said. “We were still clean-
ing from Hurricane Irma.” 
The most common recycled items 
were bottles, cans and tires, Hawkins 
said. Collected items that were not 
recyclable included styrofoam cups, 
plastic bags and cigarette butts.
More than 5,500 volunteers were 
involved in programs, which is an 
about 20 percent increase in volun-
teers from the previous year, she 
said. 
“We feel that if citizens have an experience in improving [our 
community], it will help them 
appreciate the beauty of our 
environment here,” Hawkins said. 
Members of the UF Badminton 
Club volunteer with KACB at least 
three times a semester, fulfilling 
most of the service hours required 
of the club by Southwest Recreation 
Center, said Aaron Mares, the club 
president and 20-year-old UF com-
puter science senior said. 
“KACB is a big part of how we 
get those service hours,” he said. 
“We have fun with it. We brag about who has the most grabbing-of-trash 
quality.”
Mares said the Badminton Club 
had already been involved with 
KACB in 2017 when he first joined. 
Club members usually participate in 
litter cleanups around downtown 
Gainesville.
“I really feel like a contributing 
member of society when I’m doing 
it,” Mares said. “I definitely think it 
teaches a bit of humility.”  
@lina_ruiz48 
lruiz@alligator.org Volunteers collect more than 630,000 pounds of trashTHE SANTA FE COLLEGE 
LUNCHEON WILL BE 
HELD WEDNESDAY
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College President 
Jackson Sasser is sharing the 
college’s status with leaders in 
Bradford County before retiring.
The State of the College Lun-
cheon will be held Wednesday in 
Starke at the Gov. Charley E. Johns 
Conference Center, at 1610 N. Tem-
ple Ave. The annual event costs $15 
per person and keeps the commu-
nity informed on the college’s prog-
ress, Sasser said.
About 200 people are expected 
to attend the luncheon, including 
city officials, representatives from 
the school system and leaders of 
local groups.
Sasser shared similar informa-
tion with Alachua County at the 
Fall Convocation, and he speaks at 
rotary clubs throughout the area to 
keep the community involved.
Sasser will encourage the com-
munity to get involved in the search 
for the college’s next president, he 
said. 
He is retiring after 17 years as the college’s president. Seven 
semifinalists for the position were 
chosen in August by the college’s 
18-member Presidential Search 
Committee. Finalists will be chosen 
this month.  
At the luncheon, Sasser will ad-
dress Santa Fe and its particular 
campaigns as they relate to Brad-
ford County. The Bradford County 
Courthouse became the school’s 
second campus, the Andrews Cen-
ter, about 30 years ago, he said. 
“Each community has its own 
personality and its own assets,” he 
said. “I enjoy meeting people where 
they are and discussing how we can 
improve Santa Fe College’s services 
to their area.”
He plans to share updates on 
initiatives he started, including re-
cruiting more black students from 
Bradford County and Vision 2021, 
a campaign with the Chamber of 
Commerce that uses the county’s 
assets to sets expectations on grow-
ing business and industry, he said.
In the past, community initia-
tives in Starke have encouraged 
business growth, Sasser said. The 
college provided five weekends of 
classes with entrepreneurial train-
ing upon request. 
“I have a real appreciation to the residents of Bradford County for 
their support and for being honest 
to the college about how we can 
better serve them,” he said.
The State of the College 
Luncheon is important to keep the 
public aware of what the college 
is doing and to become aware of 
what they are looking for, said 
Cheryl Canova, the Andrews Center 
director. 
The campus she oversees has 
about 450 students enrolled this 
Fall, she said. 
“Dr. Sasser has played a big 
role in Bradford County,” she said. 
“He’s been very supportive of 
economic development and all our 
programs.”
Canova said she hopes that 
the next president of the college 
focuses on economic development 
as heavily as Sasser did to help local 
businesses and the workforce. 
“We’re very sad to see him go, 
but we hope that our new president 
will support us as Dr. Sasser has,” 
she said. 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgSasser to give final state of campus8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     9-6-19-
5-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12DThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    9-13-19-10-1D
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
1/1 Condo @ Campus Edge $84,900
Walk to UF, UF Health, VA and Vet School; 
1st Floor, Granite Counters, Crown Molding; 
Washer & Dryer included; Community Pool 
& Fitness Center; STOP paying rent!!
Call Kelly Robert, Pepine Realty 352-222-1744
9-6-19-5-5D
Large SFH with full efficiency attached, main 
house 3/2, 2500 sq feet, large yard, wood 
floors, 5 mins from UF. Easy to show call 
Jackie 786-556-2298. Open House Aug. 31, 
12-3 pm     9-6-19-2-5D
 
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
1.  ____ pine
1.  “The ____ Kid”5.  Driving ____
2.  Collected works6.  Lucky happening
3.  ____ May7.  Real ____
4.  Hound, interruptNTOTYK
AKAERTGREAN
AKBER
BIOSMUN
AESRTEHEEASTT
EHELCKANSWERS: 1A-Knotty  5A-Range  6A-Break  7A-Estate
1D-Karate  2D-Omnibus  3D-Theresa  4D-Heckle  B-Hank Aaron9-9-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame on August 1, 1982. BONUS
1. In 2018, Boston’s Craig Kim-
brel became the fastest pitcher to 300 
career saves (330th opportunity). 
Who had held the mark?
2. Gleyber Torres, in 2018, became 
the youngest New York Yankee to hit 
a walk-off home run (21 years, 144 
days). Which Yankee Hall of Famer 
had been the youngest?
3. In the highest-scoring playoff 
game in NFL history, was the point 
total over 100 or under it?
4. Since being in the NCAA cham-
pionship game in 1998, how many 
games has Utah’s men’s basketball 
team won in the NCAA Tournament?
5. Name the last Calgary Flames 
player before Johnny Gaudreau in 
2019 to have a six-point NHL game.
6. Sifan Hassan set a women’s 
record in 2019 for running the mile in 
4 minutes, 12.33 seconds. How long 
had the previous world record stood?
7. Only three PGA golfers in the past 
30 years have won at least one major 
three years in a row. Name two of 
them.
Answers
1. Joe Nathan got his 300th save in 
his 335th save opportunity in 2013.
2. Mickey Mantle, who did it at 21 
years, 185 days old.
3. Under; Arizona and Green Bay 
combined for 96 points in a playoff 
game in 2010.
4. Eight, the last coming in 2016.
5. Al MacInnis did it in 1994.
6. It stood for 23 years — Russia’s 
Svetlana Masterkova set the previous 
mark of 4:12.56 in 1996.
7. Brooks Koepka, Phil Mickelson 
and Tiger Woods.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 9, 2019King Features Weekly Service
Answers on pg. 1010   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-6-19-14-14D
★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14D
SIMEDHealth is looking for a PART TIME 
Patient Greeter for our Gainesville office lo-
cation. The hours for this position would be 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-2:30pm. Must be 
able to lift and/or push 50+ pounds and be 
on their feet for long periods of time.   9-13-
19-7-14D
New epic start up dating app
"Rene Harley” on IOS NOW.
Android next month. Wants  sorority 
member to help promote app to sororities
and fraternities  Offering to give agreed
precent of company to right partner.
Contact. Tony@Rene-Harley.com
9-13-19-5-14D
Seeking a FT Sales Team Member. M & C 
Army Surplus is hiring. Must have consistent 
availability 30-40 hr/wk with 1 weekend day. 
Great local business located 1/2 mile from 
UF on 13th St. Firearm knowledge and sales 
experience a plus. Apply in person to 626 
NW 13 St. No phone Calls.     9-11-19-4-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14D
PART-TIME WIG SALES & OFFICE DUTIES
Monday through Friday, 1pm to 5pm - hours 
are flexible. No evenings or weekends. 
"Especially for Women" Oaks Mall Plaza Call 
for interview 352-332-9095    9-13-19-5-14D
Legal Assistant P/T to F/T - excellent commu-
nication skills, EYE FOR DETAIL, avid reader, 
computer fluency, fitness a plus. 1+ yr com-
mitment. $11.50+/hr. Resume to 626 NE 1st 
Street, 32601 or paulsrothstein@gmail.com    
9-16-19-5-14D
ISO 3 health + wellness brand reps
work from your phone on your own time
all training + resources provided
must be a motivated self-starter
no cap on income - get paid for results
call/text mary @ 954-662-1878
9-16-5-14D
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES hiring for all 
positions in a fast-paced, friendly atmosphere. 
Must have good people skills, multitasking, 
have reliable transp. Day and night time open. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th St     
9-18-19-6-14D
Jill of all trades needed for 80-year-old wom-
an & her pets: walk & feed the dog; take me 
to the store, do housekeeping & have fun. 
Looking for 2-3 weekdays about 9-4 (flex-
ible). Must be cheerful, non-smoker, LOVES 
cats & dogs, no criminal history. 352-281-
8701     9-11-19-3-14IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL 
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Fun Fact: Aluminum used to be more valuable 
than gold
*Opening in October*
Red Fern Esthetics
skin care, lashes, nails
RedFernEsthetics@gmail.com for info    9-6-
19-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Ketamine therapy for Depression, 
Anxiety, PTSD, and Suicidal Thoughts.
You don't have to suffer. Start feeling bet-
ter today. Call (352) 448-6062 or visit www.
flmindhealth.com.    9-16-19-5-16D
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com     9-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/Notices
1. In 2018, Boston’s Craig Kim-
brel became the fastest pitcher to 300 
career saves (330th opportunity). 
Who had held the mark?
2. Gleyber Torres, in 2018, became 
the youngest New York Yankee to hit 
a walk-off home run (21 years, 144 
days). Which Yankee Hall of Famer 
had been the youngest?
3. In the highest-scoring playoff 
game in NFL history, was the point 
total over 100 or under it?
4. Since being in the NCAA cham-
pionship game in 1998, how many 
games has Utah’s men’s basketball 
team won in the NCAA Tournament?
5. Name the last Calgary Flames 
player before Johnny Gaudreau in 
2019 to have a six-point NHL game.
6. Sifan Hassan set a women’s 
record in 2019 for running the mile in 
4 minutes, 12.33 seconds. How long 
had the previous world record stood?
7. Only three PGA golfers in the past 
30 years have won at least one major 
three years in a row. Name two of 
them.
Answers
1. Joe Nathan got his 300th save in 
his 335th save opportunity in 2013.
2. Mickey Mantle, who did it at 21 
years, 185 days old.
3. Under; Arizona and Green Bay 
combined for 96 points in a playoff 
game in 2010.
4. Eight, the last coming in 2016.
5. Al MacInnis did it in 1994.
6. It stood for 23 years — Russia’s 
Svetlana Masterkova set the previous 
mark of 4:12.56 in 1996.
7. Brooks Koepka, Phil Mickelson 
and Tiger Woods.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 9, 2019King Features Weekly Service
PUZZLEANSWERS
By Freddie Cheng
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 More certain
6 Gp. with moms, 
dads and 
educators
9 “Thereabouts” 
suffix
12 “Men” or “teeth,” 
grammatically
14 One of Ringo’s 
set
15 __ kwon do
16 Absurd, as a 
scheme
17 Autodialed 
annoyance, often 
at dinnertime
19 Prof’s aides
20 System of rules
22 Protection for 
political refugees
23 German I
25 Philosophies: 
Suff.
27 Picky details
28 Computer event 
with a “blue 
screen of death”
30 Penultimate 
Greek letter
31 Big Pharma 
watchdog: Abbr.
32 Suggest
34 Encroach (on)
38 Musical knack
39 Naughty
41 Black or Red 
waters
42 Downpour 
concern
44 Bills with Franklin 
on them
46 Good times
47 Japanese 
vegetable
49 Infatuated with, 
with “about”
50 “__ Land”: 2016 
Best Picture? Not!
52 Elite English 
boarding school
53 Deadly “2001” 
computer
54 “Brideshead 
Revisited” 
novelist Waugh
56 Laundry
58 Wall St. takeover
61 Exacts revenge
63 Punctuation that 
Brits call a full 
stop
65 Guggenheim 
display
66 Johns, to Brits
67 “__ can play!”: 
“It’s easy!”68 Caustic chemical
69 Bowler’s target
70 Emails
DOWN
1 Barbecue rod
2 Arm bone
3 *Deadly “game” 
in “The Deer 
Hunter”
4 Big Band __
5 *Ones helping 
with the horses
6 Expert
7 Low-pitched 
brass 
instruments
8 Cookiedom’s 
Famous __
9 *Stallone 
nickname, with 
“the”
10 Henri’s “Hi”
11 Pilothouse 
wheels
13 Lion constellation
14 Severe 
reprimands, 
and a hint to 
the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues
18 Singer Lauper
21 Slight market 
slide
24 St. Louis hrs.26 Short skirt
28 Kitchen master
29 Iranian currency
31 *Trio after turtle 
doves
33 Paris pronoun
35 TV watchdog
36 “Wow!”
37 “No sweat”
40 Letter-shaped 
fastener
43 October 
gemstones
45 Italian hour48 “We’re __ 
schedule here!”
50 Permitted by law
51 Bugs Bunny 
animator Tex
52 Ballade’s last 
stanza
55 Website with 
business reviews
57 Rejuvenation site
59 “__, James __”
60 Poems of praise
62 Many millennia
64 Deli bread
By Erik Agard
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/07/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/07/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 7, 2019
ACROSS
1 Peak of early 
2000s cinema
10 Martin Sheen’s 
first name at birth
15 Doesn’t honor
16 Blow away
17 “Let’s rock and 
roll!”
18 Actor Max von __
19 Verb that sounds 
like a letter
20 Holders of leaves
22 Rank aboard the 
Enterprise: Abbr.
23 Turbine blade
25 Moved, as a 
movie camera
27 “Claws” star __ 
Nash
31 Get choppers
32 One up, barely
36 Oozy substances
37 Prefix for “six”
38 Class with no 
struggles
39 Unwieldy thing
40 British boxer 
Khan
41 Album info
43 Talking points?
45 Role for which 
Liam got an 
Oscar nod
46 Show ardor
48 Occupied
52 IPA, say
53 About 5, for 
coffee
57 Humanities degs.
58 Enjoy a season 
in a day, 
perhaps?
60 Therapy subjects
62 Run onstage?
63 Wrap up
64 Judges
65 Duty for the 
bereaved
DOWN
1 Patch plant
2 Nostalgi-cool?
3 Beginning
4 Pabst dispenser
5 Journey with 
strokes?
6 __ noire
7 Gobi locale8 Search high and 
low
9 Apt eye rhyme 
for “bread”
10 Fight in the 
sticks
11 2019 Emmy 
nominee Adams
12 Escaped
13 Polar 
environmental 
concern
14 Paper 
departments
21 Approached 
nightfall
24 In the world
26 Looney Tunes 
surname
28 Metaphorical 
margin of victory
29 Contents of 
some 20-Across
30 Having only two 
answers
32 Fight over 
covers, perhaps?
33 Citrusy flavor
34 “The only way 
to deal with an 
unfree world is 
to become so absolutely free 
that your very 
__ is an act 
of rebellion”: 
Camus 
(attributed)
35 Votes for
42 Succeeds to the 
max
44 Sri Lankan 
currency
47 Send to cloud 
nine49 WWII sub
50 Gift list 
addressee
51 Cape Ann’s 
county
54 Nights before
55 Rapper Lil Uzi 
__
56 Singer Franklin, 
Aretha’s elder 
sister
59 Opal, for one
61 Suffix with salt
09/06/19
Sports Quiz answers from pg. 9Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Florida and current 
T ampa Bay Buccaneers 
cornerback Vernon Hargreaves 
III had a pick-six against the 
49ers on Sunday. It was his 
second career interception. Gators honor legendary fan at home-opener
George Emondson, also known as Mr. Two Bits, passed away on July 2, 2019 
at 97 years old, but his presence was felt at Florida Field Saturday evening. 
Players wore the iconic pinstriped necktie as a sticker on their helmets and 
many Gators fans donned the popular yellow-themed T-shirt in his memory.FOOTBALL
VOLLEYBALLBy Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Early season contests against 
FCS teams can be tough to 
evaluate. Game plans are dumbed 
down, young players are constantly 
rotating in and, above all, the 
weak competition presents little 
opportunity for an honest appraisal 
of the team.
This was the case in Florida’s 
45-0 takedown of Tennessee-Martin 
on Saturday night. On paper, it was 
a textbook win. But the ﬁ  nal score 
and statistics didn’t tell the full 
story of the game.
The Gators started off slow once 
again. Despite being favored by 
45 at kickoff, they only led 17-0 at 
halftime.
But the team got it together in 
the second half, scoring 28 points 
en route to a shutout. There were 
areas to improve on, certainly. 
At the same time, Florida showed 
why fans should still be cautiously 
optimistic.
Franks spread the ball around
Against Miami, UF’s top receiv-
ers — Van Jefferson, Trevon Grimes 
and Tyrie Cleveland — combined 
for only three catches. 
But facing the Skyhawks, the 
trio caught 12 balls.
“Everyone had catches,” Grimes 
said. “We all went out there and did 
our thing. We are just going to build 
on that.”
Quarterback Feleipe Franks was 
efﬁ  cient. He completed his ﬁ  rst 15 
passes and only two of his attempts 
hit the turf all night.
He, as well as UF’s other 
quarterbacks Kyle Trask and Emory 
Jones, connected with 11 different players.
“I try to take what the defense 
gives me,” Franks said.
Unfortunately for Florida, 
playmaking receiver Kadarius 
Toney exited the game in the ﬁ  rst 
quarter with an injury, the severity 
of which is currently unknown.
In his place, the Gators turned to 
redshirt freshman Jacob Copeland, 
who had three catches for 23 yards 
and a touchdown — the ﬁ  rst of his 
young UF career.
After the game, coach Dan 
Mullen said Copeland could see 
an increased role if Toney is 
unavailable in the near future.
The defense was a brick wall
The Skyhawks’ offense ﬂ  atlined 
against the Gators. Florida held UT 
Martin to 194 yards of offense — 
the least a Mullen-coached UF team 
has ever allowed. It was the ﬁ  rst 
time the Gators kept an opponent 
under 200 yards in his tenure.
Safety Shawn Davis saw a bump 
in reps with Brad Stewart’s suspen-
sion — the justiﬁ  cation for which 
has not been speciﬁ  ed other than 
not meeting team expectations — 
for the second-straight game
Davis led the team with six 
tackles and notched a tackle for 
loss.
The Gators worked in true 
freshmen on defense, including 
defensive end Khris Bogle, who 
was second in tackles (5) and 
sacked Skyhawks quarterback John 
Bachus III once.
Kaiir Elam, Jaydon Hill and 
Chester Kimbrough all got their 
feet wet playing the corner position 
after CJ Henderson left with what 
appeared to be an ankle injury. 
Elam snagged the ﬁ  rst interception of his career in the end zone, while 
Kimbrough and Hill combined for 
eight tackles.
“I wanted guys rolling in right 
from the beginning throughout the 
team,” Mullen said. “It wasn’t just 
like the younger guys are getting 
these reps with the game in hand. 
They’re getting reps with real stuff 
going on.”
The running game showed signs 
of life
With less than 30 seconds left in 
the second quarter against Miami, 
running back Lamical Perine broke 
a 15-yard run for a ﬁ  rst down.
Not only was it his biggest gain 
on the ground of the night, but it 
was also UF’s longest run. The 
team ﬁ  nished with only 50 yards 
rushing on 28 carries.
The Skyhawks struggled much 
more to contain it.
The Gators totaled 231 rush-
ing yards and three scores on the 
ground. Perine was better, earning 
51 yards on 10 carries, while Iver-
son Clement broke his only carry 
for a 41-yard gain.
Though consistency in the run 
game is still a problem, Florida 
was able to get big plays on the 
ground against UTM. If it hopes to 
be a force in the SEC, a reliable run 
game is a must.
“We want to establish the run 
with all these guys dropping so 
deep so we can take some shots 
down the ﬁ  eld,” Mullen said. “If 
you look statistically, we look pretty 
solid in that force… I was really 
pleased with our guys.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
No. 7 Florida is only four games 
into the 2019 season, and there 
is still plenty to learn about the 
veteran-heavy group chasing the 
program’s ﬁ  rst national title. 
Taking things outside of the 
gym, let’s learn about some 
personalities off the court and how 
these players live out their daily 
lives like typical students. 
We asked ﬁ  ve of Florida’s 
starters the same basic questions 
and here’s what they said: Senior middle blocker Rachael 
Kramer is most excited about 
traveling with the team again. 
“We have an entertainment pod 
and Marlie (Monserez) is usually 
in charge of movies,” Kramer said. 
“She was great last year with a lot 
of Disney classics.”
Kramer normally listens to some 
of the top pop hits while warming-
up for practice and games, but it 
changes throughout the season. 
And if she didn’t play volleyball, 
she said she’d love to play softball.
“I love Tim Walton,” Kramer 
said with a chuckle. “I told him I 
would gladly take a ﬁ  fth year on the softball team and he told me, 
‘I’ll have you.’ So if you see me on 
the softball team in the spring, you 
heard it here ﬁ  rst. I’ll have Kelly 
Barnhill coach me as a pitcher.”
Outside of the sport, Kramer en-
joys binge-watching “The Ofﬁ  ce” 
and putting her crocheting skills 
(which she learned from former 
Florida middle blocker Rhamat Al-
hassan) to use. 
“I’ve watched it three or four 
times,” she said. “If I’m having a 
bad day, that’s my go-to and I’ll 
watch three or four episodes.” Gators have reasons for optimism heading into SEC play
Getting to know some UF starsAfter I got 
home from 
covering  
Florida foot-
ball’s 45-0 
throttling Tennessee-
Martin, something 
much more entertain-
ing popped up on my 
Twitter timeline.
It was a video of 
Alabama coach Nick Saban an-
swering yet another question 
about his team’s strength of 
schedule after the Crimson Tide 
blew out New Mexico State 62-10.
Yes, this video of Saban 
standing at a podium getting testy 
with reporters was more exciting 
to watch than the Gators’ home 
opener, where the only question 
was whether or not UF would 
keep the shutout intact. They did, 
in case you were wondering.
Power 5 schools — especially 
those in the SEC — take a lot of 
ﬂ  ak for scheduling such games 
against bottom-tier FBS teams 
and FCS schools. I understand 
they’re part of college football’s 
economy, and I get why.
The high-and-mighty blue-
blood program pays its lesser 
counterpart a large sum of money 
in exchange for what is almost a guaranteed win. The 
blue-blood gets a win 
and a break from its 
grueling schedule, 
the other school gets 
much-needed revenue 
for its athletic depart-
ment.
These games are 
simply a cog in the 
large, billion-dollar 
machine that is NCAA football. 
But their very existence often re-
sults in a lesser product on Sat-
urdays. Aside from a few upsets 
(sorry Tennessee), these games 
are largely boring and one-sided.
Saban made several key points 
about the type of game Alabama 
and Florida had just played, 
colloquially called cupcakes. He 
said that it is possible to improve 
in such a game. And he reiterated 
his dream of playing a full 
schedule of Power 5 programs.
After I watched the Gators beat 
down on the Skyhawks for four 
quarters, me watching that video 
was Saban preaching to the choir.
What struck a chord with me 
was what Saban said about not 
having to go undefeated to make 
the College Football Playoff. 
Imagine that.Stop FBS-FCS gamesKyle's FilesSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman receiver Jacob Copeland caught three passes 
for 23 yards, including his ﬁ  rst collegiate touchdown. 
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 12
By Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1212   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019
Redshirt junior right-side hitter 
Holly Carlton said her favorite 
warm-up music is listening 
to Christian worship music, 
particularly Elevation Worship.
“Jesus is my dude,” she said 
with a chuckle. “I like to just set my 
mind right and stay even.”  
Carlton also said she is looking 
forward to seeing the identity of 
her team shape out against the 
competition.
“I feel like we’ve come into a 
new definition of who our team is 
this year,” she said.
Carlton also mentioned that if 
she were shorter she’d take up gym-
nastics, and her favorite show to 
binge-watch was “Friends” because 
she doesn’t like to think too much 
when she’s watching TV.
Outside of volleyball she likes to 
play the guitar. She bought one two 
years ago and has been learning 
how to play songs on YouTube.
Sophomore outside attacker 
Thayer Hall said she enjoys 
listening to anything, but particularly likes the “Body” song 
by Loud Luxury that was on the 
team’s warm-up playlist last season. 
Hall said if she wasn’t a 
volleyball player, she’d like to take 
up basketball. Outside of sports, 
she enjoys cooking and baking 
depending on her mood.
“I do share,” she said. “This year 
we had a little fresh-year meal and 
I made this really good baked ziti, 
and it was so good.” 
Just like Kramer, when Hall isn’t 
in the gym she likes to binge-watch 
“The Office.”
“I’ve seen it like 12 times 
through,” she said. “I just started it 
again and it’s off Netflix in a year, 
and I’ve cried more than once about 
it.”
Sophomore setter Marlie 
Monserez said her favorite songs 
are “Truth Hurts” by Lizzo and 
“Lucy” by Skillet. 
Outside of the gym, she watches 
more sci-fi based shows like 
“Supergirl,” “The Vampire Diaries” 
and “Supernatural” but occasionally 
slips back to “Gossip Girls” and 
“One Tree Hill.”If she weren't a volleyball 
player and smaller, she’d 
love to be a gymnast.
“I think it’s the coolest 
sport ever,” she said. 
Monserez also likes to sculpt 
pottery. She hasn’t worked on any 
projects recently, but there are a 
couple of places and organizations 
on campus she can use to work on 
her pieces. 
Junior outside hitter Paige 
Hammons said her favorite hobby 
outside of volleyball is playing 
tennis, but if she wasn’t a volleyball 
player she would also enjoy being 
a gymnast.
Like Carlton, her favorite show 
to binge is “Friends,” and she has 
enjoyed all of the perks that have 
come up with its 25th anniversary. 
Hammons loves listening to 
country music but admitted it’s hard 
to put that on a warm-up playlist. 
But like Monserez, she loves “Truth 
Hurts.”
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 11Carlton: 'Jesus is my dude'
GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
Florida is a team rich with 
history and annual national 
championship expectations. Given 
such lofty standards, this weekend 
proved rather disappointing for the 
Gators men’s golf team. 
The team arrived in Dalton, 
Georgia, with hopes of quickly 
returning to form following a 
less-than-stellar 2018 campaign. 
What resulted instead was a 
string of inconsistent and scrappy golf among the starting five, 
culminating in a substandard 10th-
place finish at the season-opening 
Carpet Capital Collegiate.
After the first round, the Gators 
saw themselves in 11th place out of 
15 teams, with junior John Axelsen 
the only member of the squad not 
over par (E). Freshman Ricky Cas-
tillo entered his much-anticipated 
first collegiate event as the highest-
ranked player in the field but stum-
bled to a 5-over-par 77 in his first 
action donning orange and blue.
“After the amazing week of 
preparation that we had, I was surprised to see us finish up the 
way we did,” said coach J.C. 
Deacon, now in his sixth season at 
the helm of the program. “I know 
this is a good team, but we are 
young and there are going to be 
some bumps along the way.”
Granted, it was the first look at 
collegiate action for two of Flori-
da’s starting five, and the competi-
tion this weekend at The Farm Golf 
Club included three ranked teams 
— Georgia Tech, Tennessee and 
South Florida.
However, the trend of inferior 
play continued over the remaining 36 holes, with Castillo’s second-
round 1-under 71 and Axelsen’s 
final round 70 being the only two 
rounds under par for the Gators, 
who finished the tournament with 
an 895 total (31 over).
Georgia Tech, who served as 
the tournament host, ultimately 
torched the rest of the field by 20 
strokes, even without their top 
player in Andy Ogletree. The se-
nior was in England representing 
the United States in the Walker 
Cup, the most prestigious amateur 
team event in the world, held bian-
nually.Regardless, senior Yellow 
Jackets Luke Schniederjans 
and Tyler Strafaci dominated 
in his absence, with first and 
second-place individual finishes, 
respectively.
As for the Gators, Deacon 
summarized their current form in a 
few short words.
“We are a much better team 
than who showed up this week. It’s 
time to prove it.”
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org UF men’s golf struggles in opener, finishes 10thSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Senior middle blocker Rachael Kramer said she'd like to stay another 
year if it meant she could play softball for coach Tim Walton. 
SOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team began the 
2019-20 campaign with five straight 
games on the road over a 16-day 
span. In that period, the Gators 
suffered three consecutive defeats 
to ranked opponents and lost junior 
forward Deanne Rose to a hamstring 
injury against then-No.5 Southern 
California on Aug. 29.
Sunday night’s home opener was 
supposed to be the game that UF 
regained its confidence.
It played unranked Central Flori-
da, and Rose, the team’s most prolific 
scorer, was healthy enough to come 
off the bench and play valuable min-
utes. Yet the Knights were the ones 
that came away with the 2-0 victory 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium, hand-
ing the Gators their fourth loss of the 
season. 
Although Central Florida was the 
visiting team, the Knights quickly made themselves at home with a goal 
in the third minute by forward Ally 
Gudorf.
Two Florida (2-4) defenders 
stopped Gudorf’s run near the edge 
of the box, but they failed to clear 
the danger. The miscommunication 
gave Gudorf enough time to regain 
possession and fire a shot in the 
bottom left corner to put UCF (1-1-2) 
ahead.
Redshirt junior defender Kit 
Loferski, who has played primarily 
as a forward to start the season, had 
a chance to open the scoring for the 
Gators in the 23rd minute. Loferski 
received a through ball that put her 
one-on-one with the goalkeeper, but 
her shot was off target.
Loferski was replaced two minutes 
later by Rose, who wasted no time 
impacting the game. She came close 
to equalizing in the 30th minute 
when she saw UCF goalkeeper 
Caroline DeLisle off her line. Rose 
tried chipping DeLisle from about 30 yards out, but her shot bounced off 
the crossbar for a goal kick.
UF’s next opportunity came in 
the second half from sophomore 
midfielder Cassidy Lindley. With 
her team still trailing 1-0 in the 
52nd minute, Lindley took a curling 
shot from outside the box that was 
destined for the top right corner. 
DeLisle, however, made a diving save 
to keep Florida scoreless.
All hopes of a Gators comeback 
ended in the 86th minute when 
Central Florida forward Kristen Scott 
found the back of the net after a 
Florida turnover, sealing a 2-0 win 
for the visitors.
“I just don’t want to get used to 
this,” coach Becky Burleigh said. “It’s 
not settling well with me.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUCF spoils Florida’s home opener, 2-0  
This is one aspect 
where the NFL has the 
NCAA beat.
Teams in the NFL can 
lose a few games here 
and there and not have 
their postseason hopes 
derailed. 
Yes, this is because of 
a longer regular season 
and extended postseason 
in the NFL, but the idea 
of losing a few games 
against strong opponents 
early on and still hav-
ing something to play for 
sounds like a good idea to 
me.
The end result here 
should be better football. 
Putting a better product 
on the field — and on na-
tional television — will lead to schools bringing 
in more money. A win for 
fans of the game and a 
win for the programs.
By getting rid of 
“gimme” games from top 
team’s schedules, win-
ning six games and mak-
ing a bowl will carry more 
weight. Ten-win seasons 
will mean more. Winning 
it all won’t require perfec-
tion necessarily.
As a college football 
fan and someone who 
covers a Florida team that 
plays three FCS teams in 
its next 13 games, these 
matchups are bad for col-
lege football.COLUMN,  from pg. 11Cut the cupcakes