Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF is the most Instagrammed college in Florida
UF ranked most instagrammed college in the state, pg #9
Local rabbit rescue win $5,000 
Gainesville Rabbit Rescue win money in online survey, pg #12www.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.
WELCOME
EDITIONBACK
UF and Miami schedule home-and-
home series
The Gators and Hurricanes renew their rivalry 
in 2024 and 2025, pg 20
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 1
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
COMMISSIONERS SAY THE 
FLORIDA-BASED GROCER 
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
THE PLASTIC BAG BAN 
SHUTDOWNS ACROSS 
THE STATE
By Melissa Hernandez
Digital News Editor
Gainesville’s plastic ban end-
ed before it ever started.
The Gainesville City Commis-
sion voted 4-2 on Thursday to re-
peal an ordinance passed earlier 
this year banning the use of plas-
tic bags and polystyrene foam 
containers. The decision came 
after the 3rd District Court of Ap-
peals sided with the Florida Re-
tail Federation in a case against 
Coral Gables regarding a similar 
plastic ban. 
On July 15, Gainesville re-
ceived a letter from the same 
lobbying group asking the city to 
repeal the ordinance and threat-
ening legal action if not done so 
within 60 days, according to city 
documents. 
The decision in the Coral Ga-
bles case came after a three-year 
legal battle with the Federation. 
The appellate court ruled that the 
city’s plastic ban was deemed 
unconstitutional and violates 
section 500.90, which preempts 
local governments from enacting 
ordinances banning single-use 
plastics. 
District 4 City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos said he 
blames Publix.
“For years now, Publix has 
been the main force at the state 
legislature,” he said. “They’re 
hiding behind the Florida Retail 
Federation in trying to prevent 
cities from being able to protect 
the environment.”
Publix provides more than half of the federation’s funding, 
according to state campaign ﬁ  -
nance documents. In the 2018 
general election the Florida Re-
tail Federation received a total of 
$690,552 in contributions. Pub-
lix donated $500,000 of the total.  
The Alligator reached out 
to Dwaine Stevens, a regional  
Publix spokesperson. Stevens ig-
nored interview requests and did 
not respond to speciﬁ  c questions 
about policies. 
Instead, he provided the fol-
lowing statement that was given 
to other news organizations and 
appears verbatim on Publix’s 
website: 
“At Publix, our goal is to 
meet today’s needs without 
compromising what is essential 
for tomorrow. Simply stated, this 
means taking care of people and 
minimizing impact to our planet 
while remaining proﬁ  table.
Sustainability is ingrained in 
our culture and represented in 
our Mission Statement through 
valuing our associates, serving 
our customers, enhancing our 
ties to the communities we serve, 
conserving natural resources, 
and ensuring economic steward-
ship for our stockholders.”
Stevens added that Publix 
will comply with all ordinances 
and laws in all areas it operates 
in. 
The supermarket chain’s po-
litical involvement goes beyond 
its close relationship with the 
Florida Retail Federation.
In 2016, the Lakeland-based 
company gave Florida lawmak-
ers $1 million to pass legislation 
that would prevent local govern-
ments from banning single-use 
plastics, according to the Miami 
Herald.
Hayes-Santos said that as one REALLOCATION OF FUNDS FORCES 
CHANGE FOR UF’S LARGEST 
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
By Emma McAvoy
Alligator Staff Writer
Nine of UF’s largest student organizations are de-
manding action after of recent changes to their fund-
ing system following the Young Americans for Free-
dom’s $66,000 lawsuit against UF.  
The lawsuit requires UF Student Government to 
develop a new funding system for all student orga-nizations, which changed budgets of the “Big Nine” 
–– the largest student body organizations –– and all 
other organizations funded by SG, said Hispanic Stu-
dent Association president Isabella Oliver.
“It’s been very difﬁ  cult trying to navigate the new 
system,” Oliver said. “There are other events we 
haven’t been able to fund because they ran out before 
we even put in the request.”
The UF chapter of Young Americans for Freedom 
sued UF, claiming its ﬁ  rst and 14th amendment rights 
were violated by not having access to student activity City commissioners: 
Publix stiﬂ  es plastic banStudent organizations fight for 
funding after summer lawsuit
SEE PUBLIX,  PAGE 14SEE FUNDING,  PAGE 14
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Jose Regino, 39, unpacks his car in front of T olbert Hall Friday afternoon with his 10-year-old son, Jonathon, 
and his 18-year-old son, Jacob. The Regino said the family wanted to unload the car quickly so that they could 
ﬁ  nd the nearest alligator statue on campus and take photos in front of it to celebrate the beginning of the 
FEATURE STORYT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  71°
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographersNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Copy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Sam ThomasEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgLokelah Blanc, avenue@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
WHAT'S HAPPENING
THIS WEEK
Student Services Relocates to 
Smathers Library
When: M-F, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Where: 100 Smathers Library
What: Student services for 
admissions, registrar, student 
financial affairs and the bursar 
will be relocated from Criser/
Peabody Halls to 100 Smathers 
Library. This one location for 
these services has been designed 
for students’ convenience during 
fall peak time.
Gator Growl Talent Announcement
When: Tuesday, 1:40 to 1:55 p.m
Where: Turlington Plaza
What: UF Homecoming and Gator 
Growl will announce headliners 
for this year's Gator Growl in 
Turlington Plaza. Gator Growl 
will be held on Oct. 4 at Flavet 
Field. Tickets can be purchased on 
http://gatorgrowl.org.
CWC 4th Annual Bowling 
Fundraiser
When: Wednesday, 5:30 to 8:30 
p.m.
Where: Alley Gatorz Bowling 
Center, 2606 NE Waldo Road
What: The CWC is celebrating 
11 years of hands-on work in 
the community to ease the utility 
burden for local residents. Grab 
your bowling shoes and head over 
to Alley Gatorz for a little bit of fundraising and a whole lot of fun. 
This will be the organization's 
fourth year hosting the event, and 
they are hoping to make it the 
biggest and best yet. 
Pride Night at World of Beer
When: Wednesday, 9 p.m.
Where: World of Beer, 
What: WoB will be joined by the 
Pride Center of Gainesville to 
celebrate and support the diversity 
of Gainesville. The event will 
include a half-priced Pride Night 
menu including food, draft beer 
and spirits. After 9 p.m., guests 
can enjoy comedic stylings from 
"Keg of Laughs" in the Cellar. 
Phillips Center Open House and 
UFPA On Sale Party 
When: Saturday, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: University of Florida 
Performing Arts will host its first 
open house on Saturday, Aug. 
24. The event will include food, 
prizes and a free ticket giveway 
to performances for the rest of the 
season. UFPA stall will lead guests 
through a backstage tour of the 
Philips Center to areas rarely seen 
by the public. 
First Internaitonal Food Truck 
Rally
When: Sunday, 3 to 8:30 p.m
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company
What: First Magnitude Brewery 
and MA Entertainment partnered to bring the First International 
Food Truck Rally on Sunday. The 
rally will include dishes from 
different international cuisine as 
well as performances from live 
artists including Iris, la Dama del 
Mambo, Bill Fote Trio and DJ 
Music. 
NEXT WEEK
TranQuility Free Clothing Swap
When: Aug. 26 at 6:30 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center 
What: TranQuility and Gainesville 
Free Store will be hosting a 
clothing swap party at the Civic 
Media Center. This event is free 
and open to the public. If you 
are able, bring up to 10 items to 
donate or swap. The organizers 
have asked for clothing, toiletries, 
makeup, binders, breast forms, 
packers and stand-to-pee (STP) 
devices. There is also a special 
need for men’s suits.
SEPTEMBER
Fall Student Government Elections
When: Sept. 24 and 25 
Where: Across UF campus 
What: Fall SG Elections will be 
held Sept. 24 and 25 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at locations 
across campus. 
Absentee ballots requests, due 
by Sept. 11 at 5 p.m., should be 
submitted online at www.sg.ufl.
edu/elections. These elections will 
determine the 50 senators who 
represent the students living on 
and off campus. 
Party registration will run Aug. 22 
at 9 a.m. through Aug. 28 at 12 
p.m. at the SG Office in the Reitz 
Union. Qualifying and slating will 
take place in Reitz Union rooms 
3305, 3310, 3315 and 3320 as 
follows: Aug. 29, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 
Aug. 30, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and 
Sept. 3.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 1
Download the FREE
TapRide App 
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
1504 NW 13th St · 352-372-7836
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.netEileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    WELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Bodytech_tattoo   |
WHEN DID IT START FOR YOU?
352-376-4090 | bodytechtattoo.com
Bodytech_piercingsUF SG HANDLES A 
BUDGET OF $22 MILLION
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s been a tumultuous summer 
for UF Student Government.
For students busy moving into 
dorms and ordering used text-
books, here’s a review of SG sum-
mer news.
Seats deemed illegitimate 
Senate President Libby Shaw 
nulliﬁ  ed approved summer re-
placements, appointed by absent 
senators, in May. Shaw cited Ar-
ticle III, Section IV of the Student 
Body constitution, which says all 
Senate replacements must be ap-
proved on May 1, invalidating the 
replacements that were approved 
before May 1.
The Replacement and Agen-
da committee was tasked with 
choosing replacements. Inspire 
went from having around 25 seats 
to around 10.   
Later, Shaw declared Minor-
ity Inspire Party Leader Ashley 
Grabowski and Inspire Senator 
Ben Lima “constructively ab-
sent,” resulting in them losing 
their seats.
Although the term “construc-
tively absent” is not in the SG 
Rules and Procedures, Shaw used 
it to explain Grabowski and Li-ma’s removal. The students are 
trying to appeal for their seats but 
haven’t been successful.
Senate passed the Rules and 
Procedures Amendment on 
Aug. 6, which included adding 
constructive absences as a power. 
Sixty-six senators, mostly from 
Inspire, condemned the proposal 
in a letter to UF President Kent 
Fuchs and a press release, saying 
it would violate students’ rights 
and free speech, said Inspire Sen-
ator Zachary Amrose.   
Lima said it’s important for 
students to keep an eye on SG oc-
currences to hold the Senate ac-
countable.
“The University of Florida is 
a breeding ground for the future 
leaders of the state of Florida and 
the United States,” Lima said. 
“So, making sure that these peo-
ple are the best quality and the 
most ethical possible is of the ut-
most importance.” 
Shaw did not respond to The 
Alligator’s request for comment 
for this article.
Finances established
The 2020-2021 ﬁ  scal year bud-
get was approved with a 3 per-
cent increase from the 2019-2020 
budget. 
The Senate Rules and Proce-
dures underwent major revisions, 
and the 2019-2020 budget ran out 
of money to fund event requests made by inﬂ  uential student orga-
nizations, leaving many unable to 
fund activities.
In the 2020-2021 year, SG will 
control a budget of more than $22 
million funded by student tuition 
fees. Small student sub-organiza-
tions are now scrambling to se-
cure funding.
Funding 
SG’s funding system was re-
structured for organizations such 
as the Black Student Union and 
Asian American Student Union 
following the Young Americans 
for Freedom’s lawsuit against UF. 
This reallocation caused an 
uproar when organizations had 
to give up their sub-organizations 
and lost funding for welcome 
assemblies. 
In Fall, Impact Senator Nicho-
las Meyers wants to achieve eq-
uity in funding organizations.
In the last Senate meeting on 
Aug. 6, several people disafﬁ  li-
ated from Impact.
“People have said that there’s 
a lot of divisiveness and partisan-
ship in the student government,” 
Meyers said. “That’s something 
that I have seen change from last 
Fall into the Summer.” 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgA reader’s guide to what happened 
in UF SG over the Summer
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Mauricio Perez announces he is disaffiliating from the Impact 
Party during the final Student Government Senate meeting of 
the summer in the Reitz Union chamber room Aug. 6.
4  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
FLORIDA CICERONES
Interested in Getting 
Involved on Campus?
The Florida Cicerones, as 
the oﬃcial student ambassadors 
to UF, give back in many ways: 
working with the Alumni 
Association, providing campus 
tours, working with the Oﬃce of 
the President, and hosting 
athletic recruits.
Scan Below To Connect!
bit.ly/FCrecruitment
Applications come out in January, 
but look out for more information 
about our Fall Forum!
For a complete list of locations or to request your appointment visit us online
SIMEDHealth.com
Family Medicine 
Internal Medicine 
Allergy & Asthma 
Clinical Research
Digestive Diseases
Gynecology
Hand Surgery
Interventional Pain Management
Neurology
Spine & NeurosurgeryOrthopedics
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation
Podiatry
Psychology
Psychiatry
Pulmonology
Rheumatology
Sleep Medicine
Urology
Urgent CareGainesville· Ocala· Chiefland 
Lady Lake· Lake City
GatorCare Tier 1 ProvidersQuality Healthcare Closer To HomeEXPLORE GAINESVILLE 
OUTSIDE THE WALLS OF 
THE UNIVERSITY
By Alyssa Feliciano
Alligator Staff Writer
In February, the University of 
Florida admitted more than 14,000 
students to the Class of 2023. 
Many will ask what new and old 
students always wonder when Fall 
rolls around: What is there to do in 
Gainesville outside of UF?
‘Rally in The Swamp,’ Tuesday 
Celebrating its ﬁ  fth year, Rally in 
The Swamp is a student pep rally 
presented by the University Athletic 
Association and the UF Alumni As-
sociation to kick off the new school 
year. 
Gates open at 6:30 p.m. and the 
ﬁ  rst 3,000 students will receive free 
pizza. 
Student-athletes, dancers, cheer-
leaders and members of the marching 
band will be there to help welcome 
back students, alongside football 
coach Dan Mullen and athletic direc-
tor Scott Stricklin. 
Tessa Violet live at the High 
Dive, ThursdayViolet, a singer-songwriter from 
Oregon whose career began on You-
Tube, will be performing with local 
Gainesville band The Forum.
Michael Higgins, singer and guitar-
ist for The Forum, will be opening the 
show and said he always looks for-
ward to playing at the High Dive.
“High Dive has really great sound 
for a smaller sized venue,” Higgins 
said, “Whenever we play there we 
are conﬁ  dent knowing everything is 
going to come through beautifully in 
the mix.”
Doors open at 8 p.m. and the 
show starts at 9 p.m. Tickets can be 
bought in advance online for $15 and 
$17 at the door.
Harn Museum of Art ‘pARTy,’  
Thursday 
The event will feature three new 
exhibits and will have drinks, hors 
d’oeuvres and a beer garden provided 
by First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany. 
Tami Wroath, director of market-
ing and public relations for the Harn, 
said the party is a celebration of the 
new 53rd SA+SH Studio Faculty Art 
Exhibition. 
“These works, some on view for 
the very ﬁ  rst time, will offer visitors 
a glimpse into the creative and pro-fessional work of these outstanding 
artists and inﬂ  uential educators,” 
Wroath said.
The event is free to all museum 
members, and tickets are available for 
$20 to non-members. 
International Food Truck Rally, 
Sunday
In collaboration with MA Enter-
tainment First Magnitude Brewing 
Company will host the event featur-
ing more than 20 food trucks, includ-
ing Cilantro Tacos and Lulu’s Gelato. 
In addition to food, the event will 
have a DJ and live performances by 
Iris la Dama del Mambo and Bill Fote 
Trio.
The festival will run from 3 to 8:30 
p.m. and is free to the public. 
George “Bob” Dekle at the Ala-
chua County Library Headquar-
ters Branch, Sunday
Deckle will be presenting his new 
true crime novel, “Six Capsules: The 
Gilded Age Murder of Helen Potts.”
Deckle also formerly served as a 
professor of legal skills and director of 
the Prosecution Clinic at the Univer-
sity of Florida Levin College of Law 
until his retirement in 2016. 
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.orgTHE ROUTE HAS SEVEN 
STOPS ON 
NEWELL DRIVE
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Transportation and 
Parking Services has added a 
new shuttle to the university. 
The new route, called the 
Campus Connector, allows 
students and residents to com-
mute down Newell Drive start-
ing Tuesday, said UF spokes-
person Steve Orlando. It will 
run Monday through Friday 
from 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
With seven stops, the ser-
vice begins at Rinker Hall and 
ﬁ  nishes at the UF Health Circle 
of Hope. Lines are walk-on, 
meaning riders do not have 
to present a Gator 1 ID when 
boarding, Orlando said.
“The route will be running 
in the foreseeable future, pro-
vided high ridership,” Orlando said.
Sammi Wicks, an 18-year-
old UF elementary and special 
education sophomore, is ex-
cited for a more direct route 
toward Baby Gator, a daycare 
center where she volunteers to 
assist staff with children of UF 
employees. 
Wicks said she’ll have a lot 
more money now since the 
route is in service. 
“I usually just Uber to Baby 
Gator when I go volunteer,” 
she said. “Now that this route 
exists, it’ll be easier for me to 
get down there to volunteer 
with the cute kids.”
The Alligator could not 
reach RTS by deadline to con-
ﬁ  rm how much the new route 
costs and who will drive the 
shuttles. The story will be up-
dated accordingly.  
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.org
THIS JUNE MARKED THE 
INAUGURAL TRIP OF THIS 
PROGRAM, WHICH THEY HOPE 
TO CONTINUE IN THE FUTURE
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite being a teacher for 25 years, it 
wasn’t academics that led Chris Gellermann to 
participate in an educational exchange trip to 
Campeche, Mexico — it was a dance perfor-
mance. 
Gellermann was one of three teachers to 
travel to Mexico in an exchange program orga-
nized by UF’s Center for Latin American Stud-
ies.
Gellermann teaches Spanish in Volusia 
County, where the non-proﬁ  t Sister Cities of 
Volusia sends teachers and students to dif-ferent parts of the world, or “sister cities,” to 
broaden their cultural horizons. 
Gellermann was interested, but it wasn’t 
until exchange students from the Instituto 
Campechano came to perform traditional Mex-
ican dances at his school that he decided to 
go for it. 
“I was so impressed,” Gellermann said. 
“They were just so intense and so professional 
and just amazing, and I’m like, ‘Man, I gotta 
look into this more.’”  
The program was organized by Mary Ris-
ner, associate director of UF’s Center for Latin 
American Studies and former president of Sis-
ter Cities of Volusia. 
The Center has taken educators on short 
trips to Latin American countries like Belize, 
Ecuador and Costa Rica since 2008, but this 10-
day pilot program was the ﬁ  rst and longest of 
its kind, Risner said. 
During the trip from June 8 to 18, two Flor-ida teachers stayed with local teachers, and 
visited three institutions to learn more about 
education and culture in Mexico. 
“[With] this program we wanted to go a 
little bit deeper … a real exchange, as opposed 
to just our teachers going to one school for a 
couple of hours,” Risner said. 
But the program isn’t over yet — this Oc-
tober, the former Mexican hosts will become 
guests at the teachers’ homes in another ex-
change. 
“I think we all need to learn about different 
parts of the world so we can all respect each 
other and appreciate our differences and simi-
larities, and I think it’s particularly important 
in Florida where we have a lot of students from 
a lot of different countries,” Risner said. 
And with the ﬁ  nancial upsides of this pro-
gram, they’re hoping to turn the pilot into 
something more.
The Center for Latin American Studies used part of their two-year $840,000 funding (2018-
2020) from the U.S. Department of Education 
to fuel this exchange program, but because the 
teachers were hosted by local Mexican educa-
tors, all they had to cover were the ﬂ  ight and 
other transportation costs. 
The three teachers were picked through the 
recommendation of Alachua County supervi-
sors, but Risner plans for the participants to be 
picked via an application process in the future.
The next exchange program is currently 
scheduled for June 2021.
“I just hope we can continue to have fund-
ing and support from the school district around 
Florida to do more of these kind of exchanges 
and to do them for future teachers in the Col-
lege of Education, because I just think it’s so 
important for us to understand other cultures 
and be accepting and respectful,” she said. 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgYour Syllabus Week oﬀ  -campus to-do list UF introduces new 
campus connector route
UF Latin American Center sends Florida teachers to Mexico WELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE NATIONWIDE ADOPTION EVENT 
AIMED TO CLEAR ANIMAL SHELTERS OVER 
THE WEEKEND
By Melissa Hernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Kya, a 2-year-old mutt, waited over 2 months at Alachua 
County Animal Services along with many other dogs and 
cats, to find her forever home. 
On Saturday she met Tyronne and Licia Watson and left 
the shelter with a new family and a new name: Melissa. 
Animal Services hosted its annual “Summer Lovin’ 
Adoptathon” at the shelter Saturday in partnership with UF’s 
Student Chapter of the Association of Shelter Veterinarians.
Joey Fragale, a 23-year-old UF veterinarian student and 
executive board member of the club, said the event was 
part of #ClearTheShelters Day, a nationwide adoption drive 
initiated by NBC and Telemundo stations to promote local 
shelters. 
“The dogs are at capacity,” Fragale said. “So, the event is 
to help avoid the other option, which is euthanasia.” 
As of 8 a.m. Saturday, when the SSevent started, Animal 
Services had over 100 dogs and cats available for adoption. 
By 8 p.m., the group announced on its Facebook page that 74 
dogs and 28 cats had been adopted. 
Kaitlyn Drozdowicz, a 24-year-old vet student and 
executive board member, said there’s a pet for everyone at 
the shelter, it’s just about finding the right one. 
“We’re making sure we can help people find pets that 
suit their needs and are informed about the animal they’re 
getting,” Drozdowicz said. 
The event also included free food and gift baskets from 
sponsors such as Earth Pets, P.U.P.S. Dog Training, Satchel’s 
Pizza and others. Chris Gomez, a 28-year-old kennel tech at the shelter, 
said potential adopters should keep an open mind. 
“Don’t come here with preconceived notions,” Gomez 
said. “Some dogs act differently here at the shelter than 
they do at home, but you have to give them a chance.”
Gomez added that long-term pets are usually the most 
overlooked, as there’s an assumption that the dog may 
have behavior problems if they’ve been at the shelter for 
a while. 
He said dogs that are heartworm positive are also often 
overlooked. 
Jeff Hunt, 34, who is also a kennel tech, said other 
people are looking only to adopt younger dogs, many 
without thinking of the responsibilities that come with 
them. 
“Everyone says a puppy is cute, but they’re a lot of 
work,” Hunt said. “Older dogs are great, too. They’re 
usually potty-trained, obedience-trained.”
Animal Services volunteer Sam Johnson, 23, said the 
turnout was better than he anticipated. 
“We weren’t expecting too many people with the 
weather,” Johnson said. “But people are still showing up, 
it’s been great.”
Tyronne Watson said he was looking for a companion 
after his beloved 13-year-old Chihuahua, Chico, passed 
away from organ failure two days earlier. 
He said he knew Melissa was the dog for him from 
when he first saw her. 
“I think we might’ve made a connection,” he said. 
“She chose us, we didn’t choose her.” 
@melissamh_
mhernandez@alligator.orgABOUT 150 PEOPLE, MAYOR 
LAUREN POE ATTENDED
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
On Saturday, for 100 seconds, about 
150 people stood silent -- every second 
representing each person who dies from 
gun violence every day in the U.S. 
The crowd shared this moment at 
Cypress and Grove Brewery during a recess 
rally, which called for the Senate to take 
action against gun violence while in recess. 
The Gainesville chapter of Moms Demand 
Action, a non-profit advocacy organization, 
hosted the event. Many attendees’ flooded 
the room wearing red shirts with the organization’s name and logo.
Eight speakers, including Mayor Lauren 
Poe, spoke about the effort to end the 
epidemic of mass shootings in the United 
States. 
“We as a city — because we cannot wait 
for action at the state and federal level — 
are going to holistically and systemically 
address gun violence in our city,” Poe 
said. “We need to make sure the folks in 
Tallahassee and the folks in Washington 
hear us as well.” 
Catherine Cake, a 49-year-old 
Gainesville resident and rally organizer, 
joined Moms Demand Action two months 
after the 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting be-
cause she wanted to make a change first-
hand. 
Cake spoke in favor of background checks for every gun sale and red flag laws 
as solutions. A red flag law allows for the 
temporary removal of firearms from an 
individual if they seem to be a danger to 
themselves or others.
“We are so fortunate in Gainesville 
[to have] a community full of caring, 
intentional people that focus that intention 
through advocacy,” Cake said. “Our 
purpose is to work together to decrease 
gun violence and increase public safety 
across our nation.”
Tyra “Tyloudd” Edwards, a 49-year-
old speaker and attendee, said African-
American neighborhoods are more prone to 
gun violence. She said stricter background 
checks and red flag laws would be a dream 
come true for the black community. 
“It’s not just schools and churches and clubs,” she said. “This is about streets and 
corners and neighborhoods also. That’s 
why I’m here today.” 
Dave Young, 63, and Aileen Young, 65, 
brought signs to the rally that read, “How 
hard can it be?” and “Common sense gun 
legislation.” The Gainesville couple said 
their grandchildren, who are 6 and 10 years 
old, had to learn procedures of what to do 
in a possible school shooting situation.
“I think it’s important to put some 
pressure on legislators,” Dave said. “There 
are too many guns in this country. I 
understand the Second Amendment, but I 
think we’ve taken it to an extreme.” 
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org 
Animal Services #ClearTheShelters, find pets new homes Moms Demand Action rally calls for an end to gun violence
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Jacob Floyd smiles at his new 2-month-old kitten Saturday 
morning at the Summer Lovin’ Adopt-A-Thon at Alachua County 
Animal Services. The event was hosted by the UF chapter of 
the Student Association of Shelter Veterinarians and waived all 
adoption fees for pets. Goodie bags with toys and treats were 
given out along with free hot dogs, popcorn and ice cream.
EditorialMONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.It’s a new semester. Be bold.
Last semester, we sat in the back of the class with our 
heads down and our mouths sealed shut. When we 
spoke, we prefaced our remarks or questions with “I 
just…” or “Sorry, this might be dumb,” conveying 
to our listeners that what would follow was of little 
importance. 
We wouldn’t blame them for disregarding our words, 
ideas and opinions, but we knew the right answer, we had 
something to add to the discussion and we had questions 
that warranted responses. We minimized our presence, our 
impact and our power. We made our voices small and let 
our classmates ﬁ  ll up the space. Our classmates who sat 
in the front. Our classmates who always had their hands 
raised. Our classmates who punctuated their statements with 
periods, not question marks. We chose to keep our depths 
hidden rather than make ourselves vulnerable.
Living and attending college in Florida, we have seen 
plenty of the infamous alligators our dangerous state is known 
for. Or, at least, we have seen parts of them: mostly eyes and 
snouts and lots of lumps that turned out to be benign logs. 
Like us, alligators hide the bulk of their being. They keep 
their bodies submerged so their prey won’t be alarmed by 
their size. When we spot one of the primal creatures peeking 
at us from the murky waters of the La Chua Trail, we have 
no idea the extent of their hidden mass. It is only when we 
encounter one sunbathing on the shore that we can appreciate 
their glorious form. When we are lucky, we see them before 
they see us, quickly take some photos to document the close 
encounter and turn around. If we aren’t so lucky, we may 
not even realize a statue-like beast is present until a bafﬂ  ing, 
terror-inducing hiss reaches our ears. That’s right, alligators 
hiss. Not like a snake hisses. Alligator hisses are the deep-
throated sounds of a monster awakening.
This semester, we are waking up. We have relied on others 
to speak, to raise their hands and to make the arguments 
that we were silently making in our heads. We have become 
complacent in our passivity, but the world won’t let us “just” 
be any longer. Our naps in the sun are being interrupted. 
People aren’t watching where they tread, and we are about 
to be stepped on. It is time for us to hiss. It is time to put 
everyone on notice that we are here, we are powerful and 
they had better rethink their course of action. Our voices may 
shake at ﬁ  rst, but that rattle will morph into a growl. 
We are the new Editorial Board of the Independent 
Florida Alligator. We are four women with strong voices 
and opinions. Amanda Rosa, Editor-in-Chief, is a journalism 
senior at UF. In a world where the importance of truth is 
matched only by its scarcity, Rosa’s truths are that Latin 
American history matters, drag culture reigns and Hozier 
is unforgivably underrated. Kelly Hayes, Digital Managing 
Editor, is a UF political science and journalism senior. To 
her doom, she arrogantly believed her ﬁ  gurative “Breastplate 
of Irony” protected her from the perilous TikTok, and now 
she is the un-ironic champion of the Alligator’s TikTok 
account. When Hayes wishes on a star, it’s for a respectful 
upcoming political season ﬁ  lled with fair opinions from all 
corners. Tranelle Maner, Engagement Managing Editor and 
#walkingmeme, is a UF journalism senior. If Mr. Social Media 
was a contestant on The Bachelorette, he would get a red 
rose from her every single week. Elizabeth Tubbs, Opinions 
Editor, is a second-year UF law student. She excels at leaping 
before she looks, panicking mid-air, ﬂ  ailing wildly and then 
landing very hard nowhere near her target. She hopes to get 
a full refund on the strictures of her conservative, southern, 
purity-culture upbringing. Without a receipt she isn’t very 
optimistic, so they sit in her closet, taking up space in a large 
black trash bag. 
Nice to meet you, reader. Hiss.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORFor a college senior like me, the beginning of 
the Fall semester is a time to look forward, 
consider job prospects and tie up loose ends 
academically. It is also a time to reﬂ  ect on ex-
periences, good and bad, from the last three 
years. As my journey at UF has shown, a semester 
or two in college can alter the course of your life.
First, a little about me.
Coming to the University of Florida in Summer 
B 2016, I wasn’t quite sure what I wanted to do 
for a living. I knew that I was interested in politi-
cal campaigning, but I wasn’t convinced that it was a viable 
career for someone like me who didn’t have the luxury of 
being born into a well-connected or wealthy family. While I 
could have chosen a more ﬁ  nancially lucrative ﬁ  eld, I chose 
to pursue my passion.
It made sense that I would study politics. After all, I’m the 
type of guy who actually watches C-SPAN for fun (not just as 
a means to fall asleep on a restless night). I vote in municipal 
elections. I can often be found knocking on strangers’ doors 
on behalf of a Democrat running for ofﬁ  ce.
Early on in my time at UF, I decided that I wouldn’t re-
strict my studies to the classroom. I would be an active par-
ticipant in our democracy.
In the aftermath of the 2016 presidential election, I was 
disappointed but mobilized. I knew I had to do something, 
so a friend and I decided that we would volunteer for a cam-
paign.
At the start of the Spring 2017 semester, I took an Uber 
ride to northwest Gainesville that prompted my involvement 
in local politics. Somehow, I found myself meandering awk-
wardly through a political house party attended by dozens of strangers. After snacking on some cheese and 
crackers, I learned of an opportunity to intern for 
the campaign, and I decided I would give it a shot. 
Hundreds of door knocks and phone calls later, I 
had the privilege of being part of now-Commis-
sioner Harvey Ward’s winning campaign for the 
Gainesville City Commission.
Later that semester, I set my sights on campus. 
I had observed in passing that Student Govern-
ment was inaccessible to the average student like 
me. Nothing exempliﬁ  ed this reality more than the 
fact that there was only one political party representing the 
student body: Impact Party. This frustrated me to the point 
where I started pondering if I could change things. I knew 
that others shared these feelings. We decided to take action. 
In Fall 2017, I served as the founding president of Inspire 
Party. We broke into the single-party system in Student Gov-
ernment, and I was elected as a senator.
I share my introduction to politics at UF because it is a 
testament to the possibilities that exist when we dare to put 
ourselves out there.
We face some big issues in society, including right here at 
UF. For things to change, we can’t wait for others to put in 
the work. We have to do it ourselves. 
As President Obama once said, “Change will not come if 
we wait for some other person, or if we wait for some other 
time. We are the ones we’ve been waiting for. We are the 
change that we seek.”
This semester, defy your status quo. Step outside of your 
comfort zone. Be the change.
Ben Lima is a UF political science senior.This semester, dare to defy your status quo
Ben Lima
opinions@alligator.orgOn August 16, 2019, actor Peter Fonda died. 
A member of a prominent acting family, 
Fonda is probably best known as a coun-
tercultural icon who starred in ﬁ  lms like 
Easy Rider, which is about two motorcy-
clists traveling through the Southern U.S. Howev-
er, as my only experience with Fonda is his role in 
Thomas and the Magic Railroad (likely not Peter 
Fonda’s proudest moment), I cannot give a prop-
er obituary of the man, nor will I try to. Instead, 
I would like to focus on his political statements, 
which brought him a good deal of notoriety in his later years.
It’s June 2018. The media is buzzing with news about the 
Trump Administration’s family separation policy,  with liber-
als and activists condemning the policy as ‘kids in cages’ and 
child abuse and the Trump Administration and its support-
ers (falsely) claiming it was merely enforcing the law. Peter 
Fonda responded to the controversy by posting an all-caps 
tweet, in which he said of Barron Trump (Donald Trump’s 
youngest son) “put him in a cage with pedophiles.” Con-
servatives, members of the Trump Administration and even 
Sony Pictures (which was distributing Fonda’s ﬁ  lm “Bound-
aries” at the time) condemned the tweet, and Fonda subse-
quently deleted it and apologized.
This wasn’t the Fonda family’s ﬁ  rst brush with controver-
sy. In 1972, during the last years of the Vietnam War, Peter 
Fonda’s older sister Jane Fonda visited Hanoi, the capital of 
what was then North Vietnam. This visit spurred falsehoods, 
such as claims that she had passed letters from American 
prisoners-of-war to their North Vietnamese captors, and 
truths, such as a photograph of Jane Fonda at a North Viet-
namese anti-aircraft station.  A few even considered Jane’s 
actions in North Vietnam tantamount to treason. Here, how-
ever, Fonda has owned up. While still standing by her visit, 
she has publicly apologized for some of her actions in North 
Vietnam, and in regards to her photo at an anti-aircraft gun, 
Jane claims to have been tricked by North Vietnamese of-ﬁ  cials into posing for the picture. 
While I think both Peter and Jane Fonda went 
too far at times in expressing their viewpoints, I 
must wonder: Is how they responded to an issue 
really relevant compared to the issue itself? Both 
the Trump Administration family separation policy 
and the Vietnam War are real issues affecting real 
people. One side claimed it was cruel and unnec-
essary, while the other said it was harsh but was 
ultimately needed to protect the United States’ se-
curity. To a decent number of people, these are not 
just political issues, but moral issues, and such issues are 
too important to be spending time railing against celebrity 
opinions.
Still, some people haven’t forgotten when the Fonda sib-
lings jumped into politics. Jane Fonda and the Vietnam War 
are now closely linked in the public memory, and if younger 
generations know Jane Fonda at all, it may be only for her 
actions during the Vietnam War rather than her ﬁ  lm and tele-
vision roles. While it’s too soon to say what Peter Fonda’s 
legacy will be, some Republicans on social media were quick 
to remind people of Peter’s infamous tweet, and they  used it 
as an excuse to show little sympathy for his death. 
In the end, I think tying a celebrity solely to their political 
views is unfair. Peter and Jane Fonda both accomplished far 
more than just their stints in political advocacy, and their 
ﬁ  lms and other roles can still be enjoyed even if you don’t 
agree with their politics. Ultimately, celebrities are humans 
like the rest of us, and humans feel compelled to speak out 
about issues we feel strongly about. Celebrities shouldn’t be 
hateful or condemn their fans who merely hold opposing 
views. In return, fans should care enough about their favored 
celebrities to look past differences in political ideology. When 
dealing with celebrities, just as in dealing with real people, a 
little mutual respect can go a long way.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Peter Fonda: the passing of an outspoken celebrityColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the EditorWELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
BE WARE OF 
 CREDIT CARD SKIMMERS!
They are designed to fit over and blend in with legitimate card 
readers where they either store your card information or send it to 
a nearby device. Protect yourself by checking card readers for signs 
of tampering. If something seems strange , 
         DON’T USE THE MACHINE!Credit card skimmers are 
devices used by criminals 
to steal your credit card 
information. 
Welcome, or welcome back, 
to Alachua County, Gators! 
Whether this Fall marks the be-
ginning of your college career or 
the beginning of the end of your 
college journey, you have the chance to 
make your voice heard in our community. 
While there are many ways to impact 
your community, voting is a foundational 
part — and one that is often overlooked 
by college students. Students are busy with 
just about everything else and they some-
times neglect their own civic duty. 
During my three years in Gainesville 
studying at the University of Florida, I have 
been busy with many of the same things 
as other UF students. I’ve been going to 
football games, eating at Chick-ﬁ  l-A three 
times a week, working in Student Govern-
ment and — sometimes — studying for classes. 
Regardless of what you might be busy 
with, it is important to take the time 
to register to vote or update your voter 
registration so you can be ready for the 
2020 election cycle. I believe in order to 
truly expand on and appreciate your time 
here in Alachua County and Gainesville, 
it is important that you engage with the 
larger community. There should be more 
to your time at UF than what lies between 
13th Street and 34th Street. 
When you participate in Alachua 
County elections, you have the privilege 
of having a say in how your experience 
here is shaped. As a student, you are in a 
unique position. We can choose to register 
to vote in Alachua County or in our home 
counties — whichever we consider to be 
our legal residence.  The Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-
tions ofﬁ  ce is not trying to sway you one 
way or another. Its goal is for you to get 
out and vote, whether in Alachua County 
or elsewhere. Many students choose to 
vote by mail in their community, while 
others may choose to register and vote in 
Alachua County. 
Whatever you choose to do, registering 
to vote or updating your voter registration 
is easy. If this is your ﬁ  rst time register-
ing, you can simply visit RegisterToVote-
Florida.gov and follow the instructions on 
the website. 
Additionally, in the fall, the elections 
ofﬁ  ce will be celebrating National Voter 
Registration Day on Sept. 26. They will 
set up at multiple locations on campus 
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. to register 
voters and give out information on upcoming elections. 
If you intend to vote in Alachua County 
and need to update your registration, all 
you need to do is call the ofﬁ  ce at 352-374-
5252 between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., Mon-
day through Friday. Update now so that 
your information is current before Election 
Day, making it easier for everyone. 
Don’t forget to keep up with the ofﬁ  ce 
on Facebook or Instagram — just search 
Vote Alachua and you’ll ﬁ  nd it. More infor-
mation can be found at its website (Vote-
Alachua.com) as well. 
I wish you good luck in all your 
endeavors this year, and happy voting!
Henry Fair was a summer intern with the 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elections and 
served as the University of Florida Student 
Government’s Supervisor of Elections.Henry Fair: Your vote is your voice in Alachua CountyWarm greetings to our students and 
to all members of our extraordi-
nary campus community on this 
ﬁ  rst day of classes of a new aca-
demic year!
My wife, Linda, and I spent the past several 
days living in Jennings Hall and experiencing 
UF as arriving students do, from joining fami-
lies in ferrying clothes and furnishings to their 
rooms to eating in the dining halls. 
It’s been inspiring to share in new students’ 
energy and expectations for the year ahead. 
Our goal is for UF to exceed those expectations 
– and I believe ongoing enhancements to both 
academic and student life will help make it so.
Regarding academics, we are close to com-
pleting one of the most sweeping university 
wide initiatives in recent years: The creation 
of 500 new faculty positions across our 16 
colleges. With nearly all of these new faculty 
already on campus or arriving this academic year, the impact on students is increased op-
portunities for smaller, more personal classes. 
Our student-faculty ratio stands at 18:1, down 
from 21:1. A special shout-out to all the new 
faculty and staff!
We are also enhancing academic offerings, 
such as those related to core requirements.
Several years ago, we began the “What is 
the Good Life?” course as a required class to 
ensure students a shared academic experience 
in the humanities, arts, philosophy and cul-
ture.
This Fall, we expand the possibilities for 
meeting this requirement to nearly two dozen 
classes being offered through the UF Quest 
program.
These courses range from “Fairy Tales and 
Identity” to “The Idea of Happiness” to “Race 
and Law in the American City,” and an even 
greater variety of courses are being developed as possibilities for students progressing through 
all four undergraduate years.
UF Quest’s goal is to give students the 
chance to probe major questions, such as the 
relationship between justice and power, with 
an eye toward addressing our planet’s most 
pressing challenges today.
Regarding our campus: We’re completing 
or closing in on several major new or beau-
tifully revitalized facilities, with even more 
sweeping changes ahead.
First up will be the new homes of the Insti-
tute of Black Culture and Institute of Hispan-
ic-Latino Cultures (also known as La Casita). 
These $10 million facilities, which open their 
doors later this Fall, will renew and expand 
storied traditions of supporting African-Amer-
ican and Hispanic culture on our campus.
A bit farther down the road, we look for-
ward to the opening of Norman Hall, home 
to the College of Education, and the Herbert 
Wertheim Laboratory for Engineering Excel-
lence, the new ﬂ  agship for the College of Engi-
neering. Our new state-of-the-art baseball park is also rapidly taking shape.
Even more far-reaching, UF recently un-
veiled its ﬁ  rst-ever strategic master plan for the 
future growth of our campus.
The plan envisions across-the-board chang-
es that will, over time, transform campus and 
how students live, study and work. For exam-
ple, it transitions central thoroughfares away 
from vehicular trafﬁ  c and toward bike and 
pedestrian trafﬁ  c. It envisions new residential 
complexes and revitalized existing residence 
halls. 
Finally, I want to give a shout-out to our 
state of Florida, particularly our elected  ofﬁ  -
cials, and to friends and donors of the univer-
sity who are providing resources to make all of 
this happen.
It’s fabulous to begin the fall with all of 
our exceptional students, faculty and staff and 
friends of the university. I wish everyone much 
accomplishment and joy in the coming year!
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His 
column appears monthly.President Fuchs welcomes UF students
Letters to the Editor8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
WELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
STARTSTHE VISION FOR YOUR
RIGHT HERE .FUTURE
Ready to put your ambition to work?
It all starts at ALDI. We’re one of America’s favorite grocery stores, and we’re 
expanding at an unprecedented rate. In fact, we’re planning to open over 
one hundred new stores a year, and we need people like you to guide our 
growth. As a District Manager, you’ll oversee operations for your district 
and lead and inspire your teams, all while managing millions in revenue. 
It’s a tremendous responsibility that requires a solid understanding of how 
we operate our business. That’s why we provide our District Managers with 
an award-winning 51-week training program and ongoing support. We 
also believe in rewarding our employees with great benefits and pay. Our 
District Manager positions start at $80K per year and quickly advance 
to $110K after five years. Take charge of your future with a company 
that’s committed to offering you More.
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.Learn more: careers.aldi.us
NOW HIRING
DRIVERS!
Welcome Back Special!!!
Get a Large 1 Topping for
$599
5
99
3605 SW Archer RD
352-336-PAPA
(352-336-7272)4220 NW 16th Blvd Ste A
352-375-PAPA
(352-375-7272)ONLINE COUPON CODES
1 PIZZA CARRYOUT ONLY: 599gator
2, 4, 6, ETC. FOR DELIVERY: 1198gator
offer expires 9/24/2019
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Along with its Top 10 public university 
status, UF can boast a new top ranking as 
of Tuesday.
According to a report by All Homes 
Connection, an AT&T afﬁ  liate, UF, Flori-
da’s ﬂ  agship university, is the most “Ins-
tagrammed” college in the state. 
They found the most used hashtag 
relating to qualifying universities, such 
as #UF, and compiled data to pinpoint 
the college with the most uses of their 
hashtag. 
While the university’s social media 
team did not have this as a goal, their ef-
forts to maintain high outreach and audi-
ence engagement helped make this pos-
sible, said Matt Duffy, a UF social media 
intern.
“Instagram is a huge platform right 
now, so of course we’re going to take ad-vantage of it,” Duffy said.
Duffy, who has been an intern for al-
most two years, started his experience cre-
ating Instagram stories for the @UFlorida 
account. He has also helped brainstorm 
ideas for Giphy, a platform that makes 
animated loop stickers used on Instagram 
stories. 
“It’s an easy school to 
show off,” he said. 
The social media team hopes to 
continue reaching similar milestones on 
another platform it has recently joined, 
TikTok. Its goal is to reach a million hearts, 
Duffy said. Numbers like this reﬂ  ect the 
team’s outreach and engagement with 
both campaigns and posts. 
UF’s team is able to engage with 
current, former and prospective students 
through different social media platforms, said Ryan Morejon, UF’s social media 
specialist. While the team does not use 
#UF very much in their posts, he said the 
audience it connects with likely does.
“We’re the ﬂ  agship university of the 
state, so it’s cool that we’re the top as far 
as the hashtag goes,” Morejon said. 
The team strives to share meaningful 
stories to highlight what is important to 
students and amplify their voices, he said. 
“We deﬁ  nitely believe a lot in sharing 
the good that others do, more than us 
creating the content, because we have 
such a giant community and audience,” 
Morejon said. 
UF social media content aligns with 
the goals of President Kent Fuchs and 
Vice President Nancy Paton to achieve 
Top 5 public school status by using social 
media as a powerful communication tool, 
Morejon said. 
“Our biggest thing is to humanize 
the brand,” Morejon said. “With higher 
education and schools, it’s not like Coca 
Cola, we’re not selling a product — this is 
an experience. It’s a meaningful phase in 
someone’s life, so you want to have people 
connect with the brand in that way.”
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.orgInstafamous: UF is the most 
Instagrammed college in Florida
An algorithm collected data on most-used hashtags 
Courtesy of The Alligator 
UF (@uflorida) was designated as the most 
“Instagrammed” school in the state, as per data 
with #UF.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
48-year-old woman accused of try-
ing to kill herself and her two young 
sons by crashing into a truck carry-
ing 330 gallons of gasoline Friday 
night.
The Gainesville woman alleg-
edly told a friend beforehand it was “God’s will” and 
“nothing could be 
done to change 
the outcome,” ac-
cording to an ar-
rest report.
At about 5 
p.m., witnesses 
told police Me-
lissa Mack was 
driving north in the southbound 
lane on the 5400 block of Northwest 13th Street., just south of 55th Av-
enue, when she attempted to hit a 
2006 tanker truck head-on, accord-
ing to the arrest report. The truck 
swerved away, but Mack made a 
U-turn and intentionally sped into 
the back of the truck with her two 
children “trapped inside.”
The crash shattered the front and 
back windows of Mack’s van, set off 
the airbags and lit the engine on ﬁ  re, 
according to the arrest report. Wit-nesses helped everyone escape the 
crash. Only Mack was injured, with 
bruising from her seatbelt.
The children were medically 
cleared by Shands’ Pediatrics but 
were “very upset” by the incident, 
according to the arrest report. The 
two children were taken from Mack’s 
custody by the Florida Department 
of Children and Families.
Mack allegedly told Gainesville 
Police she recalled discussing God with her friend but doesn’t remem-
ber the crash “despite not hitting her 
head” or “losing consciousness.” 
Mack remains in the Alachua 
County Jail as of Saturday afternoon 
on three counts of attempted homi-
cide with a $900,000 bond, accord-
ing to county records.
@danacassidy_
Dcassidy@alligator.org
,10  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
WANTS YOU!
ALSO NEEDED: INTERNS!· No Weekends
· Gain Sales ExperienceTO BE AN 
ADVERTISING SALES REP
FOR FALL 2019
WANTS YOU!
· Flexible Work Schedule
· Learn Prospecting Skills
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
E-mail Resume to Intern Coordinator at
intern@alligator.org
**
All applicants must be enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College
Mack
GPD: Woman crashed car into tanker truck to kill herself and two sons 
THE BOARD AIMS TO IMPROVE 
UNDERDEVELOPED COMMUNITIES
By Kalli Johnson
Alligator Staff Writer
Applications are now open for the 
Gainesville Community Reinvestment 
Area (GCRA) Advisory Board.
City commissioners have removed bor-
ders between the four Gainesville com-
munity redevelopment agency districts in 
hopes of allocating resources and ﬁ  nances 
more effectively and promoting new eco-
nomic development. 
The decision came after the Alachua 
County Commission moved to ﬁ  le a bill 
with Rep. Chuck Clemons that would re-
move city commissioners from the major-
ity of the CRA board. 
Commissioner David Arreola said the 
motion would give county commissioners 
four of the seven seats on the governing 
panel.
“As commissioners, we were caught off-guard,” Arreola said. “We have cordial 
relationships with the county. I remem-
ber supporting at least three of the county 
commissioners for their elections. So, this 
was betrayal of the highest order in my 
view.” 
Members of the board will advise the 
commission on topics concerning com-
munity redevelopment. They will meet 
monthly to discuss and adopt new proce-
dures subject to approval by the City Com-
mission. 
Commissioner Helen Warren said that 
while the merger will allow the city to 
view the districts as a whole, cooperation 
is still crucial. 
“Many of the previous failures came 
from a failure to communicate,” Warren 
said.
The City Commission is looking for can-
didates living or working in the Gainesville 
reinvestment area and ready to assume 
their advisory positions for the full term. 
Applicants should understand Gaines-
ville’s redevelopment issues, such as pre-viously failed attempts to improve under-
developed areas, like East Gainesville. 
The board will consist of 15 members, 
each appointed by the City Commission. 
They will serve a term of two years before 
a successor is appointed to take their place. 
Applications are available on the city of 
Gainesville website, under ‘Boards & Com-
missions.’
The application deadline is Sept. 16 at 
5 p.m.
New member appointments will be Oct. 
3. The ﬁ  rst meeting will be held Oct. 8.
Arreola said he believes there is still 
much that needs to be done in Gainesville.
“The CRA’s goal is to directly address 
blighted areas in the city,” Arreola said. 
“So long as we have areas of blight in the 
city, the CRA has a mission to use its cre-
ativity and tax dollars speciﬁ  cally for rein-
vestment.”
@kallidain
kallijohnson@alligator.orgPositions available in new city advisory boardWELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
12  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
The Gainesville Master Chorale is the premiere community based chorus in 
North Central Florida with 100 singers from all walks of life. 
Four concerts are planned: A Humboldt Celebration, a Beethoven Celebration, 
Sounds of the Season, and more. 
If you like to sing with grand orchestras, sign up for an audition now!
Auditions for new members will be held in room 128 of the UF music building 
on Monday, August 19 and Monday August 26 between 5:00 - 7:00 PM
Contact info@gcchorus.orgThe Gainesville Master Chorale is Looking for Talented SingersGatorskeetandtrap.com
Hours of Operation
Sun, Wed, Fri, Sat—1-6 pmSPECIAL OFFER
FOR NON-MEMBERS:
One Free Round of Skeet or Trap
Does not include ammunition
Available for purchase on site
BRING TO CLUB FOR SPECIAL PRICE
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
5202 NE 46th Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
Behind the airport in the Airport Industrial Park
(352) 372-1044
Find Us On Facebook!
20-0099Work for Block.
Visit
hrblock.com/careersLike people &
flexible hours?
Positions Available:
  Multi-Unit Team Leaders / Team Leaders
  Experienced Tax Professionals
  Client Receptionists
20-0099Work for Block.
Visit
hrblock.com/careersLike people &
flexible hours?
Positions Available:
  Multi-Unit Team Leaders / Team Leaders
  Experienced Tax Professionals
  Client Receptionists
Like people &
flexible hours?
20-0099Work for Block.
Visit
hrblock.com/careersLike people &
flexible hours?
Positions Available:
  Multi-Unit Team Leaders / Team Leaders
  Experienced Tax Professionals
  Client Receptionists
LADIES  |  MENS  |  KIDS  |  BABY  |  HOME  | COATS
STORE HOURS:
M-SAT:  9:30 AM - 10:00 PM
SUN:  9:30 AM - 9:30 PM2643 NW 13TH STEarn Rewards with the Burlington Credit Card!THE YEAR-LONG 
PROGRAM BEGINS IN 
WASHINGTON, D.C. IN 
FEBRUARY
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Dreams of drafting federal poli-
cies to save the oceans will come 
true for UF alumni Kathryn Slattery 
and Alexandra Skrivanek next Feb-
ruary.
Slattery and Skrivanek were cho-
sen in June as two of 69 ﬁ  nalists for 
the John A. Knauss fellowship host-
ed by the National Sea Grant College 
Program. 
The year-long educational fellow-
ship places graduate students with 
different federal legislative and exec-utive branch of-
ﬁ  ces in Wash-
ington, D.C. 
The fellows 
are hosted by 
a government 
organization 
whose goal is 
to conserve 
oceans through 
policy change, said Charles Sidman, 
the Florida Sea Grant Associate Di-
rector for Research. 
“Typically, candidates that are 
most successful are those with a sci-
ence background with an interest 
in policy or those that come from a 
policy background to begin with,” 
Sidman said.
Fellows will attend an informa-
tion session in Washington, D.C. this November and meet with legis-
lative and executive ofﬁ  ces that will 
host them until January 2021, Sid-
man said. The 69 ﬁ  nalists receive a 
stipend of $60,000 over the course 
of the program to cover housing and 
transportation costs, Sidman said.
The program has four broad ar-
eas of focus, Sidman said. Fellows 
can work on promoting healthy eco-
systems, sustainable ﬁ  sheries and 
aquaculture router, environmental 
literacy and workforce development  
and hazard-resilient communities 
and economies.
This year is one of the few times 
that all students from Florida who 
were nominated for the national fel-
lowship were selected as ﬁ  nalists.
The Florida Sea Grant, a state-afﬁ  l-
iated program, nominates students to the national program based on a 
series of interviews and letters.
The Florida Sea Grant has been 
afﬁ  liated with UF since 1976 and is 
linked with the UF Institute of Food 
and Agriculture Sciences, Sidman 
said. Students do not have to be in 
IFAS to apply to the fellowship.
When Alexandra Skrivanek, a 
27-year-old with a Ph.D. in geol-
ogy, found out the news in June, she 
said the ﬁ  rst person she told was her 
mother. 
“I have the opportunity to take 
all that knowledge that I learned 
from my time at UF and apply it to 
this bigger picture that’s socially rel-
evant,” Skrivanek said
Skrivanek found out about the 
program during her graduate re-
search on the evolution of sea level and climate change and decided to 
give the application a try in January.
Skrivanek’s main goal during her 
time in the program is using her sci-
ence background to increase aware-
ness and inspire action on climate 
change and how it affects coastal 
communities. 
“Climate change is a global 
problem with various implications 
and very different solutions,” she 
said. “I’m looking forward to helping 
conversations on any scale and help 
communities plan for climate change 
impact.”
@aescalante22
a.escalante@uﬂ  .edu
FUNDS WOULD BE USED TO 
INCREASE SUPPLIES 
AND ANIMAL CARE
By Nora O’Neill
Alligator Staff Writer
If online votes could multiply as quickly 
as rabbits, the Gainesville Rabbit Rescue 
would have no problem securing $5,000. 
A nonproﬁ  t organization, the shelter 
provides a variety of services such as 
sterilization and providing foster homes with 
necessary equipment and supplies. 
But these services all come with a price. 
While the group has donors and grants, 
the cost of taking care of so many small ani-
mals can add up, said Conary Bullard, a re-
cent UF political science alumnus and volun-
teer at the rescue. Now, it is trying out a new 
money-making method: an online survey.
The “Nurture Their Nature Animal Rescue 
Giveback” is a contest held by Oxbow Animal 
Health, a supplier of food and care products 
for small exotic animals. 
The online competition is open to small-
animal organizations around the world. The 
survey asks individuals to nominate their favorite rescue and provide a brief explana-
tion.
Oxbow will be accepting nominations un-
til Aug. 26. It will then move into another 
round of 10 semiﬁ  nalists, according to the 
contest webpage. 
The $5,000 prize will be awarded to the 
rescue with the most votes by Sep. 24.
Gainesville Rabbit Rescue executive di-
rector Kathy Finelli said the rescue relies on 
the generosity of volunteers and donors to 
run its services.
“We are 100% publicly funded,” Finelli 
said. “The help of those who adopt rabbits or 
just love rabbits is really what sustains us.” 
Bullard said that by winning this money, 
the shelter would be able to not only take in 
new rabbits but also provide better care to 
the rabbits it already has. 
The money would also go toward pur-
chasing food and supplies and expanding the 
shelter’s marketing and foster care expenses, 
he said. 
Bullard said the rescue takes care of 30 to 
50 rabbits at any given time, although it cur-
rently has 110 rabbits in their care between 
the shelter and foster homes.
The rescue accept rabbits from all circum-stances, such as owners making impulsive 
pet purchases or accidentally purchasing two 
rabbits of the opposite gender, Finelli said. 
The rescue will only refuse an animal if it 
is at capacity, she said.
Aside from completing the survey, Bul-
lard said there are other ways to help out. 
Basic volunteer applications are available on 
the rescue’s website, and anyone is welcome 
to come to the barn, whether to feed rabbits or clean kennels.
For being such a small operation, he said 
it’s a large part of the community. 
“I think it’s really a testament to the giv-
ing nature of the students in Gainesville,” 
Bullard said.
@noroneill
noneill@alligator.orgUF alumni chosen as ﬁ  nalists for national environmental fellowship
Local rabbit rescue looking to win $5,000 through online survey contest
Courtesy to The Alligator
Conary Bullard, a Gainesville Rabbit Rescue volunteer, fosters Domino. The group is 
participating in a contest for a $5,000 prize to provide better care to rabbits.
Skrivanek
WELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
WELCOME BACK to a new 
year and a greater tomorrow!
As a top-10 university, we are committed to challenging 
convention and ourselves. Now more than ever, others are 
learning what makes the Gator Nation great. Congratulations 
and welcome back to every Gator, whether you’re teaching 
or learning. We are all part of the greatest UF ever.
Let’s do this.
UFL.EDU
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
of the largest employers and gro-
cery store chains in the state, Pub-
lix should be setting an example. 
“They need to be a leader in 
our state in order to help protect 
our communities and our environ-
ment,” he said. 
Gainesville has been attempt-
ing to reduce single-use plastics 
for more than 10 years. 
The city’s efforts to curb plastic 
use date as far back as 2008, when 
local grocery stores began offer-
ing reusable/recyclable options, 
according to Alligator archives. In 
Aug. 2018, the city began its push to become waste free by 2040.
District 3 City Commissioner 
David Arreola described the legal 
dispute as “disgusting.” 
“When the people wanted to 
use the democratic process, those 
corporations used their money to 
suppress the democratic process 
by lobbying and paying off elected 
officials,” Arreola said. “It’s im-
portant for everyone to look at the 
businesses they shop at and start 
asking if they reflect our demo-
cratic values.”
Arreola said if Coral Gables de-
cides to take the case to the Su-
preme Court, Gainesville may be 
willing to write an amicus brief.
“Given our notice of intent, that’s the path we’re going to 
take,” he said. “Of course, if Coral 
Gables decided to appeal, I’d be 
thrilled to offer Gainesville as a 
friend of the court.”
Although the commission 
chose to rescind the ordinance, 
Hayes-Santos said the city will be 
proceeding with other measures to 
reduce plastics that are in accor-
dance with state law. 
On Thursday, the commission 
approved a plastic straw ban, 
which is set to take effect Jan. 
2020. Plastic straws are exempted 
from the laws cited in the Coral 
Gables case. 
Another avenue is the regula-
tion of single-use plastic bags and foam containers on city property, 
Hayes-Santos said.  
He said he thinks Publix would 
shift gears if people put enough 
pressure on the business. 
“Let the store managers know 
about your concerns,” he said. 
“I think that’s something that if 
enough people complain to the 
store managers about this, they 
may make some changes.”
A Greenpeace report released 
in June ranked retailers on a plas-
tics scorecard, which determines a 
“baseline measurement of U.S. re-
tailer’s sustainability performance 
on single-use plastics.”
Publix was ranked 15 out of 20, 
although none of the retailers sur-
veyed received a passing score. 
The report stated: “Especially 
given their brand recognition and/or sheer size, it is troubling that 
Publix (ranked 15th) ... had so 
little to offer.”
It added that aside from very 
little public information on their 
initiatives, they “appear to be 
stuck in the 1990s, with a large fo-
cus on recycling.” 
Hayes-Santos said that if large 
corporations, such as Publix, 
“continue hiding in the shadows” 
behind lawmakers supporting 
these measures, the issue will only 
continue to worsen. 
“Our state legislature should be 
putting the citizens and our state 
first, not the interests of Publix 
first,” he said. 
@melissamh_
mhernandez@alligator.orgPUBLIX,  from pg. 1City still strives for waste-free 2040
funds to pay for speakers. 
This reallocation of funds affect the or-
ganizations’ ability to cosponsor their sub-
organizations, such as welcome assemblies 
held at the beginning of each semester, forc-
ing a series of adjustments and scrambling 
for new fund sources. 
Organizations such as the Black Student 
Union and Asian American Student Union 
have been affected by the reallocation of 
funds following the lawsuit. These orga-
nizations were forced to break apart from 
their sub-organizations. Many did not have 
the money to pay for a space to host wel-
come assemblies. 
Representatives from the Black Student 
Union, Asian American Student Union and 
Pride Student Union condemned the new 
funding system Aug. 8 in front of the Senate 
during public comment. 
Eliana Guerrero, the president of Asian 
American Student Union, told The Alliga-
tor the organization couldn’t get its funding 
request for the welcome assembly submit-
ted early enough because it was partnering 
with the Asian American Student Associa-
tion and its Freshman Leadership Program 
to fund the event.
The Asian American Student Assembly 
and Freshman Leadership Program’s new 
member approval forms weren’t approved 
until July 17, two days after the allocations 
committee ran out of funding for requests. 
Guerrero said both the Asian American 
Student Union and their sub-organization, 
the Asian American Student Association, 
use the Phillips Center as a space for their 
welcome assembly, which costs $10,000 to 
rent.  
The new 800 codes state that one event 
can only cost up to $5,000, making co-spon-
sorship for funding for the space impossible. 
Inspire Party Senator Zachariah Chou wrote 
a bill that would transfer $800,000 from SG 
reserves to help pay for assemblies and ad-
ditional events by the organizations that 
may not be able to occur, Guerrero said.
“We had to make a whole other organi-
zation for our welcome assembly,” Guerrero 
said. “We were going to do a cosponsorship 
where AASU was going to give $5,000 and 
AASA was going to give $5,000.”  
However, the organization has raised 
enough money to hold its welcome 
assembly in the Phillips Center through its 
GoFundMe page and community donations. The group officially announced the location 
on Tuesday, Guerrero said.
The situation could have been rectified 
if the Allocation Committee was more com-
municative in the beginning, Guerrero said.
“I just think [the Allocation Committee] 
should’ve set aside money in the beginning 
for welcome assemblies, or they shouldn’t 
have let people have access to the money 
until all new organizations were approved,” 
Guerrero said. 
Currently, only 59 of 400 organizations 
received funding with this new system in 
place, Guererro said. The Black Student 
Union lost funding for their welcome assem-
bly in the Phillips Center, forcing them to 
relocate to the University Auditorium.  
Many of these organizations now lack a 
space for general body meetings and cannot 
fund events and speakers.
Since the restructuring of the funding 
system, organizations including Pride Stu-
dent Union and Women’s Student Associa-
tion no longer have free access to the space 
in Ustler Hall, UF’s Center for Gender Stud-
ies and Women’s Research, said Pride Stu-
dent Union president Nate Quinn. 
Quinn expressed his concern over the 
organization’s lack of a meeting space and 
lack of funding for their Pride History Week 
speaker Schuyler Bailar, the first openly transgender Division I athlete. 
“I personally don’t believe that this sys-
tem is equitable,” Quinn said. “In the past, 
Big Nine has been given a lot of money to 
provide safe spaces to marginalized stu-
dents.”
Other Big Nine leaders such as Women’s 
Student Association President Michaela 
Poitevien believe in order for SG to make 
progress on the whole, they to move toward 
equity versus equality.   
The executive board members are work-
ing together to raise awareness of what is 
happening.  
Poitevien said people in “Big Five” –– 
Women’s Student Association, Pride Stu-
dent Union, Hispanic Student Association, 
Asian American Student Association and 
Black Student Union –– have all come to-
gether as a community to find solutions on 
how to continue their work to further their 
accomplishments for minority students. 
“I would just like to commend all of 
the organizations for supporting each oth-
er, sharing each other’s GoFundMe’s and 
bringing awareness to the situation,” Poite-
vien said. 
@emmamcavoy1 
@emcavoy@alligator.orgFUNDING,  from pg. 1AASU used GoFundMe to help raise funds
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Women’s Student Association hosts their welcome assembly for new initiates in Fall 2018.Student Government Summer 
Timeline
June 18: Senate meeting ends 
with two senators being ruled 
constructively absent by Senate 
President Libby Shaw 
June 19: Senate Minority Leader 
Ashley Grabowski and Senator Ben 
Lima notified via email that they lost 
their seats 
June 25: Alligator reports Grabowski 
submitted an appeal to the Senate 
Rules and Ethics Committee
July 17: Rules and Ethics Committee 
upholds decision to resign seats 
July 31: Young Americans for 
Freedom comes to a $66,000 
settlement with UF from a lawsuit 
filed in December
August 6: Students protest funding 
changesWELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15
FALL
The Curious Incident of the 
Dog in the Night-Time
By Simon Stephens
AUG. 28 – SEPT. 22, 2019
THE HIPPODROME THEATRE
Co-produced with the Hippodrome Theatre 
Directed by Dr. Ralf Remshardt
We Are Proud to Present a 
Presentation About the Herero 
of Namibia, Formerly Known 
as Southwest Africa, From 
the German Südwestafrika, 
Between the Years 1884–1915
By Jackie Sibblies Drury
SEPT. 19 – 29, 2019
BLACK BOX THEATRE
Directed by Ryan Hope Travis
Pippin
Presented through special arrangement 
with Musical Theatre International (MTI).
Book by Roger O. Hirson
Music & Lyrics by Stephen Schwartz
OCT. 18 – 27, 2019
CONSTANS THEATRE
Directed by Andrew Cao
Musical Direction by Dr. Tony Offerle
Choreography by Andrew Cao
Fall BFA Dance Showcase
OCT. 23 – 27, 2019
G-6 STUDIO
Coordinated by Augusto Soledade
Agbedidi: A Fusion of 
Traditional African and 
Contemporary Dance
NOV. 22 – 24, 2019
CONSTANS THEATRE
Directed by Trent Williams, Jr., 
and Augusto Soledade
Shows and dates are subject to change. 
For tickets, call (352) 392-1653 or 
visit www.ticketmaster.com2019-2020
School of Theatre + Dance 
PERFORMANCE SEASON
FIRST CARE 
URGENT CARE / WALK IN CLINIC
Sprains & Strains· Cold, Flu & Acute Illness
Vaccinations· Physicals & More
SIMEDHealth.comOpen Monday - Friday
7:00am - 6:00pm
4343 W. Newberry RD, Suite 10
Gainesville, FL 32607
(352) 373-2340
Walk-Ins Welcome or By Appointment
Located 1/2 mile East of the Oaks Mall on RTS Bus Routes #5 & #43Calvin Martin, MD
Board Certified Family Medicine
Scott Wilson, MD
Board Certified Family Medicine
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT
& 
DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT
& 
DRIVE.RESEARCHERS USE EXTINCT BIRD BONES TO 
UNDERSTAND CARIBBEAN BIODIVERSITY
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
A rare ﬁ  nd for researchers led to discoveries that 
could change humanity’s understanding of extinction and 
evolution.
Florida Museum of Natural History researchers aided in 
the discovery of ancient DNA from a 2,500-year-old extinct 
Caribbean bird, Caracara creightoni, that used to ﬂ  y over 
the Bahamas. The study was published online in August. 
Four of the study’s seven researchers are afﬁ  liated with UF.
The group was funded more than $350,000 from the Na-
tional Science Foundation to do research on the Bahaman 
caracara and other animals in the Caribbean.
Innovative technology was used by the UF researchers 
to study the ancient DNA, said Jessica Oswald, a research-
er at the museum. The bones were diluted in bleach, fro-
zen and pulverized. Then, enzymes are added to the mix 
and a special kit is used to strengthen the DNA. Research-
ers can use this sample to determine if it is related to any 
other samples.
The study found that humans depleted the birds’ food 
sources and means of living when they arrived on the 
islands about 1000 years ago, Oswald said. Ancient DNA 
allows researchers to better understand the history of 
evolution and patterns of extinction across many islands 
and how species may respond to climate change.“In general, animals on islands are very sensitive to any 
kind of disturbance,” Oswald said. “Ultimately, what we 
are seeing from this study is that we lost this very unique, 
old island species due to humans showing up on these 
islands.”
The techniques used to study the extinct bird are similar 
to techniques used to study the hutia, a Bahamian rodent 
which is close to extinction, Oswald said. Researchers 
predict the hutia, one of the few terrestrial animals on 
the islands, is dispersed among many islands because of 
human domestication. 
“These projects are exciting and we have many more in 
the works, and hopefully we’ll really be able to understand 
communities that used to be around in the Carribbean 
based on all this work,” Oswald said. 
The extinct bird DNA was retrieved from a large sink-
hole discovered in the Bahamas in 2005. It was excavated 
soon after by a professional diver, Oswald said. Natural 
chemicals, such as hydrogen sulﬁ  de and sulfuric acid, pre-
served the bird’s fossils by preventing oxygen to reach the 
bones. 
UF researchers were only able to study the fossils this 
year because the Florida Museum’s ancient DNA facility 
was previously inactive, said Robert Guralnick, a biologist 
at the museum. Such well-preserved fossils are a rare ﬁ  nd 
in tropical areas.
“Ancient DNA tells us about genetics in the past,” 
Guralnick said. “I think the fact that UF and the museum 
have DNA facilities is so interesting.” 
Guralnick helped revitalize the ancient DNA facility and 
is using the fossils to understand evolutionary history.“We are looking at how extinction works in the tree 
of life,” Guralnick said. “We lost a species that would be 
present today.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgExtinct island bird fossils give UF researchers a nest of discoveries
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF researchers helped discover DNA from an extinct 
bird’s fossils, which were found in a Bahamian sinkhole..
16  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
Be a part of something BIG
GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
THEY LIVED IN THE 
RESIDENCE HALL FOR 
THE WEEKEND
By Ashley Lazarski
Alligator Staff Writer
Until today, new Jennings residents will 
have some notable neighbors.
Thursday morning, President W. 
Kent Fuchs and his wife, Linda, moved 
into Jennings Hall for the weekend and 
helped students move in. They will stay 
in the residence hall until the new student 
convocation Monday morning, said UF 
spokesperson Sara Tanner.
“Fuchs really values being able to 
welcome students to campus,” Tanner said. “Move-in day is a big part of the Gator 
experience, and he ﬁ  nds it important to 
stay involved with that. The transition can 
be a difﬁ  cult one, but he tries to do what 
he can to make it smoother for everyone.”
Fuchs shared his excitement about the 
move-in on Thursday via Twitter.
This is not the ﬁ  rst year he has 
temporarily lived in a residence hall among 
students, although he was not able to last 
year due to scheduling conﬂ  icts. He moved 
into Jennings in 2016, Tanner said. Besides 
his participation in move-in day, Fuchs 
and his wife will continue to participate in 
events this weekend.
On Friday from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m., Fuchs  
hosted an open house party for Jennings 
residents. 
Fuchs participated in two events on Saturday as well, including a brunch with 
students at the Fresh Food Company and 
Gator Corner Dining, and a shaving cream 
ﬁ  ght in Yulee Pit at 2 p.m.
Lukas High, a 20-year-old business 
junior, said Fuchs’ presence during the 
moving process is perhaps the most 
important thing he can do to make students 
feel at ease. High, who volunteered to 
help students move into Jennings, said 
the Fuchs’ were a welcome help and even 
stopped to take pictures with students.
In a video posted on Twitter, Fuchs sits 
in High’s wheeled moving box with his 
wife in another box right next to him. 
“He’s a great president, and it’s nice 
that he wants to interact with everyone,” 
High said. 
Parents such as Elizabeth Pierce, the mother of a freshman Jennings resident, 
also noted Fuchs’ friendliness. As Pierce 
walked to the back parking lot with a 
friend, they had the opportunity to meet 
Fuchs and his wife as they walked around 
introducing themselves, Pierce said. 
“It was great to see his presence here, 
and just to know he’s interested in the kids 
and what they’re doing from moving day 
onward,” Pierce said.
@ashleylazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgPresident Fuchs and his wife live the dorm life 
and help students move into Jennings Hall
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF President W. Kent Fuchs poses with a student outside Jennings 
Hall Thursday morning.Courtesy to The Alligator
UF President W. Kent Fuchs greets students and parents in the parking lot outside of Jennings 
Hall on Thursday morning. 
WELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   17
Be a part of something BIG
GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Nevin Shah, a 19-year-old mechanical engineering sophomore, 
unfolds his sheets and makes his bed in his new dorm room. Shah 
unpacked with help from his father, Ski, who graduated from UF with 
a computer engineering degree in 1995. Shah said he lived in T olbert 
last year, but this semester he is moving in with a friend who went to 
high school with him in Orlando.
Carleigh Dickinson, a 17-year-old biomedical engineering freshman, and Angel Munoz, an 18-year-
old criminology freshman, unpack a new resident’s car during move in. The two volunteered with 
Gator Aide. Gator Aide volunteers had dollies and carts to make the unloading process easier. 
Munoz, who moved into T olbert because he wanted to be near the ROTC building, said he signed up 
to volunteer during the afternoon because he had free time. “I wasn’t going to do anything all day, ” 
he said. “So why not help out?”
Rainy day move-in: UF students arrive for Fall semester
Zach Assid, a 19-year-old aerospace engineering 
sophomore, loads a cart with his belongings and covers 
it with a blanket to protect it from Friday afternoon 
rain outside of T olbert Hall.  Assid, who moved in with 
help from his father Rik, said he was used to the Florida 
weather because he is from Orlando.
Dave Grifﬁ  n, 18, and Richard 
Mazzula, 19, unload a car for 
move-in day. The two were 
volunteering for Gator Aide, 
which helps residents move 
in to their dorms. Mazzula, 
a mechanical engineering 
sophomore, said he preferred 
to help move during the rainy 
weather instead of in the 
hot sun. Grifﬁ  n, a freshman 
studying Russian, said he has 
enjoyed his short time on 
campus so far. “It’s amazing, ” 
Grifﬁ  n said. “I like how green 
everything is. ” He also added 
that the trees around campus 
help keep it from getting too 
hot.
Photo Story by Sam ThomasSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10
FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     8-28-
19-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-4-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-4-19-43-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    12-4-19-43-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
Baby Sitter wanted to help drive my kids to 
and from activities. Car needed. youngest 
is 10 and oldest is 16. Primarily after 2 PM 
up to 7 PM. $15/hr. Email rosenson@ufl.edu      
8-19-19-5-14Facility in Alachua looking for student to 
maintain grounds, tractor work, light con-
struction, handyman repairs. 4-6 hr wk. $17/
hr. Flexible schedule.
Send summary of experience and contact 
info to biopressadmin@gmail.com.     8-30-
19-7-14
Got what it takes? Seeking FT & PT Sales 
Staff. Friendly, honest and motivated athletic 
minded people welcome. Must have regular 
availability at least 20 hr/wk and 1 weekend 
day. Apply in person 1504 NW 13 St Lloyd 
Clarke Sports. 1 mile N of UF on 13 st.    
8-26-19-4-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-7-19-
21-14
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-4-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-4-43-1
1 BR 1 mi E of mall in nice teacher’s 
house. Shared bath $550 inclusive.
Prefer female. 352.514.5249    8-23-3-1
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    8-28-10-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       12-4-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-4-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
MATTRESSES!
TWIN SETS $69 FULL$99
QUEEN$149 KING$199.
352-376-0953              8-23-19-5-6BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   19  
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
08/12/191.  ____ wrench
1.  Furnish5.  Throb
2.  ____ music6.  ____ sign
3.  Luxurious 7.  ____ mix
4.  MaterializeCKTSOE
LUSPYPSEPLU
EECPA
YALSOPC
ENAGETLOMARRT
EAPRAPANSWERS: 1A-Socket  5A-Pulse  6A-Peace  7A-Mortar
1D-Supply  2D-Calypso  3D-Elegant  4D-Appear  B-Stanley Cup8-19-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____ was first awarded in 1893.
BONUS
PUZZLEANSWERS
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
SOLUTION BELOW
SOLUTION BELOWFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsLito Sheppard named honorary captain against UM
The former Florida defensive back from 1999-01 will join the Gators at the 
coin toss for Saturday's game. Sheppard was a 2018 inductee into the UF 
Hall of Fame and played 10 years in the NFL.Former Gator Pete Alonso 
broke the NL rookie home run 
record with his 40th homer of 
the season Sunday.
FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Saturday’s season opener will not be 
the last chapter written in the Florida-
Miami rivalry.
The two schools have agreed to a 
home-and-home series starting in 2024, 
according to Brett McMurphy of Stadium. 
The programs will meet in Gainesville 
first before facing off in Miami Gardens 
the following year.
As things currently stand, the 2025 
matchup will be the first time the Gators 
play a road game against a Power 5 team 
that isn’t FSU since their 2013 visit to Mi-
ami. Florida will play three in-state oppo-
nents that year, with the USF Bulls also 
on the schedule.
The Gators and Hurricanes met annu-
ally from 1938 to 1987 (with the excep-
tion of 1943). Since then, the two teams 
have met sporadically with Miami win-ning seven of the last eight games (in-
cluding the 2001 Sugar Bowl). UM leads 
the all-time series 29-26 and was victori-
ous in the last meeting.
The games in 2024 and 2025 will be 
the first home-and-home contests be-
tween the two teams since their last 
home-and-home series in 2002 and 2003. 
The front-leg will mark Miami’s first vis-
it to Gainesville since 2008, when Tim 
Tebow and the Gators finished victorious 
26-3.  
Florida and Miami will kick off col-
lege football’s 150th season this Saturday 
night in Orlando, followed by a 10:30 
p.m. kickoff for Arizona-Hawaii, the only 
other FBS game in Week 0. 
The Gators, according to Odds Shark, 
are currently a seven-point favorite.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgUF, UM agree to home-and-home
Alligator File Photo
Tim T ebow led the Gators to a 26-3 victory last time Florida and Miami played in Gainesville.
Another season 
of fall sports at 
UF is upon us.
The Gators 
begin their sea-
sons in football, soccer 
and volleyball in less 
than a week, and here at 
alligatorSports, we’ll be 
your one-stop shop for 
all the Florida athletics 
coverage you can handle.
UF's football team opens its 2019 
schedule in Orlando on Saturday 
with its first matchup against Miami 
since 2013. Coach Dan Mullen’s 
team staged one of the most impres-
sive turnarounds in the country in 
2018, finishing with a 10-3 record 
which included a win over Michi-
gan in the Peach Bowl a year re-
moved from a 4-7 season. It returns 
most key contributors from a year 
ago, including starting quarterback 
Feleipe Franks. Naturally, fan ex-
pectations are high.
Follow Online Sports Editor Sam 
Campisano, Kyle Wood, Dylan Ru-
dolph and myself as we cover the 
team in its attempt to return to the 
SEC Championship Game for the 
first time since 2016 and make it to 
the College Football Playoff for the 
first time ever.
Anticipation for the Gators’ bas-ketball season, which 
begins in November, is 
at a fever pitch. You’ll 
want to stay tuned to 
River Wells and Evan 
Lepak. They’ll keep you 
up to date on the goings-
on of UF hoops, includ-
ing the development of 
five star true freshmen 
Tre Mann and Scottie 
Lewis. With point guard Andrew 
Nembhard returning to school, the 
Gators are a hot pick to make a deep 
tournament run this year. Follow 
along and see if they can make it a 
reality.
Florida soccer, on the other 
hand, has something to prove. 
Coach Becky Burleigh has built one 
of the most successful programs in 
the country, but coming off a losing 
record and their first NCAA Tour-
nament absence in 15 years, the 
Gators are in need of a bounce-back 
year. Bryan Matamoros and Gra-
ham Marsh are on the beat — fol-
low them to see if UF can get back 
on track.
However, unlike Burleigh, Flori-
da volleyball coach Mary Wise has 
yet to win a national title.
Her squads have come close in 
the past, notably losing in the cham-Introducing the fall 
alligatorSports staffNothing but Nettuno FOOTBALL
Dylan  Rudolph
Sports Writer
Florida and Miami will meet in Orlando five days 
from now to commence the 2019 college football sea-
son. Both teams had a lot of turnover during the offsea-
son. Here are three storylines to know about this Gators 
team heading into this weekend’s contest:
Emergence of the wide receiver corps
Spring camp saw the rise of multiple wide receivers 
in coach Dan Mullen’s offense. With the return of se-
nior wide receiver Van Jefferson filling the top spot on 
the depth chart, the battle for No. 2 on the other side of 
the field was fierce.
Senior wide receiver Tyrie Cleveland flourished in 
practice and is believed to have earned himself a more 
prominent role in the rotation after hauling in just 18 
passes for 212 yards and three touchdowns in 2018.
Junior receiver Trevon Grimes also impressed 
during the Orange and Blue game. After inconsistent 
showings during the preceding practices, the 6-foot-5 
receiver set a spring game yardage record with 195 and 
scored two touchdowns. 
Though the team remains confident, much of the 
corps’ success will depend on the consistency of quar-
terback Feleipe Franks.
Young, inexperienced offensive line
The protection up front will be critical for Franks in 
order to continue his upward trajectory from last year.
UF’s offensive line took a big hit with the losses of 
Martez Ivey, Tyler Jordan, Fred Johnson and Jawaan 
Taylor. In response, Mullen will thrust upperclassmen 
with limited experience like redshirt juniors Stone For-sythe and Jean Delance into starting roles. 
Forsythe appeared in all 13 games in 2018, but start-
ed just one at right tackle against Charleston Southern. 
Delance played in just four games as a reserve and suf-
fered a leg injury in a recent practice during fall camp. If 
he remains out for the matchup against Miami, redshirt Three storylines to know 
heading into Florida-Miami clash
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Receiver Trevon Grimes (8) shined in Florida's 
spring game with four catches for 195 yards.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 23
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 21WELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   21
SOCCER
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Twenty six players. 
That’s how many Gators saw game time 
in the ﬁ  nal preseason contest for the Flor-
ida soccer team. That experience is crucial 
for a young roster — which features 10 
freshmen —  playing a top schedule in the 
nation. 
The young players have plenty of chanc-
es to quickly grow up in 2019. Saturday’s 
match in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
was no exception.
UF lost 3-2 in a game it led until the very 
end. The Demon Deacons took the early 
lead in the 14th minute when junior Abby 
McNamara intercepted a pass in Florida’s 
18-yard box and found the back of the 
net. After that goal, the rest of the match 
seemed to be all Florida until the ﬁ  nal 
seven minutes of play, where Wake Forest 
took advantage of youthful inexperience. The next goal belonged to Florida in 
the 29th minute courtesy of junior Alex 
Stubblebine. Then, after 54 minutes of 
stalemate, redshirt freshman Samantha 
Tobar broke the tie with a 30-yard strike. 
The Gators thought they snagged the game-
winner, but the Demon Deacons complete-
ly rewrote the story of the contest two min-
utes later. 
Wake Forest junior Ryanne Brown tied 
the game in the 85th minute. Three min-
utes later, sophomore Hulda Arnarsdottir’s 
go-ahead header became the actual game-
winner. 
Florida coach Becky Burleigh took the 
match for what it was: an exhibition. While 
unhappy with the result, she said the expe-
rience is still useful for her squad.
“It was our last 
preseason game,” Burleigh 
said in a release. “There were a lot of really, really good 
things that came out of it. Not happy with 
the way we ﬁ  nished, but that is also a great 
teaching point for us going forward.
For the Gators, games against excellent 
competition will be the norm for 2019, with 
nine more games coming against teams 
ranked in the preseason United Soccer 
Coaches Top 25. After the match against 
No. 18 South Florida on Aug. 25, UF’s next 
three contests come against top-ﬁ  ve oppo-
nents, all on the road: No. 5 Southern Cali-
fornia, No. 4 UCLA and No. 1 Florida State. 
“It’s going to be exciting,” Burleigh 
said. “We’ve got the No. 1 schedule in 
the country and we are looking forward to 
starting it.”
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligtor.org Wake Forest bests Florida 3-2 with two late goals
Alligator File Photo
Florida soccer coach Becky Burleigh said she wasn't satisfied with her team's effort in Saturday's exhibition match at Wake 
Forest. It led 2-1 in the 85th minute but lost 3-2. The Gators begin the 2019 season on Friday night at FAU.
•Save with textbook rental 
•Year-round Apple® service center 
•Use Financial Aid online & in-store*
*See store for details
BOOK STORES
Univ ersity of Florida
UFloridaBook store.co m
Everything you need from day oneUniversity of Florida bookstore has
First Presbyterian
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship - 8:30 & 10:55 am
Lunch after 10:55 worship
College Fellowship Wed. @7:30 pm
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org  
,
pionship game in 2017. Coming off a 
loss in the regional semiﬁ  nals last year 
to BYU, Wise can only hope that 2019 
is ﬁ  nally the Gators’ year. 
Whether it is remains to be seen, 
but either way, look no further than 
Assistant Sports Editor Mari Faiello and 
Brendan Farrell for day-to-day cover-
age as the team looks to go the distance 
for the ﬁ  rst time.
It’s almost tennis time again, and for 
the fall season, Victor Prieto and Noah 
Ram are your guys. Veterans of the 
tennis beat, they know UF’s men’s and 
women’s teams as well as anyone. The 
men’s team fell just short in the NCAA 
semiﬁ  nals in the spring but returns 
stars like Sam Rifﬁ  ce and Johannes 
Ingildsen. The women’s team fell in the 
second round of the tournament last 
year, but with returning players like 
Ida Jarlskog, the future appears bright.
Florida’s golf programs are 
consistently among the best in the 
nation, and for coverage of the men’s 
and women’s fall seasons, Jack 
Braverman’s your man. The Alligator’s 
resident golf guru will be bringing you 
reports of all the birdies and bogeys 
this fall.
Alumni of UF’s swimming and 
diving team include Olympians of 
the likes of Ryan Lochte and Caeleb 
Dressel, and beat writer Dylan O’Shea 
will cover this year’s group of Florida 
swimmers to see if anyone can follow 
in their footsteps.
And, last but not least, Joseph 
Salvador’s got you covered for Gators 
cross country. The women’s team is 
coming off a successful season that 
saw it ﬁ  nish No. 16 at the NCAA 
Tournament, while the men’s team 
looks to return to it after missing it last 
season.
And that about covers it!
Follow @alligatorSports on Twitter 
and all our reporters for coverage of 
every Gators sport this fall. We’ve 
got some great content planned this 
semester, and we’re excited to bring it 
to you.COLUMN,  from pg. 20Nothing but Nettuno22  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
WETAKEYOURWORKOUTTO
THENEXTLEVELMEMBERSHIPS
ASLOW AS
$19.99
AMONTH
ATHLETICTRAINING
 TRX STRENGTHTRAINING PERSONALTRAINING TANNINGCOME SEEALLTHAT WE
OFFER!
.JuiceBar
.24HourAccess
.Boxing
.Cardi ovascu larTraining
.Personal&GroupTraining
.Sauna
.TurfTraining.AthleticPerformance
Training
.GroupFitnessClasses
.ProShop
.Groupexerciseclasses
24/7inourNEW
OnDemandstudio!JOIN NOWATBAILEYSGYM.COM3441W.Universi tyAve.
GAINESVILLE,FL
CornerofUniversi ty&34th
352-373-4439VISIT USTODAY!
*SeeClubfordetailsWELCOME BACK EDITION      |    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   23 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida's offensive line success in 2018 contributed to quarterback Feleipe Franks' growth. With the departures of 
four offensive linemen, UF will require young players to step up if it wants that growth to continue.
freshman Richard Gouraige is the prime candidate to fill 
in.
The offensive line took another blow during the sum-
mer when tackle Noah Banks announced he was medi-
cally retiring from football after suffering another minor 
epileptic episode. While Banks was not expected to win 
the starting role, his abrupt departure hurts the depth 
of an offensive line unit that contains six true freshmen 
and cannot spare any more setbacks.
Question marks in the secondary
Florida ended the 2018 season with 14 interceptions 
and ranked No. 13 in the nation in passing yards allowed 
(2350 yards), and, at the beginning of spring camp in 
2019, had even higher expectations for its last line of 
defense. But as Florida enters the final week of prepara-
tion for Miami, the secondary has become an unknown.
Up-and-coming hopefuls Chris Steele, Brian Edwards 
and John Huggins all departed from the team for sepa-
rate off-the-field circumstances during the spring and 
summer, leaving big holes in the defensive backfield.
Huggins, the latest exit, was dismissed on Aug. 10. 
He was accused of choking a female tutor in October. 
Mullen stated later that Huggins did not meet the “Gator 
standard.”
Redshirt junior C.J. McWilliams became another ca-
sualty for the secondary after he ruptured his Achilles 
tendon, keeping him out for the season.
In their place, sophomore Amari Burney and junior 
CJ Henderson are primed for breakout seasons in their 
respective starting roles. Mullen also made it clear dur-
ing fall camp that the three freshmen in the secondary 
— Kaiir Elam, Chester Kimbrough and Jaydon Hill, who 
is recovering from a torn ACL — will also have signifi-
cant playing time.
To improve on last season, Mullen and the team will 
lean on a secondary with a lot of talent but not much 
experience. The matchup against Miami should give a 
clear picture of what to expect from the unit for the rest 
of the season.
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgThree Florida DBs have left the program since the spring
FOOTBALL,  from pg 21
2019 FLORIDA  
FOOTBALL  
SCHEDULE   
Aug. 24: vs. Miami (neutral site)
Sept. 7: vs. UT Martin
Sept. 14: at Kentucky*
Sept. 21: vs. T ennessee*
Sept. 28: vs. T owson
Oct. 5: vs. Auburn*
Oct. 12: at LSU*
Oct. 19: at South Carolina*
Nov. 2: vs. Georgia (neutral site)*
Nov. 9: vs. Vanderbilt*
Nov. 16: at Missouri*
Nov. 30: vs. FSU 
* denotes SEC game
Times TBA except for Miami (7 
p.m.), UT Martin (7:30 p.m.) and 
Kentucky (7 p.m.)SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK
River Wells24  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 2019    |    WELCOME BACK EDITION
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS 
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$5 Craft 
Drafts
$5 Slider
Baskets
(beef, chicken, 
or pork)$5 Liquor
Pitchers
$5 Yuengling
Pitchers 
@10 PM
7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1 
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1 
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1
Top Shelf 
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia @ 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses 
of Wine
LIVE DJ
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Wells
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon 
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or 
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules
(Moscow & Specialty)
Buzz’d 
Spelling Bee 7:30 pm NIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail 
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp 
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Green Tea 
Shots
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
NIGHTSPITCHER PERFECT
WEDNESDAYS
ON THE ROOF
2-4-1
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
MAC & MULES
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
Door @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pmROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCK
Open 
WED - SAT
Evenings