We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Playing from her roots:
Star guard Funda Nakkasoglu is a budding 
talent for the Turkish women’s national team,
pg. 15A new kind of strawberry
A UF researcher discovered a new species of strawberries is 
able to grow in South Florida, pg. 3
Therapy and service dog photos
Kids met GPD’s K-9s and pet other dogs Saturday, pg. 9MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 63
“No one can do the fair 
like we do.”
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Alachua County Fair is in limbo because of unpaid 
charges. However, those charges may not have been prop-
erly calculated. 
The Alachua County Commission decided Tuesday to cut 
ties with the Alachua County Fair Association over an un-
paid balance of $1,980, an unapproved pig race and a lack 
of communication by the association.
The $1,980 balance was based on the rental fee of the 
fairground, which is 10 percent of the fair’s proﬁ  t, said Gina 
Peebles, the assistant county manager of community and 
administrative services. 
Robert Mullen, the association manager, said the county 
had inconsistencies in how it looked at the association’s ﬁ  -
nances. It confused net worth with net value when calculat-
ing what the 10 percent rental fee would be.
According to one spreadsheet provided by the county, 
the association owed $1,980. A spreadsheet given to Mullen Fair association says 
county acted unjustly
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Sheer Concentration
Freshman gymnast Trinity Thomas performs her uneven bars routine in Florida’s meet against Georgia on Friday. 
She received a score of 9.975, and UF lost to UGA 197.375-197.450. Read the story on page 15. 
NEW BACKGROUND 
CHECKS COST ABOUT 
$80 PER GRANDPARENT
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Tisha McGlon spends 21 hours 
each week as a foster grandpar-ent to ﬁ  rst graders at Lake Forest 
Elementary School. Students have 
been in Grandma Tisha’s life for 
ten years. 
The 76-year-old foster grand-
parent loves watching her “ba-
bies” grow up, especially the trou-
blemakers. McGlon makes sure 
everyone has a jacket in the cold and a goody bag for every holiday.
“Sometimes they don’t have 
a grandparent at home, and they 
have us to lean on,” McGlon said.
McGlon is one of about 75 fos-
ter grandparents in the Alachua 
County Foster Grandparent Pro-
gram, where people 55 and older 
mentor students with special needs and those who need addi-
tional support.
The program is in jeopardy of 
losing federal funding if the Ala-
chua County Commission does not 
approve the two new background 
check systems and accept $2,500 
in additional revenue Tuesday, 
said Candie Nixon, a county com-munity support services assistant 
director.
If approved, the county must 
rescreen all foster grandparents by 
March 31 to maintain funding, she 
said. They are rarely rescreened. 
The change was caused by oth-
er community programs that were County foster grandparents program may lose fundingLESS THAN 1 PERCENT OF U.S. 
MATH DOCTORATES ARE GIVEN 
TO AFRICAN AMERICANS
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Math always came easily to Melissa Sha-
bazz.
She remembers learning how to toy with 
numbers growing up thanks to her grandfa-
ther, who encouraged her to pursue a career in mathematics, she said. 
Growing up in Missouri and going to 
majority white schools, she often didn’t see 
herself represented as an African American 
woman.
This didn’t deter her. Instead, she used it 
as an opportunity to pave her own path, forg-
ing a career in mathematics. 
Now, as a lecturer at UF with a doctoral 
degree in math, she is the only African Ameri-
can in the UF Mathematics Department.
“I had the advantage. I just didn’t see peo-ple that look like me, period,” she said. “I felt 
like I could carve my own path because there 
wasn’t really anyone to look to.”
The department has 58 faculty members, 
according to the UF Institutional Planning and 
Research. The only other black faculty mem-
ber in the UF mathematics department is Cal-
istus Ngonghala, a professor from Cameroon. 
African Americans received just 1 percent 
of mathematics doctoral degrees granted in 
the last decade, according to The New York 
Times. Out of 5,506 UF faculty members, 239 are 
black or African American, or 4.34 percent, 
according to the UF Institutional Planning and 
Research. 
When thinking about the factors that may 
lead to this disparity, Shabazz believes Ameri-
cans, in general, prefer to go into economics 
and statistics ﬁ  elds where pay is higher. 
However, representation is also important 
to get people involved, she said. 
“A lot of people, they don’t see people that Meet UF’s only African American mathematics lecturer
SEE FOSTER,  PAGE 4SEE MATHEMATICS,  PAGE 4
SEE FAIR,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TUESDAY
Gator Nation Giving Day 
Celebration
When: 10 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: To celebrate UF’s 
Giving Day, which is an all-
day fundraising event. Coach 
Dan Mullen will come at 11:30 
a.m. There will be free cookies 
and pizza.
Flat $5 Tuesday
When: 7-10 p.m.
Where: 8 Fahrenheit Ice 
Cream Butler North, at 2905 
SW 42nd St.
What: Rolled ice cream with 
three toppings are being of-
fered for $5, including tax.
Santa Fe adjunct professors will 
speak about union campaign
When: 6 p.m. 
Where: Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, at 1236 NW 18th Ave.
What: Santa Fe College adjunct 
professors will speak about 
their unionization campaign at 
Santa Fe at the Alachua County 
Labor Coalition monthly gen-
eral meeting. Professors will talk about their almost two-
year push for living wages, 
better working conditions and 
a union. Refreshments will be 
provided.
WEDNESDAY
Beat ICE
When: 12:50-2 p.m. 
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: CHISPAS UF, an orga-
nization that advocates for the 
needs of immigrants, will host 
an Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement protest by march-
ing from Plaza of the Americas 
to the Reitz Student Union 
Amphitheater with UF stu-
dents to demand that ICE be 
abolished. 
Food and Dine
When: 12-3 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North 
Lawn
What: Attendees can cel-
ebrate flavors and expe-
rience different cultures 
from around the world. The 
Cuban American Student 
Association, the Filipino 
Student Association, the 
French Club, the Venezuelan 
Student Association and the Vietnamese Student 
Organization will provide the 
dining experience. There will 
also be performances by The 
Belly Gators and the Ailigéadar 
Irish Dance Company. This 
event is free to all UF students 
with a Gator 1 ID. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  73° LOW  51°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones,  Shelby Smith,
Blake Trauschke
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2019
We will not be not publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 63MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
J   B FAIR
SIMEDHealth is hiring for FULL TIME, PART TIME, and PRN positions for our 
Gainesville, Ocala, Chiefland, and Lady Lake / The Villages locations.
When:   Saturday, March 2, 2019 
              9:00am - 12:00pm   
Where:  SIMEDHealth Building - Atrium
              4343 W. Newberry Road
              Gainesville, FL 32607
RSVP:   (352) 224-2401 or email 
              jobs@simedhealth.com
SIMEDHealth.com• Admin Assistant
• Clinic Assistant (Front Desk)
• Finance Assistant
• Medical Assistant
• Medical Billing & Coding
• Patient Greeter• Pharmacy T ech
• Phlebotomist
• Radiology T ech
• Shuttle Drivers
• Sleep T ech
• Ultrasound T ech
Pre-register to guarantee your interview time.  Visit               
SIMEDHealth.com for more info & a complete list of opportunities.
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
They’re the size of a thimble and softer than 
the typical strawberry.
What they lack in size, they make up for 
in ﬂ  avor.
Alan Chambers, a UF researcher, discov-
ered last year that the Alpine strawberry was 
able to grow in South Florida by successfully 
testing 16 different types of the species over 
Florida’s winter growing season in Homestead.
This year, just in time for National Straw-berry Day on Wednesday, he will be able to 
take his research to the market, Chambers said.
Alpine strawberries are difﬁ  cult and costly 
to ship compared with normal strawberries, so 
they aren’t sold in supermarkets, Chambers 
said.
“It only takes a berry or two before you get 
hooked on them,” said Chambers, an assistant 
professor of horticulture at the Tropical Re-
search Education Center at UF.
Chambers said the Alpine strawberries are 
also distinct for their color variety. The berries 
grow in two colors: whitish-yellow or red.The do-it-yourself process to grow these 
fruits is easy for home gardens and local grow-
ers, Chambers said. A person only needs to 
plant their strawberries indoors during the hot 
summer months before transferring and har-
vesting them outdoors during the winter sea-
son.
While Alpine strawberries are new to the 
state, they’re popular in Europe, said Michael 
Wellik, owner of The Strawberry Store LLC, 
where Chambers bought his seeds from.
A 4.4 ounce container of the fruit sells for 
$12, which is about four times the cost of nor-mal strawberries, Wellik said.
“They have tremendous value,” Wellik 
said. “That’s what people don’t understand. 
The Alpines are gourmet strawberries.”
Because Wellik’s store is one of the only 
U.S. businesses to carry Alpine cultivars, most 
of the U.S. market is supplied by European 
growers, he said.
In the future, Wellik and Chambers would 
like this growing season to be the start of a fu-
ture market for Alpine strawberries in Florida
“It would give our growers an opportunity 
to produce something unique and delicious,” 
Chambers said. “That’s what got me hooked 
on them.”UF researcher aims to make big strides with small strawberries
A 4.4 ounce container of Alpine strawberries sells for $12
By Brittney Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pedro Sanchez doesn’t limit his research to 
UF’s campus or even Florida as a whole.
The 78-year-old UF re-
search professor of tropical 
soils was in Cuba just three 
weeks ago collaborating with 
scientists. Now, he’s in Ke-
nya teaching students about 
wildlife conservation and ur-
banization. 
“Maybe my typical day is 
sitting on an airplane,” he said.
His worldwide journeys support his re-
search, which is aimed at using tropical soils to 
help reduce world hunger in environmentally 
sustainable ways.
Sanchez has stepped foot in 68 differ-
ent nations across Latin America, Southeast 
Asia, Western Europe and Africa. He’s also 
visited India, Australia and New Zealand.
He grew up in Cuba, but left his life on the 
island behind about 60 years ago. 
“My family, we lost everything: our home in 
Havana, we had a beach house, we had a farm 
that was very very productive,” Sanchez said. 
“You have to move on.”
Now, he says he is working with Cubans, 
alongside people in other areas, to help his na-
tive country.He studied at Cornell University and re-
ceived a bachelor’s degree in agronomy in 1962 
and a master’s degree and doctoral degree in 
soil science in 1964 and 1968 respectively.
Since then, Sanchez has received more than 
30 awards, fellowships or honors.
Although most of his research deals with 
international food insecurity, which is the ab-
sence of consistent access to adequate food,  he 
said that 15 percent of the United States, or 45 
million people, experiences this issue.
Sanchez said for much of his career, his 
wife, Cheryl Palm, a UF professor in the agri-
cultural and biological engineering department, 
has been by his side.
Their marriage intertwines with their work life 
as the duo collaborates on food security and sus-
tainable agricultural development in the tropics.
Palm said she is proud of her husband, who 
maintains all types of friendships — from farm-
ers to ministers of agriculture around the world.
“Almost anywhere we go, we meet people 
that Pedro has worked with,” she said. “They 
all want to have their pictures taken with him.”
Down the road, Sanchez would like to be 
remembered as one of the people who led the 
battle to end food insecurity.
“When farmers used to come and tell me, 
‘Thank you for what you have taught us. Now 
I can feed my family,’ frankly, that counts more 
than whatever honors I have received,” he said.68 countries, 1 mission: UF professor 
studying soil to ﬁ  ght world hunger
Sanchez
EXHIBIT WILL BE OPEN 
UNTIL MARCH 31
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
The courageous faces of people 
joined arm in arm marching with Dr. 
Martin Luther King Jr. greet guests at 
the entrance of a gallery at the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum.
Black-and-white photos from the 
“I, Too, Am America” exhibit by Steve 
Schapiro hang on the walls in a large 
gallery space at the Harn Museum of 
Art. 
Forty-eight photos feature the likes 
of James Baldwin, Muhammad Ali and 
King along with sit-ins and clashes of 
protestors on both sides of the move-
ment.
Diedre Houchen, a postdoctoral 
associate at the Center for the Study 
of Race and Race Relations at the UF 
Levin College of Law, spoke to about 
50 people  Sunday in the center of the 
gallery about ensuring the civil rights 
movement continues and about creat-
ing a supporting community at “And 
Justice For All: A Community Dia-
logue.” 
“The civil rights movement was the 
most beautiful display of intelligence, 
culture and transformation ever,” she told the audience.
The exhibit opened in November 
and helped inspire the event, said Eliz-
abeth King, the Gallery Interpretation 
and Public Programs manager at the 
Harn. The museum decided to use the 
exhibit as part of Houchen’s lecture to 
celebrate Black History Month. 
Houchen’s expertise in race and 
race relations led the Harn to reach out 
to her to speak at this event, King said.  
Steve Showstark, of Gainesville, 
came to the lecture because he believes 
it is important to ensure that America 
doesn’t repeat history. However, he 
thought the older demographics of the 
attendees highlighted the problem.
“You can see in the audience, it’s 
the people who have lived through it 
here. Young people have to learn, and 
they have to vote,” he said. “March 
with your ﬁ  ngers and your pencils and 
engage in discussions like this.”
Although he agreed with Houchen’s 
assessment that progress in civil rights 
has stopped since the movement, he 
believes the country can move toward 
equality in the future.
“Our society hasn’t progressed, but 
the wheel is still spinning,” he said. 
“There’s still a chance for change.” 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgHarn Museum of Art hosts 
discussion on civil rights 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019look like them doing anything like that,” she 
said. “So they don’t see that’s an option.”
It’s crucial for a broad array of ideas to cir-
culate, even in a field as calculated as math, 
said Kevin Knudson, UF Mathematics depart-
ment chair.
“People think mathematics is very rigid, 
and it is,” he said. “But different points of 
view will certainly lead to solutions that you 
might not have been able to find before.”
Knudson, who is white, recalled being 
an undergraduate at Virginia Polytechnic In-stitute and State University in the late 1980s 
where there was one African American fac-
ulty member, he said. When he was at Duke 
University for his master’s, there were none. 
“The numbers play out in my personal 
experience,” he said. “Even when you go to 
mathematics conferences, it’s rare to see peo-
ple of color.”
The lack of African Americans in mathe-
matics has been a problem that the American 
Mathematical Society still addresses, Knud-
son said. However, he said he hasn’t noticed 
much change. 
“This is a long-standing problem in the sci-
ences,” he said. “Talent is evenly distributed. There are other sort of structural or social fac-
tors that I think are playing a role.”
This disparity reflects a larger structural 
issue that begins in grade school called the 
“leaky pipeline,” he said. The “leaky pipe-
line” refers to students exiting certain fields 
at critical points along the path for various 
reasons and often applies to people of color 
and women.
“It’s a challenge,” he said. “It’s not that de-
partments don’t want to hire good mathema-
ticians of color, it’s that there is a real supply 
problem.”
However, the problem is far more compli-
cated, and the reasons for the disparity are 
still being researched, Knudson said. 
To combat the lack of African American 
mathematicians at the university level, Knud-son said the graduate recruiting chair attends 
annual meetings on this issue and reaches out 
to students at Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities.  
Even with these implementations, Knud-
son said there hasn’t been much change in 
the enrollment of black students pursuing 
math. In 2017, out of 64 math doctoral stu-
dents, there were only two, or about 3 per-
cent, black or African Americans, according 
to UF Institutional Planning and Research. 
While the university is still trying to at-
tract more graduate students of color into 
the Ph.D. program, the issue is rooted deeper 
than what’s happening at the university level, 
Knudson said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org
Demographic Makeup for Faculty at UF as of Fall 2018  
(not including OPS Adjunct Faculty)
Mathematics Department:
T otal: 58
Gender:
Female: 11; 18.97 percent
Male: 47; 81.03 percent
Race/Ethnicity:
White: 42; 72.41 percent
Asian: 10; 17.24 percent
Non-Resident: 3; 5.17 percent
Black/African-American: 1; 
1.72 percent
Hispanic/Latinx: 1; 1.72 percent
Unknown: 1; 1.72 percentAll Departments: 
Gender:
Female: 41.66 percent
Male: 58.34 percent
Race/Ethnicity:
White: 68.69 percent
Asian: 13.33 percent
Hispanic/Latinx: 7.63 percent
Black/African-American: 4.34 percent
Non-Resident: 4.34 percent
Two or more races: 1.04 percent
Unknown: 0.44 percent
American Indian or Alaskan Native: 
0.15 percent
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander: 
0.05 percentMATHEMATICS,  from pg. 12 UF math doctoral students were black in 2017
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Melissa Shabazz, a UF math lecturer, works in her office Saturday in Little Hall. 
Shabazz is the only African American professor in her department. She started 
working at UF during Fall 2018.
by the county showed the asso-
ciation owed $41,119.96. 
Peebles said the differences 
between the two reports were 
due to them being done before 
and after the 2018 financial in-
formation was given to her. 
Only one year of the last six 
on the spreadsheet provided by 
the county matched the asso-
ciation’s 990 tax forms. 
In the 2017 fiscal year, the 
county listed that the associa-
tion’s revenue was $53,236 and 
the expenses were $46,902. 
The 990s said it was $57,399 
and $46,903, respectively.
Peebles said the differences 
between the spreadsheets and 
the tax forms were due to the 
county trying to ensure that it 
did not tax other sources of in-
come the fair received. 
However, Mullen said that 
Peebles never asked for the 
990s. The association only al-
lowed the county to look over 
a certified review of their fi-
nances.
An independent certified 
public accountant that works 
with the association reviewed 
its financials and did not find 
that it owed money, said Mul-len.
This would have been the 
51st year the association host-
ed the fair, Mullen said. The 
association will still hold a fair 
regardless of the county’s in-
volvement. 
“No one can do the fair like 
we do, and we will still do it,” 
he said.
Mullen said there has been 
tension between the associa-
tion and the county for a while, 
but he was surprised it came to 
this point. 
“We decided whether we 
owe the money or don’t is ir-
relevant,” he said. “We don’t 
believe we owe it, but we will 
pay to put this behind us.”
Peebles said that nothing 
that happened in the meeting 
should’ve surprised Mullen. 
“I told him I was going to 
say that the financial issues 
were still not reconciled, and 
due to that we would recom-
mend not entering into another 
contract with them,” she said. 
“Until they pay, we are not 
going to entertain the idea of 
entering another contract with 
them.”
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgFAIR,  from pg. 1Spreadsheets, tax forms differ
found out-of-compliance to the pre-
vious background check standard 
set by the Corporation for National 
and Community Service, which 
oversees the program, she said.
Though in compliance with pre-
vious standards, Alachua County 
must rescreen its grandparents, 
even those with previous clear 
screenings, Nixon said.
New background checks cost 
about $80 per grandparent, Nixon 
said. 
The program received $374,620 
in federal funding in 2018, accord-
ing to data from the federal agency. 
Nixon said the county annually 
matches 10 percent of that fund-
ing and has sponsored the program 
since 1973.
Foster grandparents mentor for 
at least five hours each week at el-
ementary schools, after-school pro-
grams and childcare centers, Nixon 
said. They are paid $2.65 per hour 
and are given supplemental medical 
and automobile insurance, transpor-
tation reimbursement, a daily meal 
and other benefits.
The program aims to have 100 
grandparents, so the program con-
tinuously enrolls people to accom-
modate as many students as pos-
sible, she said.Gussie Lee, the program chair, 
said foster grandparents play an im-
portant role every day. Lee has spent 
over 40 years in the program and 
said grandparents teach students in-
dependence and self-confidence. 
“Even with the changes, it hasn’t thrown them off their role,” Lee 
said. “It keeps them young. It keeps 
them active.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgFOSTER,  from pg. 1Program aims to have 100 grandparents
Courtesy to The Alligator
Foster grandparents across Alachua County mentor young students 
at elementary schools, day cares and after-school programs. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HIS BOND IS $500,000
A man who allegedly sexually battered 
a girl since she was six was arrested Fri-
day.
The girl is between the ages of 12 and 
18, according to a Gainesville Police arrest 
report.
On Feb. 17, Criseforo Sanchez-Xoch-
icale, 34, of Gainesville, called her into the living room to watch 
over her younger broth-
er, the report said. When 
she came, Sanchez-Xo-
chicale was there alone. 
He grabbed her, put a 
condom on and sexually 
battered her, the report 
said. She yelled at him 
to get off. He heard the girl’s sister come into 
the living room, the report said. He then 
stopped, threw a blanket over himself and 
the girl, and she pulled up her pants.
She told authorities this happened 
many times before, police said. He did it 
when her mother was not home and while 
they lived in Ocala and Casselberry, Flor-
ida. 
He threatened to harm her if she told anyone, the report said.
He told police he had sex with her once 
and she initiated it, the report said. He 
then said she climbed on him and tried 
having sex with him. 
Sanchez-Xochicale was charged with 
sexual battery on a victim 12 to 18 years 
old, the report said. 
He remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday in lieu of a $500,000 bond.
HIS BOND IS $2.5 MILLION 
A man accused of shooting at a man 
about 28 times was arrested Thursday.
On Feb. 13, Jessie 
Lee Miller Jr., 30, of 
Ocala, drove to a ﬁ  eld 
at 819 NE 17th St. 
and searched for the 
man, according to a 
Gainesville Police 
arrest report. When 
Miller found the 
man, Miller reached 
into the car and got a riﬂ  e. 
Miller went up to him and began 
arguing about money, the report said. 
When the man started arguing back, 
Miller raised the riﬂ  e. 
He ran, and Miller started shooting, 
the report said. Afterward, Miller drove 
away.When police arrived, they found 28 
shell casings that are commonly used 
with AK-47s, the report said. Surveil-
lance footage showed multiple shots 
from the riﬂ  e, people running and a 
black sedan driving away. 
The day after, police were told of a 
similar car with bullet holes and a ﬂ  at 
tire near the scene, the report said. The 
car was registered to Miller.
A witness also told police that when 
Miller swept the riﬂ  e around to try and 
hit the victim, he shot his own car, the 
report said. 
Miller was charged with attempted 
murder, possessing a ﬁ  rearm while be-
ing a felon and two charges for aggra-
vated assault, the report said. 
He remained in the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail Sunday in lieu of a $2.5 million 
bond. HIS BOND IS $352,000
A man accused of stealing a car, possess-
ing cannabis and participating in a drive-by 
shooting all within the last two weeks was 
arrested Friday.
Ferrie Vashaun Cook Jr., 
21, from Gainesville, and 
a man were involved in a 
ﬁ  ght inside the Gold Room 
Nightclub, at 11th SW First 
St., around 2 a.m.  Friday, 
according to a Gainesville 
Police arrest report.
While the man drove to 
his home at 1900 SE Fourth St., he saw a car 
driving behind him, the report said. When 
he parked, a white car slowly drove by and 
shot at his car. 
At least two bullets entered the car and 
one struck his butt, the report said. Later that day, Cook was arrested. While 
he was being arrested, he dropped car keys 
that belonged to a stolen white Honda, the 
report said. Police also found a baggie of 1.2 
grams of cannabis in his shorts.
It’s unclear if Cook drove the Honda dur-
ing the alleged shooting. 
Between Feb. 12 and Feb. 13, the Honda 
was stolen from Cabana Beach Apartments, 
near 4705 SW 19th Place, the report said. 
Cook was seen on surveillance footage driv-
ing the car to a Walmart on Feb. 18 and Feb. 
20 to use stolen credit cards. 
Cook was charged with burglary of an 
unoccupied conveyance, illegal use of cred-
it cards, aggravated battery with a deadly 
weapon, possessing a weapon while being 
a felon, grand theft of a vehicle and posses-
sion of cannabis, the report said. 
He remained in the Alachua County Jail 
Sunday in lieu of a $352,000 bond. Man accused of sexually battering a girl since she was 6
Man accused of attempted 
murder over moneyMan shot in butt by drive-by shooterSanchez-Xochicale
Cook
Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez   |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98  
Miller
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
The ongoing fight against sexual assault in college
Author’s note: If you or anyone you know has been affect-
ed by acts of sexual misconduct, please contact the University 
Title IX coordinator at 352-273-1094 or inform@titleix.ufl.edu 
or the Gainesville Police Department. Additional resources are 
included at the end. 
In November, the U.S. Secretary of Education, Betsy De-
Vos, proposed a “major overhaul” to the rules that govern 
how universities handle sexual misconduct complaints. It 
is lauded by accused students, who are often men, as an 
effort to end a system they see as biased toward accusers, 
who are often women. I see it as a significant misstep in the 
ongoing fight against sexual assault — one that could poten-
tially precipitate a nationwide shift in campus culture toward 
suppression, undue skepticism and far too narrowly defined 
interventionism. 
There is a well-known stigma surrounding sexual assault 
at universities. Universities often prioritize image and mar-
keting over giving students a voice against their perpetrators. 
As much as I wish this was only a stereotype, a study done 
by Corey Rayburn Yung, a law professor at the University of 
Kansas, showed that campus rape reports would rise by 44 
percent only while universities were placed under audit by 
the U.S. government. What this clearly shows is that pre-
audit numbers were either negligently false or worse, inten-
tionally swept away. As the researchers put it, the hypothesis 
that the normal practice of universities to undercount sexual 
assault incidents is consistent with the research.
This is why part of DeVos’ new rules give me pause. Un-
der these new changes, universities will be held accountable 
for only those complaints filed through ‘proper authorities’ 
and only for incidents occurring on campus. But this is a 
fundamental misunderstanding of the landscape of the issue. 
If higher learning institutions are already smudging numbers 
and censoring survivors, allowing them more discretion in 
what is and isn’t sexual assault will only make suppression 
easier. 
The Associated Press suggested in a report that a majority 
of sexual assaults take place off-campus, and under these 
new rules this situation would see much less university in-vestigation and response.
When campus stakeholders are misinterpreting the statis-
tics regarding sexual assault, giving those same stakeholders 
a louder voice in preventative measures can be a significant 
detriment to the cause they claim to champion. Though this 
proposal by DeVos seeks to bolster fairness, I believe it will 
only keep survivors silent and make campus grounds more 
dangerous. 
To quote the 81 former students and survivors of Larry 
Nassar who wrote DeVos to plead that these new rules not 
be passed, under this proposal “more survivors will be de-
nied their legal right to equal access to education after expe-
riencing sexual assault.”
Through Student Government and with the help of the 
UF administration, I had the honor of co-authoring legisla-
tion calling for the implementation of an anonymous sexual 
assault reporting program that would be available to all UF 
students. Officials within SG have already taken critically im-
portant steps in developing and installing this project. We 
shouldn’t diminish this progress by allowing limitation of the 
scope for which it can be used.
I ask that UF students not allow public officials to make 
our home unwelcoming to our peers. There is still time to 
protest and rally. I urge you to write to your representatives 
and write to our university administration about this issue. 
If you or a student organization you represent would like to 
support a SG resolution echoing this sentiment, please con-
tact me at matthewlukediaz@ufl.edu. 
Matthew Diaz is a Student Government senator for District D.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES:
National Sexual Assault Telephone Hotline: (800) 656-HOPE (4673)
UFPD Office of Victim Services: (352) 392-5648
Counseling and Wellness Center: (352) 392-5297
U Matter, We Care: (352) 294-2273
Intimate Partner Violence Assistance Clinic: (352) 273-0805
Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center: (352) 264-6760
What would you do if someone handed you about 
$150,000? You could buy yourself a house, maybe 
even a Tesla, and still have some money to spare. 
You could choose to pay off all of your student loans. 
These scenarios are things people spend decades sav-
ing money for, but at the Oscars, all 25 nominees for acting and 
directing will receive a gift “bag” valued at nearly that amount of 
money, around $148,000.
Each year, all the nominees in the biggest categories receive 
a gift bag, or more accurately multiple trunks filled with good-
ies that are worth thousands of dollars. This year, the combined 
total cost of these bags is $3.7 million. Forget about one house, 
try 20. The bag is gifted by Distinctive Assets, a company not 
affiliated with The Academy Awards. This company has given 
gifts to nominees for the past 20 years. Just 17 years ago, the 
gift bags made headlines because they cost about $20,000. This 
year’s bags include jewelry, cosmetic procedures and a luxurious 
cruise ride for two.
If you’re like us, the idea of gifting someone who is most likely 
already very well off nearly $150,000 sounds pretty pretentious. 
However, in the land of Hollywood, where George Clooney is the 
highest paid person with a yearly earning of about $239 million in 
2018, $150,000 is a drop in the bucket. Why even bother gifting 
Hollywood elites with these gifts then? It’s not about a reward. 
It’s about advertisement.
The $500 necklace gifted to Lady Gaga isn’t really a gift, it’s 
an investment. If Gaga is photographed wearing the necklace, the 
company who makes the necklace gets publicity and the ability 
to say Gaga wears its jewelry. These gifts aren’t the pat on the 
back we think they are. They’re a strategic move made by com-
panies that are gifting their services or products. This isn’t a new 
phenomenon either. Celebrities have been gifted these products 
and services since the creation of the Tinseltown, all as a way of 
promotion. However, now celebrities aren’t the only ones being 
used for their overall fame and exposure, so are influencers.
When an influencer tags a brand in a post, they are getting 
exposure, and most likely it’s not for free. We’re now in a society 
where social media isn’t just an expression of who we are, it’s a 
viable market where people can make thousands of dollars from 
a sponsored post. Forbes reported that a collaboration with a top 
YouTuber on a YouTube video could cost about $300,000.
These posts show that we’ve moved toward a place in society 
where posting on social media isn’t for fun, it’s for gain. The 
more followers you have, the more money you can make. If you 
look at how much money an influencer could feasibly make in a 
month, a $150,000 gift bag is a bit on the stingy side for the pos-
sibility of an A-lister being photographed in your product.  
Advertisements are everywhere, but TV commercials may 
someday be obsolete with the continued success of companies 
like Netflix and Hulu. It would make sense that advertisers move 
toward a different outlet to reach their targeted audiences. What 
better way to get the attention of a millennial audience than to 
have a partnership with their favorite YouTuber?
There is no reason any celebrity should be gifted $150,000, 
but that’s just the society we live in. We give people these plat-
forms with millions of followers and allow them to make entire 
careers out of it. It’s easy to be bitter about people making insane 
amounts of money, but in reality, it’s us who have given them the 
opportunity to make millions of dollars. We’ve allowed a social 
media space where merely existing is enough to become a self-
made millionaire.An $148,000 gift 
bag is a sign of how 
we view celebrities
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORMONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
We’ve all been there. The 
good life is not so good, 
a math class for your 
major isn’t adding up 
or the Man’s Food class 
you’re taking to ﬁ  ll the biological 
sciences requirement is making 
you sick to your stomach. In the 
pursuit of an illustrious degree 
you’ll (hopefully) obtain after your 
undergraduate years, there will be 
many classes you’ll have to take that you’d just 
rather not. These classes can sometimes be es-
sential, sometimes they’re more or less useless, 
but all of them are tedious because you don’t 
want to be there. The problem is common, yet 
solutions are not as easy to come by.
There are three ways to ﬁ  ght the boredom 
and, sometimes, loathing that comes with 
these unwanted, required courses. The ﬁ  rst is 
to distract yourself from the work as you do 
it. A large part of the frustration of doing cal-
culus, presuming you’re a sane person and it 
isn’t what you want to 
be doing, is that there’s 
no escape. The alternat-
ing series staring back at 
you is unavoidable just 
like the class commanding 
you to solve the problem, 
so you have no choice but to trudge through. 
This takes time away from other things in life 
you probably enjoy, like having a quirky mil-
lennial cup of coffee, enjoying the comfort of 
your favorite cozy blanket or listening to some 
bangers. It’s frustrating, to be sure, but not 
an insurmountable problem. While you can’t 
complete your derivatives worksheet at Bricks, 
you can do a lot of fun little things as you work 
that will make the experience less painful. 
Often your memory of the work will be a bit 
fonder and allow you to open up to the subject 
you’re doing the work for.
A different approach, one that is in my ex-
perience most effective, is to take a psychologi-
cal approach to the problem. By implementing 
an incentive structure to reward yourself for 
completing unwanted work or going to dull 
lectures, you can make the work more effec-
tive. Humanity is, by nature, very goal-orient-
ed. Having a reward to look forward to will 
make the work a simple obstacle to overcome. 
The more efﬁ  ciently you complete a task, the 
faster you get to indulge in whatever it is you 
crave. Maybe it’s Midtown, maybe it’s Halo Top, heck, maybe it’s Maybelline.  
You can leverage whatever it is 
with your school work. The key 
is that the reward has to depend 
on the completion of your work. 
If you sit down to bust out an es-
say for What is the Good Life and 
quit halfway through to go to Grog 
House, this method will yield no 
results. The reward has to be a 
product of the work, which will 
cause you to associate it with effective study-
ing.
There is a third solution to this issue; how-
ever, it’s incredibly elusive and some believe 
it to be a hoax. This strategy is to teach your-
self to like the classes you’re placed in and the 
work packaged with them. I know. It sounds 
ludicrous. Yet, the beneﬁ  ts of this technique 
are immense. If you enjoy what you’re doing, 
suddenly the piles of work on your desk be-
come another chance to explore your passions. 
The only possible downside is that it is not ex-
actly an easy process to 
force yourself to enjoy a 
class. We are all unique 
individuals who are spe-
cially outﬁ  tted with our 
own desires and passions. 
Truthfully, the exertion it 
would take on your part to change your nature 
is not worth it, at least not for a general educa-
tion course. It does seem like a beneﬁ  cial thing 
to pursue because the payoff is loving every-
thing in your life, but the perilous journey to 
get there shows that it isn’t necessarily a happy 
ending. 
Some classes we take during college suck. 
There are plenty of strategies that work and 
plenty of ways to cope with work that feels 
like it is a waste of our time. While the prom-
ise of fully enjoying life in college is beautiful, 
in many cases it is a pipe dream. However, 
the classes we probably hate are not without 
extreme value in our lives. The opportunity 
to struggle to stay awake in an entry-level 
science class will just bolster the strength in 
your conviction to be a lawyer, just as failing 
your What is the Good Life midterm will only 
solidify your reserve to be a microbiologist. 
Just push through and, eventually, we’ll all 
reach that sweet title of upperclassman. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.You can ask this ques-
tion to any student and 
suddenly you get an 
idea of what kind of 
person he or she is. It’s 
an aspect of the campus culture 
that divides us all: What’s your 
study spot? Is it Library West, 
with its multiple ﬂ  oors of in-
creasing silence and its proxim-
ity to Krishna lunch, is it Marston Science 
Library, with its open ﬂ  oor plans and cool 
technology such as virtual reality headsets, 
or is it Newell Hall with the cool eggshell 
chairs and whiteboard cubicles? Each one 
has pros and cons, but I feel these libraries 
are underutilized. Their vast book collec-
tions often go unread.
Reading today seems to be "under at-
tack" from multiple angles. Some would 
say Twitter has killed our attention to text 
more than 140 characters. Others say the 
shift to online reading is making books 
obsolete. There may even be some weight 
behind the idea that websites such as You-
Tube and Netﬂ  ix are drawing attention 
away from written work. These are all fair 
assumptions, but books and writing are in 
a current state of revival. Magazines and 
newspapers are going viral through pod-
casts; books are sticking around through e-
books; and audiobooks and radio is adapt-
ing to its changing audiences.
The trend that all of these seem to follow 
is being able to enjoy them while perform-
ing other tasks. Are chores draining your 
energy? Plug in your AirPods and turn on 
your Spotify app to get the latest episode of 
your favorite online personality or comedi-
an and have a cathartic chuckle while you 
fold your clothes. Have you made a New 
Year’s resolution to read more but you’re 
constantly on the move? Audible lets you 
hop across different devices so wherever 
you were on your computer speaker at 
home, you’ll pick right back up right where 
you left off when you play the audiobook 
on your phone when you leave for class. There is as much power in lis-
tening to words as there is in 
reading them.
You may ask, but what 
about the physical books? Are 
they going to go away to save 
trees or to reduce space? Not so 
fast, I’d say. Physical books are 
still some of the safest means of 
securing and preserving infor-
mation as we have extensive knowledge 
about how to deal with ﬂ  oods, ﬁ  res and 
fading ink. Technology is still vulnerable 
to the limitations of needing a charge, the 
possibility of code failing and glitches with 
servers deleting information.
It’s not just the possibility of books be-
ing harmed that will keep them relevant. 
Libraries have an aura of calm and peace, 
and the "book smell" is almost reassuring, 
reminding us of younger years ﬁ  lled with 
picture and chapter books. Another reason 
books aren’t going anywhere is because of 
what public libraries can offer us as a soci-
ety. Public libraries are free to people who 
need internet access, a resource some of us 
take for granted. The power of a space dedi-
cated to learning and even just the simple 
pleasure of reading is something everyone 
deserves.
I love strolling around Library West to 
just browse the aisles. Noting the amount 
of novels, studies and investigations there 
makes you realize how expansive books 
can be. There are worlds of information in 
those pages. Take a stroll yourself some-
time. Look around the aisles and pull what-
ever book captures your interest. Even if 
you don’t have to read it for class, check it 
out and spend some time reading it. Books 
are some of the most interesting collections 
of knowledge humankind has. I plan to 
keep learning and loving the written word, 
and you should too.  
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism 
sophomore. His column normally appears 
on Fridays.Kyle’s declassiﬁ  ed school survival guide Let's not forget what the libraries 
at UF are really for: reading booksColumn Column
As a proud Florida Gator, I’d like to 
say a few words in defense of our 
University of Central Florida rivals.
UCF has been rocked by a 
“scandal” recently. The Orlando-
based university came under ﬁ  re after it was 
revealed that UCF administration had used 
$38 million in leftover operating funds to 
build Trevor Colbourn Hall, a new academic 
building. The backlash was swift and unre-
lenting. As the Orlando Sentinel reported, 
four top UCF administrators resigned in the 
aftermath of the news. UCF President Dale 
Whittaker’s resignation letter was voted on 
and approved Thursday. All the while, the 
Florida Legislature hounded UCF, calling for 
intense investigations and giving stern chid-
ings. One state legislator, Rep. Randy Fine 
of Brevard County, Florida, even suggested 
that UCF be closed due to the scandal. If 
you’re thinking this all seems excessive, 
you’re right.
I do want to make one thing clear. While 
I do ﬁ  nd UCF’s actions understandable, that doesn’t make them acceptable. At 
the end of the day, this is still an 
inappropriate use of funds. Funds 
that are separated into different 
pots should remain separate, es-
pecially when the funds are from 
the state and taxpayers' money. 
I must admit the Florida Legisla-
ture is right in wanting the state’s 
money to go to the things it is des-
ignated for.
That said, the controversy over UCF’s 
misappropriation is overblown and a symbol 
of the declining funding of higher education 
in Florida and around the country. Misusing 
designated funds is wrong, however is the 
use of these funds for a new academic build-
ing really worth all this outrage? Many of us 
have heard of misspent money being used on 
more illicit and unethical things, and at least 
this new building will likely serve UCF’s 
Student Body for many years to come. You 
could even make the argument the money 
was better spent on the building than on nor-mal operating expenses. At least 
the UCF administration must have 
thought so, otherwise it wouldn’t 
have redirected the money. Orlan-
do Sentinel columnist Scott Max-
well pointed out, for all the state 
legislature’s chiding over this, the 
Florida Legislature has an even 
bigger spending problem, such as 
raiding a fund for affordable hous-
ing and reducing education funding after 
voters approved a lottery to fund education. 
At the very least, UCF is in good company 
when it comes to misappropriation. 
Furthermore, this issue points to a broad-
er problem: the states' declining funding for 
higher education. According to the Center on 
Budget and Policy Priorities, state funding 
for two- and four-year colleges in the U.S. 
declined by $9 billion from 2008 to 2017. 
Every state except Wisconsin spent less per 
student in 2017 than 2008, with an average 
of 16 percent less per student. The Atlantic 
reported that most public colleges and uni-versities get more money from tuition than 
they do from state funding starting last year. 
This has many consequences, such as mak-
ing colleges more like businesses where they 
try to outdo each other (new buildings, more 
amenities, expanded services, etc.) to attract 
more paying students. This struggle, plus 
lower funding, may have been what drove 
UCF to spend money on a new building. 
To sum up, was UCF’s action in this sce-
nario wrong? Yes. Was it understandable? 
Sure. Was it bad enough to warrant Whita-
ker’s resignation, a chorus of legislators call-
ing for investigations and subpoenas and 
one raising the possibility of a schoolwide 
shutdown? Certainly not. The state legisla-
ture is free to investigate UCF and its fund-
ing until the end of time, but if it wants to 
avoid something like this happening again, 
perhaps the solution is as simple as giving 
universities like UCF more money.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.The overblown UCF funding scandal is a sign of deeper issues in state funding Column
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.org
“There are three ways to ight the 
boredom and sometimes loathing 
that comes with these unwanted, 
required courses."8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
Flipturn
Dillon Basse, the lead singer and rhythm guitarist for Flipturn, performs “Chicago. ”
The Hails
Robbie Kingsley, the lead singer of The Hails, sings “Younger. ”
King Complex
Bracher Brown, the lead singer and guitarist of the band  King Complex plays the solo of “Hole in the Sky”  during the second annual Heartwood Music Festival.
From the Heart
Photos by Chris King  /  Alligator Staff 
The second annual Heartwood Music 
Festival took place all day Saturday 
showcasing local artists  and out-
of-state bands. Thirty-four bands 
performed throughout the day with 
shows at the Heartwood Soundstage, 
the Acrosstown Repertory Theatre and 
the Outdoor Stage. Local band Flipturn 
headlined the festival and performed 
in front of more than 200 people. Food 
trucks and other vendors provided 
attendees a drink or a bite to eat during 
the festival. The music began at 12:30 
p.m. and the last note rang out at 1  a.m. 
Attendees purchased tickets for $15, 
which gave them access to a full days 
worth of music and fun. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Joshua Therrien, 8, and James Therrien, 3, pet puppies Saturday. The puppies were 
from Faithful Friends Pet Rescue and Rehoming, a non-proﬁ  t organization that tries to 
ﬁ  nd foster homes for animals in Gainesville. The puppies were not yet up for adoption 
because they still needed to be spayed and neutered. 
Vanessa Mendiola, a 21-year-old UF public relations junior, paints a Hello Kitty 
design on 4-year-old Lana Omar’s face Saturday at the second annual Stop Paws 
Learn event at the Santa Fe College T eaching Zoo. 
Ofﬁ  cer Ed Ratliff pets Ace, 3, Saturday during a Gainesville Police Department K-9 unit demonstration. Ace is an apprehension and narcotics certiﬁ  ed dog who is trained to 
track and ﬁ  nd people and drugs for the police department. Ratliff has worked with Ace on the road since the summer of 2018.
In Paws We Trust
Photos by Chris Day / Alligator Staff Newberry Animal Hospital Group 
presented the second annual Stop 
Paws Learn event Saturday from 
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Santa Fe 
College Teaching Zoo. Admission to 
the event and zoo was free. Outside of the 
zoo, attendees could interact with therapy 
and service dogs and Gainesville Police De-
partment K-9 ofﬁ  cers. Attendees could pet 
animals like rabbits from the Gainesville 
Rabbit Rescue and reptiles from the Santa 
Fe College Teaching Zoo. Within the zoo, 
otter and capuchin monkey trainings were held throughout the day as attendees walked 
among the habitats. Food from trucks such 
as Cilantro Taco Gainesville was available, 
and the Sweetwater Branch Inn had special 
homemade dog treats. WUFT News also 
hosted a Curious George book giveaway to 
help promote children’s literacy as part of 
a WUFT PBS Kids Zone at the event. The 
Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo houses more 
than 75 different species of animals and is 
maintained by students enrolled in the col-
lege’s Zoo Animal Technology Program. 10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
Condo on the 3rd floor,Two bedrooms, 2 
baths, screened balcony, laundry room. Pool 
area. Plenty of parking, unassigned. Storage 
room. Close to UF and Santa Fe college.
Contact Mayda Owner/Agent 305 772-1950    
2-25-19-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Designated drivers are the greatestSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
FOR RENT
2-STORY HISTORICAL HOUSE.
9-10 bedrooms starting 8-1-19.
1022 NW 3rd Ave.
Contact Brenda 352-672-8657          3-1-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
MATH TUTOR
More thank 20 years of exp. UF engineer 
graduate. Please call Hermon 352-225-8980    
3-1-19-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
deli help.  Fast paced friendly environment. 
No experience needed. Reliable transporta -
tion a must. Applications available on site at 
2327 N W 13th Street.     2-25-5-14
We have a part time job waiting for you if 
skilled at INDESGN and can type well.
Call Connie or Jim at (352)377-2444     3-1-
5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1.  Horse gait
1.  Slender ape5.  Newly married woman 
2.  Free time6.  Below
3.  Late7.  Myth, fable
4.  Gave a dirty lookOLPLGA
BNGIBODRBEI
NURDE
SLEERUI
VUEDROEGLEDNE
RADGLEANSWERS: 1A-Gallop  5A-Bride  6A-Under  7A-Legend
1D-Gibbon  2D-Leisure  3D-Overdue  4D-Glared  B-Boeing2-25-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This company was incorporated
on July 15, 1916.
BONUS1. Francisco Lindor set a Cleveland 
Indians record in 2017 for most home 
runs in a season by a middle infielder 
(33). Who had held the mark?
2. Who held the major-league record 
for most home runs by a rookie before 
Aaron Judge of the New York Yan-
kees belted 52 in 2017?
3. Pro Football Hall of Fame kicker 
Morten Andersen retired in 2008 as 
the leading scorer for two NFL fran-
chises. Name them.
4. When was the last time before 
2018 that Clemson’s men’s basket-
ball team reached the Sweet 16 of the 
NCAA Tournament?
5. Name the first black player in the 
NHL.
6. When was the last time before 
2018 that Croatia’s men’s soccer team 
reached at least the semifinals of the 
World Cup?
7. When was the last time before 
2018 (Desiree Linden) that an Amer-
ican woman won the Women’s Open 
at the Boston Marathon?
Answers
1. Joe Gordon, who hit 32 home runs 
in 1948. (Lindor hit 38 home runs in 
2018 to surpass his own mark.)
2. Mark McGwire hit 49 home runs 
for Oakland in 1987.
3. New Orleans and Atlanta. He is 
still the leading scorer for the Saints.
4. It was 1997.
5. Canadian Willie O’Ree, with the 
Boston Bruins in 1958.
6. It was 1998.
7. Lisa Larsen Weidenbach won it in 
1985.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/25/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/25/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 25, 2019
ACROSS
1 Sources of 
nuclear energy
6 Wolf call
10 Banned 
pollutants, briefly
14 Exodus mount
15 Author Wiesel
16 “I smell trouble”
17 Tavern mug
18 Get off the lawn, 
as leaves
19 Noncurrent 
currency of Italy
20 Tricolor flier in 
Dublin
23 Longtime forensic 
drama
25 The first “T” in 
TNT
26 Bitcoin, notably
27 Quality sound 
reproduction
31 Prefix with violet
32 Shipshape
33 Mineral hardness 
scale
34 “The game is __”: 
Sherlock Holmes
36 “Alas!”
40 Waves to ride on
41 Hit that barely 
gets over the 
infield
42 “And suppose 
my answer is 
no?”
46 Panini cheese
48 “Alice” diner 
owner
49 “That’s all __ 
wrote”
50 “What’s your 
hurry?” ... and 
a literal hint to 
what’s hiding 
in 20-, 27- and 
42-Across
54 Stereo preceder
55 Length times 
width
56 Erode
59 Blue dye
60 Storm-producing 
weather systems
61 Wharton’s Ethan
62 Must have
63 Crafter’s  
website
64 Brown-toned 
photoDOWN
1 Stubborn animal
2 Chickadee 
relative
3 20% expressed 
as a fraction
4 Snail or junk 
follower
5 “New York, New 
York” crooner
6 Valiant
7 Disney snowman
8 User-edited site
9 Eyed wolfishly
10 Don, as boots
11 China’s __  
Kai-shek
12 Carried
13 Shielded from 
the sun
21 College sr.’s 
exam
22 Send out
23 Buddy
24 Grain storage 
area
28 Tax-collecting 
agcy.
29 Like most light 
switches
30 Classic roadster
34 Used car lot 
event35 The “F” in TGIF: 
Abbr.
36 Furry sitcom ET
37 Landing site for 
Santa’s sleigh
38 Dance in a pit
39 Olympic fencing 
event
40 Wise one
41 Opinions
42 Dog at a cookout
43 Ramis of 
“Ghostbusters”44 “Doesn’t  
bother me  
at all”
45 NFL official
46 “Oh, no, bro!”
47 Dazzled
51 Relaxed running 
pace
52 Fells with an ax
53 Steak order
57 Mate, across the 
Channel
58 Tazo product
By Jim Quinlan
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, February 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Like some VIP 
treatment
10 Global Chic 
designer
14 Dog trainer’s 
hand signal, say
15 It’ll blow over 
soon
16 Running 
smoothly
17 Schindler with 
a list
18 Stings
19 Academic 
acronym
21 The past, in the 
past
22 Beat but good
24 Absorption 
processes
26 “A Farewell to 
Arms” setting: 
Abbr.
29 Algerian seaport
31 __ Pig: British 
preschool TV 
show
32 Start to stop?
33 Strauss creation
35 Mexican 
president after 
Calderón
37 Gets all mushy
40 Kipling’s “Lone 
Wolf”
41 Feudal servants
42 Daffy depiction?
43 Can’t get enough 
of
45 Abounding
46 Anti-
discrimination 
initials
47 Mexico’s largest 
lake
49 Cunning
51 “Wow!”
52 Passed on
54 Very little
58 Shut out, in a 
game
60 “Pardon, sir ... ”
62 Salon option
63 Counting-out 
rhyme opening
64 Flexible, in a 
way
65 Secretly 
communicate in 
class, pre-textingDOWN
1 Dollar competitor
2 Feature of a busy 
amusement park
3 What needs to 
be passed on the 
way to the bar, 
briefly?
4 Foretell
5 Musical “Late 
Late” segment
6 Snowstorm news
7 Prefix with 
tourism
8 Explorers, e.g.
9 Manage
10 Gp. concerned 
with cheaters
11 Stops the fight
12 Rhododendron 
family bloomer
13 __ out: gets 
excited in a geeky 
way, in slang
15 Popular place for 
lurking trolls
20 Psychic’s claim
23 Former TV talk 
show host Smiley
25 Taylor tot
26 Sun and Sky org.
27 Unlikely “TGIF” 
exclaimer28 “Little help?”
30 Pilot’s digit
34 Narrow furrow
36 2017 Tony 
winner about the 
’90s Israel-PLO 
accords
38 Somewhat off
39 Cloverleaf 
segments
44 Mammal with a 
rack
47 G.I. Joe nemesis48 Writer of 
anthropomorphic 
tales
50 Lacks choices
53 Perfumery that 
created Tabu
55 Bit of sports 
trivia
56 French bean?
57 Winged god
59 Situation Room 
gp.
61 Assent16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 22 Tickets 23 Rides
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators win SEC Championship in Athens
The Florida men's swimming and diving team won its seventh-consecutive 
SEC Championship over the weekend in Athens, Georgia. Robert Finke 
swam the 1,650 free in 14:23.01, a UF, SEC Championship and Georgia pool 
record. UF outfielder/first baseman Amanda 
Lorenz hit four leadoff home runs 
over the last nine days for the 
Florida softball team. The Gators are 
18-0 since starting on Feb. 8.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Guard Noah Locke was having 
a rough game against Missouri. He 
had missed all five of his shots, but 
even as attempt after attempt came 
up short, forward Keyontae John-
son encouraged him to keep up his 
confidence.
“Keep shooting, keep shooting,” 
he urged Locke.
He reminded Locke what he 
has proven he can do given the op-
portunity to shoot — for instance, 
when he dropped 22 points against 
Ole Miss on Jan. 30. 
Locke took his teammate’s ad-
vice.
With 7:11 left in the game, 
Locke pulled up from three and 
sunk it, giving Florida its first lead 
since early in the first half. 
Those three points were all 
Locke scored, but they capped off 
a 12-point comeback as the Gators 
earned an important 64-60 home 
win against the Tigers.
It was timely contributions like Locke’s, as well as 23 Mizzou team 
fouls, that gave Florida (16-11, 8-6 
SEC) 30 tries from behind the chari-
ty stripe (of which it made 25), that 
helped UF pull a victory out of an 
overall sloppy game.
“It’s been a struggle for us to 
generate physicality on offense and 
find ways to get to the line,” coach 
Mike White said. “To win a little bit 
differently I think is a step.”
The Gators didn’t just win differ-
ently against the Tigers, however. 
Florida’s four-game winning 
streak is its longest of the season, 
and in all four of those wins, it had 
to get creative. The Gators demon-
strated that their formula for win-
ning is now broader.
Early in the season, whether the 
team won or lost generally came 
down to shooting. When the out-
side shots fell, Florida looked like 
a competitive team. When it didn’t, 
the team couldn’t muster enough 
interior offense to compete with 
quality opponents.
Take the two games against But-Florida is finding ways to win as regular season winds down
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Keyontae Johnson scored 13 points on 4-of-8 shooting in UF's 64-60 win over 
Missouri on Saturday at the O'Connell Center.
The Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
You may not have seen it 
coming two weeks ago.
An abysmal three-game 
stretch filled with offensive laps-
es and undisciplined play cast an 
ominous cloud over the Florida 
men’s basketball team’s postsea-
son hopes.
Just four regular-season 
games remain, and the Gators 
are on a four-game winning streak and have 
surged into NCAA Tournament conversa-
tions.
How’d that happen for a team that was 
1-3 through its first four conference games?
Some might say it’s because freshmen 
Noah Locke, Keyontae Johnson and An-
drew Nembhard have grown much more 
comfortable and confident in their roles as 
key all-around contributors.
Others might credit the Gators’ defensive 
efforts during the win streak. Since the loss 
to Tennessee on Feb. 9, Florida has only al-
lowed 61.8 points per contest, and one of those games (against LSU) went 
to overtime.
The answer is much more 
simple than that, though.
KeVaughn Allen is the answer. 
He’s the reason Florida is back in 
NCAA Tournament projections, 
and he’s been the Gators’ answer 
in nearly all of their most impor-
tant wins of the year.
Allen had a relatively quiet start to the 
season, falling into the shadows of Locke 
and Nembhard, specifically, both of whom 
coach Mike White said were the best play-
ers on the team early in the 2018-19 cam-
paign.
But Allen’s play during Florida’s win 
streak, where he’s averaged 14.3 points 
and 3.5 rebounds, serves as a reminder that 
right now, he’s still Florida’s biggest asset. 
He’s scored in double figures in 22 of the 
Gators’ 27 games this season, he has led 
the team in scoring 11 times and only one Guard KeVaughn Allen is UF's 
best player right nowBASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Sunday was an occasion that deserved a 
celebration for UF freshman Kendrick Cali-
lao.
The first baseman from Kissimmee, Flor-
ida, went 3 for 4, hitting an RBI single in 
the first inning, a solo shot in the sixth and 
ending his day with a double to left center 
in the eighth.
Not a bad way to perform on your 19th 
birthday.
Calilao’s two RBIs helped lead the Gators 
to their second-straight victory and fifth-
straight series win over the Miami Hur-
ricanes, winning 4-1 at a muggy Alfred A. 
McKethan Stadium.
Calilao continues to have an impressive 
debut season, currently hitting .435. He 
went 7 for 12 over the weekend, driving in 
six RBIs.
“It’s just part of the game, people just 
get into grooves, and you continue to hit the 
ball and feel good at the plate,” Calilao said. “You play your best when you aren’t think-
ing at all, and I’m kind of in that stage right 
now.”
For a player competing in his first year of 
college ball, Calilao has eased into the pace 
of play well.
“He’s always hit,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said. “Obviously he had a great 
weekend stat-wise, but he’s using the whole 
field. I thought he did a really nice job mak-
ing in-game adjustments.”
Florida’s four runs on 10 hits were 
enough thanks to UF’s Sunday starter, Jack 
Leftwich.
Leftwich picked up his second win in 
as many outings after pitching five innings, 
giving up just five hits and one earned run. 
The right-hander struck out seven and lim-
ited his walks to two.
“I thought Jack (Leftwich) was good to-
day,” O’Sullivan said. “Miami did a nice job 
of getting his pitch count up early. He got 
in a bit of trouble in the third, walking the 
eight and nine hole hitters, but other than Gators clinch weekend 
series against Miami
Alanis Thames
Twitter: @alanisthames
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Growing up, Funda Nakkasoglu wondered 
why she couldn’t have a “normal” name. 
Hers was certainly an unusual one in 
Hampton, Australia, a small, chic suburb out-
side of Melbourne. 
Her father and mother, Can and Meneske, 
chose her name for a few reasons. 
They liked the sound of it. They liked that 
“Australians were able to read and pronounce 
it correctly at the first attempt”: FOON-da.
They also liked how it was derived from na-
ture. Funda is a bushy plant with purple flow-
ers native to Anatolia, the peninsula which 
makes up most of Can’s home nation of Tur-
key.  If it wasn’t for her name, you’d have no 
idea Florida’s star guard with an Australian ac-
cent is an up-and-comer for the Turkish wom-
en’s national basketball team.
Although it’s not renowned for its basket-
ball talent, there is a basketball culture “Down 
Under.” 
“It’s one of the major sports,” Funda said. 
“Basketball and netball are probably the front-
runners after [Australian rules football].”
By the time she could walk, basketball was 
ingrained into Funda. Can gave her a ball to 
play with and always had basketball on TV. He 
had a hoop in the backyard, and reckoned that 
it was a “monkey see, monkey do” mentality 
that got his daughter hooked on the game. The 
two went to games together, and by the time 
Funda was 7, she was playing organized ball 
with a local team.
“When she started to play team basketball, 
she stood out,” Can said. “Funda was a very 
experienced 7 years old.”
Can played basketball professionally in Tur-
key, where Meneske played volleyball.
“[My mom] always says, ‘I was too late, 
your dad caught you first,’” Funda said.
With his basketball career cut short due to 
injuries, Can and Meneske lived in a few differ-
ent countries. Drawn by the exotic lure, as well 
as a solid job market and some friends already 
there, they made Australia stick. 
“[We] saved some money for a bit of ad-
venture and decided to try living in Australia 
for a while,” Can said. “That while has become 
thirty years in 2019.”
 
 Funda’s knowledge of the Turkish language 
comes and goes. She’s lived in an English 
speaking country her whole life.
“I’m really good at understanding [Turk-
ish] because my parents have spoken it at 
home,” she said. “It’s the talking part that gets 
me sometimes, and they say that I do have an 
Australian accent.”
Despite her heritage and annual trips to 
Turkey, Funda said she feels more Australian.
“I had been born there,” she said. “I had 
been raised there. I, absolutely, always felt like 
that was my home.” 
It was in Australia where she blossomed 
into a basketball talent. Funda routinely repre-
sented her state, Victoria, in national competi-
tions. However, she was never contacted by 
the Australian National Team to play interna-
tionally.
 She was presented with that chance by her 
parents’ home country instead.
“That’s why, when Turkey called me, I was 
immediately like ‘Yeah, there’s an opportuni-
ty,’” she said.
Funda’s first outing for Turkey, the sixth-
best national team in the world according to FIBA, was a practice game against France in 
Slovenia. The friendly match took place in a 
training gym without any fans. Still, it was an 
experience Funda will never forget.
“When I saw my jersey, when I saw my 
number, just seeing the emblem,” she said, “it 
was surreal.”
According to Can’s best recollection, that 
game occurred four years ago. Agonizingly, it 
wasn’t until more than three years later that the 
basketball-loving father first saw his daughter 
represent the country of his birth. 
Turkey called her up to train and tryout for 
the 2016 Olympic squad. Funda couldn’t go 
because she was preoccupied with transferring 
from Utah State and was undecided about her 
future. She had to negotiate her release with 
Utah State, go on campus visits and take class-
es in order to transfer. 
The national team would have to wait until 
after she found the University of Florida.
Can witnessed his daughter in a Turkish 
jersey for the first time in August 2018, when 
the team faced China, the world’s seventh-best 
team, in a World Cup preparation game. Can 
called seeing Funda take the floor his “proud-est” moment.
The game was also emotional for Funda.
“That was a big pride moment,” she said. 
“It was a big thing knowing that I could make 
my parents proud.” 
The experience turned sour midway through 
the first quarter when she was knocked out of 
the game after she took a hit to the nose, which 
had been broken previously. Shortly thereaf-
ter, she broke her rib in training and missed 
the World Cup – the “most hurtful” moment 
for her dad from a basketball standpoint.
Despite the limited playing time because 
of injuries, school and other commitments, 
Funda believes that she gained a lot of experi-
ence playing with the national team, which has 
benefitted her as a player.
“That helped me grow a lot – mentally, 
physically – just seeing a lot of different as-
pects,” she said. “I tried being like a sponge 
over there.”
Since her return to Florida, Funda’s produc-
tion has increased. She leads the Gators with 
16.3 points per game this year (compared to 
14.9 last year), which is more than six points 
higher than the next player, guard Delicia 
Washington. Florida coach Cam Newbauer 
has seen how her work ethic has affected her 
increase in production.
“Wants to compete, wants to win, wants to 
be better every day, wants to lead her team-
mates. Selfless,” Newbauer said of his lead-
ing scorer. “We’d really like to see us finish 
strong for her. She’s a very deserving young 
lady who’s worked and spent countless hours 
in the gym, not just here in America.”
Funda still hasn’t decided on what she 
wants to do when the season concludes and 
her time at UF ends. 
“I’d love to pursue a professional basketball 
career if I could afterwards, and then see what 
comes forth after that,” she said. “Maybe play 
in Europe for a few years, maybe go back and 
play in Australia for a few years.” 
But one thing is certain: The woman with 
an Australian accent who plays for the Turkish 
national team has been a revelation in a down 
season for the Gators (6-20, 2-11 SEC).
Funda Nakkasoglu has blossomed in her 
time at Florida and with the national team. 
And like the plant she’s named after, she’s un-
equivocally Turkish. This Funda, however, has 
Australian roots. 
“I am half-Turkish,” Nakkasoglu said be-
fore catching herself. “I mean, I’m full Turkish, 
but because I was born in Australia, I would 
say half-Turkish, half-Australian.”
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgFunda Nakkasoglu: Unequivocally Turkish with Aussie roots 
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Perhaps it was her family.
When sophomore Alyssa Bau-
mann fell off the beam during her 
routine, perhaps it was her parents, 
grandparents, aunts and uncles in 
the audience there to watch her 
sister Rachel and her compete that 
put the pressure on her. Perhaps it 
was the tenseness that came with 
how close the match was the entire 
night (it was eventually decided by 
.075 points). Perhaps it was just an 
off night for the world champion.
“This week, we had some mis-
takes,” Baumann said after the meet. “I think that’s gonna push 
us, especially since it was to one of 
our biggest rivals.”
Whatever it was, it was cost-
ly. Her dropped score forced the 
Gators to keep a 9.675 on the 
beam, and when it came time for 
her floor routine, it forced her to hit 
at the 9.9 mark to tie or to go above 
it to win. She couldn’t do either.
They were mistakes that No. 2 
UF cannot afford when the team 
enters the postseason, and they’re 
something that coach Jenny Row-
land and her squad are well aware 
of.
“We can either go down from 
our mistakes, or we can use them as a learning tool to see how we 
can improve upon them,” junior 
Amelia Hundley said after the 
meet. “And I think that’s what 
we’re going to do.”
For the second week in a row, 
Florida had only one of its gym-
nasts go above the 9.9 mark on 
vault, with Alicia Boren’s 9.925. 
UF’s vault landings have been one 
of its weaker areas this season, and 
it will look to get its vault scores 
higher before the SEC Champion-
ships begins in late March.
It wasn’t all negatives for Flori-
da in its defeat, though.
Freshman Trinity Thomas had 
yet another stellar showing as an all-arounder, scoring 39.675 overall 
and netting two 9.975 scores, one 
on the uneven bars and the other 
on the floor. Thomas shattered 
olympian Bridget Sloan’s school re-
cord of four 9.975 scores as a fresh-
man. She has six with two more 
regular season meets to go.
Rowland had particular praise 
for Thomas after the meet and, on 
top of her scores on bars and floor, 
she commended her beam routine 
as the best she’d ever seen her per-
form.
“She had a spectacular night 
tonight,” Roland said. “She really 
looked calm, at ease. Just did what 
she does in practice every day.”UF has 27 days to address its 
weaknesses before the SEC Cham-
pionships start. The last two regu-
lar season meets for the Gators 
should be no challenge. They face 
a 1-6 team in the No. 21 Arkansas 
Razorbacks on the road on Friday, 
and they host No. 24 Penn State in 
their last meet of the season.
Despite her mistakes and the 
team’s defeat, Baumann had a sim-
ple warning for her sister and Geor-
gia that she isn’t going to repeat the 
same mistakes when they matter.
“Get ready for SECs, Rachel.” 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators have time to work things out despite mistakesAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu leads the Gators with 16.3 points per game this 
season, roughly six points higher than the next player.
•   •   •
•   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019
Reach 50,000+ sports fans by featuring 
your ad on the NCAA T ournament  
Bracket! This special bracket will be a 
pull out section that Gator fans can use 
for the whole three weeks of March 
Madness to track their favorite teams.
RUN DATE
Mon, March 18DEADLINE
Thurs March 14T ake the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Starting at
$241.79
includes full color
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Contact Alligator Advertising
Reserve your space today!
376.4482 
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTEthat I thought he was great.” 
Jordan Butler relieved his starter in the sixth, pitching 
three scoreless innings to set up freshman closer Nolan Crisp 
for his fourth save of the season.
He continues to show maturity on the mound beyond his 
age.
“He’s supposed to be a high-school senior, and he already 
has four saves,” O’Sullivan said, referring to Crisp. “He’s 
really competitive… he’s just a bulldog. There’s a lot to be 
learned, hopefully some of our older guys are watching him.”
UF’s lackadaisical week prior to this series seems to be be-
hind it, as the Gators took two of three from their in-state rival.
“I think (Wil) Dalton’s at-bat in the seventh on Saturday 
(a bases clearing, go-ahead triple) changed the complexity 
of the whole weekend,” O’Sullivan said. “To bounce back 
and whin a series after a difﬁ  cult loss on Friday…it says a 
lot about our team’s character and ﬁ  ght, and these types of 
series are certainly going to help us moving forward.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
ler, another bubble team in a more tenuous po-
sition than UF. When the teams faced off in the 
Bahamas on Nov. 23, Florida shot 34.6 percent 
in a seven-point loss. But when they played in 
Gainesville on Dec. 29, the Gators shot 53.6 
percent. 
They won that game by 34.
Now, Florida has shown that it can win with 
more offensive variety. The Gators can score in-
side, partially thanks to forward Isaiah Stokes.
He scored six points, four of which came in 
the paint. He played a season-high 18 minutes, 
and presents a tantalizing, more offensively-
oriented alternative to big men Kevarrius Hayes 
and Dontay Bassett.
He said he needs to improve upon his de-
fense to become a well-rounded ﬁ  ve.“I’ve got to do a better job of defending ball 
screens,” Stokes said. “Just do everything on 
the defensive end and everything will play out.”
Florida’s bench relief isn’t just coming in the 
frontcourt, however.
Guard Jalen Hudson is averaging 11.2 points 
a game over the last ﬁ  ve contests, as opposed 
to his season average of 7.2. The ﬁ  fth-year se-
nior said his late-season surge is partly due to 
the realization his college career is coming to 
a close.
“It’s just coming to an end, and I just want 
to give it everything I got,” Hudson said. “I 
don’t want to have any regrets.”
White echoed Hudson’s sentiment, and said 
that more consistent play from the other se-
niors, guard KeVaughn Allen and Hayes, can 
be attributed to that realization. 
“It’s the bottom of the ninth for these guys,” White said. “Snap of the ﬁ  nger, it’s gone.”
Time may be running out for UF’s upper-
classmen, but now they have a newfound rea-
son for optimism.
Florida’s scoring defense ranks 20th in the 
nation. The offense, while still shaky, is quickly 
improving. Even when it isn’t pretty, the Gators 
are winning games they would have lost earlier 
in the season.
To Stokes, that means everything as Florida 
wraps up the regular season and turns its atten-
tion toward a potential postseason berth.
“I feel like everything’s starting to click 
now,” he said. “We’re playing more together, 
we’re playing as a unit. Keep doing that, and 
it’ll work out in our favor.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14
MEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Butler relieved Leftwich after ive innings of play
Hudson averaging 11.2 points per game over last ive contestsother player (Locke) is averaging 
double digits.
More important than Allen’s 
stats is his ability to knock down 
the big buckets, the momentum 
swinging shots that ultimately de-
cide the fate of the game.
He did it against Ole Miss on 
Jan. 30.
Allen hadn’t made a three-
point shot all game before drain-
ing one with just 8.8 seconds left 
on the clock. It sent the contest 
to overtime and eventually sent 
Florida home with a win.
He did it again against No. 13 
LSU on Feb. 20.
Allen was held scoreless in the 
ﬁ  rst half. He nailed three shots 
from beyond the arc in the second 
period and paced the team with 
12-overtime points to get the up-
set.
And Allen’s 17 points (14 in 
the second half) in the Gators’ 
comeback win over Missouri on 
Saturday was simply him doing 
what he’s grown accustomed to 
this season: make the shots that 
matter.
Allen has been Florida’s most 
clutch player this year. His recent 
conﬁ  dence on the ﬂ  oor shows in 
the shots he takes. 
And if Florida does enough 
in the ﬁ  nal stint of the regular 
season to solidify its spot in the 
tournament, it’ll turn to its senior 
guard to ﬁ  nd his shot at the most 
critical moments and propel the 
team to success.
Alanis Thames is the online 
sports editor of the Alligator. Fol-
low her on Twitter @alanisthames 
and contact her at athames@alli-
gator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Sunday starter Jack Leftwich pitched ﬁ  ve innings during Florida's 4-1 win over 
Miami at home, allowing ﬁ  ve hits, one run and two walks. He struck out seven.
