We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Minors post fake school threat 
Police say two children were arrested for making an Instagram 
post threatening Westwood Middle School. pg. 5
UF faculty union secures raises
UF’s United Faculty of Florida Union has negotiated a new sal-
ary deal worth over $5 million. pg. 3Hall looks for bounce-back game 
against Minnesota
The sophomore outside hitter leads the 
Gators in kills with 45 in three games, pg 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 7
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
ONE STUDENT’S REFLECTION 
ON HURRICANE DORIAN AND 
HOW YOU CAN HELP
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
When Kariel Stuart began her ﬁ  rst 
semester at UF in August, she didn’t 
expect that a month into her stay, 
her home in the Bahamas would be 
destroyed. 
Now, the 18-year-old computer 
engineering freshman’s family is left 
in the wake of Hurricane Dorian’s 
destruction.
With sustained winds of 185 
mph, Dorian left more than 70,000 
Bahamian residents in need of “dire 
humanitarian aid,” according to the 
United Nations.
“My whole neighborhood was 
completely ﬂ  ooded out,” Stuart said. 
“My house was ﬁ  lled up to the roof 
with water: the walls are gutted out, the windows popped out from the 
impact.”
Her family is one of many scram-
bling to pick up the pieces. Days lat-
er, several organizations have come 
together to set up donation drives for 
those in need.
Dorian devastated the Grand Ba-
hama and Abaco Islands as a Cat-
egory 5 hurricane. On Sunday, it 
became the strongest hurricane to 
ever hit the archipelago, according 
to the National Hurricane Center. 
The death toll has risen to 30 as of 
Thursday, according to the Associ-
ated Press, with thousands still re-
ported missing.
Several donation drives are hap-
pening around campus. Stuart is 
working with the UF Caribbean Stu-
dent Association to collect donations 
to be delivered.
Stuart created a GoFundMe for 
Bahamas relief which raised $375 as of Thursday night. Organizations 
including the UF National Society of 
Black Engineers, Club Creole and 
The Gator Chapter of NAACP shared 
the GoFundMe on their Instagram 
pages. Stuart said she will use the 
money to buy supplies. 
UF CaribSA president Tyana King 
said that if students could donate one 
thing, it should be canned goods. 
“You have families and children 
that can’t really go long without 
food,” King said. “Other than just 
donating supplies and money, I 
would deﬁ  nitely say a prayer is go-
ing to help.”
King is originally from the U.S. 
Virgin Islands and said she can relate 
to the hopelessness that Bahamian 
students are feeling. Two years ago, 
her home was hit by another Catego-
ry 5 storm, Hurricane Irma.
In times like these, students and 
faculty have to be careful about what organizations they’re donating to, 
King said. She recommends making 
sure organizations are credible and 
that donors know where their efforts 
are going.
Stuart said her future at UF re-
mains uncertain. With the death toll 
rising and half of her family unable 
to be reached, Stuart said her heart is 
with her island. 
“I’m really trying to get home, but 
my dad is trying to get me to stay 
here,” Stuart said. “I worked really 
hard in high school to be able to get 
enough scholarships to come to a 
school like UF and he doesn’t want 
me to ruin that opportunity.” 
Not all hope is lost, though. Stu-
art said although the future for her 
home remains unclear, she believes 
the Bahamian spirit will emerge from 
the rubble and rebuild the island. 
“People tend to come together 
when we’re in a moment of disaster and tragedy,” she said. “Our people 
are the type to overcome any situa-
tion. Our island will not be uninhab-
itable. That’s not it.”
@aescalante22
a.escalante@uﬂ  ,edu‘Everything is gone’: UF students collect donations for the BahamasABOUT 200 RESIDENTS HAVE TO 
FIND NEW LIVING ARRANGEMENTS 
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost two miles away from the bustle of 
Gainesville Regional Airport, all is quiet as tall 
grass and a plain concrete road leads to a sea of 
dark-colored tents.
The silence is broken only by the sound of 
dogs barking.
Among the abundance of tents is a single ham-
mock owned by a woman with a personality as 
vibrant as her wardrobe. Amanda Smith’s yellow 
and teal clothes are easy to spot in Dignity Village, 
a homeless encampment in Gainesville.
For the past four months, Smith has been one 
of about 200 homeless people living in Dignity 
Village, which surrounds GRACE Marketplace, a 
low-barrier homeless shelter joint-funded by the 
Gainesville City and Alachua County commis-sions. The camp will close by Jan. 1, 2020.  
Smith, 31, usually sleeps in her hammock and 
lets other people sleep in her tent. 
“I let everybody come up here and stay,” 
Smith said. “I don’t deny nobody a home. That’s 
just me.” 
Soon, Smith’s hammock will no longer sway 
outside GRACE and her gray tent will be replaced 
with a chain link fence, leaving her and her neigh-
bors looking for somewhere new to go. 
“It’s hard to think what’s going to happen 
when and if they shut this down,” Smith said. “Ev-
erybody here is family to me.” 
City and county commissioners voted in May 
to close the camp and evacuate it by next year, 
said Jon DeCarmine, executive director of GRACE 
Marketplace. Starting Oct. 1, a chain-link fence will 
outline the camp, preventing new residents from 
moving in and a one-way entry and exit on to the 
property will be manned by security personnel a Dignity Village to close by Jan. 1, 
transition homeless elsewhere
FEATURE FRIDAY
SEE DIGNITY,  PAGE 3
Supplies to donate
More details can be found at 
@UFCaribSA
• Non-perishable/Canned food
• Water
• First Aid Kits
• Mosquito Spray
• Sanitary Products
• T ampons
• Baby Food
• Diapers
• Trash Bags
• Flashlights
• T arps
• BatteriesSam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Amanda Smith, a 31-year-old Dignity Village resident, stands in front of her 
camp located on the outskirts of the 10-acre property. Smith has lived there 
for four months. She wants to stay in Gainesville once it closes on Jan. 1, 
though she does not know where she will go. T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.orgLocal Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  72°
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019    KICKOFF
VOLUME 114 ISSUE 7
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, cday@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgElizabeth Tubbs, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Eileen Calub, ecalub@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
IT WON’T BE OFFICIAL UNLESS 
REPRESENTED FACULTY AND UF’S 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES VOTE FOR IT 
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
After four weeks of bargaining with UF’s 
Board of Trustees, UF’s United Faculty of Flor-
ida Union ﬁ  nalized a deal to allocate $5.5 mil-
lion toward salary raises and supplements. 
UFF-UF President Raúl Sánchez said the 
agreement includes the following: 
• 1 percent across-the-board raise
• 2 percent merit pool for performance-
based raise
• $325 salary supplement for 12-month fac-
ulty earning less than $67,000
• $200 salary supplement for 9-month fac-ulty earning less than $55,000 
• $100,000 allotment for UF-afﬁ  liated P.K. 
Yonge Developmental Research School
Aside from the 1 percent raise and the 2 
percent merit pool already granted to all fac-
ulty in June by UF President Kent Fuchs, these 
changes will only affect the 1,800 faculty mem-
bers in the union. 
Sánchez said the union represents faculty 
from the Colleges of Business; Education; En-
gineering; Design, Construction and Planning; 
Health and Human Performance; Journalism 
and Communications; Fine Arts; Liberal Arts 
and Sciences; faculty in the libraries; Academic 
Advising Center and Counseling and Wellness 
Center.
Bargaining unit members can vote on the 
agreement Sept. 11-12 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
at Library West or the Reitz Union. A majority 
of the bargaining unit and the Board of Trust-ees must vote ‘yes’ for the changes to go into 
effect on Oct. 1. 
The union chief negotiator William Keegan 
said part of the deal tries to address UF’s “com-
pressed salaries,” where faculty wages haven’t 
increased to make up for inﬂ  ation.
“We went through a six-year period where 
no faculty received raises. So as you’re hiring 
new faculty at competitive wages, you have 
faculty who’ve been working for six years and 
their salary hasn’t increased at all,” Keegan 
said. “So the new hires quickly catch up to the 
salaries of people who’ve been here for a long 
time.”
He added that some faculty make less than 
$58,000 a year, which is the minimum living 
wage for a one-parent two-child household in 
Alachua County, according to MIT’s Living 
Wage Calculator. 
The union doesn’t just work with salaries. This year marks the end of the last three-year 
Collective Bargaining Agreement, which cov-
ers everything from time off to rights of intel-
lectual property, and the union is working to 
tweak some of its rules for the next three years. 
Sánchez said the current proposals are to 
increase promotion raises from 9 percent to 15 
percent, secure up to 19.5 weeks of paid fam-
ily and parental leave, reinstate performance-
based raises for senior faculty and add equity 
raises for long-time employees.
“We hire really good people from across the 
country, and their salaries don’t reﬂ  ect that,” 
Sánchez said. “It’s just a question of being fair 
and paying people what they’re worth.”
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgUF faculty union secures salary deal worth more than $5 million
holding a roster of current Dignity 
Village residents. 
Dignity Village had potential to 
be a safe place for people to live, 
but residents aren’t receiving the 
services they need, DeCarmine said. 
He did not elaborate further on his 
decision to close the encampment. 
DeCarmine and his colleagues ap-
proached the city with a proposal to 
close the camp and transition resi-
dents into GRACE Marketplace or 
elsewhere about a year ago, said City 
Commissioner David Arreola. 
“Dignity Village is the biggest bro-
ken piece of our local homeless ser-
vices system,” DeCarmine said. “It’s 
become more of a long-term shelter-
ing arrangement as opposed to a tool 
to get people back into housing as 
quickly as possible.”
But a lack of communication 
between the city and county might 
steer these plans off track. 
At the Gainesville city commis-
sion meeting Thursday evening, 
commissioners spent almost an hour attempting to clear confusion about 
funding for this initiative from both 
committees. 
City commissioners were unsure 
of how the county is contributing to 
Dignity Village’s closure. Commis-
sioner Harvey Ward asked county 
ofﬁ  cials for the exact budgeted costs, 
which is $100,000.
County Commissioner Ken 
Cornell conﬁ  rmed the amount in 
a phone call on Thursday before 
the city commission meeting. 
He said the county is a funding 
partner but is not involved in the 
operations of GRACE Marketplace 
or Dignity Village. 
“It’s actually a city shelter that the 
county has participated in the fund-
ing,” Cornell said. “It’s something 
that the county is committed to.” 
Despite the possible setbacks, De-
Carmine said he remains hopeful. 
“I am completely conﬁ  dent we 
will ﬁ  nd a way through this and that 
the county will provide the funding 
that they committed,” he said at the 
meeting. 
During the transition, different 
options will be offered to Dignity Village occupants, he said. A section 
of the GRACE Marketplace prop-
erty will be transformed into a new 
campground, which will include up 
to 100 new tents, 9 feet by 9 feet in 
size. Tent platforms and shade sails 
for each person will also be provid-
ed. 
The campground is part of a two-
year process to get residents into 
stable housing and will be open Dec. 
1, he said. The startup cost for sup-
plies and resources is $125,000 and 
the funding is coming from the city 
and county. An additional $66,000 
will cover the fence and security for 
three months.
For those who choose to go else-
where, a bus ticket will be provided 
for residents to reach their families, 
he said. The “Go Home” fund for 
this is $20,000, and it is funded by 
the Alachua County Coalition for the 
Homeless and Hungry, DeCarmine 
said.
Conﬁ  rmation of a safe place and 
a consenting relative will be required 
to receive the ticket. 
According to a survey of Dig-
nity Village residents conducted by GRACE Marketplace, about 72 per-
cent have someplace else to go, De-
Carmine said. About 65 percent said 
they would be willing to move onto 
the GRACE Marketplace campus 
and about 10 percent said neither of 
those options work for them. 
The city spends $82,000 a year to 
help operate Dignity Village, Arreola 
said. 
“Our approval of the transition 
plan was integral for it to happen,” 
Arreola said. “At the end of the day 
it’s a matter of safety, and the situa-
tion at Dignity Village has generally 
become unsafe.”
Ten minutes away from GRACE 
Marketplace and Dignity Village, 
downtown Gainesville also remains 
an area with a noticeable homeless 
population. Managers from Dragon-
ﬂ  y Sushi & Sake Co., Pop-A-Top and 
The Gelato Co. and Eatery said they 
have not noticed a recent increase in 
the homeless presence around their 
businesses, but that certain residents 
have always been there. 
On the other hand, the owner of 
Big Lou’s NY Style Pizzeria and the 
manager of V Pizza both said they’ve noticed an increase in the past cou-
ple of weeks. 
V Pizza manager, Jon Rasp-
perry, 30, said he’s had to call the 
police twice due to homeless people 
screaming, being rude to employees 
and customers and refusing to leave 
the restaurant patio. 
“I think less families are going to 
want to come downtown because 
they don’t want their kids to be ex-
posed to certain things like that,” 
Raspperry said.
Terry Washington, a 54-year-
old Dignity Village resident, said he 
thinks the camp shouldn’t be closed 
because he receives three meals a 
day, has a place to shower and do 
laundry on the GRACE Marketplace 
campus. 
“I’ve been here over four years, 
I ain’t never had nothing really bad 
happen to me,” Washington said.  
Smith said she’s not sure where 
she’s going to go when it closes but 
hopes to stay in Gainesville. She 
does not plan to move on to the 
GRACE Marketplace campus. 
“I feel like there’s somebody else 
that needs it more than me,” Smith 
said. 
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgDIGNITY,  from pg. 1‘I am completely conident we will ind a way...’4  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   KICKOFF
Jacob Lambert, 25, walks by the 
Waldo Motorsports track while an 
ATV rider completes a jump. Lambert, 
a Nissan technician, said he has been 
riding his dirt bike for three years and 
was ﬁ  rst introduced to motorsports 
through his father. He added that he 
goes out riding at least once per week 
— three or four times when he can ﬁ  t 
it in.
Frank Ferri, 32, loads his dirt bike into his truck after an afternoon of 
riding. Ferri, who lives in Hawthorne, had been riding motorcycles 
for years, he said he started riding dirt bikes instead because 
dodging bad drivers on the road got tiring. He added that the dirt 
is much safer. Ferri usually rides on the track about twice a month, 
and his favorite part is competing with his friends.Moto madness
Sunday afternoon at the 
Waldo Motorsports track
Photo Story by Sam Thomas / The Alligator
Chris Mendez, 27,  rides his bike over hills 
at the track. He recently got out of the 
Air Force and enjoys riding when he is not 
working. In August, he rode 6,900 miles to 
South Dakota and back for a bike rally. His 
favorite part of riding is the freedom and 
feeling of peace.KICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
F a c e b o o k .   4 3 6  S E  2 n d  S t .   w - s a t  1 1 - 7 ,  s u n  b r u n c h  1 0 - 3   
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 
pm. Serving Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and 
more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 151 1 NW 
2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat. welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 
5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts 
and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. In -
door and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-
9649 . Introducing the Side Car 
Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. 
Open LateBy Ellen Bausback
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students will have to 
download a new app to skip 
the line at Starbucks.
UF Gator Dining announced 
in August that on-campus mo-
bile app ordering will transition 
from Tapingo to Grubhub. The 
Grubhub app is currently live, 
and locations will stop accept-
ing Tapingo sometime next 
week, said Jill Rodriguez, the 
Gator Dining marketing pro-
gram manager.
This change comes after 
Grubhub bought Tapingo. This 
collaboration came at no cost 
to UF, Rodriguez said.
Grubhub will include the 
same features and link to the 
same restaurants as Tapingo. 
Services will be limited to 
mobile orders, which consist 
of students ordering food or beverages on the app and then 
picking them up on location. 
Delivery will not be available 
on campus.
Students already registered 
with Tapingo can transfer their 
information to Grubhub by 
signing up on the new app and 
choosing “Gator Dining-Flori-
da” as their campus afﬁ  liation, 
Rodriguez said.
All mobile order fees will be 
waived until Dec. 31, she said.
Amanda Prem, a 20-year-
old UF psychology junior, 
doesn’t mind the change. She 
uses Tapingo to order from 
Starbucks when she’s running 
late and Chick-Fil-A when the 
line is long. 
“As long as everything kind 
of runs smoothly, it should be 
ﬁ  ne,” Prem said. “I don’t have 
a problem with it.”
@ellen_bausback
ebausback@alligator.orgGator Dining ditches 
Tapingo for GrubHubTHE 11-YEAR-OLD AND 
15-YEAR-OLD WERE ARRESTED
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville child didn’t want to 
go to school, so police said he and an-
other child made a fake school shoot-
ing threat on Instagram this Wednes-
day.
Gainesville Police were notiﬁ  ed 
Wednesday night about an 11- and 
15-year-old accused of creating an 
Instagram proﬁ  le of a fake person 
threatening to kill people at West-
wood Middle School. At least one of 
them didn’t have to attend school the next day, according to a GPD press 
release.
Both minors attend Alachua Coun-
ty Public Schools, and at least one 
attends Westwood, said GPD Capt. 
Jorge Campos. 
The two minors were arrested 
Wednesday night and taken to the 
Alachua County Juvenile Assessment 
Center on charges of written threats 
to kill or injure, police said. Neither 
attended school on Thursday.
There was no police activity at the 
school Thursday. Police said they be-
lieve there isn’t any immediate threat 
to the school.
Two concerned parents notiﬁ  ed 
them Wednesday night about a so-
cial media post from an account say-ing he or she is going to shoot up the 
middle school, police said. 
Other parents were notiﬁ  ed about 
the incident, said Jackie Johnson, 
Alachua County Public School Dis-
trict spokesperson. The students will 
be facing serious consequences.
Johnson said the minors will most 
likely remain in juvenile detention 
for 21 days. She urged parents to talk 
to their children about the gravity of 
making school shooting threats. 
“Unfortunately, in today’s society 
it’s something we have to deal with,” 
Johnson said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgTwo minors threaten to ‘shoot up’ Westwood Middle 
School on a fake Instagram proﬁ  le, police say
UF LOCATIONS WILL STOP USING 
TAPINGO NEXT WEEK
• Starbucks 
• Subway 
• Chick-ﬁ  l-A
• Panda Express
• Wendy’s 
• Pollo Tropical
• Chomp It
• Moe’s Southwest Grill• Einstein Bros. Bagels
• Au Bon Pain
• Jamba Juice
• Croutons
• Papa John’s
• Rising Roll
• Wing ZoneUF CANCELED CLASSES ON 
TUESDAY DUE TO 
HURRICANE DORIAN
By Emma McAvoy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government parties 
lost a day of recruiting candidates on 
Tuesday after UF closed ahead of Hur-
ricane Dorian.  
SG parties go through the process 
of slating, or interviewing, every Fall 
and Spring semester to recruit new 
candidates.  
Stephanie Siler, the SG supervisor 
of elections, said she informed both 
Inspire Party and Gator Party in per-
son, by phone and email early Friday 
morning. She made the decision to 
extend qualifying until 8 p.m. last Fri-
day after UF announced it would close 
Tuesday. Impact Party is not slating 
this semester.
“I communicated the information 
quickly and in multiple formats to the parties,” Siler wrote in an email. 
Gator Party posted a ﬂ  yer on their 
Facebook page around noon Aug. 30 
that read, “Today is the last day to 
slate. We want to keep you safe from 
the storm!” 
Inspire President Zachary Amrose 
said Siler emailed him about the can-
cellation almost an hour after Gator 
Party shared the Facebook post. 
On Friday, he proposed to SG that 
they host a make-up day for slating on 
any other day this week, but the pro-
posal was rejected a couple hours af-
ter during his discussion with Siler. He 
said it’s difﬁ  cult for the party to ﬁ  nd 
qualiﬁ  ed candidates with less time. 
“It just really affects students nega-
tively,” Amrose said. “Many had to 
make last-minute accommodations 
before they went home for the hurri-
cane.” 
Inspire decided to conduct inter-
views remotely because Siler didn’t 
allow anyone to conduct interviews 
in the Reitz Union this week, Amrose said. 
There is no rule in the SG hand-
book prohibiting remote interviews.   
Gator Party ﬁ  lled its slate of the 
most qualiﬁ  ed candidates for Senate 
that UF had to offer on Friday, the 
party told The Alligator in an email. It 
is unclear who in the party responds 
using the Gator Party email address.
When asked in an email if the party 
encountered any challenges without 
the extra day, Gator Party responded 
that the party was able to obtain a full 
slate of candidates without the addi-
tional day of slating. 
Gator Party did not ask for an ad-
ditional day. 
Amrose conﬁ  rmed parties were 
required to submit their list of chosen 
candidates by 11:59 a.m. Wednesday. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgWill days oﬀ   aﬀ  ect the SG slating process?
What restaurants will be included on the app?FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.You arrive to class 15 minutes early Thursday morn-
ing. You feel strong, conﬁ  dent and beautiful. When 
the professor calls for the assignments to be passed 
forward, you pull out your paper and take a moment 
to relish your excellent work. Even the staple in the 
corner is gleaming. You took advantage of the hurricane clos-
ings to read ahead in the material. During the lecture, you 
raise your hand multiple times to contribute, earning several 
good points from the professor. Today is just the start. The 
entire semester is going to be like this. It is ﬁ  nally your time to 
shi— BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP! You peel open your eyes. Ugh. 
Make it stop. You ﬂ  op your hand around until it connects with 
your phone. Darn it. It was a dream. DARN IT. WHAT TIME 
IS IT?! You roll off the couch and scramble around trying to 
pull together clothes. There’s drool all over your cheek and 
chin. You trip over trash on the ﬂ  oor. You ﬂ  ip open your Mac 
and pull up the paper that you fully intended to write days 
ago but only started around dawn. You send it to the printer. 
Something smells and you’re pretty sure it’s you. You grab the 
pages and rush out the door. You ﬁ  nally get to class. Everyone 
has already handed in their assignments and you do your best 
to inconspicuously add yours to the pile. It’s a little crumpled 
and held together by a folded corner. You aren’t optimistic 
about your grade. Is it too late to drop this class? You sink into 
your seat and notice something written on the board, in big 
dry erase block letters. It reads
DARTS AND LAURELS
If, like us, you struggle to get close to your daily vegetable 
quota, fear no more because there is a new plant-based option 
in town. The Impossible Whopper has landed at the Burger King 
on Northwest 16th Avenue. It earns a laurel for tastiness and 
environmental friendliness, a combination impossible to pass up!
A dart to Dorian for enabling seven days of utter unproductiv-
ity and for the plethora of non-perishable, unappetizing hurricane 
food ﬁ  lling our cupboards. It’s Dorian’s fault we spent our entire 
grocery budget on Pop-Tarts and canned ravioli. On a serious 
note, though, the hearts and thoughts of everyone here at The 
Alligator are with all of the people affected by Hurricane Dorian 
in the Bahamas. If, like us, you are confronted with a surplus of 
disaster supplies please consider donating to one of the drives 
taking place on campus and in the community. We were spared. 
Many were not.
A laurel goes to Kimberly Teehee, who, on Thursday, was 
named by the Cherokee Nation as their ﬁ  rst delegate to Congress. 
The 1835 Treaty of New Echota provides the Nation a non-voting 
seat in the House of Representatives, but this is the ﬁ  rst time the 
Nation has ﬁ  lled it. #awomansplaceisinthehouseandthesenate
On Tuesday, San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors passed a 
resolution designating the NRA as a domestic terrorist organiza-
tion. A dart goes to the NRA for their statement before the vote, 
basically saying San Francisco has no right to judge the NRA be-
cause the city has a lot of homeless people. We aren’t sure how 
the size of San Fran’s homeless population makes the NRA’s in-
citement of gun violence less blameworthy, but it does remind 
us of that time Timmy got in trouble for spitting on Suzy so he 
tattled on us for eating a cookie during nap time.
A laurel to all the students and community members who 
stepped up during the storm scare to harbor the cats and dogs 
from the Humane Society of North Central Florida and other local 
rescue groups. Not all heroes wear capes.
A laurel goes to Chanel Miller for the courage and strength 
she exhibited in revealing her identity as the woman sexually 
assaulted by Brock Turner in 2015 and for authoring the book 
“Know My Name” about her story. You have our support, Cha-
nel. You and all other survivors, both known and unknown. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Elizabeth 
Tubbs
OPINIONS
EDITORKelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITOROnce upon a time, psychedelic drugs 
were mysterious tools of experimental 
psychology and psychiatry being seri-
ously investigated for their potential 
applications. Studies like the Harvard 
Psilocybin Project and the CIA’s attempts to use 
LSD as a mind-control agent in its secretive MK 
Ultra project drew plenty of attention. But before 
psychedelics could gain any considerable mo-
mentum or have their effects fully understood, 
the federal government outlawed them in the 1960s by mak-
ing them Schedule I drugs, substances which have “no cur-
rently accepted medical use” and a “high potential for abuse” 
according to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). 
For the next several decades, research was scarce. 
Starting in the 2010s, however, research into the previ-
ously forbidden “classical psychedelic” drugs (LSD, DMT 
and psilocybin) was once again permitted on a large scale, 
and the initial results have been surprising. Johns Hopkins 
University has largely been at the forefront of modern psy-
chedelic research, and their preliminary ﬁ  ndings indicate 
that psilocybin, the primary psychoactive compound in hal-
lucinogenic mushrooms, shows promise as a highly effective 
treatment for end-of-life depression and anxiety in cancer 
patients. Johns Hopkins has also identiﬁ  ed psilocybin’s po-
tential to facilitate smoking cessation, and other researchers 
have demonstrated its usefulness for patients with treat-
ment resistant depression. In light of such research, the Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) granted psilocybin “break-
through” status to help accelerate its development and ap-
proval as medicine.
A new depression and anxiety drug is noteworthy enough 
in an age marked by rampant mental illness, but psychedelic 
compounds demand special attention. Unlike other treat-
ments such as Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (such 
as Prozac and Paxil), psychedelic drugs don’t need to be tak-en every day, as their effects can last for months 
after administration. One study found those ad-
ministered psilocybin scored higher in openness 
to experience on the Big Five personality model 
even a year after administration. 
In contrast to psychedelic drugs’ depiction 
in popular culture as mere hallucinogens or 
drugs of abuse, personal accounts of the effects 
are marked with subjective near-death experi-
ences (so-called ego death or ego dissolution), 
encounters with the divine, oceanic consciousness and pro-
found personal or religious insights. For this reason, their 
application as medicine is a highly unusual and unorthodox 
proposition. But perhaps their bizarre and spiritual nature is 
precisely why they are able to give comfort to the dying and 
help the living.
In any event, the psychedelic renaissance is here. Bureau-
cratic agencies are slowly recognizing that substances they 
previously demonized have at least some medical value. The 
city of Denver voted to decriminalize psilocybin-containing 
mushrooms earlier this year by making their possession law 
enforcement’s lowest priority. Oakland, California quickly 
passed similar legislation. One of Silicon Valley’s latest fads 
is “microdosing” psychedelic drugs, or taking just enough to 
experience some creative or cognitive enhancement without 
causing intoxication. 
These developments are a welcome change after roughly 
six decades of the federal government’s guerilla tactics in the 
war on drugs. The 1960s are but a ﬂ  eeting memory now, 
and public opinion has changed considerably concerning 
the moral implications of drug-induced altered states. Psy-
chedelics are shedding their reputation as dangerous street 
drugs and being evaluated on their own merit instead of be-
ing mindlessly dismissed as the intoxicants of a bygone era. 
I sincerely hope that this time around, the bureaucrats get 
out of the way and let scientists be scientists and patients be 
patients. 
Cameron White is a UF computer science senior.The psychedelic renaissance is a welcome changeColumn
On August 28, 2014, President Barack 
Obama shocked the world. While he 
talked about the state of Ukraine and 
the war against ISIS, Twitter was going 
insane over his tan suit. People couldn’t 
stop complaining about such a minor thing. 
Presidents traditionally wear darker colors when 
dressing professionally, but on that day, President 
Obama decided to go with something lighter. Back 
then, it seemed like the public judged anything 
the president did. It was like he lived under a scrutinizing 
microscope. Now, it seems we no longer keep the president 
on our radar.
You could argue that almost all the issues during Obama’s 
administration came from his critics. One of the administra-
tion’s biggest “scandals” was the controversy about his na-
tionality. Our current president led a gaggle of admonishers 
proclaiming Obama was actually born in Africa, making him 
ineligible for the presidency. This underlying racism, unfor-
tunately, plagued the Obama administration. 
Racism in America is unavoidable. Our country was liter-
ally founded by slave owners, so it makes sense that we still 
struggle with racial prejudice. Unfortunately, it seems like it’s 
getting worse-and the results are devastating. 
In the year following Obama’s ﬁ  rst election, hate 
crimes actually decreased. The FBI reported that there 
were 6,598 single-bias incidents in 2009, which is 1,182 
fewer incidents than in 2008. The ﬁ  gures remained rela-
tively stable for the remainder of his presidency, but shot 
up upon President Donald Trump’s arrival in ofﬁ  ce. Over 
1,000 more single-bias incidents were reported in 2017 and the majority of these incidents were based on race.
It seems we are moving back in time. The people who 
used to nitpick Obama are now dominating our 
government, and no one cares what they do. 
Despite the headlines and scandals, Trump’s 
approval rating is comparable to Obama’s right 
now. According to Gallup, approximately 41% 
of Americans approve of Trump’s presidency. 
Keep in mind we are in a trade war with China 
and suffering from an increasing amount of 
mass shootings per year. Our president even 
named the wrong city in a speech following 
the tragic murders in Dayton, Ohio. Still, many 
Americans choose to support him.
I am not happy to say this, but I am actually more sur-
prised when nothing bad happens than when it does. To-
day, we are just too familiar with hearing negative news, 
and we need to get out of this mindset. Calamities are way 
too common in our society. In fact, while I was writing 
this column news broke of a mass shooting in West Texas 
causing ﬁ  ve fatalities and 21 injuries. The land of the free 
is turning into the land of the dead. 
The solution for these issues is clear: vote. It seems that 
impeachment will never happen, what with the number of 
bullets our president has dodged. So, we have to make a 
change in the next term. Vote for someone who cares and 
not for someone who only seems like they care. Our na-
tion needs someone who can help change the current state 
of affairs. People shouldn’t be afraid to walk outside their 
homes, but unfortunately, the risk becomes greater every 
day. Obama’s tan suit was just one of the many signs that 
our country still has a lot to learn. Hopefully, we have 
enough time to actually teach it.
Zora Viel is a UF journalism sophomore.A tan suit never hurt anyoneColumn
Zora Viel
opinions@alligator.org
Cameron White
opinions@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Baptist
Monteocha 
Baptist Church
9420 N. Country Rd. d. 225
Gainesville, FL 32609
Reformed Evangelical
Sunday Service:
10:00 AM, 11:00 AM
Jewish
UF Hillel 
Join UF Hillel for 
Shabbat Friday nights for 
student led services 
at 6:00 pm
Followed by a free dinner
at 7:00 pm
All are welcome!
Catholic
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 pm
Sun. 9:00 am, 11:30 am
         1:30 pm (españ ol)
          5:30, 7:30
M-F: 12:00 pm & 5:30 pm
GET INVOLVED!
www.catholicgators.org
Pentecostal
Prevailing Word
Bible Church, Inc.
Sunday Worship: 9 am
Friday: 7 pm
4908 NW 34th BLVD Suite #9
Pst. Olabode Ogedengbe, Resident Pastor (352)231-9031
Helping ordinary people to 
become passionate followers 
of God! The Church you can 
belong to before you believe!
Methodist
Trinity United
Methodist Church
Modern: 
Sunday @9:30a
Contemporary: 
Wednesday @6:35p
Traditional: 
Sunday @8:15 & 11a
376.6615 | TrinityGNV.org
Episcopal
Chapel of the
incarnation
The EpiscoGators
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 pm
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library West
Jewish
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner:
7:30 pm (Spring/Fall)
8:30 pm (Summer)
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
Presbyterian
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship: 8:30 & 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after 
Sunday worship
College Fellowship: Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at
college@1stpc.org
Quaker
Gainesville Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for 
a spiritual community?
We are a community dedicated 
to peace, integrity, equality, 
social justice, and care of the 
earth. Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11:00 am Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.org
Non-Denominational
University City
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals 
and much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261
Worship Guide
Contact Alligator Advertising: 352-376-4482
During discus-
sions of hur-
ricane tracks, 
forecasts and 
cones of un-
certainty, I’ve heard 
mention of how the 
meteorologists dis-
cussing these fore-
casts “always” get it 
wrong or make mis-
takes. While I can understand 
why people feel this way, such 
comments detract from the im-
portant work that meteorologists 
do.
Once a storm hits land, me-
teorologists take on an important 
role: around-the-clock informer. 
Local networks may suspend 
regular programming in favor of 
constant weather coverage. If this 
happens, meteorologists must 
stay up all hours tracking the 
storm and its data, and then must 
relay that information to anxious 
audiences. Sometimes this dif-
ﬁ  cult process is laid bare before 
viewers. In my home of the Tam-
pa Bay Area, meteorologist Denis 
Philips for WFTS-TV (ABC Action 
News) became a local celebrity in 
2004 after he ditched his suit and 
tie and wore suspenders for 36 
hours straight during his cover-
age of Hurricane Charley. 
On top of this responsibility 
to the public, audiences now de-
mand more hurricane coverage 
even before a storm hits, and so-
cial media and the Internet allow 
anyone to make their complaints 
publicly known if forecasts turn 
out to be off. Unfortunately, me-
teorology has not yet reached the 
point where it is an exact science. 
In meteorology, as with other sci-
ences, the goal is to get as close to 
the truth as possible, and if we re-
ceive information that contradicts 
our predictions, we aim to revise them accordingly. 
Still, this variabil-
ity doesn’t stop some 
people from jumping 
on meteorologists’ per-
ceived mistakes and 
pointing out the shift-
ing nature of their fore-
casts. Hurricane Dorian 
was initially forecast 
as a massive hurricane 
that could hit anywhere in Flori-
da, but it missed Florida entirely 
and will make landfall in the Car-
olinas instead. 
As often happens in these cas-
es, some Floridians are grouching 
that meteorologists made a big 
deal over nothing, causing people 
to panic over a storm that didn’t 
have a devastating effect on the 
state. However, meteorologists 
can only work with what they 
have. With events such as hur-
ricanes, it never hurts to be pre-
pared for the worst possible out-
come. 
You may become frustrated if 
the weather doesn’t go exactly as 
the person on TV told you, but 
there’s no reason to blame them. 
Meteorologists are doing the best 
they can with the technology they 
have, and if anything, we should 
be thankful for how far the ﬁ  eld 
has come and for the great strides 
that have been made in weather 
forecasting. That’s not to say the 
meteorologist’s word is gospel ei-
ther; since no one can say with 
certainty what the weather holds, 
you should be ready for anything 
to happen. From bringing an 
umbrella for a light rain shower 
to boarding up the windows for 
the strongest hurricanes, it never 
hurts to be prepared.
Jason Zappulla is a UF 
history senior.Be kind to the meteorologistColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgAs a public servant, I believe there is a 
balance to be struck in making sure peo-
ple are kept informed without having to 
listen to grandstanding. But in light of 
the SG budget crisis, the need for trans-
parency overrides my sentimental idealism. We 
need our leaders to be transparent about what 
is being done to help organizations, but the peo-
ple in power have not been transparent at all.
As I mentioned last week, Senator Zachary 
Amrose and I wrote a bill to transfer $800,000 
from SG’s reserves account to help support stu-
dent groups. The money would be split evenly across the 
Fall and Spring semesters. More than a hundred organiza-
tions and two former Student Body Treasurers have signed on in support, but the only member of leader-
ship I've heard back from is Student Body Trea-
surer Santiago Gutierrez. 
The data I received through a public records 
request shows the sum of the pending and de-
nied event and travel requests for the Fall is 
$334,640.46. Our proposed reserves transfer 
would be more than enough.
I haven’t heard of any other short-term solu-
tions from SG (though I’d sure like to). For now, 
this transfer is all we’ve got.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science senior and 
serves as the Murphree Area Senator.Student Government budget crisis: the continuing storyColumn
Arriving in Gainesville from Miami left 
me with a massive culture shock to ac-
climate to. As a freshman, I was over-
whelmed by the feeling that I had sac-
riﬁ  ced so much of what deﬁ  ned my life 
until then. From a Cuban coffee in the morning 
to a shared “buen provecho” at dinner, a life-
time of Hispanic and Latinx traditions were lost 
to me. There was a comfortable sense of famil-
iarity in hearing Spanish regularly and visiting 
my local panadería every other day — a routine 
I never realized the signiﬁ  cance of until it was gone. In its 
place was now a town that I ﬁ  rst characterized as unfamil-
iar and unwelcoming. 
Historically, UF has not always been welcoming to its 
minority students — but we’ve been owed a safe space to 
freely express our respective heritages for some time now. 
Today, an on-campus Institute of Black Culture (IBC) and 
Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures (La Casita) are in the 
process of renovations and will be open to students within 
a few months. Once those ceremonial ribbons are cut, I 
look forward to the happiness those buildings will bring 
to future minority students. Nevertheless, it’s still impor-
tant that no one forgets the incredible effort it took to build 
those structures in the ﬁ  rst place. 
Though I arrived on campus feeling like a foreigner, I 
was lucky enough to ﬁ  nd my cultural home, my familia, 
in the Hispanic Student Association. It was through my in-
volvement that I learned of the extensive activism it took 
to bestow the foundation of these two institutes. In an 
interview with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, 
Fernando Fagundo described the circumstances that led to founding La Casita: “I came here in 1980 and this Univer-
sity was, a few years before that, was an all-white male 
institution.” Though the law changed that soon after, Fa-
gundo describes the way that elements of that 
past were still present. “Hispanic students had 
to come and accommodate themselves and 
many of them didn’t feel welcome or at home 
in an institution with that kind of a past. So, it 
was the students who developed the idea and 
investigated the need for La Casita.” 
Though some might call those issues of rac-
ism outdated, it was in the 2000s, during Gil 
Sanchez’s campaign in UF Student Govern-
ment, that La Casita was vandalized with the 
phrase “No Spicks for President” spray-painted 
onto its side.
It’s hard to put into words the immense amount of cour-
age it takes to stand against a university as a minority, es-
pecially against an institution with a precedent of oppres-
sion. La Casita stands as a source of comfort and home for 
Hispanic and Latinx Gators, a symbol of our community’s 
boundless potential. If ever you feel your voice as a minor-
ity isn’t heard, remember that students like you, with no 
small amount of grit, turned two small white-frame build-
ings into $8 million homes. 
When I ﬁ  rst arrived in Gainesville, I felt invisible. But 
I’m so grateful that I will have the opportunity to experi-
ence La Casita before my graduation, a place where I can 
deﬁ  nitively say I belong. I invite everyone to celebrate the 
legacy of those who came before us and take part in cam-
pus history by being present for the grand openings of the 
IBC (November 16th) and of La Casita (November 17th), 
two monumental markers of a hopeful future. 
Matthew Diaz is a UF political science senior and the His-
panic and Latinx Caucus Leader in UF Student Government.Why La Casita MattersColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Matthew Diaz
opinions@alligator.orgDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
1/1 Condo @ Campus Edge $84,900
Walk to UF, UF Health, VA and Vet School; 
1st Floor, Granite Counters, Crown Molding; 
Washer & Dryer included; Community Pool 
& Fitness Center; STOP paying rent!!
Call Kelly Robert, Pepine Realty 352-222-1744
9-6-19-5-5D
Large SFH with full efficiency attached, main 
house 3/2, 2500 sq feet, large yard, wood 
floors, 5 mins from UF. Easy to show call 
Jackie 786-556-2298. Open House Aug. 31, 
12-3 pm     9-6-19-2-5D  Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
FOR SALE Pro-exercise equipment. Total 
Gym 1000 (Chuck Norris) assembled w/man-
ual. $150/obo. MAX by Weider XP400 weight 
system resistance exerciser. Assembled w/
manual. $250/obo  352-215-9933     9-6-19-
5-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
Another Friday night without a date? 
Read The Alligator.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
NEWLY REMODELED
open immediately. Blocks away from Univ 
& shopping. 4BR/1BA unit with study. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657    9-13-19-10-1D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
Did you know? Isaac Asimov is the only author to 
have a book in every Dewey-decimal category.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
SOLUTION ON PAGE 9 SOLUTION ON PAGE 9FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-6-19-14-14D
★★★★★Five Star Pizza★★★★★
is now hiring all positions. Delivery drivers/Pizza 
makers/Prep/Phone personnel. Management 
opportunities available. Day shift/Night shift, 
Part time/Full time. Apply in person at any 
Gainesville Five Star Pizza location.    10-9-19-
21-14D
Gainesville Health & Fitness will be holding 
a Hiring Fair on Monday, 
August 26th 9am-12pm and
Tuesday, August 27th 1-5pm at our
GHF Main Location.  Work for one of 
America’s top 25 small businesses.
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
8-27-19-4-14D
SIMEDHealth is looking for a PART TIME 
Patient Greeter for our Gainesville office lo-
cation. The hours for this position would be 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-2:30pm. Must be 
able to lift and/or push 50+ pounds and be 
on their feet for long periods of time.   9-13-
19-7-14D
New epic start up dating app
"Rene Harley” on IOS NOW.
Android next month. Wants  sorority 
member to help promote app to sororities
and fraternities  Offering to give agreed
precent of company to right partner.
Contact. Tony@Rene-Harley.com
9-13-19-5-14D
Seeking a FT Sales Team Member. M & C 
Army Surplus is hiring. Must have consistent 
availability 30-40 hr/wk with 1 weekend day. 
Great local business located 1/2 mile from 
UF on 13th St. Firearm knowledge and sales 
experience a plus. Apply in person to 626 
NW 13 St. No phone Calls.     9-11-19-4-14D
Small law office with network of approx 10 
computers seeking PT tech for troubleshoot -
ing software/hardware, general IT. Flexible 
hours, competitive pay. Send resume to 
resume@rothsteinforjustice.com    9-23-19-
10-14DHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.PART-TIME WIG SALES & OFFICE DUTIES
Monday through Friday, 1pm to 5pm - hours 
are flexible. No evenings or weekends. 
"Especially for Women" Oaks Mall Plaza Call 
for interview 352-332-9095    9-13-19-5-14D
Legal Assistant P/T to F/T - excellent commu-
nication skills, EYE FOR DETAIL, avid reader, 
computer fluency, fitness a plus. 1+ yr com-
mitment. $11.50+/hr. Resume to 626 NE 1st 
Street, 32601 or paulsrothstein@gmail.com    
9-16-19-5-14D
ISO 3 health + wellness brand reps
work from your phone on your own time
all training + resources provided
must be a motivated self-starter
no cap on income - get paid for results
call/text mary @ 954-662-1878
9-16-5-14D
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES hiring for all 
positions in a fast-paced, friendly atmosphere. 
Must have good people skills, multitasking, 
have reliable transp. Day and night time open. 
Applications accepted at 2327 N W 13th St     
9-18-19-6-14D
Jill of all trades needed for 80-year-old wom-
an & her pets: walk & feed the dog; take me 
to the store, do housekeeping & have fun. 
Looking for 2-3 weekdays about 9-4 (flex-
ible). Must be cheerful, non-smoker, LOVES 
cats & dogs, no criminal history. 352-281-
8701     9-11-19-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
*Opening in October*
Red Fern Esthetics
skin care, lashes, nails
RedFernEsthetics@gmail.com for info    9-6-
19-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Ketamine therapy for Depression, 
Anxiety, PTSD, and Suicidal Thoughts.
You don't have to suffer. Start feeling bet-
ter today. Call (352) 448-6062 or visit www.
flmindhealth.com.    9-16-19-5-16D
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims. Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com     9-6-1-1614 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 13 Wanted
PUZZLE ANSWERS
SUDOKU SOLUTION
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/06/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/06/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 6, 2019
ACROSS
1 Source of 
seasonal color
5 Like bubble 
baths
10 Golfer at Royal 
Troon, often
14 “I’m buying!”
15 “America” soloist 
in “West Side 
Story”
16 It parallels a 
radius
17 Hot spot
18 Philanthropic 
football player?
20 Varieties
22 “Diana” singer
23 Stooge Howard
24 Football player 
who’s PR-savvy?
27 Head for the hills
28 Spots
29 Groovy cousin
30 Usher
32 No different from, 
with “the”
35 “One more  
thing ... ”
36 Football player 
with a line?
40 Work out ahead 
of time
41 Appropriate
42 Targets
45 Fjord kin
46 Book jacket info
49 Goal feature
50 Football player 
with management 
skills?
54 Hubbub
55 Fictional 
hunchbacked 
helper
56 Like many 
windows
57 Football player at 
the beach?
61 It’s abuzz with 
activity
62 Cover for an ear
63 Ending with poly-
64 Chills
65 “At Last” singer 
James
66 Monopoly stack
67 Friend of Mary 
PoppinsDOWN
1 Start of a kid’s 
show-offy cry
2 Painfully wished 
one had
3 Changes, as a 
law
4 Luxury handbag 
brand
5 Give somewhat
6 Start to cycle?
7 Backless sofa
8 Period of work
9 “Sandman” or 
“Joltin’ Joe”
10 Long sandwich
11 Seafood 
sandwich
12 Headed the right 
way
13 Fallen for
19 Long-nosed fish
21 Joe’s 2008 
election 
counterpart
25 Lingerie item, 
briefly
26 Blissful settings
31 Like dried mud
32 Govt. IDs
33 Time of one’s 
life?34 Harsh
36 Hit one that was 
caught on the 
warning track, 
say
37 Acknowledgment 
of being sunk?
38 Parisian friend
39 Hold tight
40 Pizazz
43 Barely more than 
not at all
44 Pulled46 “No fighting, 
now”
47 “The nerve!”
48 Weird to the  
max
51 Drunkard
52 Ticked off
53 Indian title of 
respect
58 Reggae  
relative
59 Wine choice
60 No and J
By Neville Fogarty and Paolo Pasco
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/31/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/31/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, August 31, 2019
ACROSS
1 Literary reminder
9 Mideast 
presidential name 
since 1971
14 Dutch treat?
15 More green
17 Regular order
18 Hoped-for  
airport monitor 
update
19 Word preceding 
an opinion
20 Chided
22 Base used often
23 “Who’s Afraid of 
Virginia Woolf?” 
playwright
24 Longtime ISP
25 Common picture 
postcard color
27 Routing 
preposition
28 Ones bringing 
charges, briefly
30 “Gotcha”
32 Canal speaker
34 “Gone Girl” girl
35 Buds
36 Limit-enforcing 
tactic
39 Consort of Shiva
42 Vientiane people
43 Story collection 
including 
“Robbie”
47 Trying to lose
49 Comics fight 
sound
50 Blackjack 
component
51 Asian noodle 
dish
52 UFC sport
54 Philosophical 
principle that 
rules out  
unlikely 
explanations
56 48-Down victim
57 Diamond ploy
59 Preppy collars
60 Garfield’s 
successor
62 “Whew!” evoker
64 Vacanza a 
dicembre
65 Quick, 
provocative 
reactions, as to 
current news
66 Finish choice
67 HoodwinkDOWN
1 Robin’s milieu
2 Laertes’ sister
3 Place for free 
rounds
4 1971 title 
detective
5 Wack
6 Toon storekeeper
7 Vaqueros’ props
8 Kutcher’s “That 
’70s Show” role
9 Moisturizer 
ingredient
10 Sweet treat
11 Mach 1 flier
12 Yellowfin
13 Analgesic brand
16 Starts over
21 Artist who 
influenced 
Schiele
26 Marx Brothers 
straight man
29 Youngest to win 
six Grammys in 
one night
31 Its flag has two 
green stars
33 45 half
34 Excitement
37 Fictional 
invitation written 
in currants38 Seat sides
39 Hangul alphabet 
user
40 “Lolita” character  
Vivian Darkbloom, 
to Vladimir 
Nabokov
41 Rival of boxer 
Robinson
44 Arm on a 
shoulder
45 “Woe Is I” author 
Patricia46 Least gassy
48 56-Across 
damager
49 “Cat __”: Jane 
Fonda film
53 Like action heroes
55 Prioritized 
players
58 Evolutionary 
diagram
61 Overhead 
expense?
63 Slugger Mel
08/30/19Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Sophomore outside hitter 
Thayer Hall was the SEC's 
Player of the Week. Hall has 
notched 45 kills in three games.Gators honor Mr. Two Bits with helmet sticker
The Florida Gators will memorialize George Edmondson with a necktie 
sticker on each player's helmet. Edmondon's family will lead the Two Bits 
chant on Saturday before kickoff at 7:30 p.m. Edmondson led the chant from 
1949 to the end of the 2008 football season. VOLLEYBALL
SOCCERBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
The No. 7 Gators won’t have 
much time to recover from their 
home-opener loss against No. 1 
Stanford. Florida volleyball is back 
in action on the road against No. 8 
Minnesota Saturday evening at 8.
UF showed a different side of its 
squad Wednesday night against the 
Cardinal dropping all three sets. 
All of the moving pieces weren’t 
grooving together the way they 
normally do. And for a team that 
has returned all but two of its play-
ers (without any freshmen), the 
Gators looked like they were still 
ﬁ  guring things out.
“We’ll keep chipping away,” 
coach Mary Wise said after the 
sweep.
Florida (2-1) is only three matches deep into its season with 
26 matches to go. This is only the 
beginning, but it’s the best time for 
this veteran-heavy team to get their 
level of play back on track.
Kathryn Plummer, Stanford’s 
two-time AVCA Player of the Year 
and senior outside hitter, led the 
charge with 21 kills Wednesday 
night. Florida’s redshirt junior 
right-side attacker Holly Carlton 
came in behind Plummer with 10 
kills on the match, the second-
highest mark.
Without Plummer’s success, the 
game could have gone in a differ-
ent direction. Plummer was able 
to ﬁ  nd Florida’s weak spots after 
a few swings and capitalized on 
those areas throughout the night.
If the Gators don’t want a repeat 
of Wednesday’s match, they’ll need 
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Florida’s soccer team returned 
from Los Angeles late Sunday 
night after a winless weekend. 
Then-No. 1 Florida State was in 
LA as well over the weekend and 
left with two losses against UCLA 
and Southern California. 
The two Florida schools have 
a chance to get right this week 
when they play each other in Tal-
lahassee on Friday night at 7. The 
Gators need a big win to get more 
top-25 votes, as the most recently 
updated United Soccer Coaches 
poll gave them four votes, 40 
less than last week’s poll. The 
Seminoles dropped ﬁ  ve spots in 
the poll, dropping to No. 6. This 
is FSU’s ﬁ  rst ranking outside the 
top ﬁ  ve since it won the national 
championship in 2018. A con-
vincing win over Florida is neces-
sary to prove it is still among the 
nation’s elite teams. 
From UF’s side, here are a few 
things that need to go in its favor 
to win a game that presents the 
Gators as major underdogs:
A healthy Rose
Junior forward Deanne Rose 
limped off the ﬁ  eld after a right-
footed strike against USC early in the second half. Later diag-
nosed as a hamstring injury, Rose 
missed the UCLA game three 
days later. On Wednesday, coach 
Becky Burleigh addressed the 
health of her top goal-scorer. 
“She’ll try to do a little work-
out today and we’ll train tomor-
row,” Burleigh said. “We’ll see 
Friday.” 
Whatever Florida’s chances 
were to actually go up to the state 
capital and win this match, They 
are signiﬁ  cantly lower without 
Rose. This team has struggled 
to even get threatening chances 
without her getting penetration. 
UCLA was the only opponent the 
Gators played without Rose this 
season, and Bruins goalkeeper 
Teegan Micah had a clean sheet, 
registering only three saves.
An extraordinary Espinoza
Senior goalkeeper Susi Espi-
noza in all likelihood will need 
a special performance to beat 
the Seminoles. Espinoza regis-
tered six saves in the UCLA game 
but only two against USC in the 
Gators’ 3-1 loss to the Trojans. 
Whether Rose plays or not, all of 
Florida’s games in 2019 up to this Florida prepares for No. 8 Golden Gophers
Gators travel to Tallahassee to face No. 6 FSUSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior Holly Carlton is in a three-way tie for second 
on the roster with 19 kills so far this season. 
Alligator File Photo
Junior forward Deanne Rose exited Thursday night's game 
against USC with a hamstring injury. Her status for Sunday's 
game is unclear. She leads the team with three goals. 
Staff Report
Week 1 is ofﬁ  cially in the books, and 
it was a doozy.
True freshman Auburn quarterback 
Bo Nix grew up right before our eyes to 
lead a game-winning touchdown drive 
against Oregon, Florida State failed to 
score in the second half and blew an 
18-point lead against Boise State and 
Tennessee lost at home to a program 
that didn’t exist the last time the Vols 
won 10 games in 2007.
Football is so back.
The Gators dropped from No. 8 to 
No. 11 in the AP Poll this week after 
an uninspiring performance against the 
bye week, but UF has the chance to get 
things right before SEC play starts at 
Kentucky. 
And apparently, Florida’s deﬁ  nition 
of “get things right” is to pay Tennes-
see-Martin $500,000 to play the role of 
punching bag.
To each their own, I suppose.
The Gators are as much as 44.5-point 
favorites against the Skyhawks, depend-
ing on the sports book. To cover that 
spread, they’ll have to score at least 45, 
a feat they only accomplished twice in 
the entirety Jim McElwain’s two year 
and change tenure.
But this is Mullen’s program now, 
and if last season’s matchups against 
Charleston Southern and Idaho are any 
indicator, he likes scoring lots of points 
on defenseless FCS teams.
Before we get into the picks for UF-
UTM and Week 2’s marquee games, On-
line Sports Editor Sam Campisano and 
Kyle Wood debate the best of the bunch: 
the Western Kentucky Hilltoppers at the 
Florida International Panthers. 
WKU will win because...
The only way to bounce back from 
losing to an FCS team with a Bear mas-
cot is to beat an FBS team with a Pan-
ther mascot, a far less imposing animal, 
albeit a much more imposing opponent. 
The Hilltoppers head to ﬂ  at Miami to 
take on FIU, where there are quite liter-
ally no hills to top. The alien concept of a 
hill in the 305, much less someone — or 
something — on top of one, will be too 
much for the Panthers to handle.
Plus, Western Kentucky has luck PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN2 / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 13
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 14to ﬁ  nd ways to make adjustments quicker – 
closing the block on pin hits, covering the 
open areas in the court that could be split 
territory and switching up their shots.
Sophomore outside hitter Thayer Hall, 
who normally hits cross-court, found an open spot on Stanford’s side of the net, send-
ing a kill straight down the sideline. It was 
a wide-open area that, frankly, caught the 
Cardinal off-guard since it was a spot she 
doesn’t normally hit. She found it late in the 
third set, but it may have helped her team if 
Hall capitalized on it earlier.
No. 8 Minnesota (1-2) will be another 
challenge for the Gators. The Golden Go-phers will try to rebound 
off of back-to-back sweeps 
against No. 22 Florida State 
and No. 3 Texas in their 
home-opener against Florida.
Minnesota’s junior right-side attacker 
Stephanie Samedy leads her team in kills 
so far this season with 42 in the Golden Go-
phers’ ﬁ  rst three games.
Minnesota showed some ﬁ  ght against 
Texas all three sets the team ran the course, 
taking each set a little deeper than the last. 
Ultimately, the Golden Gophers lost 25-22, 29-27 and 35-33.
But Carlton isn’t concerned about her 
team’s ability when it comes to ranked op-
ponents.
“I think this team can learn to play as an 
underdog,” Carlton said. “I think we have a 
lot of elite players who have been elite their 
whole lives and have always played with 
that pressure.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
VOLLEYBALL,   from pg 10Carlton likes being the underdog
GOLF
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
Last season, then-junior Sierra 
Brooks torched the rest of the 
ﬁ  eld on her way to a seven-stroke 
individual victory at the Cougar 
Classic. Rounds of 65 and 62 – 
the latter setting a course record 
– also led Florida to a team vic-
tory in its annual season opener 
in South Carolina.
Florida’s women’s golf team 
ﬁ  nished 11th at last season’s 
NCAA Championships, riding a 
second-place individual ﬁ  nish 
from Brooks. Every single player 
from that roster remains on the 
team, the lone change to the 
squad being the addition of fresh-
man Marina Escobar Domingo, 
the No. 141 amateur in the world.
Brooks has one more year at 
Florida to add to an already dec-
orated resumé. The senior was 
recently named to the Preseason 
ANNIKA Award Watch List, given 
annually to the most outstanding 
female collegiate golfer. Last sea-
son, she led the Gators in stroke 
average (72.59) and contended in 
the inaugural Augusta National Women’s Amateur.
As for her team, the Gators 
will begin the year ranked No. 12 
in the Golfweek rankings. They 
begin competition Monday at the 
2019 Cougar Classic, hosted by 
the College of Charleston. 
The men’s team, which ended 
last season in rather disappoint-
ing fashion, can only improve 
upon a team that failed to qualify 
for the NCAA Championships as 
it fell short in regional competi-
tion.
Such exasperation was ex-
pressed by coach J.C. Deacon 
soon after failing to reach the 
NCAA.
“Today ends a very frustrat-
ing season,” Deacon said. “Ev-
ery year our expectations are to 
win championships, and we did 
not meet those expectations this 
year.”
However, what Deacon and 
his team failed to achieve on the 
course, they made up for on the 
recruitment trail.
The addition of freshman 
Ricky Castillo, currently the sixth-
ranked amateur in the world, 
should make a signiﬁ  cant impact as soon as Friday when Florida 
opens its season for the ﬁ  fth-con-
secutive year at the Carpet Capi-
tal Collegiate in Dalton, Georgia.
Castillo, who already boasts a 
more successful amateur career 
than most of his teammates, was 
named to the Preseason Haskins 
Award Watch List among the na-
tion’s best amateur players. The 
two-time AJGA Rolex First Team 
All-American should remain one 
of the top amateurs in the world 
during his tenure at Florida.
Youth is a trend that should 
bode well for the Gators this year.
Aside from Castillo, freshman 
Quentin Debove of Paris, sopho-
more Eugene Hong and juniors 
John Axelson and Chris Nido 
round out this weekend’s starting 
lineup.
With an improved roster and 
the agony of last season’s early 
exit in the peripheral, expect the 
men to earn some early victories 
this fall.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgUF men's, women’s golf open seasons this weekend
Alligator File Photo
Senior Sierra Brooks led the Gators in stroke average (72.59) last 
season and is projected to lead her team to a successful season. 
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   KICKOFF
SOCCER,   from pg 10UF may be without leading scorer Rose against the Seminoles 
River Wells
Alligator File Photo
Gators soccer came back empty handed from Los Angeles after dropping two fixtures to USC and UCLA. The team plays No. 6 Florida 
State in T allahassee on Friday at 7 p.m. Fans can listen to the game on ESPN 98.1 FM/850 AM WRUF.
point suggest that UF will struggle 
to win if the ball gets past Espi-
noza multiple times. 
A strong performance from 
Stubblebine
Senior midfielder Alex Stub-
blebine was a bright spot for Flor-
ida during its California trip. She 
scored her first goal of the sea-
son against USC and has shown 
an ability to facilitate effectively. 
For the Gators to generate offense 
against the Seminoles, a lot of it 
will be either orchestrated or fin-
ished by Stubblebine.  
“Her scoring ability is her be-
ing in the right place at the right 
time, which is a skill,” Burleigh 
said. “She’s done a good job with 
that.”
The Loferski counterattack 
The closest that UF came to 
scoring against UCLA was when 
the Bruins had set pieces or a 
strong attack in Florida territory 
and then presented a counterat-
tack. Redshirt junior defender Kit 
Loferski spearheaded those coun-
ters and came close to scoring 
multiple times. 
A huge boost for UF in this 
game could come against a better 
finish on one of those from the 
speedy Loferski. Despite miss-
ing 2018 thanks to an ACL tear, 
her ability to blaze up the field 
quickly was clearly a problem for 
UCLA, and Burleigh thinks that 
won’t stop with the Bruins. 
“She’s really come back strong 
from her injury, we’re excited to 
have her back because it’s been 
a long time coming,” Burleigh 
said. “She’s somebody who’s so 
dynamic and I think causes the 
other team problems.”
In the two LA games, these 
four elements would come and 
go. It never seemed that all four 
clicked at the same time to make 
UF a real threat. These points will 
be key for the Gators to have a 
shot against the final team in this 
three-game stretch of top 10 op-
ponents.  
“This stretch we knew was go-
ing to be a really difficult stretch,” 
Burleigh said. “We’re kind of rel-
ishing that.” 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgKICKOFF    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR
more rushing yards than both 
Dameon Pierce (2) and Malik 
Davis (-9).
The UT Martin defense 
yielded just under 100 rush-
ing yards in its season opener 
and presents much less of a 
challenge in its front seven 
than the Hurricanes did, so 
the Gators’ rushing attack 
should bounce back this 
week.
UF’s junior quarterback 
Feleipe Franks relied on two 
passing plays of more than 
60 yards for more than half of 
his 254 passing yards against 
UM. The Skyhawks, once 
again, have a more porous secondary than Florida’s first 
opponent.
UT Martin let up 387 
yards through the air against 
Northwestern State. It also al-
lowed four of its opponents’ 
receivers to catch at least five 
passes. Granted, Shelton Ep-
pler, Northwestern State’s 
senior quarterback, slung the 
ball 62 times, but Franks will 
likely find success against the 
Skyhawks’ secondary and 
get more of his receivers in-
volved in the offense than he 
did (or was able to) in Week 
0.
Florida receivers Van Jef-
ferson, Trevon Grimes, Ty-
rie Cleveland and Kadarius 
Toney each had one catch 
against Miami. Expect that number to rise across the 
board, as well as the num-
ber of catches and amount 
of playing time for some 
less experienced wideouts if 
the game indeed becomes a 
blowout, which most points 
spreads indicate it may well 
be.
This game presents a 
chance for the Gators to 
prove their worth among col-
lege football’s elite and do 
what Power 5 programs are 
supposed to do in games like 
this: beat down on their less-
er opponents, execute well 
and incorporate second and 
third stringers.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.organd no touchdowns against 
the Hurricanes. Even quar-
terback Feleipe Franks, who 
ran for 350 yards last year, 
only managed eight against 
UM.
Coach Dan Mullen’s re-
luctance to go to the run 
(only 28 attempts all game) 
can partly be attributed to 
the inexperience of his of-
fensive line. UF returned just 
one starter on the line this 
year, the jury is still out on 
the unit as a whole. It will 
be tough to assess the line against a mismatched UT-
Martin team, but tomorrow’s 
game could still provide the 
unit with some much-need-
ed experience if Mullen tries 
to utilize the run more.
 
The spotlight will be on 
Emory Jones
Barring a disastrous score 
line, there’s a good chance 
Gators fans will get a look 
toward the future.
Expect redshirt freshman 
quarterback Emory Jones 
to make an appearance if 
(when?) the game is out of 
reach for UT-Martin, simi-larly to what happened last 
year against Idaho.
He impressed in that 
game, going 12 for 16 with 
125 yards and two touch-
downs. Jones, however, 
had a less than stellar spring 
game and did not make an 
appearance against Miami.
This is an opportunity for 
Jones to make a statement. A 
strong performance against 
UT-Martin can go a long way 
in building his trust both 
with Mullen and the Florida 
fan base.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
within the app. The Univer-
sity said it hopes these con-
veniences, along with the 
recent addition of full-time 
Wi-Fi in the stadium, will 
attract more students to at-
tend games and participate 
in all the experiences Flori-
da game days have to offer. 
“College football has 
been built on tradition and 
students are truly what 
make it so unique and 
special,” Longworth said. “From the student band to 
the 18,000-plus students in 
our student section, they all 
come together to make ‘The 
Swamp’ such a great place 
to play. We need our stu-
dents to continue to show 
up each Saturday, and we 
will continue to evaluate 
all aspects of the fan expe-
rience to keep making it as 
fun as we can for them and 
our fans.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgPREVIEW,  from pg. 2 FOOTBALL,  from pg. 2
FANS,  from pg. 2UTM provides UF a tuneup Emory Jones could see snaps
App debuts Saturday
FLORIDA defense vs. TENNESSEE-MARTIN offense
Austin NewsomCJohn Bachus IIIQBJaimiee BoweRBPeyton LoganRB
Kyree
CampbellNT
Marco
WilsonCB
CJ
HendersonCB
Jabari
ZunigaDE
Adam
ShulerDT
Trey Dean III or
Amari BurneySTAR
David
Reese IIMIKE
Amari Burney 
or Ventrell 
MillerWILL
Jon Greenard or 
Jeremiah MoonBUCK
Donovan Stiner or 
Shawn DavisS
Jeawon T aylor or
Brad StewartSKelton
EdwardsGT erry
FultzTRodney
Williams IIWR
Aries
DavisGMalcom
MillerTDavin Dyal or
Collin T atkoH Jaylon
MooreWRFLORIDA offense vs. TENNESSEE-MARTIN defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
Lamical
PerineRBStone
ForsytheTBrett
HeggieLG
Van
JeffersonZChristopher
BleichRG
Jean
DelanceTKyle Pitts or 
Lucas KrullTE
Josh Hammond or
Freddie Swain or
Kadarius T oneyY
Tyrie Cleveland or
Trevon GrimesXTJ
JeffersonMIKE
Austin
PickettNT
Chase
JoyDTJoseph
MurryDECam
OrdwayCB
Julian
CrutchfieldBUCK
DaVonte
MauraCBMalik
HarrisOLB
Sherrod
PittmanOLBWanya
MotonS
Devan
HollinsS
Via Florida Gators Official App
The Florida Gators launched a new app for this year’s 
student ticketholders. Fans can also use it for other in-
game experiences called “Swamp Moments. ”
on their side — Lucky Jackson, 
that is. The senior wide receiver 
had 36 yards on four touches last 
week. The Hilltoppers will need 
more luck and Lucky in Week 2.
— Kyle Wood
FIU (-7) will win because…
Two words:
Butch Davis.
Yes, that Butch Davis. The guy 
who saved Miami from the brink 
of implosion due to NCAA sanc-
tions in 1995 and who became the 
architect of the greatest college 
football teams of all time at UM 
in the early 2000’s.  This is the 
man who will lead FIU into battle 
on Saturday.
His counterpart on Western 
Kentucky’s sideline, Tyson Hel-
ton, isn’t even the best coach in 
his own family. Hell, he’s prob-
ably not even the second-best 
coach in his own family. His fa-
ther Kim won a Conference USA 
title with Houston and his brother 
Clay is the current coach at USC.
Notably, neither Kim nor Clay 
have ever lost a game to FCS Cen-
tral Arkansas, which Tyson man-
aged to do on his debut Saturday.
One of the best coaches in 
South Florida history vs. the 
third-best in his own family. A 
team predicted to ﬁ  nish second in 
its division in the preseason me-
dia poll vs. a team that just lost to 
an FCS school. With the raucous 
FIU faithful behind them, expect 
FIU to run away with it.  
— Sam Campisano
Now onto the picksIn a tie for ﬁ  rst place at 7-1 
is Tyler “I Send Out Budgets 
at 2 in the Morning” Nettuno. 
We get it Tyler, you have a life 
outside of the amazingly indepen-
dent student-run paper that gave 
you your start in sports journal-
ism, however, some of us are not 
pleased when greeted with your 
GroupMe message as we’re get-
ting lit at Mid. It’s just bad press, 
my man. How am I supposed to 
get rowdy if you’re giving out 
homework assignments? Just 
tryin’ to keep it real here. But 
who’s to say. At the very least, 
you haven’t forgotten to send one 
out (yet). 
Also in ﬁ  rst is Nick “BBQ Elit-
ist” de la Torre who had some 
hot Twitter takes on Thursday 
about Brooklyn-style BBQ. Nor-
mally, this section would be a 
roast, but in this case, we agree 
completely. Maybe brisket exists 
outside of the south. If it does, we 
don’t want to know. 
Keep ﬁ  ghting back against 
these BBQ charlatans, Nick. For 
God’s sake, there’s only like one 
side in that picture.
Next, in a tie for second at 6-2 
is Edgar “Bud” Thompson, who 
endearingly referred to Tyler as 
“bud” in an email. First, you ﬁ  -
nally follow me back on Twitter, 
and now I even have a nickname? 
I’m glad we’ve graduated to the 
next level of our professional re-
lationship, Edgar.
Alongside Edgar in second is 
Mark “Clutch” Long, who barely 
got his picks in on time this week. 
It’s cool, Mark. You’re a busy 
guy. Only a select few people 
could cover not one, but two, in-
credibly depressing North Florida football teams and not lose their 
sanity. Props to you. Hopefully 
you’ll have a consistent quarter-
back to write about real soon.
We have another two-way tie 
for third at 5-3. First, there’s Sam 
“Autodraft” Campisano, oth-
erwise known as the only mem-
ber of the alligatorSports crew to 
miss our fantasy football draft. 
Yes, Sam, we know you were at a 
football game. We also know that 
you never told us you couldn’t 
draft on Saturday. Anyway, enjoy 
having Mark Andrews as your top 
tight end.
There’s also Graham “Hydra-
tion Specialist” Hall, who was 
not a fan of FSU coach Willie Tag-
gart’s comment about the team’s 
lack of water intake before the 
Boise State loss. We get it, that 
was a pretty memeable thing to 
say. But you’re yelling into the 
abyss, my man. He’s got you 
blocked.
In a four-way tie for fourth is 
Kyle “I Can’t Let Go of the Past” 
Wood. It’s near embarrassing 
that you still carry around your 
FSU student ID in your wallet, 
Kyle. I mean, come on. It’s time 
to let things go. It’s not like you 
can use your FSU Card to take 
the bus to and around campus or 
when you’re eating out at Gator 
Dining. It’s downright despicable 
that you have this piece of plastic 
lying all comfy in its sleeve. 
Dylan “Did You Make It 
Through Dorian” Rudolph is 
also in a tie for fourth. While 
writing this we realize you have 
not spoken to any of us or mes-
saged any of us since we got our 
extended vacation (thanks, Hur-
ricane Doran). There’s an art to putting pen to paper and at least 
giving us some kind of indication 
you are, in fact, OK and well. I 
guess we’ll know on Saturday if 
we do (or don’t) see you at the 
game.
Zach “Exclusive Interview” 
Goodall joins Kyle and Dylan at 
4-4. Zach got into it on Twitter 
with a certain UF fan page over 
both outlets having “exclusive” 
talks with former UF defensive 
tackle and current Tennessee-
Martin defensive line coach Clint 
McMillan. It’s cool, Zach. We’ve 
seen the timestamps — your story 
was posted ﬁ  rst. Just remember, 
if you want to get petty, we can 
get petty.
The last picker in the fourth-
place spot is Brian “I Actually 
Need To Meet You IRL” Fox. 
Brian (for some reason) was very 
interested in being a part of the picks column this year, but, so 
far, his and Tyler’s correspon-
dences have been exclusively 
over text and email. Hey, Brian, 
let’s chat next time we’re both at 
media. That way, we’ll have more 
material to roast you with in the 
coming weeks.
And, all alone in last place 
with a measly 2-6 record in Week 
1, we have Mari “Ohio State 
Stan” Faiello, who donned her 
favorite, mint-condition, THE 
Ohio State University hoodie at 
the ofﬁ  ce Thursday night.. We’re 
proud that you’re bold enough to 
wear enemy colors in Gainesville. 
We just wonder what UF fans will 
think about your opinions once 
they ﬁ  nd out how you really feel 
about Urban Meyer...ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2019   KICKOFF
BEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
18 & UP
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
1718 West University AvenueWells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJFUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
GO GATORS
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY & SATURDAY
1728 West University AvenuePICKS,  from pg. 12Tyler (7-1) Mari (2-6) Sam (5-3) Dylan (4-4)
UTM @ UF (-44.5) UF UTM UF UF
TAMU @ CLEM (-17.5) TAMU CLEM TAMU CLEM
LSU @ TEX (+6.5) LSU LSU TEX LSU
WVU @ MIZZ (-13.5) WVU WVU WVU WVU
VANDY @ PUR (-7) PUR PUR VANDY PUR
BYU @ TENN (-4) TENN TENN TENN TENN
ARK @ MISS (-6.5) MISS ARK ARK MISS
WKU @ FIU (-7) FIU FIU FIU WKU
Kyle (4-4) Graham (5-3) Nick (7-1) Edgar (6-2)
UTM @ UF (-44.5) UF UF UTM UF
TAMU @ CLEM (-17.5) TAMU CLEM TAMU TAMU
LSU @ TEX (+6.5) TEX LSU TEX LSU
WVU @ MIZZ (-13.5) MIZZ MIZZ MIZZ MIZZ
VANDY @ PUR (-7) PUR PUR VANDY PUR
BYU @ TENN (-4) BYU BYU BYU TENN
ARK @ MISS (-6.5) MISS ARK ARK MISS
WKU @ FIU (-7) WKU FIU FIU FIU
Mark (6-2) Zach (4-4) Brian (4-4)
UTM @ UF (-44.5) UF UF UTM
TAMU @ CLEM (-17.5) TAMU TAMU TAMU
LSU @ TEX (+6.5) TEX TEX TEX
WVU @ MIZZ (-13.5) WVU MIZZ MIZZ
VANDY @ PUR (-7) PUR VANDY PUR
BYU @ TENN (-4) BYU TENN TENN
ARK @ MISS (-6.5) MISS ARK ARK
WKU @ FIU (-7) WKU FIU FIUINSIDE
Gators-Skyhawks preview
Fan upgrades for the stadium  
ONLINE
Check out the Gator Bites podcast on SoundCloud. 
Follow @alligatorSports for live updates during Saturday’s game. 
HOME-OPENER EDITIONKICK OFF
Editor Tyler Nettuno   Photos for Cover Illustration Chris King
Alligator, Friday, September 6, 2019
PREVIEW
FOOTBALL
FANSBy Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The stakes for Florida’s 
home opener against Ten-
nesse-Martin are drastical-
ly different from those sur-
rounding its season opener 
two weeks ago. But the 
importance of what is es-
sentially a tuneup game 
against an FCS opponent 
cannot be understated af-
ter the Gators’ blunders in 
their win over Miami.The Skyhawks visiting 
Gainesville for a matchup 
against No. 11 UF presents 
the Gators with a unique 
opportunity to prove their 
dominance after sliding 
three spots in the latest AP 
Top 25 Poll and to refine 
their game plan ahead of 
the upcoming SEC slate.
UT Martin (1-0) is 
coming off a 2-9 season 
but was victorious last 
week against Northwest-
ern State. The Skyhawks’ 42 points were more than 
they posted in any single 
game in 2018. The bulk 
of that offense came in 
the ground game, as UT 
Martin rushed the ball 35 
times for 179 yards and 
two scores.
Junior running back 
Peyton Logan accounted 
for both of the team’s 
rushing touchdowns and 
all but 30 of its rushing 
yards. Logan also broke off 
a game-high 53-yard carry for a score, exhibiting his 
explosiveness.
Florida (1-0) struggled 
to establish the run against 
UM’s defense two weeks 
ago, gaining just 50 yards 
on 28 carries. The team’s 
struggles on the ground 
are evidenced by punter 
Tommy Townsend being 
the team’s third-leading 
rusher with a whopping 
six yards on a fake punt. 
Townsend accounted for 
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
There’s a lot we still don’t know about 
Florida’s football team.
Its uninspiring Week 0 win over Miami 
generated plenty of questions about the 
team, some of which may be answered when 
the Gators face UT-Martin Saturday night.
Of course, it’s hard to draw any conclu-
sions when an FCS team faces a strong FBS 
team, especially from a physical standpoint. 
Still, tomorrow’s game could provide some 
insight into the state of this year’s team and 
the future of the program. Here are three 
things to watch when Florida takes on UT-
Martin:
 
Will “better coaching” lead to less penal-
ties?
Perhaps the most glaring problem in UF’s 
win over Miami was a lack of discipline.
The Gators racked up nine penalties for 
100 yards in that game, including two mad-dening pass interference offenses on Miami’s 
final drive that handed the Hurricanes first 
downs when the game looked to be over.
Defensive Coordinator Todd Grantham 
vowed that the Gators will be more disci-
plined going forward.
“We’ve got to coach that better and 
they’ve got to execute better,” he said. 
“We’ll all do better at that.”
Maybe it had something to do with nerves 
– a primetime opening night game against 
an in-state rival can get the juices flowing. 
Maybe it was rust. Whatever it was, it needs 
to get better if UF wants to compete for an 
SEC title this year.
 
Will the running game be a factor?
Florida’s running back corps was expect-
ed to be one of the team’s strongest units 
going into the season. Against Miami, they 
were nowhere to be found.
The team’s top two backs, Lamical Perine 
and Malik Davis, combined for just 33 yards 
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
It’s been 293 days since Florida foot-
ball hosted an opponent in the Swamp. 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium has seen 
concerts and graduations, but it hasn’t 
seen competitive football for quite some 
time.
Gators fans’ thirst for football back in 
the Swamp will finally be quenched this 
Saturday as the team takes on UT-Martin 
in its home opener, accompanied with 
some new initiatives. 
In an effort to improve the experi-
ence every Saturday for Gator Nation, 
the University Athletic Association part-
nered with VenueNext to release the of-
ficial Florida Gators App. With this Ap-
ple and Android-friendly app, fans and students can connect their Ticketmaster 
accounts with just a tap, marking the 
end of traditional paper ticket pick-ups. 
“The app is a fan app, not specific just 
to students, but it does give our students 
a chance to get mobile tickets instead 
of having to come to the stadium Tues-
day through Thursday on game week to 
pick up,” said Alicia Longworth, associ-
ate athletics director for marketing and 
promotions. “This technology is really 
adding a convenience factor for students 
and hopefully making it easier for them 
to get into ‘The Swamp’ on Saturdays.”
In addition to claiming tickets, the 
app also allows fans and students to 
make in-app concession purchases, 
browse records and stats dating back to 
1990 and store credit card information UF hosts UTM in home opener
3 things to watch Saturday
UF rolls out new game day 
experiences ahead ofjjChris King / Alligator Staff
UF receiver Kadarius T oney scored on a 66-yard pass against Miami.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Lamical Perine led the team against Miami in rushing with 42 
yards on 10 carries. He  also caught a touchdown pass. Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks had three turnovers against Miami. He looks 
to tighten up his performance against T ennessee-Martin. 
SEE PREVIEW,  PAGE 15
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE FANS,  PAGE 15