We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
No. 6 Gators take on No. 5 Alabama
Pitcher Kelly Barnhill and the UF softball team 
host the Crimson Tide in a Friday doubleheader 
starting at 5:30 p.m., pg. 1 4The man behind the murals
See the artist who painted the T om Petty murals around 
Gainesville,  pg. 8
Food delivery just got cheaper
BiteSquad just created a promotional code for finals week,  pg. 5
FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 83
FEATURE FRIDAY
HE PLAYS MORE THAN 270 
EVENTS EVERY YEAR
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In his fourth grade class in Cuba, 
Elio Piedra’s teacher asked him to 
play a rhythm. 
It was the first time Elio held 
drumsticks, and it’s how he and his 
teachers found out about his talent 
in percussion. 
“For most, it’s like two pieces of 
wood,” Elio said. “But for me, it’s 
like extensions of my arms. When I 
dropped the sticks, I wanted to put glue on my hands.” 
When he was 11, Elio’s aunt in 
Miami sent him money so he could 
buy a set of drums, cymbals and 
sticks. It’s how he learned how to 
bang to the Cuban rhythm “Songo.”
But in 2010, when Elio was 19, 
the word on the streets of San Cris -
tóbal, Cuba, wasn’t about his music. 
It was about the sale of his 8-year-old 
set of drums. 
He needed cash for his ticket to 
the U.S., so he could marry his then-
fiancee 300 miles away. He sold the 
drums for $300, but Elio still felt like 
he took a loss. 
“They were like a member of my family,” Elio said. 
Two months after the sale, Elio 
wasn’t feeling the beat of the drums. 
He was feeling the rumble of his 
flight to Fort Lauderdale. 
Elio, now 27, plays more than 
270 events a year. He has played 
with Grammy-winner Churco Valdés 
and with his band on the parking lot 
of Mi Apá Latin Café during a domi -
no tournament in April. 
Every few weeks, Elio takes the 
floor at Felipe’s Taqueria, at 1209 W. 
University Ave. He arrives at the res -
taurant in a van flaunting his name 
and face. 
Before he plays, he recites a mantra in his head: “Play with your 
hands. Sing with your heart, and use 
all your passion.” 
Elio’s playlist is unique to each 
crowd. The men in the restaurant 
dressed in button-down shirts and 
held Coronas with lime. The wom -
en squeezed in tight dressed and 
drowned in Guess perfume danced 
in their high heels.
Offstage, Elio’s dad, Evelio Pie -
dra, 54, who arrived from Cuba in 
October 2018, helped his son set up 
and pick up late into the night. 
Standing at the corner of the 
restaurant, Evelio watched as Elio 
played and danced with the crowd to songs like “Vivir Mi Vida,” “La Vida 
Es Un Carnaval,” and “Echa Pa’lla.”  
As a math teacher in Cuba, Eve -
lio didn’t have money to buy instru -
ments for Elio or for him to take mu -
sic classes. 
“I always knew he had the tal -
ent,” Evelio said in Spanish. “But I 
never thought he was going to be 
this big.” 
For Elio to have a chance in the 
music industry, he had to take a test. 
After 15 tries and a week away from 
his family, he passed the test when 
he was 9 years old and was able to 
attend music boarding school at the By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Change may be coming to Midtown, and 
Gators are trying to stop it. 
A UF student started a petition to stop the 
destruction of The Swamp Restaurant, and a 
Florida lawmaker proposed legislation to make 
it a heritage landmark.
These actions come after 908 Group, a real 
estate development firm which constructed The Nine at Gainesville student apartments, 
announced plans Tuesday to build a “luxury” 
student apartment complex where The Swamp 
Restaurant, Grill Fresh, a United States Postal 
Service Office and Chain Reaction Bicycles re -
side, according to a WUFT News report.
The 908 Group could not be reached for 
comment after multiple phone calls.
Chip Skinner, a city of Gainesville spokes -
person, said plans have not been submitted to 
the city yet and nothing can be done until then.Ron DeFilippo, The Swamp Restaurant 
owner, said the restaurant has a month-to-
month lease. He has heard similar rumors for 
years. This is the first time he has ever seen 
plans.
Raleigh Faust, the owner of Chain Reac -
tion Bicycles, said nothing is final yet. He has 
owned the bike shop since 1997 and said he 
has heard similar rumors for years. 
“I want to stay as long as I can,” Faust said. 
“I don’t want to move, but if I have to, I have to.” 
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos, 
who represents the area where Midtown is 
located, said he thinks bringing more student 
housing around campus is a good thing, but he 
wants to search for solutions to incorporate the 
old buildings into the new development.  
Florida House Rep. Anthony Sabatini, 
of Howey-in-the-Hills, Florida, proposed an 
amendment to House Bill 7103, which focuses 
on property development and related issues. 
It would protect The Swamp Restaurant from 
From Cuba to Gainesville: DJ Elio Piedra drums up Latin culture#SAVETHESWAMP
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
People eat dinner at The Swamp Restaurant, at 1642 W. University Ave., Thursday. Rep. Anthony Sabatini, of Howey-in-the-Hills, Florida, proposed a bill that would make 
the restaurant a historic landmark.
SEE ELIO,  PAGE 4SEE SWAMP,  PAGE 4Proposed legislation may turn the restaurant into a landmark
T oday’s Weather
TODAY
Argentine tango workshop
When:  6:15-8:15 p.m.
Where:  Reitz Union Dance 
Studio A
What:  A free Argentine tango 
workshop for beginners will be 
held. No prior dance experi -
ence, special shoes or partners 
are necessary. More informa -
tion can be found on Facebook 
under UF Argentine Tango 
Club. 
“Rough Magic” 
When:  7:30 p.m.
Where:  Constans Theatre
What:  The UF School of 
Theatre and Dance will run its 
production of “Rough Magic” 
until Friday. Escaping from his 
master, evil sorcerer Prospero, 
with the Book of Destiny in 
tow, Caliban finds himself no 
longer confined to the pages of 
Shakespeare’s “The Tempest” 
but instead in modern-day 
Manhattan. When Prospero 
threatens mass destruction 
to get his magic book back, 
Caliban teams up with magi -
cal dramaturg Melanie and 
her band of misfits to save 
the day. Tickets are $14 for 
students, $16 for UF faculty 
and staff, $16 for seniors and 
$20 for the general public and 
can be purchased either in 
person at the University Box 
Office, located at Gate 1 of the 
O’Connell Center or online at 
Ticketmaster.com.
Take a Hike: A CWC “walk -
shop”
When:  3-3:50 p.m. 
Where:  UF Counseling and 
Wellness Center Room 101
What:  This is designed for 
students who find themselves 
stressed, sad, lonely, discon -
nected, experiencing social 
anxiety or just in need of a 
way to improve their well -
ness. Workshop leaders will 
lead students on walks around 
campus and offer opportuni -
ties for connection with them -
selves, others and nature.
UF Asian Alumni Social 
Network
When:  5-8 p.m.
Where:  Swamp Head Brewery, 
at 3650 SW 42nd Ave. 
What:  In partnership with the 
UF Alumni Association and 
the UF Association of Asian Alumni, UF’s Asian Pacific 
Islander American Affairs 
is hosting the first UF Asian 
Alumni Social Network for 
our alumni who self-identi -
fy as Asian/Asian American 
and live in the Gainesville, 
Alachua County or North/
Central Florida. RSVP at bit.ly/
UFAAASocial
GatorNights - Power of the 
Elements 
When:  7:30 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Where:  Reitz Union
What:  At this week’s 
GatorNights, there will be a 
balloon blast station. Students 
can also make their own 
coasters and get their own 
lava lamp. A Polynesian fire 
performance will be held by 
the UF Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs. A Theatre 
Strike Force performance will 
also be held. Students can 
also make their own lanyard 
at the Arts & Craft Center. 
“Aquaman” will be shown at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the 
Chamber. Popcorn and soda 
will be offered. GatorNights 
is free for UF students with 
a Gator 1 card. Students can 
bring a guest. 
Full Moon Paddle & Stargazing
When:  8-10:30 p.m.
Where:  Lake Wauburg
What:  UF RecSports will be 
having a peaceful night at Lake 
Wauburg under the full moon. 
The $18 registration fee in -
cludes transportation from The 
Center for Outdoor Recreation 
and Education, at 1441 Bledsoe 
Drive, to Lake Wauburg. Once 
the group arrives, people will 
be able to paddle around the 
lake in canoes. There will be 
paddling guides. Students can 
bring snacks for the ride to 
Lake Wauburg. All trips are 
non-refundable and non-trans -
ferable unless canceled by the 
Center for Outdoor Recreation 
and Education. To register, go 
to rsconnect.recsports.ufl.edu. 
If the trip is full, call 352-294-
1040 to get on the waiting list
Public Night at the Campus 
Teaching Observatory
When:  8:30-10 p.m.
Where: Astronomy Teaching 
Observatory
What:  Gaze at the night sky 
with the telescopes at the 
Campus Teaching Observatory. Astronomers will be on hand 
to answer questions. Free and 
open to the public. The event 
is weather permitting. Call 
352-294-1870 after 8 p.m. the 
night of to get the latest weath -
er updates or contact public@
astro.ufl.edu.
SATURDAY
The Florida Vintage Market
When:  1-5:30 p.m.
Where:  High Dive, at 210 SW 
Second Ave. 
What: Vendors at the free 
market will sell an assort -
ment of vintage garments, 
jewelry and handmade good. 
Food and drinks will be avail -
able for purchase. Vendors in -
clude Gazzelli Sport Vintage, 
M&G Innovators, Gville 
Thrift, Dave’s Freshly Used, 
Curated Heat, Britt Pearman 
Art, TallyVintage, Upcycled 
Rainbows, Ritual Tree 
Soy Candles, Star-crossed, 
Reinvented, Designs by Fur, 
Dayglodiva, This&That, 
Mischievous Madams, High 
Dive and The Crystal Mind. 
Celebrate Earth
 When: 2-8 p.m.
 Where: First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, at 1220 SE 
Veitch St.
 What: This will be the brew -
ing company's first Earth Day 
celebration. There will be spe -
cial beers on tap made with 
fruit and Floridan ingredients.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  53°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org . 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis -
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format -
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger,  jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 83FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
The 2019 UF Student Government Banquet 
featured cowboys and charcuterie boards 
Wednesday night.
UF SG held its $20,000 event at the Cham -
pion’s Club in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Out -
going Student Body President Ian Green, Vice 
President David Enriquez and Treasurer Ste -
fan Sanguyo gave their farewell speeches. 
Thirty-three awards were given out, and new 
Student Body President Michael Murphy, Vice 
President Sarah Abraham and Treasurer San -
tiago Gutierrez were ceremonially sworn in. 
“Everyone here in attendance has had a 
unique role in the success of our terms, and 
for that, tonight is all about celebrating y’all,” 
Green said during his welcome. 
Guests were greeted with “Year in Review” 
booklets that noted the administration’s suc -
cesses over the past year. Accomplishments 
in the booklet included the 1,000 meal vouch -
ers provided to UF’s Field and Fork Pantry, Li -
brary West being open 24-7 for the next three years and the addition of halal and kosher 
foods in on-campus dining halls. 
These 150 booklets cost $600 at Target 
Copy, according to a public records request. 
The money did not come from the activity 
and service fee that all students pay. Green 
said it was funded by outside revenue from 
events, such as the Housing Fair, Young Lead -
ers Conference and the Florida Student Gov -
ernment Institute. 
The night started with appetizers including 
a charcuterie board and a buffet line featuring 
brisket, collard greens and mashed potatoes 
by Celebrations Catering, which cost $10,521. 
This was the largest expense of the night. 
Mackintosh Joachim (Inspire, District D) 
was the only minority party senator who was 
invited. He attended the banquet. Senate Mi -
nority Party Leader Ashley Grabowski  (In -
spire, Graduate) was not invited, but Senate 
Majority Party Leader Tony Emmett (Impact, 
District B) was invited. 
Some Inspire senators were nominated for 
awards but they did not receive any. 
In his goodbye speech, Green said his ad -ministration focused on diversity and inclu -
sion. He cited his successes on this front as 
the Bridges Minority Outreach program and 
the effort to make the African American Stud -
ies program a department.
“We have used our seats at the table to 
bring awareness and actions for our respec -
tive communities,” Green said. 
SG Chief Justice Erica Baker swore in Guti -
errez, Abraham and Murphy after the farewell 
speeches.
The new executive elects’ terms will not 
officially start until Wednesday. 
Murphy started his inaugural address by 
telling the story of the University of Wyo -
ming’s slogan change in 2018. The universi -
ty’s “The world needs more cowboys” slogan 
was called sexist and racist because of its gen -
der exclusivity and erasure of people of color, 
particularly Native Americans.
The slogan won awards, sold merchandise 
and gained support from fans anyway, Mur -
phy said.
UF has something to learn from the Uni -
versity of Wyoming, he said.“Too often, campus leaders are paralyzed 
by the desire to make every student happy in 
every situation,” Murphy said. “Even in the 
face of broad university consensus, common 
sense goes out the window in favor of the 
path of least resistance.” 
@hannahbeaty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgSG’s $20,000 end-of-the-year banquet welcomes new officers
• 150 “Year in Review” booklets 
from T arget Copy: $600
• Security officers: $504
• 200 white polyester napkins: 
$400
• Six green potted palm trees: 
$150
• Reservation of the Champion’s 
Club in Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium: $2,500 BANQUET EXPENSESBy Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville City Commission voted 
to accept an audit of the Reichert House 
youth program Thursday afternoon, despite 
controversy involving its author.
In October, an internal city investigation 
found that city auditor Carlos Holt had mul -
tiple run-ins with Gainesville Police regard -
ing domestic issues with his family.
In November, Holt started an audit of 
Reichert House, which is run by Gainesville 
Police and was co-founded in 1987 by cur -
rent GPD Chief Tony Jones. Reichert House works to bring down 
youth crime rates by offering mentorships 
and education services. 
The audit, released April 12, was the first 
of two parts and found that the afterschool 
program was lacking in transparency, stan -
dard business processes, procedures for 
performance metrics, documented purchase 
transactions and grants from outside sourc -
es. 
Six days after the audit was submitted 
to city management, interim City Manager 
Deborah Bowie reported a potential conflict 
of interest. 
Bowie cited the fact that Holt was con -ducting an audit of a police-run organiza -
tion when he was investigated by the police 
multiple times.
Bowie requested that the city commis -
sion accept the audit but have it be reviewed 
and completed by an outside third party. 
The commission accepted Bowie’s rec -
ommendation 4-2, with commissioners 
Adrian Hayes-Santos and Harvey Ward in 
dissent. 
Hayes-Santos and Ward thought the au -
dit should be rejected entirely because of 
Holt’s conflict of interest with GPD.
Hayes-Santos said he met with Holt on 
Dec. 13 and told him that moving forward with any audit regarding GPD could be per -
ceived as a conflict of interest. 
“It’s disturbing that what you have here 
is not a true fact,” Hayes-Santos said during 
the Thursday meeting.
Commissioner Gigi Simmons voted to ac -
cept the report and acknowledged the good 
Reichert House does for the community but 
noted there was still room for improvement. 
“I want to be very clear. We need to 
straighten up,” Simmons said at the meet -
ing. “Our community depends on it. We 
have a lot of great things to offer. We have 
a lot of great things to continue to do.”
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgCity Commission accepts audit despite controversy 
The Reichert House audit will be reviewed by a third party4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019DRUG TAKE-BACK DAY WILL 
TAKE PLACE APRIL 27
By Abraham Hunt
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office is 
letting people drop off their drugs without 
the risk of an arrest. 
The Alachua County Health Promotion 
and Wellness Coalition partnered with the 
sheriff’s office and the Gainesville Senior 
Recreation Center project to give the com -
munity a safe place to toss expired or un -
wanted drugs, said Francellette Garcia, the 
coalition’s project director. 
People can come to the county’s first drug take-back day at from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
April 27 at one of three designated locations. 
Gainesville residents can dump at the 
Senior Recreation Center, at 5701 NW 34th 
Blvd. Newberry residents can participate at 
the Newberry Fire Rescue Station 28, at 310 
SW 250 St. Hawthorne residents can give 
drugs at Hitchcock’s Market, at 6005 US-301.
The process is anonymous, but staff 
members and deputies will be present to di -
rect the event and make sure it goes smooth -
ly, Garcia said.
Dumping drugs down the drain or flush -
ing them down the toilet can lead to waste -
water contamination, which sometimes 
can’t be reversed, Garcia said.
The event corresponds with the Drug Enforcement Administration’s National Pre -
scription Drug Take-Back Day, which is held 
on April 27 and allows people to dump un -
wanted drugs at various locations across the 
country, Garcia said.
“We are expecting a good turn out be -
cause we chose locations that people know 
and use,” Garcia said. 
Pills, liquids and patches can be turned 
in, Garcia said. This includes Schedule 1 
drugs, like heroin, as well as Schedule 2 
drugs, like cocaine and Adderall. Fire Res -
cue Station 28 is equipped to also take in 
needles, syringes and pumps.
“The goal is to give the community ac -
cess to places that can handle the need to re -
sponsibly dispose of unused and unwanted prescriptions,” Garcia said.
After the event, all the boxes will be col -
lected and stored by the sheriff’s office until 
they will be given to the DEA, she said. The 
DEA will incinerate the collection at high 
temperatures and take care of the ashes.
Although most Schedule 1 and Schedule 
2 drugs are illegal to possess, the sheriff’s 
office will not be making arrests if they are 
turned in because the drop off process is 
anonymous, said Lt. Brett Rhodenizer, Ala -
chua County Sheriff’s Office public informa -
tion officer. 
“Our concerns aren’t the illicit substanc -
es but more the people who are doing the 
right thing,” Rhodenizer said. Community to be given chance to dump drugs safely
demolition.
The proposed amendment 
would make The Swamp Restau -
rant a Florida Heritage Landmark. 
It states that the city or county may 
not issue a development order for 
the destruction or demolition of 
The Swamp Restaurant, unless a 
law, order, ordinance or rule al -
lows it.
The city or county would have 
to pay a $10 million fine if they submit such a development order. 
The fine would be paid to a fund 
that would be given to UF Student 
Government. 
“I don’t think you realize just 
how big the Gator Nation is,” Saba -
tini said. “It’s gigantic. People are 
livid. They’re very, very angry.” 
Sabatini said he made the pro -
posal because he went to UF and 
doesn’t want to see a historic part 
of the city turned into apartments. 
“The city just needs to do the 
right thing and not allow that kind of development,” Sabatini said. “It 
destroys the historic character of 
that block.”
The House will be voting on the 
bill next week. 
Before Sabatini was involved, 
Daniel Weldon found his own way 
to take action. 
Weldon, a 22-year-old UF po -
litical science and history senior, 
started a petition Wednesday on 
Change.org called “Save Swamp 
Restaurant Gainesville,” which had 
received more than 21,000 signa -tures by Thursday evening. 
“We’re showing that there are 
so many people who don’t want 
to see this happen,” Weldon said. 
“The Swamp is kind of the heart of 
UF.”
DeFilippo said he’s flattered by 
all the support but doesn’t think 
the action will come fast enough to 
stop the proposed development. 
“I love that people are behind 
it,” DeFilippo said. “We’ve gotten 
over 20,000 hits on our Facebook 
page. It’s wild.”
DeFilippo hopes The Swamp 
Restaurant will be around long 
enough to celebrate its 25th anni -versary on Dec. 30, which is also 
his 70th birthday. 
The restaurant has become a 
Gainesville staple, he said. He was 
amazed by all the community sup -
port and how much students and 
residents want The Swamp Restau -
rant to stay. 
“They have learned everything. 
Their first drink, their first kiss, 
their first boyfriend or girlfriend,” 
DeFilippo said. “It’s a great expe -
rience going to the University of 
Florida and hanging out at The 
Swamp.”
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgSWAMP,  from pg. 1‘The Swamp is kind of the heart of UF’
prestigious Arts Conservatory Raul Sanchez in 
Cuba. 
When the call came that Elio got into music 
school, his mom cried because he would be 
going away.
At first, Elio said school was hard because 
he had to learn to read and write music. A 
month in, he said he fell in love with the notes.
He fell in love for other reasons, too. Yarelis 
Serrano, also 11 at the time, passed Elio in the 
stairway holding her clarinet. He joked with 
the girls going up and down the stairs, but he 
told Serrano he liked her. 
Serrano, now 28, wasn’t interested in being 
with Elio, but things changed when they were 
in the sixth grade. The pair passed each other 
notes during class. 
At 11, they had similar ways of thinking. 
When she caught a cold at boarding school, 
Elio was there to take of her when her family 
couldn’t, she said. 
When Serrano was 13, her U.S. visa was 
approved. Her cousin spread the news of the 
visa to her friend in piano class, where Elio 
overheard. He was upset he didn’t know.
“It was a very sad time when the school 
year ended,” Serrano said. “We were in love, 
and it was really, really difficult to leave know -
ing I wasn’t going to see him again,” 
After Serrano’s move, they tried to send 
each other letters, but the letters took three 
months to get to Cuba if they got there at all. 
Eventually, the letters stopped coming. But 
Serrano always heard about what Elio was up 
to from her friends.
In July 2010, when she was 19, she re -
turned to Cuba for a visit. She met up with Elio 
at her best friend’s house. When they saw each 
other again, they hugged and cried. The flame 
rekindled. Later, Serrano proposed to Elio so they 
could get married and live together in the U.S. 
He said yes, but it was difficult for him to leave 
his family behind. 
Elio was up the entire night before he left 
for the U.S. After his farewell party, Elio sat on 
the patio of his home with his parents and his 
dog Du Du, a Chow Chow, next to him. De -
spite the distance, Evelio told Elio he’d always 
be by his side. 
But the toughest part of the venture was for 
Elio to say goodbye to his parents the next day. When the door to the airport closed, he said his 
entire world closed off.
“Words can’t describe the pain,” Elio said. 
“Everything in your body hurts.” 
After he landed, Elio and Serrano saw each 
other after being long-distance for a year. 
Eleven days after he landed, he performed in 
Miami with María Elena Lazo, a Cuban artist.
A month after his move, he married Serrano 
and the pair moved up to Gainesville where 
Serrano finished school at UF. 
Elio didn’t know anyone, he didn’t know English, he didn’t know how to drive and he 
missed his family. Elio and Serrano lived with 
three roommates, and Elio was home a lot by 
himself.
When Elio worked as a dishwasher at the 
now-closed Sabore Restaurant, he asked the 
owners if he could play the piano there. Ser -
rano sometimes joined him to play her clarinet. 
All he wanted to do was scrape together a few 
extra dollars, but it reignited Elio’s passion for 
music.
“I enjoy every single minute of every single 
performance,” Elio said. 
About a year later, Elio left the restaurant to 
perform and teach students how to write mu -
sic. About three years ago, he said he started 
to see a change in the Latin community in 
Gainesville when it started to grow. 
After performing with artists such as Andy 
Montañez, the Habana Boys and Jennifer Hol -
liday, Elio said it was a goal for his music to 
unite the community.
“I didn’t do it because I wanted to be popu -
lar,” Elio said. “I saw the need, and watching 
the smile of the people, it’s just so awesome. 
It’s like my engine.”
Elio has what his marketing consultant, 
Freddie Wehbe, calls the “it factor.”
“History says he’ll make it to other places, 
but hopefully, we keep him in Gainesville for a 
long time,” Wehbe said. 
Elio is more than the music, Wehbe said. 
His priority is his family — his wife and daugh -
ter Bella — friends and the community.
Wehbe hasn’t forgotten when Elio saw a 
Facebook post from Wehbe’s wife about their 
sick 7-year-old son. Elio then delivered a bag 
of oranges and Cuban herbs to Wehbe’s office 
for his son.
“That’s just the real story of who he is,” 
Wehbe said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgELIO,  from pg. 1‘I enjoy every single minute of every single performance’
Courtesy to The Alligator
Elio Piedra, 27, a Latin DJ in Gainesville, first learned how to play the drums in Cuba 
when he was in the fourth grade. He moved to the U.S. in 2010, when he was 19. “For 
most, it’s like two pieces of wood, ” he said. “But for me, it’s like extensions of my arms. ” 
FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
JASMINE ROBINSON WAS LAST 
SEEN IN FEBRUARY
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Two months have gone 
by with little sign of a 
23-year-old woman who 
may still be pregnant. 
In an attempt to find 
new leads, authorities are 
offering $8,000 for an -
swers. 
This is the first time a 
reward is being offered to find Jasmine Rob -
inson, of Archer, said Alachua County Sher -
iff’s Office spokesperson Lt. Brett Rhodeniz -
er. The money will be given to anyone who 
can provide information that leads to an ar -
rest in connection to her disappearance. 
“We’ve leveraged money for an arrest 
before we can confirm that a crime has oc -
curred,” Rhodenizer said. Robinson was six to seven months preg -
nant when she was last seen on Feb. 18, ac -
cording to an ACSO press release. 
The sheriff’s office is teaming up with the 
Florida Sheriff’s Association Criminal Ap -
prehension Assistance Program and Crime 
Stoppers to offer the reward, Rhodenizer 
said. Robinson is considered a missing and 
endangered person.
Robinson was last seen by her family 
when she came home from work, Rhodeniz -
er said. When they woke up the next morn -
ing, she was gone and had left her personal 
items. 
She did not have access to a car, so depu -
ties believe she left with someone, he said. 
“We know someone has to have that in -
formation,” Rhodenizer said. 
Any information can be shared with 
Crime Stoppers at 352-372-7867, its website 
at stopcrime.tv or its P3 Tips app.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgACSO offering reward for 
missing pregnant woman
Robinson
THIRD MAN STILL UNIDENTIFIED  
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Police are looking for 
two men involved in a 
March 31 shooting outside 
a Gainesville store, police 
said. 
On April 9, police re -
leased video surveillance 
footage from the Rose 
Food Store, at 1631 NE 
16th Ave., of Artavis Jamar Mallary, 35, and 
Quinten Omar Golston, 32, according to a 
Gainesville Police press release.
Both men are considered armed and dan -
gerous, the release said. Police are still trying 
to identify a third man from surveillance. 
One man was loitering in the parking lot 
when two other men arrived in a sedan, the 
release said. They exited the car, argued with 
the man and shot at each other. No one was injured, but a car with two 
passengers was hit multiple times, the re -
lease said.
Police obtained a war -
rant for Mallary for at -
tempted murder and two 
counts of aggravated as -
sault and Golston for pos -
session of a firearm while 
being a convicted felon, 
the release said.
Golston is also in -
volved in an open case for allegedly slapping 
a woman he has been dating, according to 
court records.
In 2005, Mallary was found guilty of car -
rying a concealed weapon and trespassing 
a property while armed, according to court 
records. 
Anyone with information is asked to con -
tact Crime Stoppers at 352-372-7867 and 
www.stopcrime.tv.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgPolice looking for two 
men involved in shooting 
PROMOTION CODE IS 
UNLIMITED
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
A temporary discount code 
could give UF students and fac -
ulty one less thing to worry about 
during finals week. 
Between April 24 and May 3, 
UF students, faculty and staff can 
use the promotion code “HAP -
PYFINALSUF” to remove the booking fee off their order from 
the on-demand food delivery ser -
vice, said Liz Sniegocki, the Bite 
Squad spokesperson. 
“The goal would be to take 
care of dinner for them and to 
take the stress out of mealtime 
and preparation off of their 
plates,” Sniegocki said.
Booking fees start at $2.99 per 
order but can change depending 
on the distance between the res -
taurant and the delivery location, 
she said. The code is unlimited and no 
UF identification is needed to 
receive the discount. Custom -
ers will need to be in a deliv -
ery zone from Southwest 170th 
Street to the Gainesville Regional 
Airport, at 3880 NE 39th Ave., 
when using the promotion code, 
Sniegocki said. 
Claire Seiler, a 21-year-old UF 
computer engineering junior, said 
the promotion is a good way for 
Bite Squad to distinguish itself 
from other food delivery services. She said she might take ad -
vantage of the discount by or -
dering comfort food from Kabab 
House during finals week.
“It’s really good timing be -
cause during finals week very 
few people want to cook,” Seiler 
said. “They’re going to prob -
ably be in the libraries or in their 
dorm rooms studying as much as 
possible.” 
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgBite Squad to offer UF students, faculty finals discount 
SOME GAINESVILLE 
RESTAURANTS THAT OFFER 
DELIVERY THROUGH  
BITE SQUAD
• Kabab House
• Big Lou’s NY Style Pizzeria 
• Vale Food Co 
• Felipe’s T aqueria 
• Big Island Bowls Mallary
Golston
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialFRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnGrab your tissues because it is time to accept that this is the 
last Darts & Laurels of the semester. We’ll start you off easy 
with some good news in this trying time: one word, Beyon -
cé. We are giving a laurel  to Beyoncé, who on Wednesday 
morning did what she does best. She surprised everyone 
with a major music drop, this time in the form of a Netflix special and 
live album. Both the Netflix film and her album are titled, “Home -
coming.” The movie is a recording of her Coachella performance last 
year where she became the first black woman to headline the festi -
val. It features her preparing for her performance along with a sweet 
cameo of her daughter, Blue Ivy.
On the topic of celebrities and influential people, Time Maga -
zine released its annual issue of Time’s 100 most influential peo -
ple. We are giving out a laurel  to Time for highlighting people 
who have made a positive impact on our lives. The list includes 
people like Michelle Obama, Taylor Swift, Dwayne Johnson, Gayle 
King and other newsmakers of the past year. Each description of a 
person has been written by a friend or colleague describing what 
has earned that person a spot on this list. Time’s full list can be 
read online.
On Thursday, the long-awaited redacted Mueller report was re -
leased. It continues to be read and analyzed, but there have been 
a few key points discussed. As we have known, the investigation 
could not confirm that President Donald Trump colluded with Rus -
sians during the 2016 election. However, a few interesting points 
have been mentioned, like how Trump could be quoted saying, 
“Oh my God. This is terrible. This is the end of my presidency.” 
The investigation has also spawned 14 other inquiries, according 
to the New York Times. In the end, we’re giving a dart out to 
Trump. Throughout the investigation, it has become clear he used 
his power to try to protect himself from the probe on a number of 
occasions.
Finally, we are offering our show of support to the people of 
Paris and anyone who has been affected by the tragic burning of 
the Notre-Dame de Paris on Monday. The cause of the fire is still 
unknown and an investigation is currently underway. The cathe -
dral is not only a symbol of France but also a symbol of Catholi -
cism and has been for over 800 years. We are giving a laurel  to 
those who spent hours putting out the fire because without them, 
the church may have had more devastation. In the days since, bil -
lionaires from companies like Gucci and Luis Vuitton have already 
pledged millions of dollars for the restoration of the church. You’re on your way to your final exam of the semester, and you 
should be going over equations in your head. Instead, your mind 
is thinking about summer days spent sleeping in and on home-
cooked meals. The semester has flown by. There have been a few 
wins and a few losses, but you’ve made it through all the same. 
You find yourself with a small smile on your face, allowing your -
self to revel in a little self-pride.
There’s pride, but there’s also a twinge of sadness. You’re leav -
ing Gainesville for the summer, and you know you will miss the 
people you’ve grown used to seeing every day. The short walk to 
your exam has turned into a time of reflection and nostalgia, a bit 
too introspective when you should be thinking about the functions 
of a cell. Pushing your thoughts of the semester aside, you walk 
into your exam room and grab a test.
As you settle in to your seat, you peek at the front of your exam 
and the title throws you off. You realize you’ve been so distracted 
by your thoughts that you must have walked into the wrong class 
because your exam is not titled “Microbiology” like it’s supposed 
to. Instead, it reads...
Darts & Laurels
The world watched in horror and grief 
on Monday as Notre Dame Cathedral 
burned. Her lead-covered wood roof 
and majestic spire collapsing into 
red flames as Parisians sang hymns 
on roads and bridges. Some 13 million 
people annually enter the cathedral. I have 
been one of those awestruck visitors on sev -
eral occasions. Notre Dame is an exquisite 
example of French Gothic architecture and 
an unforgettable symbol of Paris, with its 
beautiful rose windows, flying buttresses and rib 
vault.  Lost in the news of the past few days is the 
fact that Notre Dame is foremost a place for wor -
ship, particularly for Catholic Christians.
Today is Good Friday, and Easter is this Sunday. 
I will join with Christians worldwide in celebrating 
the death and resurrection of Jesus. Notre Dame’s 
fire makes this Good Friday even more poignant and 
Easter even more moving.
This evening is also the start of Passover, with 
eight days of celebration and remembrance by Jews 
of their liberation from slavery in ancient Egypt. 
Some of my most memorable experiences as presi -
dent have been as a guest of the Lubavitch Chabad 
Jewish Center at UF and UF Hillel for Passover Seder 
meals. 
Next month, starting on the evening of May 5, 
Muslims on campus and worldwide will begin Ra -
madan, the most sacred month of the year in the 
Islamic calendar. The month is dedicated to fasting, 
sacrifice, remembrance, family and spiritual growth to become closer to Allah.
I am sometimes asked why on occa -
sion I mention religion, prayer or my 
own personal faith. Some find it curious, 
and others are even upset. When I am 
introduced as a speaker for an event, it is 
sometimes noted that I have a master of 
divinity degree, in addition to graduate 
degrees in engineering, which the intro -
ducer often finds puzzling.
It is important that universities be 
places where members of all religions, as well as 
agnostics and atheists, feel welcome and comfort -
able talking about what they find meaningful while 
also working to listen and understand those with 
differing traditions and views. For some, this is part 
of their studies, and for many, this occurs outside of 
the classroom.
I encourage all members of our community to 
celebrate their personal faith or beliefs and to sup -
port those who have different beliefs or no faith. I 
hope that I can, in some small way, be an example 
in this area.
As we near the end of the semester, I pray that all 
UF students, faculty and staff will have the stamina 
and clarity to finish with both great success and joy. 
If you are graduating, I look forward to celebrating 
with you at commencement, and if you are continu -
ing at UF, I wish for you a wonderful summer.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His column 
appears monthly.UF President Fuchs’ last message of the 
semester: Support others’ personal beliefs
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 
Letter to the EditorOn March 21, Chomp the Vote hosted 
the Public Policy Career Day inside of 
the Reitz Grand Ballroom. To put on 
the event, Chomp the Vote partnered 
with the Bob Graham Center, the UF 
International Center, the College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences, Beyond 120, the political science 
department, the College of Journalism and 
Communications, the Career Resource Center 
and Civic Duty Florida. The event featured 
more than 20 universities with public policy 
and administration programs, such as Tufts 
University, Johns Hopkins University and Co -
lumbia University, as well as employers from 
the public and private sector. The event direc -
tor and planning team within Chomp staff cre -
ated this event with the intention of bringing 
an event on campus for students to be exposed 
to educational and professional opportunities 
within the public policy sector.
The purpose for writing this letter is to ad -
dress that the Department of Homeland Securi -
ty which, at some point during the professional 
fair portion of the event, displayed a U.S. Im -
migration and Customs Enforcement banner at 
its table. For those who may not know, ICE is a law enforcement agency created in 2003 and is 
tasked with enforcing U.S. immigration laws. 
When concerns were brought up to Chomp’s 
leadership about this, the response was dis -
missive and failed to understand the students’ 
worries.
When looking at a situation like this, it is 
important to know how to differentiate be -
tween intent and impact. The intent of invit -
ing government agencies and hosting the event 
was to allow students to advance profession -
ally. Ultimately, part of the impact was nega -
tive due to the displaying of this banner at the 
event and the knowledge that this is an agency 
with a track record of terrorizing this country’s 
immigrant community. Students from the im -
migrant community at UF, namely members 
of UF Chispas, expressed they felt unsafe, hurt 
and angry in a letter to the editor after seeing 
ICE’s banner.
To the concerned students whose feelings 
were belittled during these encounters and 
with Chomp leadership: I am sincerely sorry. 
As someone whose family immigrated to the 
U.S., I’ve grown up directly understanding the 
hardships our community faces, and I know what it’s like to feel the daily battle of worry -
ing about your family’s fate and safety in this 
country. I know what it feels like to have your 
community not be heard or regarded with the 
same level of importance as other communi -
ties. I apologize that an organization I lead al -
lowed the opportunity for something like this 
to happen.
To address those who have said Student 
Government and Chomp should not be apolo -
gizing for this and have repeatedly claimed this 
to be a partisan issue: It is not. This is a human 
issue. As students who are allowed within SG 
to represent a greater student body, it is our re -
sponsibility to understand this. We cannot turn 
a blind eye when the community affected is 
not our own. This is my address to the current 
and future SG: I challenge you to be leaders for 
the students you are representing on this cam -
pus. I challenge you to take intentional action 
to be allies of students that come from different 
walks of life.  Attending training (such as the 
Undocupeers training UF Chispas mentioned 
in its letter to the editor), and lobbying for is -
sues at the local, state and national level, does 
not make a meaningful impact without direct support. What does this mean? Reach out to 
students who are part of the communities you 
say you are an advocate for. Sit down and lis -
ten to their stories and involve them in the de -
cision-making process. If you know there are 
student organizations across our campus that 
are experts on certain issues, make an effort 
to collaborate with them. They are incredible 
resources to learn from and will help you en -
act the best steps toward making a meaningful 
impact. Hold yourself accountable when you 
make mistakes. Ask different communities 
throughout the semester what you can do to 
make their experience at UF better and then 
actually work to do those things.
Moving forward, I hope this occurrence 
serves as a wake-up call for SG officials in all 
three government branches and our univer -
sity’s administration to do better, as it has for 
myself along with others. As a university that 
prides itself on inclusive excellence, we should 
be making purposeful steps toward making 
this inclusivity a reality. It starts with us.
Shannon Pinzón is a Chomp the Vote co-
chairWhat Student Government and others can learn from the Public Policy Career Day
Many transgender people nationwide 
battle hatred, ostracization and dis -
crimination in their interactions 
with random people and even with 
their friends and families. Hate is 
a nearly unavoidable part of life for the LG -
BTQ+ community in the U.S. today.  Unfortu -
nately, achieving tolerance and acceptance is a 
process that takes time and education.
However, neither a person’s gender iden -
tity nor sexual orientation should impact 
their healthcare experience. The UF College 
of Health and Human Performance, along 
with the Office of Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs, recently hosted Transparency: Physi -
ology, Wellness & Beyond in the Trans Com -
munity, an event to promote awareness about 
general wellness among the transgender com -
munity. The event educated me on disparities 
in healthcare for the LGBTQ+ community and 
on the transitions some transgender people ex -
perience. Americans need to spread awareness of this process to increase toler -
ance and acceptance nationwide. 
Transitioning is a different pro -
cess for each trans person. Some 
trans people require hormonal 
treatments, some require surgery 
and some require both treatments. 
Only the person who is transition -
ing can determine what treatment 
they need to feel comfortable and 
at peace. It is the job of doctors 
and the medical community to support people 
who are in the process of transitioning. 
However, insurance companies create un -
warranted obstacles for medical providers and 
their patients, making an already challenging 
process even more difficult. Some insurance 
companies refuse to cover any kind of surgi -
cal transition surgeries. Other medical impedi -
ments trans people sometimes face include a 
required consultation with a psychiatrist or 
a letter of approval from a psychiatrist, even though the evidence suggests the 
patient’s judgment is sound. Very 
few surgeries require approval 
from anyone other than the pa -
tient, and it is demeaning to im -
ply that seeking gender transition 
surgery should cast doubt on your 
decision-making capabilities. 
UF Health Shands Hospital re -
cently updated its medical paper -
work to make patients’ preferred 
names more visible for doctors. Measures like 
this, and steps like highlighting preferred pro -
nouns, are important for creating a welcoming 
and supportive environment in doctors offices. 
Patients shouldn’t need to correct their doctor 
on their name or gender, as that makes doctors 
seem less credible and could make patients 
uncomfortable. Reforming general intake pa -
perwork to ensure doctors know how to ad -
dress their patients will create a more seamless 
experience for trans people visiting medical providers.
It’s only common sense that an individual’s 
healthcare should be a top priority, but the 
healthcare options for the LGBTQ+ communi -
ty are limited and inconsistent in our country. 
It’s natural to sometimes disagree with the way 
people live their lives, as our country’s allure 
resides in our diverse cultures and our freedom 
of expression. We as a society need to open 
our ears and minds to our faults, especially in 
our handling of LGBTQ+ healthcare.
I know it will take time for society to treat 
trans people with the respect they deserve, 
but we must vigilantly combat the prejudices 
plaguing our healthcare system. We need to 
listen and respond to the mistreatment of the 
trans community with reforms that create a 
more inclusive, supportive and accommodat -
ing healthcare system.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism fresh -
man. Her column appears on Fridays.The US healthcare system shouldn’t discriminate against transgender peopleColumn
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.org
Well, I made it into the Student Gov -
ernment banquet this year, and 
it was a rather interesting event. 
For starters, they dropped around 
$20,000 on a banquet and ended 
up drinking out of disposable plastic cups. 
They are humble people, aren’t they?
I just wanted to talk about a couple of in -
teresting things I had strong feelings about.
Let’s talk about inclusion. An hour into the 
banquet, The Alligator’s SG reporter pointed 
out that there was an empty table in the back. 
So was all the fuss about people not getting 
invited to the banquet because there wasn’t 
enough space just an April Fools’ thing? I 
just find it funny how Student Body Presi -
dent Ian Green went on and on about diver -
sity and inclusion in his speech when at this 
banquet there were literally “seats at a table” 
kept empty. Oh, and a friendly reminder: The 
proportion of underrepresented minorities in 
UF’s admitted class dropped by 4 percent this 
year, so if anyone thinks we’ve solved racism 
or any of that foolishness, think again.
Next up is the food. I sampled a couple 
of the food items from the banquet. The fried chicken was decent but about the 
same as Publix’s. The brisket was 
fine in terms of texture but lacked 
flavor without sauce. The panko-
breaded mac and cheese, howev -
er, was a disappointment. If there 
is a flavor level meant for people 
who think Jesus is white, then 
that’s what the mac and cheese 
tasted like. I’ve had instant ramen 
with more flavor than what I expe -
rienced that night. SG should have 
just spent $10,000 on Bite Squad instead. That 
way, the night would have really been some -
thing to remember.
Moving on to some of the more unsettling 
content, I was a little uncomfortable when I 
heard the outgoing Student Body treasurer 
say, “What happens in SG finance stays in SG 
finance” to raucous laughter. Is that really the 
best thing to say when there has been a recent 
lawsuit against our university over the way 
SG goes about its finances? It’s alright. What 
matters is that it was a good flex.
After Michael Murphy was ceremoni -
ally sworn in as Student Body president, we bowed our heads, had a group 
prayer (probably to atone for how 
naughty SG has been this week), 
and then he spoke. And boy, did 
heads turn when words started 
coming out.
Murphy talked about the Uni -
versity of Wyoming and what hap -
pened when it revealed its new 
slogan: “The world needs more 
cowboys.” He talked about the 
criticism of the motto, how people 
had said that the motto reeked of “erasure, 
racism, sexism, heterosexism and genocide.” 
He then talked about how “the Board of Trust -
ees voted unanimously in July to keep the slo -
gan,” how “students, alumni and sports fans 
apparently weren’t offended,” how the uni -
versity was able to sell a lot of merch with the 
slogan and how enrollment increased.
Then, Murphy went into saying that UF 
needs to be more like the University of Wy -
oming and how he hopes to serve as a Stu -
dent Body president guided by the students 
that “make the most sense” as opposed to the 
“students that make the most noise.”Murphy spoke strangely, stumbling over 
his own words numerous times until he piv -
oted away from the cowboy story. I think 
that’s because he was reading words lifted 
from a Wall Street Journal editorial titled “It 
Pays to Be A Wyoming Cowboy.” While I’m 
not familiar enough with what constitutes 
plagiarism to accuse anyone of anything, I 
think you’ll feel a little uncomfortable if you 
watch the livestream of his speech, available 
on my Facebook profile (timestamp 1:11:00) 
and compare it to the words in the editorial. 
I’ll defer to The Alligator’s motto of “We in -
form, you decide” for this one.
One last note: If you all are going to spend 
$504 on security for what felt like the purpose 
of keeping me out of the banquet, just know 
that you all could have just paid me (in cash) 
not to attend, and I would have stayed home. 
Maybe, I would have even written something 
flattering about the outgoing administration 
for once.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area senator. His column 
appears on Fridays.Student Government banquet infiltration success: Mac and cheese and cowboysColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
Harrison touches up his artwork in his studio in Micanopy, Florida.
Harrison touches his forehead in a moment of contemplation in his studio in 
Micanopy, Florida.
Harrison looks for inspiration in health and beauty store Blu Crystal, at 1801 NE 
23rd Ave.
BLAKE HARRISON: 
THE ARTIST WHO STAYED
Photo story by Aaron Ritter
Alligator Staff
Blake Harrison is a 55-year-old artist known for his murals 
in and around Gainesville. Like T om Petty, Harrison has 
embedded himself in Gainesville’s culture. Harrison moved 
to Gainesville in the early ‘70s, and he fell in love with the 
rugged hippy community. Despite the harsh financial climate 
for artists in Gainesville, Harrison loves Gainesville’s people 
and its physical space. Instead of worrying about notoriety, 
Harrison is satisfied with working in his remote studio in 
Micanopy, Florida, where he creates work that he hopes makes 
the surrounding community a happier, more loving place.FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
BOOK SALE
APRIL 27 –– MAY 1, 2019
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH OR CHECKS ONLY
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Student Discount on Wednesdays
$10 regular haircut with Student ID
Harrison uses blue paint to touch up his T om Petty mural on the 34th Street Wall.
Harrison looks at his mural of T om Petty on the corner of Southeast 16th Avenue and 
South Main Street.
 Harrison sits in his car on his front yard in Micanopy, Florida.
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
10 OF 13 STUDENTS  
WHO TOOK FEBRUARY
EXAM PASSED 
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Levin College of Law came second in the 
state for bar exam pass rates this year, showing 
an upward trend for the college.
UF Law Dean Laura Rosenbury said the in -
crease in students passing the exam is because 
of the school’s faculty and increased resources 
for bar preparation. This year, 13 students from 
the college took the bar exam and 10 passed, 
giving it a pass rate of 76.9 percent, according 
to results released Monday by the Florida Su -
preme Court. Law students must pass the bar 
exam to practice as attorneys in Florida.
“We want all of our students to pass the bar exam on the first attempt,” Rosenbury said. 
“These results indicate that we are improving, 
but we are striving to do even better.”
Florida International University led the state 
at an 80 percent pass rate, and Florida State 
University came close to UF at 75 percent for 
third place. 
The positive results for UF this year show 
an upward trend for the college’s placing. But 
with fewer students taking the exam in Febru -
ary, it’s difficult to compare it to the percent -
age of pass rates for the July exam, which has 
hundreds more taking it.
For the last exam in July 2018, UF’s pass 
rate was 70.9 percent, with 183 students pass -
ing out of 258, ranking it at fourth place. 
At the time, Rosenbury expressed her dis -
appointment in the results via a letter to the 
college. The results were a decrease of almost 
6 percent from how the college scored in July 
2017. “As the best law school in Florida, UF Law 
should also have the highest first-time bar pas -
sage rate in the state,” Rosenbury wrote in the 
letter. She added that the college would reach 
out to those who did not pass and analyze the 
effectiveness of the support it provided during 
the summer. 
It wasn’t her first message of disappoint -
ment to the college. She had sent one months 
earlier when UF ranked last in the February 
2018 exam results. Its last place spot in the 
February 2018 exam was owed to a 31.8 per -
cent pass rate, or only seven passing scores out 
of the 22 students who took it. 
Even with the encouraging results this year, 
the school will continue to provide sustained 
outreach and support to those did not pass, 
Rosenbury said. 
General law school rankings by the U.S. 
News and World report show that UF Law has 
improved by 17 spots since 2016, placing at 31 overall, Rosenbury said. 
Sofia Marescalco, a 23-year-old UF second-
year law student, said the school was too con -
cerned with rising in the rankings and was not 
prioritizing increasing the bar exam passage 
rate. 
“They let bar strategies get thrown under 
the table,” Marescalco said. “But clearly, they 
listened to our concerns and did something 
about what was happening.”UF Law has second highest bar pass rate in Florida 
UF
2017: 66.7%
2018: 31.8%
2019: 76.9%
FIU
2017: 78.9%2018: 85%
2019: 80%
FSU
2017: 59.1%
2018: 76.7%
2019: 75% Feburary Bar Pass Rates
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF has been nationally recog -
nized for working with a pest control 
company to prevent the spread of 
insect-borne diseases.
On April 10, UF and the Florida 
Insect Control Group, a pest control 
device company, went to Wash -ington, D.C. to be recognized for 
developing insect traps, said Philip 
Koehler, a UF entomology professor 
and the control group research head.
The group partnered with UF in 
2012. This partnership was one of 20 
startups recognized at the University 
Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
Showcase in D.C. this year.
The technology was originally developed to protect deployed mili -
tary personnel from mosquito-borne 
diseases because soldiers are at more 
risk of dying from diseases carried by 
mosquitoes and flies than from com -
bat, Koehler said. 
“I’m a former Navy entomologist, 
so I had a real interest in trying to do 
something for the military,” Koehler 
said. The research team used $500,000 
in grants from the Deployed WarF -
ighter Protection Program to develop 
traps and larvicidal chips to prevent 
the spread of Zika, dengue fever, 
West Nile virus, yellow fever and ty -
phoid, Koehler said.
The products are in the final 
stages of evaluations by the Environ -
mental Protection Agency. Roberto Pereira, a researcher at the UF Urban 
Entomology Laboratory who worked 
with Koehler, said he hopes the 
products are approved by the end of 
the year.
“If the homeowner can buy these 
products at the market and put them 
to use, it becomes so much easier 
to implement mosquito control,” 
Pereira said.UF pest control startup featured at national showcaseBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsAcross from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1500/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100      4-24-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE
OF COLLATERAL
Adams Arms LLC, Chapter 679
Tuesday, April 30, 2019 at 11:00 A.M.
1551 Gunn Highway, Odessa, FL 33556
Full day inspection on 04/29/19 from 10 AM 
to 4 PM.
Private inspection available upon request.
Well-Established Rifle Manufacturer special -
izing in cutting edge technology and first and 
only patented retrofit kit for superior perfor-
mance rifles.
Collateral will include all tangible and intan-
gible assets owned by Adams Arms, LLC 
and will be sold in one lot. Complete asset 
list upon request.
Visit www.moeckerauctions.com or call (954) 
252-2887 for details.
To register: $20,000 refundable certified de-
posit. 10% BP will apply.
AB-1098, AU-3219, Eric Rubin      4-19-1-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
Live & Online Public Auction
April 25, 2019 at 11:00 A.M.
Sullivan Bros Construction, LLC.
19612 SW 69 Place, Fort Lauderdale, FL 
33332
Heavy Equipment & Vehicles:
● 2006 Komatsu D41P-6 Crawler Tractor - 
● (2) 2005 Sakai SV201D Vibratory Rollers 
● 2006 Ford F-250 XLT Super Duty Crew 
● Cab Turbo Diesel Truck - 
● 2013 Chevrolet 3500 HD Dually
● Flatbed Utility Turbo Diesel Truck
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 9-11 AM. 15%-18% BP.
ABC Case #50 2019-CA 000611 XXXX MB
$500 refundable cash deposit to bid.
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin       4-19-1-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
4/2 House For Rent In Historic Golfview 
Neighborhood. Available August 1st.
This house features a huge living room with 
pool table, patio with gas grill, washer/dryer, 
2 carports & is on a double lot adjacent to a 
2.5 acre wooded preserve. Located between 
the University Golf Course & Law School. 
Walk to campus. $2,200 a month.
Call John Ryan 954-258-5900.
4-22-19-5-2
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.GOOD BUDDHA
A Gainesville Fashion Startup.
Seeking excited, savvy, and detail-oriented 
Brand Ambassadors and Web Designers. 
Send resume, personal link, and cover letter 
to Xavierduong@goodbuddhacompany.com    
4-19-1-14
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy if running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
MEDICAL OFFICE TRAINING PROGRAM!
Online training for Medical Billing & Coding 
career!
NO PRIOR TRAINING IS REQUIRED!
CTI can have you trained & ready!
1-88-471-3711 AskCTI.com       4-19-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
★HIRING FOR JANITORIAL CLEANERS ★.
The positions: FT & PT include both heavy 
& light cleaning at a commercial business. 
MUST have transportation. APPLY NOW!! 
Call 352-258-1357                 4-24-19-6-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
O Most Beautiful Flower of Mount Carmel, 
fruitful vine, splendor of Heaven, Blessed 
Mother of the Son of God, Immaculate Virgin, 
assist me in my necessity. O Star of the Sea, 
help me and show me here you are my 
mother. O Holy Mary, Mother of God, Queen 
of Heaven and Earth, I humbly beseech you 
from the bottom of my heart to secure me in 
my necessity, (YOUR REQUEST). There are 
none that can withstand your power. O Mary, 
conceived without sin, pray for us who have 
recourse to thee (three times). Holy Mary, I 
place this cause in your hands (three times). 
The person must say this prayer 3 consecu -
tive days and publish this prayer after the re-
quest has been granted.     4-19-1-18Don't forget to tell them:
"I found you in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are lifesavers.WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
Making America Goat Again
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-22-2-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Please recycle this newspaper.
1.  Factory ____
1.  Possessing5.  ____ passages
2.  Trying out6.  Drive, motivate 
3.  Lunar ____7.  Passageway out
4.  ____, FloridaETOTUL
WGNIONASLNA
PLEIM
GESTNIT
PCLEEISERESSG
PEALSNANSWERS: 1A-Outlet  5A-Nasal  6A-Impel  7A-Egress
1D-Owning  2D-Testing  3D-Eclipse  4D-Naples  B-Willie Nelson4-19-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ made his movie acting debut 
in “The Electric Horseman,” starring 
Robert Redford and Jane Fonda. BONUS
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, April 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Bonkers
5 Raucous animal 
sound
9 Sambuca 
flavoring
14 Not up
15 Ire
16 Trio in the logo 
of a national 
motorists’ group
17 Flatfish family 
founders?
19 Acquires
20 Shirt with a 
slogan
21 “Metamorphoses” 
poet
22 Mindless way to 
learn
23 When doubled, a 
German spa town
25 Barbershop levy?
26 Broadway 
restaurant 
founder
28 Energizes
30 Upscale
32 Go bad
33 Pairs
37 NFL pass, 
complete or not
38 Rabbit 
monopolizing the 
entrance to the 
warren?
41 Fez or fedora
42 Pedi concerns
44 Day in Durango
45 N, in a TV 
content warning
47 Directions
50 Laconic
51 Part in a Humpty 
Dumpty biopic?
54 Come to
56 Turf grippers
57 Die, e.g.
58 Pet’s attention-
getter, perhaps
61 Great deal of, 
slangily
62 Mutant tree trunk 
with extraordinary 
powers?
64 Concerning
65 God with a quiver
66 Carrot (always) or 
stick (sometimes)67 On edge
68 Used to be
69 Tavern array
DOWN
1 Final
2 Vowel-rich 
woodwind
3 Have a party, 
say
4 One was written 
on an urn
5 Valorous
6 Five stars, e.g.
7 Like fine Scotch
8 Fist-pumper’s cry
9 Sock pattern
10 Minimally distant
11 Jerk
12 One-night-a-year 
flier
13 County not far 
from London
18 Fashionable
22 With 52-Down, 
paper since 
1872
24 Sunday paper 
barrage
25 Friend of Tigger
26 “Go away!”
27 Choir voice29 Mountain nymph
31 Mountain 
melodies
34 Draining effect
35 Equine eats
36 Eyelid problem
39 Triangle side, 
say
40 Site of unwanted 
suburban 
vegetation
43 Low cloud
46 Trafficking org.48 Go around
49 Daze
51 Dazzling effect
52 See 22-Down
53 Mount
55 More than a little 
plump
57 Medical research 
objective
59 Natural soother
60 Dampens
62 Put in stitches
63 Product of Bali
By Roland Huget 
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, April 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Onetime capital 
of the Mughal 
Empire
5 Pop star
9 Idea, at times
14 Apparently are
15 Bering Sea port
16 Center for Auto 
Safety co-founder
17 Part of the 
supreme Hindu 
trinity
18 Penny pincher
20 Trooper’s outfit?
22 Moan and groan
23 Knot used to take 
up slack
26 Garden nuisance
30 Prof.’s helpers
31 Overly
32 Fill with affection
34 Relax completely
37 Like lambs and 
rams
38 Amorphous sci-fi 
beings, and a hint 
to what’s hidden 
in the four other 
longest answers
41 Pizzeria allure
42 Refreshers
43 Snapper?
45 Chinese 
restaurant 
general
46 The Mighty 
Mighty Bosstones 
music genre
49 One logging on
50 Prankster’s 
weapon
54 Miniseries based 
on a Haley novel
56 Sucked (in)
57 Project wrap-up
62 Voice quality
63 Old saw
64 Throw off
65 Poetic black
66 Ins and outs, with 
“the”
67 Like yellow 
bananas
68 Slight damage
DOWN
1 Give a hand
2 “Memoirs of 
a __”: Arthur 
Golden novel3 Musical shows
4 Floor
5 Business mag
6 Self-critical cry
7 Seamaster 
watchmaker
8 Come to know
9 Clouseau’s rank, 
briefly
10 Rock the boat
11 Periodontist’s 
org.
12 Come down  
with
13 Long starter, 
once
19 Toll road
21 Passing muster
24 Footprint maker
25 Raise on a  
pole
27 Many an oil-rich 
ruler
28 Many ages
29 Death Row 
Records 
co-founder, 
familiarly
33 “You’re way over 
the line”
34 Tantrum while 
playing Xbox35 Old conductance 
unit
36 Ice cream buys
38 Mmes., in 
Madrid
39 House-shaped 
browser button
40 School group
41 Puncture prefix
44 Each
46 Disco light
47 Passionate about
48 Passionate51 Upper regions of 
space
52 “Likewise”
53 Blabbed about, in 
a way
55 World Cup 
cheers
57 Go __: succeed
58 Rite answer?
59 Short snooze
60 Bit of a draft?
61 Côte d’Azur 
saison16 Health Services 18 Personals 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsFormer Florida pitcher Josh Fogg 
was named to the SEC Baseball 
Legends Class of 2019.Gators defeat LSU in first game of weekend series
The Florida baseball team took down the Tigers 16-9 on Thursday in Baton 
Rouge,  Louis iana. Austin Langworthy , Brady McConnell and Cory Acton  
all hit home runs. Pitcher T ommy Mace  struck out nine batters.
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida-Alabama softball 
rivalry is one of the fiercest in the 
Southeastern Conference. 
The Gators or the Crimson Tide 
have won the SEC regular-season 
championship in the past 11 seasons. 
No. 6 Florida is only two games 
behind first-place No. 5 Alabama in 
the conference standings with nine 
SEC games remaining for each team. 
This weekend’s series will be critical 
to determining who claims the 2019 
SEC crown, starting with Friday eve -
ning’s doubleheader. 
Here are three matchups to look 
out for when UF (37-9, 9-6 SEC) and 
Alabama (42-4, 11-4 SEC) clash at 
5:30 p.m.
The Seasoned Slinger vs. The 
Young Gun
Kelly Barnhill is a household 
name in the world of softball. 
UF’s top pitcher is a two-time All-
American and was selected by the 
the Chicago Bandits with the first 
overall pick in the National Pro Fast -
pitch College Draft on Monday night. 
Barnhill (25-6) is making a strong 
campaign for another First-Team All-American selection in 2019. Op -
ponents have mustered only a .150 
batting average against her this sea -
son, and she’s quickly approaching 
Stacey Nelson’s program record for 
strikeouts (1,116, 2006-09) with a 
mark of 1,101. 
However, Alabama has a strong 
counter for Barnhill in freshman 
Montana Fouts. 
Fouts (12-1) started the season 
as one of the country’s hottest pitch -
ers, allowing only four earned runs 
in nine appearances (55 innings). 
Her 1.00 ERA is actually lower than 
Barnhill’s (1.46). 
Fouts has shown signs of weak -
ness in the SEC. Her ERA in SEC 
play is 2.15, and she picked up her 
first loss of the season against Texas 
A&M on March 24, a game where 
she allowed four runs on seven hits. 
Leadoff batter battle
It’s an established notion that 
when the leadoff hitter gets on, good 
things happen. This is no exception 
for the Gators and Crimson Tide.  
Elissa Brown leads off for Ala -
bama, and she is a scoring threat any 
time she gets on first. She is second Top matchups to watch when Florida takes on ‘Bama
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Pitcher Kelly Barnhill has a 1.46 ERA and has only allowed an opponent batting average of .150. She is 
only 15 strikeouts away from Stacey Nelson's school record of 1,116.
Kyle’s Files / Opinion
At this point in the season, I ex -
pected to endorse the Florida base -
ball team’s candidacy for being one 
of the favorites to come out of the 
SEC. But after 39 games, it’s rather 
difficult to draw a conclusion.
Therefore, I'll take a look at the 
good, the bad and the ugly of UF’s 
season. 
The Good
Offensively, the Gators have improved 
since their College World Series run last sea -
son. Florida’s .289 team batting average is 
.015 points higher than last season and is the 
fifth-best mark in the SEC.
Much was said in the preseason about 
how young UF is, but the underclassmen 
have carried the team offensively.
Sophomore Brady McConnell leads the 
team with a .373 batting average, 56 hits 
(second-most in the SEC) and 35 runs. Fresh -
man Jacob Young beat out senior Blake Re -
ese for the starting job at second base and 
has excelled offensively, hitting .348, the sec -ond-best average on the team 
among starters. Kendrick Cali -
lao, another freshman, leads 
the team with 37 RBIs.
The Gators have also had 
two 20-run outbursts this 
season and have scored 10 
or more runs nine times. UF 
doesn’t have nearly the power 
it had last year, but it is still 
tied for fourth in the SEC in 
home runs and, as of April 10, was a top-25 
scoring offense.
The Bad
Unfortunately for Florida, its dominance 
at the plate has not carried over to its per -
formance on defense. Pitching and fielding 
have long been cornerstones of coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan’s teams at UF, but this season, the 
Gators have one of the worst pitching staffs 
in the conference, their fielding percentage 
has dropped, and the number of errors they 
commit has risen.Taking stock of the UF baseball 
team: the good, the bad and the uglySOFTBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Eleven UF gymnasts walked off the mat 
for the last time this year when Florida’s 
gymnastics team was shockingly eliminated 
from the NCAA Championships at the NCAA 
Corvallis Regional in Oregon.
The other four earned a shot at redemp -
tion, and they’ll get it Friday.
Sophomore Alyssa Baumann, senior Ali -
cia Boren and freshmen Trinity Thomas and 
Savannah Schoenherr will all compete as in -
dividuals in the semifinal round of the NCAA 
Championships at the Fort Worth Conven -
tion Center in Fort Worth, Texas. The quar -
tet will have to face some tough competition 
to walk out of Friday’s events with medals. 
Here are some gymnasts to look out for when 
UF’s individual representation competes in 
Fort Worth:
 The "I" in team
While the four Gators may be competing 
in different events – Boren all-around, Bau -
mann on the beam, Schoenherr on the vault 
and Thomas on the bars and floor – they’ll all 
run into Minnesota’s Lexy Ramler.
The sophomore from St. Michael, Min -
nesota, is the other all-around competitor 
in individual competition, and she’s already 
cemented her legacy for the Gophers. Her 
39.725 all-around score was the best in Min -
nesota’s history, and she scored a 39.600 or 
higher in five different regular-season meets. 
The Big Ten and North Central Region -
al Gymnast of the Year will certainly be a 
threat to Boren’s all-around title, and she’ll 
also encroach on the three other gymnasts 
in their respective events, making her by far 
the biggest obstacle for the group of Gators. 
She’ll particularly challenge Baumann on the 
beam, as Ramler was awarded First-Team Gators compete for 
individual medals at NCAAs
Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16
GYMNASTICSBy Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Marlee Zein entered College Station, 
Texas, excited to compete in her first SEC 
Tournament. The freshman out of Sugar 
Land, Texas, was coming off a two-win 
week, and won SEC Freshman of the Week 
for the second time this season. 
Zein collected her 11th win this season, 
second-highest on the team behind sopho -
more Ida Jarlskog and clinched a second-
round victory for the Florida women’s ten -
nis team over Ole Miss 4-2.
“I think we are all playing better,” 
coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release. 
“We’ve said this before, but over the last 
three weeks, I would say, we have reached 
another level of performance. Now in the 
postseason, momentum is obviously a big 
part of it and we definitely have some wind 
at our sails.”
No. 24 Florida defeated the Rebels for 
the second time this season in the No. 7- 
No. 10 matchup earlier today to advance to 
the quarterfinals against No. 2-seeded South 
Carolina. 
The Gators (12-10, 7-6 SEC) had a less 
than ideal start in doubles. Rebels’ duo Tea 
Jandric and Anna Vrbenska had no trouble 
with transfer tandem Tsveta Dimitrova and 
Jarlskog in a 6-1 beating on Court 2. The 
other two matches, UF’s No. 42 duo of Vic -
toria Emma and McCartney Kessler against 
Sabina Machalova and Alexa Bortles, and Florida freshman tandem Zein and Sydney 
Berlin facing Rebels’ Tereza Janatova and 
Cameron Kriscunas, were tight. 
Both matches entered the tiebreaker 
round, and Zein and Berlin were the first to 
fall in a 7-6 (7-3) loss to clinch the doubles point for the Rebels. Emma and Kessler con -
tinued playing on Court 1 and suffered a 7-6 
(7-5) loss to complete the sweep in doubles. 
“I think we’ve gotten to a point now as 
a team that we have learned sort of how 
to compartmentalize the doubles point and just treat singles as a separate entity,” 
Thornqvist said. “That’s really what you 
have to do to be successful.”
Florida rebounded quickly in singles with 
Berlin dominating in her first trip to the con -
ference tournament in a swift 6-1, 6-1 vic -
tory over Kriscunas. No. 35 Kessler had a 
close first set where she pulled out a tight 
tiebreaker win. Momentum spilled over into 
the second set where she won six of the next 
seven games, resulting in a 7-6 (9-7), 6-1 fin -
ish and giving the Gators’ a 2-1 lead.
Dimitrova dropped both of her sets to 
Bortles for Ole Miss’ second point (6-4, 6-4) 
which tied the match back at two. From 
there it was all Florida, with No. 15 Jarlskog 
outlasting No. 94 Machalova in a three-set 
thriller (6-2, 3-6, 6-4) for the Gators’ third 
point. Florida led on the two remaining 
courts needing just one more win to ad -
vance to the quarterfinals. 
The weather had a different idea, though, 
delaying the match again with Emma and 
Zein still competing on Courts 3 and 4, 
respectively. After the 45 minute delay, it 
took Florida just four minutes to finish the 
match for good as Zein defeated Janatova 
6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3 to complete the win.
“We’re happy to move on and get an -
other crack at South Carolina,” he said. “I 
thought we played really tough last week 
so we are eager to give them another shot.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Marlee Zein won SEC Freshman of the Week after earning two wins. Her 11 victories 
are second-highest on the team. 
WOMEN’S TENNIS
MEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team 
is SEC regular season champions 
and undefeated in conference 
play for the first time since 2003, 
a 14-match winning streak and 
their best regular season record 
since 1977.
It can add one more accolade 
to that resume this weekend by 
winning the SEC Tournament.
The No. 3 Gators will be 
playing part in the SEC Tourna -ment this weekend at home. The 
13-team tournament began on 
Wednesday at home and will con -
clude with the final on Sunday. 
UF is looking to improve on its 
4-2 semifinal loss to Mississippi 
State in last year’s tournament.
UF will play its first match on 
Friday. The top-seeded Gators 
received a bye into the quarter -
finals. Florida will take on No. 
21 and ninth-seeded Alabama at 
noon. It has already beaten Ala -
bama this season, defeating it 7-0 
on April 5 on the road.If UF can get by the Crimson 
Tide, its next opponent will be ei -
ther the No. 17 and fifth-seeded 
Georgia or No. 13 and No. 4-seed 
Tennessee on Saturday.
Finally, if the Gators make it 
to the championship on Sunday, 
their most likely opponent will be 
No. 11 and No. 3-seeded Texas 
A&M or No. 6 and second-seeded 
Mississippi State.
The Gators enter the tourna -
ment as favorites due to their 
dominant singles play. They have 
five players ranked in the ITA top 100, led by No. 11 sophomore 
Oliver Crawford. No. 50 sopho -
more Andy Andrade and No. 52 
freshman Sam Riffice have rotat -
ed through the No. 2 and No. 3 
spots on the court. Riffice is on 
a 12-match winning streak and is 
10-0 in SEC play. He is the first 
UF freshman since Jesse Levine 
in 2007 to finish conference play 
undefeated.
The back half of singles is con -
trolled by No. 94 Duarte Vale. 
The sophomore is also unde -
feated in SEC and is in the midst of a 12-match winning streak. 
The Gators are 62-10 in singles 
matches and has only lost three 
on Courts 4-6.
Florida is looking to win the 
SEC Tournament for the sixth 
time. It last won the tournament 
in 2016 and it last hosted the 
tournament in 2011, when it also 
won. 
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgZein clinches second-round SEC Tourney win over Ole Miss
Top-seeded UF prepares to host Alabama in SEC TourneyWOMEN’S  GOLF
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Juniors Marta Perez and Sierra 
Brooks headlined a massive day 
on the links for the Florida wom -
en’s golf team in Round 2 of the 
SEC Women’s Championships. 
Slated as Florida’s No. 1 and 
No. 2 golfers, both played well 
at the Greystone Golf & Country 
Club with Perez shooting a 4-un -
der 68 and Brooks carding a 3-un -
der 69 to give Florida a comfort -
able six-stroke first place lead.The Gators sit at 9 under as a 
team after Day 2, ahead of sec -
ond-place South Carolina (3 un -
der) and third place Arkansas (2 
over) entering the final round of 
match play. 
Perez sits alone atop the indi -
vidual leaderboard at first place 
at 7 under while Brooks and Clara 
Manzalini trail not far behind tied 
for sixth at 1 under. 
Perez started her day with 
a birdie on the first hole, and 
calmed down with eight consecu -
tive pars to finish out the front nine. She picked up her play on 
the back nine, tallying four more 
birdies and just one bogey to hold 
her two stroke lead entering Fri -
day.
Brooks, on the other hand, re -
bounded from her team-worst 2 
over first round with three bird -
ies and a bogey on the front nine. 
She continued this high level of 
play into the back nine, carding 
back-to-back birdies on 10 and 11 
before picking up a double-bogey 
on hole 14. 
Manzalini carded an even-par second round after tallying four 
birdies on the back nine, along 
with two bogeys and a double bo -
gey overall. 
Addison Baggarly entered 
Thursday off of her rollercoaster 
Round 1 performance in which 
she birdied on six of the first 11 
holes and still finished the day at 
1 over. Her mistakes rolled over 
from yesterday’s finish while her 
birdies didn’t, giving the sopho -
more a 2 over second-round fin -
ish after four bogeys and just two 
birdies on the day. Baggarly wasn’t the worst 
score carded for Florida, though, 
as redshirt sophomore Elin Es -
born finished the day at 3 over. 
Esborn’s day was clouded with 
bogeys, as she tallied four, along 
with a double bogey. Her three 
birdies on the back nine weren’t 
enough to revive her day, giving 
her a 2 over total and a tie for 21st 
place heading into the final day of 
match play.
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgBrooks, Perez show out to give Florida 36-hole lead16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
We’ll be your
Garth Brooks Concert
Pre-party / Post-party
watering hole with the 
best food in Midtown!
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!The lack of a true ace on the 
mound has derailed the pitching 
rotation. Last year, Florida had two 
aces. Now it is stuck supplanting 
frequent subpar weekend starts with 
a freshmen-dominated bullpen. UF 
has been outmatched on the mound 
in virtually every conference series 
this season. A good offense can only 
take you so far, especially in the SEC.
The Ugly
Things aren’t going to get much 
easier for the Gators. They desper -
ately need to string together a series 
of wins in the SEC in order to remain 
competitive in conference.
According to WarrenNolan.com, 
UF has played the ninth-hardest 
schedule in the nation to date. That 
same model predicts Florida to fin -
ish the season with the seventh-most 
difficult schedule (as of April 18).
Florida had a tough draw to begin 
conference play, hosting Mississippi 
State and playing Vanderbilt on the 
road, both top-10 teams. But it still 
has two tough series to play: at No. 
14 LSU this weekend and at No. 5 
Georgia in two weeks. Judging by 
UF’s performance against ranked op -
ponents (2-8) and its dismal play on 
the road (2-7), it could drop both.
Poor pitching and fielding, a hor -
rendous road record and a slew of 
top-10 opponents have plagued the 
Gators. But the main issue for this 
team has been consistency.
Florida has shown signs of being 
a contender, but at the same time, it 
also justified its first departure from 
the top 25 in 76 weeks.
At this point, it’s just a matter 
of what team shows up in late May 
and, potentially, into June.
Kyle Wood is a sports writer for 
The Alligator. Follow him on Twit -
ter @Kkylewood or contact him at 
kwood@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
All-American honors for the event.
There’ll be an air of familiarity from the 
competition as well. Auburn freshman Der -
rian Gobourne will face off against Boren and 
Schoenherr on the vault, and she earned her 
spot in individual competition with her 9.950 
on her routine at the NCAA Baton Rouge 
Regional. The last time Gobourne faced off 
against the Gators earlier this year at the Link 
to Pink meet, she tied Schoenherr’s score of 
9.900 but was bested by Boren’s 9.925.
 
Orange and blue redemption
It’s highly unusual for the Gators to miss 
out on the NCAA Championships (it has only 
happened twice since 1982), but UF’s repre -
sentation certainly has the means to avenge 
the team's early exit at the regional.
Boren boasts a Second-Team All-American 
honor for the all-around and the floor, and 
Baumann earned it for the beam. Schoenherr’s 
efforts on the vault and the bars earned her a 
spot on the SEC All-Freshman team.
The Gators’ juggernaut throughout the 
season has undoubtedly been Thomas. She’s 
the only UF gymnast to earn a First-Team All-
American honor, winning it three times (all-
around, floor and bars). Thomas is also the 
SEC Freshman of the Year, largely due to her 
26 event titles over the course of the season.“It’s going to be a little different because I’m 
not used to doing just two events,” Thomas 
said. “(They are) two of my best events, so I’m 
really excited to mainly focus on those two.”
Despite the individual nature of the events, 
the four gymnasts competing in Fort Worth 
tonight have made it abundantly clear who they’re competing for.
“We’re still gonna go in there and try to 
bring home some hardware for the rest of the 
team,” Baumann said. “Really, do it for them.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgTrinity Thomas will compete on bars and floor
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Alicia Boren earned Second-T eam All-American honors for the all-around and floor in 
2019. She will compete in all four events at the NCAAs in Fort Worth, T exas.
in the SEC in stolen bases (33) and has only been 
caught stealing twice this season. Brown also is 
third on the team in batting average (.344).
Kaylee Tow and Bailey Hemphill sit behind 
Brown in the order and lead the Tide in batting 
average and RBIs. 
UF’s Jade Caraway isn’t as efficient as Brown 
(she has no steals and a .261 batting average), but she has team batting average/home run leaders 
Amanda Lorenz and Kendyl Lindaman following 
her. Caraway instantly becomes a running threat 
when she gets on base with two dangerous hit -
ters on-deck. 
Power struggle in the three-spot
You simply can’t leave pitches over the plate 
for Hemphill and Lindaman. 
The two players lead their respective teams 
in home runs and RBIs. Hemphill has slugged 19 homers and 61 RBIs, while Lindaman has pro -
duced 14 and 49 marks in those categories. 
But Lindaman’s numbers exceed Hemphill’s 
in conference play. UF’s catcher has a .388 bat -
ting average, seven home runs and 23 RBIs in 15 
contests. Hemphill’s batting average decreased 
from .349 total to .275 against SEC pitching. She 
also has six homers and 15 RBIs in 15 SEC games. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14
UF is two games behind 'Bama in SEC standings
SOFTBALL,  from pg 14