We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Can you buy tobacco? 
UF, Santa Fe College students react to the county rising the 
legal age to buy tobacco, pg. 4
Saving natural lands
The county spent more than $800,000 to buy land, pg.  5Gators face oﬀ   with high-scoring Ole Miss tonight
UF coach Mike White said the Rebels have some 
of the SEC’s most talented guards, pg. 14WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 52
Samuel Thomas / Alligator Staff
Sunset Sisters
Kayla Broadhead, 4, and Cabrini Broadhead, 3, chase each other Monday at Depot Park. The two sisters love ending the 
day with their father, Joshua Broadhead, at the park. “We come here at least once a week, ” Broadhead said.
SOME SENATORS WANT TO CHANGE 
NAME TO CIVIL RIGHTS ADVOCATE
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
The cancellation of a UF Student Senate meet-
ing left the Reitz Union’s name unchanged — for 
now. 
Senate was canceled last week due to a room 
reservation error, which prevented at least six 
referendums and a constitutional amendment to 
be considered for the Spring ballot, said Majority 
Party Leader Cooper Brown. 
The constitutional amendment, which was up 
for consideration last Tuesday, was to rename the 
Reitz Union after Virgil D. Hawkins, a black man 
who helped desegregate UF, said Michael Dorme-
us (Inspire, District D). 
Brown said he will send a request to the UF 
Supreme Court to clarify if deadlines can be ex-
tended for amendments and referendums if Senate 
is canceled unexpectedly in the future. 
“I hope the Supreme Court provides a clear 
answer to the question we petitioned them for,” 
Brown said.  
UF denied law school admission to Hawkins 
because of his skin color, Dormeus said. The 
name change would bring greater awareness to 
Hawkins’ legacy. 
“By renaming the Reitz we will honor the peo-
ple who fought to get us where we are today,” 
Dormeus said. 
Minority Party Leader Felipe Gatos said the 
Inspire caucus will try to add the constitutional 
amendment question on the ballot this Fall, and, if 
not, next Spring.
Dormeus said Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy, 
which was celebrated the day before last week’s 
cancellation, should not be conﬁ  ned to one day of 
social media posts. 
“Words are whispers, actions are screams,” 
Dormeus said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgStudent Senators
look to rename
student unionBOTH ARE GAINESVILLE 
HIGH SCHOOL ALUMNI
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Andrew Gillum endorsed incum-
bent Mayor Lauren Poe’s campaign 
for re-election Tuesday. 
Poe said he asked Gillum to en-
dorse him. Florida Department of 
State Division of Elections records 
show Poe contributed $1,000 be-tween two donations, one being in 
April 2017 and one in September, 
for Gillum’s campaign for governor. 
Poe’s opponents in the mayoral 
race so far include Marlon Bruce, a 
Santa Fe College student; Jennifer 
Reid, a mother and legal assistant; 
and Jenn Powell, a mother and part-
time legal assistant. 
Gillum — former mayor of Tal-
lahassee, democratic candidate in 
the 2018 Florida governor election 
and Gainesville native — wrote in a statement that he endorsed Poe 
because of his values and leader-
ship. Gillum lost the governor race 
to Republican Ron DeSantis in No-
vember.
“He has the vision and experi-
ence to address local challenges 
head-on and lead my hometown 
into the future,” Gillum said. 
Poe supported Gillum as gover-
nor because of his efforts to reform 
the education system and for pro-
gressive healthcare, he said.“Both are things that have been 
neglected for the past 16 years,” Poe 
said. “He gave a lot of people hope.”
Poe and Gillum served as mayors 
at the same time in cities that shared 
similar issues, he said. They also 
both graduated from Gainesville 
High School at different times.
Poe said his campaign is based 
on equity. He wants to impose poli-
cies that will help close the gap of 
disparity among jobs, housing, 
healthcare and education. City Commissioner Helen War-
ren, who donated $100 to Poe’s 
campaign, said she is endorsing 
him because of his experience 
working with the commission and 
Gainesville Regional Utilities. 
“I agree with his vision for a 
better city,” Warren said. “I don’t 
know anyone who knows the city 
better than him.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgFormer gubernatorial candidate endorses Gainesville mayor
STATE EMPLOYEES CAN NO 
LONGER USE AIRBNB FOR 
WORK TRAVEL
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarah Carey’s stomach dropped when 
she received an email from Florida Gov. 
Ron DeSantis on Jan. 23.
It read that effective immediately, state 
government workers are not allowed to be 
reimbursed for purchases through Airbnb, 
Inc., a company that allows hosts to rent 
out spare rooms to other users, while on 
ofﬁ  cial state business, according to the email.
The email meant the 30-year-old would 
lose her $1,726 Airbnb payment for her 28-
day research trip, which starts Feb. 7, she 
said.
“I very nearly started crying,” the UF re-
searcher and botany doctoral student said.
DeSantis warned the company on Jan. 
15 of the coming sanctions, according to 
the Tampa Bay Times. The company del-
isted about 200 homes in the West Bank 
due to the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict. The 
company is now under review by the State 
Board of Administration of Florida after 
DeSantis deemed the business policy anti-
Semitic.
The board will determine at the end of January if Airbnb should be added to the 
state’s “hit list” of anti-Israeli companies, 
the Times reported.
There are more than 100 Airbnb listings 
in Gainesville for work travel that can no 
longer be used by state government em-
ployees coming to work with UF or any 
other state agency at the moment. 
Carey said she believes the sanction 
could limit future research by preventing 
work with labs and future conference at-
tendance because of the increased cost in 
housing through hotels or rental websites 
that are not Airbnb. 
“If they are not as affordable, then we 
lose valuable research money or have to UF researchers feel eﬀ  ect of Airbnb sanction
SEE AIRBNB,  PAGE 4
Gators face oﬀ   with high-scoring Ole Miss tonight
UF coach Mike White said the Rebels have some 
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Moonlight Yoga
From 6-7 p.m., the Reitz 
Programming Board will host 
a free yoga session for UF stu-
dents in the evening on the Reitz 
Union North Lawn. Attendees 
should bring their own yoga 
mats. The first attendees will re-
ceive a free water bottle.
Hijab-A-Thon After Hours
Starting at 7 p.m., UF Islam on 
Campus will host a talk in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to 
debunk the myths of the hijab 
and to discuss the experiences 
of others. Isra Chaker, a Syrian 
American civil rights activ-
ist, will be the guest speaker. 
Chaker is also a refugee cam-
paign leader at Oxfam America 
and is a global ambassador for 
the United Way and Reliefs 
Agency. 
Peaceful Paths Winter Pop-Up 
Thrift Store
This pop-up thrift store will 
have household goods, baby 
and kitchen items, furniture 
and more. The money made 
from the store will go toward 
assisting clients and supporting 
programs at the Peaceful Paths Outreach Center. The store 
will be open from 10 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m. Wednesday through 
Saturday at the outreach center, 
located at 2100 NW 53rd Ave. 
in Suite A.    
THURSDAY
AASU x HSA Present: First 
Generation Panel
The Asian American Student 
Union and the Hispanic Student 
Association will host a panel on 
the experiences of first-genera-
tion students and will educate 
attendees on the resources UF 
offers. There will also be a Q&A 
for audience members. The pan-
el will take place at 6:30 p.m. in 
Room G330 in the Reitz Union. 
Career Conversations: Navigating 
Career Fairs
At this discussion, students can 
learn about what to expect from 
Career Showcase and other ca-
reer fairs, learn how to talk to 
employers, and how to show-
case an individual’s strengths 
and skills. The event will take 
place from 3-3:50 p.m. in the 
C3 Inspiration Room in the UF 
Career Connections Center in 
the Reitz Union. The talk is an 
informal, small-group conver-
sation that’s facilitated by the 
Career Connections Center staff 
to discuss career planning. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  53° LOW  36°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send 
an email with “What’s Happening” 
in the subject line to cmorales@
alligator.org. T o request publica-
tion in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit entries before 5 
p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events and 
keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not 
appear in the paper. Press releas-
es will not appear in the paper.
Corrections:
In an article and a caption in Mon-
day's edition titled “First Gainesville 
Spanish music show launches, ” Cady 
Casellas is 20 years old. The Alliga-
tor reported differently. 
In an article titled “UF student ﬁ  -
nancial aid impacted by government 
shutdown" in Monday's edition, ﬁ  -
nancial aid was not affected due to 
the government shutdown. UF will 
offer help to students who are fed-
eral employees or ﬁ  nancially rely 
on family members who are federal 
employees. A student source was 
also removed from the story. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Marianna Colon, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Copy Editors
Hope Hatchcock, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Ashlyn Jones, Graham Marsh, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Blake Trauschke 
Sarah DeVoe, Hanna Gibson, 
DISPLAY ADVERTISINGVOLUME 113 ISSUE 52WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
1. UF graduate within the last 5 years with 
expertise in one of the following areas:  web 
development, coding, search engine optimization, 
digital advertising and marketing, nonprofit 
fundraising and grant writing. 
2. Working professional with expertise in one of 
the following areas: web development, coding, 
search engine optimization, digital advertising and 
marketing, nonprofit fundraising and grant writing.
Applications for these positions are available at the new Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 
a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Thursday, February 14. Candidates 
located outside of the Gainesville area can receive an application by 
emailing Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.org.
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that 
time to read information regarding the application process. Part of the 
application consists of short essays in response to specific questions. 
Applications must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, February 
15 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday, February 22 at 11 
a.m. Applicants must meet the above qualifications.  
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employerand
announces the opening of the following positions:
All are unpaid members of the Board of Directors
 ALDI IS  AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.More training. More opportunities. 
More success. 
That’s ALDI. We’re one of the nation’s leading grocery stores because of our 
commitment to more. More value for our customers. More stores opening every year. 
And more opportunity for our people. People like you. As a District Manager, you’ll 
manage millions in revenue as you oversee your district and inspire your teams. 
You’ll be more than a leader. More than a coach. You’ll help shape our direction and 
work with your teams to deliver the service our customers expect. We also believe 
in rewarding our employees with more. Our District Manager positions start with 
an $80K salary plus a $5K signing bonus and increase to $110K in five years. We also 
provide our District Managers with a fully expensed AUDI A3 and three weeks of 
vacation time during their first full year of employment. If you’re looking for more, you 
just found it.
Learn more: careers.aldi.usWE MEAN IT .WHEN WE SAY WELCOMETO MORE ,ELEVEN FEWER STUDENTS 
INTERVIEWED THIS SEMESTER 
COMPARED TO LAST SPRING 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Steven Orban was dressed in a suit 
and tie waiting for his ﬁ  rst Student Gov-
ernment interview Tuesday afternoon.
“I want to have an impact on the 
school around me,” the 22-year-old UF 
economics graduate student said.
Orban, who hopes to run with the In-
spire Party for the graduate senator seat, 
is one of 291 students who registered to 
run in the Spring 2019 UF SG elections, 
Henry Fair, the supervisor of elections 
and 21-year-old UF political science ju-
nior, wrote in an email. 
After three days, 86 students inter-
viewed with Inspire Party, 204 with Im-
pact and one student will run as an inde-
pendent, Fair said.
Impact and Inspire have concluded 
interviews for students who want to run 
with the parties during the Spring elec-tions. The parties held the interviews 
from Sunday to Tuesday. Seven parties 
registered to run candidates but only two 
interviewed, Fair said. 
This semester’s SG elections will be 
held on Feb. 19 and 20 to ﬁ  ll 50 Student 
Senate seats by college and year and the 
executive ticket, which is made up of the 
Student Body president, vice president 
and treasurer. 
Last semester, 239 students inter-
viewed: 72 with Inspire and 167 with 
Impact. In Spring 2018, a total of 302 
students interviewed: 136 with Inspire, 
129 with Impact, 27 with the Challenge 
Party, eight as undecided and two as In-
dependent. Challenge Party, which was 
formed and only ran for one semester, 
did not interview for Senate candidates 
this year. 
Candidates should campaign fairly 
and refer to election codes if they ques-
tion something, Fair said. 
“And, of course, have fun,” he said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgStudent Government concludes interviews and qualifying process
Fall 2018
T otal: 239
Inspire: 72
Impact: 167Spring 2018
T otal: 302
Inspire: 136
Impact: 129
Challenge: 27
Undecided: 8
Independent: 2PREVIOUS ELECTION 
QUALIFYING STATISTICS:
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019pay out of pocket,” Carey said.
UF sent faculty another email on Thursday 
announcing that Airbnb reservations made 
before the sanction was passed would be al-
lowed. Carey’s money is safe for now. How-
ever, any future reservations are still illegal.
DeSantis and Airbnb did not immediately 
respond to The Alligator’s calls or email re-
quests to comment.
The policy will cause his lab to pay more 
for housing in the future, Stuart McDaniel, a 
UF associate biology professor, said.
Airbnb rentals often have kitchens which 
make it possible for researchers to save time 
and money on food, McDaniel said. UF allows 
$36 per day for food during work trips. With 
a strict allowance, any extra meal fees have to 
be paid out-of-pocket by employees.
“As far as my lab budget is concerned, 
there are no benefits to this policy,” he said. AIRBNB,  from pg. 1Policy may 
hurt lab budgetsNicole Needles / Alligator Staff
Discussing Science
Jamie Foster, an associate professor at the UF Department of Microbiology and Cell Sciences, speaks to a 
group Tuesday during the TEDxUFSalon: The Modern Explorer event at the Cade Museum for Creativity 
& Invention. Attendees were shown videos on various topics in science and then were invited to engage 
in a discussion about those videos. The UF Chemistry Club added to the experience by setting up various 
hands-on experiments for the crowd to further explore the wonders of science. 
HIS BOND IS $20,000
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A four-time bicycle thief was 
accused of stealing two more 
Sunday.
Chadrick Rodell Smith, 47, of 
Gainesville, was seen pushing 
two bicycles across the street near 
200 NW Eighth Ave. at about 8 
a.m., according to a Gainesville 
Police arrest report. 
An officer went up to Smith 
and asked what he was doing 
with the bikes, the report said. 
Smith told him he had owned the 
bicycles for three years. 
The officer saw a University 
Police decal on one of the bi-
cycles and contacted who it was 
registered to, the report said. The 
owner of the bicycle said his and 
his roommate’s bicycles were sto-
len.The owner 
went to the 
scene and said 
the bicycles be-
longed to them, 
the report said. 
Smith con-
tinued to say 
that the bicy-
cles were his but did not say how 
he got them, the report said. The 
officer searched Smith and found 
a hammer wrapped in fabric he 
believed Smith used to break the 
bicycle locks. 
Smith was charged with petit 
theft, the report said. 
He has been found guilty of 
four theft charges since 2014 and 
each one was for stealing bicy-
cles, according to court records. 
His last bicycle theft was in 2016. 
He remained in the Alachua 
County Jail on Monday in lieu of 
a $20,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgCharged bicycle bandit 
accused of stealing more
Smith
By Wadney Julien
Alligator Contributing Writer
A $1,200 scholarship will make its way 
to three students later this Spring.
The Florida State Association of Su-
pervisors of Elections will award three 
scholarships to eligible Florida college and 
university students, said TJ Pyche, the Ala-
chua County Supervisor of Elections Office 
spokesperson.
In order to be considered for the schol-
arship, students must be enrolled as a full-time junior or senior with a major in 
political science, public or business admin-
istration, journalism or mass communica-
tions. 
Students must also be registered to vote 
in Florida, Pyche said.
Deadlines for scholarships is March 29 
and winners are usually announced in ear-
ly May, Pyche said. 
The scholarships are given to help stu-
dents further pursue degrees in higher edu-
cation, he said.
“Every time we have the opportunity to help students ... that’s a really good posi-
tion,” Pyche said. 
Other requirements include two letters 
of recommendation, a financial statement 
and maintenance of a C average or above 
the previous year, Pyche said.
The scholarship is state-wide with each 
county reviewing applications submitted 
by students and conducting in-person in-
terviews, Pyche said. 
The county will then choose one stu-
dent from all of the applicants to be con-
sidered by the association’s scholarship 
committee.
Stella Kim, a 21-year-old UF public rela-
tions senior, was one of last year’s scholar-
ship recipients. Kim said she first heard about the schol-
arship through the UF College of Journal-
ism and Communications Knight Division 
Digest’s newsletter, a weekly newsletter 
that informs students about scholarships, 
jobs and internship opportunities. 
Kim first applied two years prior but 
was denied. She tried again and won. 
“I was shocked but extremely grateful 
and humble that I had gotten the scholar-
ship, especially since it is state-wide and is 
very competitive,” Kim said.
Rejection always leads to redirection 
even if it takes time, Kim said.
“Go for it,” Kim said. “You are never 
losing or risking anything by applying.”Three scholarships to be awarded across Florida
COUNTY CHANGED PURCHASING 
AGE FROM 18 TO 21
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County raised the minimum age 
to buy tobacco products to 21 last week.
But students like Ale Nossa, a 21-year-old 
UF nutritional sciences junior, said changing 
the age doesn’t change the problem.
“It’s the same thing as alcohol,” Nossa 
said. “By raising the age, it’s literally going to 
do nothing. It’s just going to create more of a 
black market.”
The county became the first in Florida to 
pass an ordinance of this kind.
The county commission unanimously 
passed it, joining hundreds of other cities that 
have already taken part in Tobacco 21, the 
national movement to increase the minimum 
purchase age. 
Alachua County has seen about a 60 per-
cent increase in electronic vape use among 
teenagers in the past two years, according to 
the Florida Department of Health.The 2018 Florida Youth Tobacco Survey 
showed that 15.1 percent of youth, from ages 
11 to 17, use an electronic vape. In 2016, it 
was 9.5 percent.
Dion Campbell, a 32-year-old UF sociology 
doctoral student, expressed a similar concern. 
“Twenty-one is such an arbitrary age for 
people to do anything,” Campbell said. “If 
you can serve in the military and die, then 
it doesn’t make sense that you can’t smoke 
or drink at the age of 18. I just find it kind of 
weird.”
Businesses will need to get a new annual 
license from the county to sell tobacco. Viola-
tions of the new ordinance will result in li-
cense suspensions.
On the first violation, the license will be 
suspended for seven days. The second offense 
within two years will result in a 30-day sus-
pension. The third offense within two years 
will be a 90-day suspension, and a fourth of-
fense in two years will revoke the license with 
no option to re-apply.
Dennis Pfeiffer, a 20-year-old Santa Fe Col-
lege business sophomore, said the new ordi-
nance is a move in the right direction.“It opens a lot of people’s eyes in a way 
that it’s kind of like, ‘Let’s take notice now 
and do something about it before it’s too 
late,’” he said. 
City Commissioner David Arreola said the 
commission hasn’t discussed the new ordi-
nance much or whether the city would opt-
out of the law, but it will soon be a conversa-
tion. 
“The health benefits are obvious,” Arreola 
said. “But, if I was under 21, I would oppose 
it.”
Abby Bayacal, a 19-year-old University 
of Central Florida biomedical sciences fresh-
man, drove about two hours from Orlando to 
attend the Jan. 22 meeting as a student advo-
cate for Tobacco 21.
“They listen more when it’s someone 
who’s younger,” Bayacal said. “I wanted 
to use that to my advantage and to make it 
worth something and for something that I 
believed in, that I thought would better my 
community.”
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgStudents express feelings on tobacco law changeDeadline to apply is March 29WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
IMPROVEMENTS TO CITY’S 
PARKS TO COME
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can take part in 
tennis workshops Saturday in celebration 
of the re-opening of a local tennis center’s 
pro shop.
The Joyce Oransky Tennis Center shop 
at the Albert Ray Massey Park, at 1001 NW 
34th St., received a new coat of paint and 
will also receive a new set of furniture in 
the coming weeks, said Billy Marcantel, 
the athletics supervisor for the Parks, Rec-
reation & Cultural Affairs Department. The 
shop’s re-opening is the start of changes 
that may come within park tennis pro-grams across the city. 
Along with the renovations, an updated 
online system was implemented on its new 
website, playtennisgainesville.com, that 
reserves tennis courts at the center, Mar-
cantel said.
The pro shop renovations, which start-
ed on Jan. 7, were part of a contract that 
was signed in November between the Unit-
ed States Tennis Association Florida and 
the city, said Frank Swope, the director 
of tennis management for the association. 
The renovations are projected to cost be-
tween $15,000 to $20,000 once everything 
is done. 
“We view this project as an initial in-
vestment to give back to the community,” 
Swope said. 
The contract allowed the city to estab-lish a new tennis program service provider 
after Mike Oransky, the former provider, 
retired after 37 years last year, Marcantel 
said. 
A potential updated contract between 
the tennis association and the city that 
will include tennis court renovations is ex-
pected to be signed in the coming weeks, 
Swope said. 
The renovations in this new contract are 
expected to include repaving courts and re-
building fences at Tom Petty Park, North-
side Park and TB McPherson Park, he said. 
The parks have also implemented the new 
online reservation system. 
This project is expected to cost about $1 
million and will be partially funded by the 
city and association, Swope said. 
The city began a bidding process to find a new provider and the tennis association 
was decided on.
The parks construction start date hasn’t 
been decided yet, Marcantel said. 
Gabriel Gutiérrez, a 21-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering junior, said he is look-
ing forward to these new improvements at 
tennis courts across the city, especially the 
new reservation system.
After playing on the UF tennis club 
team for two years, he lost his motivation 
to continue because his life as a student 
got busier, he said. However, he thinks the 
new reservation system will give him the 
kickstart he needs to pick up his racquet 
again. 
“It’ll make my life much easier,” Gutiér-
rez said. “I’m excited for the new chang-
es.”  City, US tennis association begin improvement project
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County purchased 578 acres of for-
est for $1.3 million to conserve a large popula-
tion of native Florida plants. 
The acres are collectively known as Fox Pen 
tract in the Lochloosa Forest Project Area. The 
county and the Alachua Conservation Trust 
purchased it after a year-long negotiation with 
a Weyerhaeuser NR Company, a timber com-
pany, closed on Jan. 15, said Tom Kay, the 
trust executive director.
“Getting this acquisition was a huge suc-
cess. It’s been on our radar for a while,” Kay 
said.
Fox Pen is located on the southeastern 
border of Alachua and Putnam County, said 
Charlie Houder, county parks and conservation 
lands director. 
The county purchased 383.5 acres for 
$876,492 through the Alachua County Forever 
program with funding from the Wild Spaces 
and Public Places half-cent sales tax, Houd-
er said. The trust purchased 194.5 acres for 
$444,685 through private funds. The property will potentially be a part of 
an ecological corridor that links Fox Pen with 
the Ocala National Forest and Osceola National 
Forest, he said. This would establish a collec-
tion of large ecosystems on the east side of the 
county. 
One of the reasons for saving the property 
was because of its native Florida vegetation 
such as blueberries and deerberries, Kay said. 
“Being able to conserve this place ended up 
a real victory,” Kay said.
The trust will manage the property, and in 
the next months, assessments will be made 
to plan for restorations and find what species 
need to be treated, Kay said. The trust will also 
be putting in hiking and biking trails, kiosks, 
bike racks and picnic benches in the area. 
Houder said conserving the area will in-
clude prescribed burning, replacing sand pine 
trees with longleaf pine trees and managing the 
water quality, Houder said. 
“It’s just a matter of keeping things in their 
good state,” he said.  
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgCounty, conservation trust buys 578 acres of forest
Courtesy to The Alligator
Alachua County and the Alachua Conservation Trust purchased 578 acres within the 
Lochloosa Forest Project area on Jan. 15 for $1.3 million for conservation. 
Deal cost $1.3 millionThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnCareer Showcase 
isn’t your only 
ticket to success
Time to break out the blazers because Career Showcase is 
approaching. Next Tuesday students will be running back 
and forth between classes and the O’Connell Center, hop-
ing to make that one life-changing connection. It’s the per-
fect opportunity to talk to your dream company, and it can 
feel like your one chance at a big break. But then the nerves start 
to set in and the doubts in the back of your mind creep in.
Career Showcase is not the end-all-be-all to a lifetime of suc-
cess. It’s a stepping stone, and honestly, a small one. At worst, 
the showcase is practice for interviewing and networking, and at 
best you can get a leg-up in your career. But it’s only one day. 
The pressure to perform can be overwhelming, especially when 
surrounded by business majors who learned how to interview 
before they could walk. It’s easy to compare yourself to every 
qualiﬁ  ed student who walks through the door.
We feel it, too, the need to make a good impression. It’s natu-
ral to want to seem perfect, to say the right things and to impress 
employers. However, a small slip-up in conversation or bad hair 
day can feel like one of the worst mistakes of your life. First im-
pressions are everything, or so we’ve been told. Every employer 
in that showcase knows exactly how you feel; they were all 20 
years old and inexperienced at one point. Employers are there to 
talk to and get to know you, not ridicule you.
This isn’t to say you should show up with a crumpled resume 
and untucked shirt. Be as prepared as you can be, but don’t add 
extra pressure to yourself and your experience at the showcase. 
Opportunities pop up every day. They’re sitting next to you in 
lecture, where you just met your next study buddy or on a ﬂ  ier in 
Turlington about open auditions for sketch comedy.
Every action you take and every experience you come across 
isn’t going to happen while you have your elevator pitch re-
hearsed and perfected in the back of your mind. Some will be 
organic and lead you to opportunities you never even knew you 
wanted. Your lab partner could be working on your dream re-
search in 20 years, so keep their number saved.
Having the perfect outﬁ  t and cover letter isn’t necessarily your 
ticket to success. It’s the connections you make in your day-to-
day life that can lead to the best career opportunities. A couple of 
days out of a semester dedicated to networking isn’t going to cut 
it. It’s a great opportunity, but to believe it’s your one chance at 
making it big is a mistake.
We tend to put an insurmountable amount of pressure on 
our shoulders to be the best version of ourselves, especially dur-
ing Career Showcase, and that’s understandable. The pressure 
means you care about your end goals. However, it’s a good idea 
to remember that a mistake isn’t going to mean the end of a 
career you haven’t even started. When we put this pressure on 
ourselves we start to lose what makes us uniquely us. Nerves and 
jitters are sometimes unavoidable, but in case you make a less 
than stellar impression, there’s always the possibility you’ll ﬁ  nd 
something better tomorrow.
Work on making connections with your classmates, profes-
sors and counselors. We make mistakes; that’s not news. But in 
the grand scheme of your college years or even your life, they’re 
just stories. You may have employers falling to your feet at Career 
Day or maybe you make a less than stellar impression. Either 
way, it’s one day out of the semester. Your goals don’t expire 
after one semester, they take time to learn, and however long 
that takes is up to you. Seize every opportunity you can ﬁ  nd, 
wherever you ﬁ  nd it.Despite the fact that pop has been 
around for a long time, it never 
seems to be taken as seriously as 
other music genres. Maybe it’s that 
the genre uses mostly synthesized 
tracks instead of live bands. It could also be 
that the choruses of these songs can be repet-
itive (we’ve all seen the meme juxtaposing 
Queen’s “Bohemian Rhapsody” to Beyoncé’s 
“Who Run the World,” as if music today isn’t 
written with as much merit). Or, it could 
have something to do with the fact that pop 
is undoubtedly dominated by women. 
There’s no shortage of female mega-popstars, many 
of whom should get way more recognition for their ca-
reers than they do. In recent history, we’ve had artists 
like Mariah Carey, Ke$ha, Lady Gaga, Ariana Grande, 
Beyoncé, Rihanna, Miley Cyrus… the list goes on. I’m 
not here to argue that Beyoncé isn’t recognized for her 
contributions to the industry, but I am here to make 
the point that the other ladies on this list (and more) 
deserve to be taken just as seriously.  
Recently, Billboard named Ariana Grande its 2018 
Woman of the Year. Her interview focuses a lot on how 
she has survived the industry as a woman, and how she 
still isn’t taken as seriously as she should be, especially 
by men. She made it clear she’s not afraid to walk out 
of sessions where her talent and capability is called into 
question, and she’s willing to burn bridges to demand 
respect for herself. I love to hear that she’s demand-
ing the level of respect she deserves, but, at this point, 
should she really have to?
Ariana Grande can produce her own sessions. She 
writes her own music. She has some of the most im-pressive vocals of any singer to come from 
our generation, period. She should be able to 
walk into a recording studio with the knowl-
edge that she’s already proven herself count-
less times and shouldn’t have to worry about 
someone questioning that.
The same goes for all women in all genres 
of music because — I’ll let you in on a se-
cret — if a man entered the industry with 
even half of those qualiﬁ  cations, he would 
be more highly regarded than most or all of 
those women who’ have fought to make their 
way to the top. The music industry, as well as many 
other industries, are still boys’ clubs. Any woman try-
ing to get in is eyed skeptically and has to “prove” that 
she can hang. 
I’m not saying no male in music deserves their fame. 
Many do. I only argue that they don’t necessarily have 
to ﬁ  ght as hard to get there. Merely their gender does 
not make it more difﬁ  cult for them to prove themselves 
as a serious artist. Pop is already less respected than 
other genres. The moment a woman enters into the 
pop genre, she has all of the odds stacked against her, 
regardless of the fact that pop is a female-dominated 
genre of music. She has to be able to do it all, or she’s 
viewed as unable to do anything. It’s time that we all 
check our biases when it comes to women in music, 
evaluate their talent objectively and appreciate them for 
their hard work. I have a strong suspicion we would 
see more women climbing their way to the top across 
all genres. 
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays. Women in the music industry deserve recognition 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
It was the summer of 2017. I had just 
arrived in Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time 
as a student two weeks earlier. As I 
laid in the twin bed in my dorm room, 
I struggled to fall asleep. There was a 
throbbing pain in my jaw, and I could feel it 
spreading. I tossed and turned. I rubbed my 
temples hard, and when I turned to look at 
the clock, it was 3 a.m.
The next morning, I frantically googled 
dentists nearby, and as soon as I could, I 
trekked over to UF Health Shands Dental 
Clinic. The dentist told me that my wisdom 
tooth was infected, and it would need to be 
removed immediately. I was still shaking in 
the large plush chair when the dentist closed 
in on my mouth with a long needle ﬁ  lled 
with anaesthesia. My parents were miles 
away, and I felt scared and alone.
This rough day was the ﬁ  rst time I had 
realized that the reality of college was not 
the same as most high school seniors envi-sion it to be. There is freedom to 
do what you want to some ex-
tent. Nobody will tell you to come 
home at a certain time or to wake 
you up for class in the morn-
ing. If you want your room to be 
messy, that’s your choice. You 
can forgo a night at the library 
for a night on the town at your 
own risk. This self-determination 
is what leads many to believe in 
the phrase “college is the best four years of 
your life.” But, you quickly learn that choic-
es have consequences, and responsibility is 
key in college.
It’s the little things in life that are more 
difﬁ  cult in college than they were at home. 
Errands feel more complicated and tedious. I 
once spent an entire day ﬁ  guring out how to 
mail a letter. I didn’t know where to buy en-
velopes or stamps or even where to send the 
letter from. When I bought deli meat at Pub-lix for the ﬁ  rst time, the employee 
behind the counter made fun of 
me for not realizing that I had 
to pick from 12 different kinds 
of turkey. I walked a mile in the 
sweltering heat to cash a check at 
the closest working ATM.
Those things get easier with 
time and are all parts of living 
independently, but other bigger 
problems need to be navigated in 
college as well. When we leave home, we 
are stripped of a comfortable support system 
made up of our families, familiar hometowns 
and childhood friends. Making new friends 
takes time and energy, especially when 
you’re out of practice. Finding the right 
friends to support you and to have fun with 
can be a lengthy trial-and-error process.
There is so much pressure to have the 
best time during your college experience, but 
by glorifying the partying, the good times and the freedom, we forget the obstacles we 
are bound to experience throughout life.
College is a transition period. It’s a time to 
grow and to change for the better. We learn 
so much in college and think so much about 
the future. We get to discover our passions 
and to decide what track we will continue on 
in our lives. School is hard, but I know it’s 
going to help me in the future.
Going to college won’t solve all of your 
problems. Every day isn’t always fun, but 
every day isn’t always boring either. The col-
lege experience is holistic, and there is no 
need to single out this part of your life as the 
greatest it will ever be. It can be great with-
out comparison to the others experiences the 
rest of your life will bring. For some people, 
college is the best time of their lives, but for 
many, the best is yet to come.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Wednesdays.The best years of your life are yet to come, and they may not be in collegeColumn
A few weeks ago, I intro-
duced my roommate to 
the Swampy UF memes 
for top ten public teens                              
Facebook group. The 
stereotypes of different kinds of 
students, particularly STEM ma-
jors, cracked us up.
Pursuing STEM doesn’t mean 
you have to ﬁ  t into those stereo-
types, however. STEM majors 
need creativity and fun in their lives, too. 
With all their energy spent on logic-based 
classes, the left side of their brain is the 
equivalent to Captain America, leaving the 
poor right side of their brain to be a scrawny 
Steve Rogers in comparison.
A lot of people consider studying STEM 
as abandoning all hobbies and social life. I 
can’t speak from personal experience, but I 
have a lot of social and artistic friends who 
prove that theory wrong. If you are studying 
science or math, make some time for creativ-
ity and art, too. Don’t give in to the pressures 
of those brutal STEM workloads.
I knew the trolls would rightly deem me 
a hypocrite if I didn’t get an experienced 
perspective for this column, so I recruited a 
friend of mine to legitimize my argument. My 
pal Janna Josafat is a junior studying ento-
mology and nematology with an emphasis 
on biosecurity in the College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences. She is also a member of 
the cymbal line in The Pride of the Sunshine’s 
drumline. Josafat is soft-spoken and quirky. 
She’s the kind of person who makes you 
smile when she walks into the room. Her op-
timistic demeanor spreads a genuine feeling 
of hope.
This relentless optimism bubbled through 
when we sat down to discuss how she man-
ages to balance her time-consuming major 
with such a demanding artistic outlet. She 
offered some simple but valuable advice to 
STEM students worried about balancing cre-
ative hobbies with classes.
When Josafat entered UF her freshman 
year, she was hesitant to join the band. She 
was overwhelmed by the time commitment 
and felt unsure if she wanted to continue 
with the marching band. She decided to test 
out the band for her ﬁ  rst year and loved it. Next Fall will be her fourth and 
ﬁ  nal year marching for UF.
She encourages STEM ma-
jors, who are unsure if they 
should pursue arts in college to 
push themselves past the initial 
fear of balancing creativity and 
classes. Even if you decide jug-
gling both commitments is too 
overwhelming, you’ll be proud 
you participated in an artistic 
group and challenged yourself to step out of 
your comfort zone.
“Try it for one year. See if you like it. See 
if you can take the heat. ... If you don’t like 
it, you could always just stop,” Josafat said.
Balancing science and band isn’t too much 
for Josafat, and she has learned from the ex-
perience. Pursuing your creative outlet while 
tackling a STEM major teaches valuable life 
skills. Josafat said it requires adept planning 
and time management, but keeping up with 
classes and the band is totally doable.
“Get a buddy, a study buddy, it makes 
[the workload] more bearable. Just plan 
things out, just be disciplined, don’t be lazy,” 
Josafat said.
Beyond the life skills and memories, Josa-
fat emphasized her appreciation for the kind 
of culture and family she’s found in the band. 
Josafat and her bandmates can bond over 
their love for music. Shared suffering during 
hot rehearsals also forms unique friendships 
that classes and most other organizations 
can’t create.
“It’s just nice to be able to be part of a 
group and do what you like to do for fun. 
STEM stuff isn’t always fun…You need 
something else to be a part of,” Josafat said.
So, math and science people of UF, I urge 
you to challenge the stereotypes Swampy 
memes comically perpetuates. Don’t be in-
timidated by your class schedule this semes-
ter. Join an art club or dance group. Exploring 
your creative side creates memories, reveals 
growth opportunities and cultivates relation-
ships you didn’t even realize are missing 
from your life.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism 
freshman. Her column normally appears 
on Fridays.Art and STEM can go together, 
despite what stereotypes sayColumn
For some time now, I have 
been intrigued and disgrun-
tled by the state of American 
cinema — speciﬁ  cally, by 
the movie industry’s obses-
sion with sequels and remakes. 
Perhaps obsession is a dramatic 
word; after all, a fraction of the 
movies available in theaters today 
are sequels or remakes. Let’s sub-
stitute obsession, then, with ﬁ  xa-
tion.
Regardless, I’ve noticed that the value of 
the movie theater has shifted from a place to 
view all ﬁ  lms to primarily a space for large 
franchise ﬁ  lms, like Marvel movies or “Star 
Wars.” In my four years at UF, nearly all of 
my trips to the theater have been for these 
franchises, and the theater is well-suited 
for them. There is cosmic action and excite-
ment. You can’t have the same experience 
watching “Inﬁ  nity Wars” on your couch as 
you can in a sold-out theater.
Things used to be different, though. The 
novelist Walker Percy published his debut 
novel, “The Moviegoer,” in 1961 about a 
man who, unsurprisingly, frequents the the-
ater. Notice that this was nearly 60 years 
ago, when ﬁ  lm was arguably the most im-
portant, or at least the most popular, cultural 
medium. The movie theater was the primary 
place for cinema in that time period. People 
had no other options for moviegoing but the 
theater.
Because of this, the movie theater be-
came a cultural foundation. It represented so 
much of the culture’s beliefs, longings, fears 
and hopes. This is what Percy tapped into in 
his novel, that moviegoing was more than 
America’s favorite hobby. Rather, ﬁ  lm was 
the medium by which Americans communi-
cated with each other, the space in which 
public discourse took place. The movies both 
mirrored and sculpted American culture.
Media is necessary for any culture. Me-
dia, broadly deﬁ  ned, is a tool that facilitates 
communication, like books or newspapers or 
movies. Within and through media, impor-
tant ideas and beliefs are transmitted, spe-
ciﬁ  cally ideas and beliefs about those who 
are using that media. In this sense, media 
is integral to a culture’s self-understanding. 
For example, a culture that reads thinks of it-
self in radically different ways than a culture 
that watches movies.
As I said in the beginning, I’ve struggled to understand why there are so 
many sequels and remakes. Movie 
producers must be responding to 
a consumer demand or else they 
would not invest so much capital. 
Why, then, do we demand to see 
“Harry Potter” prequels, or “Toy 
Story 4,” or new “Star Wars” mov-
ies? Why do we demand to see old 
movies like “Overboard” and “A 
Star is Born” redone?
The simple answer is nostalgia, but nos-
talgia for what, exactly? Perhaps our love of 
sequels and remakes is a nostalgic longing 
for a time when ﬁ  lm was supreme, when we 
were in the golden age of movies. If ﬁ  lm was 
the dominant cultural media in the 20th cen-
tury, it certainly is not in the 21st. Two ma-
jor competitors come to mind: the internet 
and the smartphone. Any generation young-
er than the baby boomers is ﬂ  uent with and 
loves both.
Our culture’s most important conversa-
tions don’t happen on the ﬁ  lm screen but 
on Reddit afterward. Our generation won’t 
be nostalgic primarily for movies but for old 
YouTube videos, GIFs and tweets. The inter-
net is where our culture today is mirrored 
and sculpted. It is the medium by which we 
acquire and deepen our self-understanding.
My view is a bleak one; it seems as if cine-
ma, having been dethroned by other cultural 
media, is lost. And in its confusion, cinema 
has tried returning to its golden age when 
new movies and popular demand buzzed. 
The movie industry as our parents knew it 
has passed, but the industry today still does 
not understand this. Or perhaps it does, but 
it  simply doesn't what to do about it.
Of course, ﬁ  lm is still beloved today, but 
it is one source of entertainment among a 
grocery store of other sources. How can the 
movie theater compete with Netﬂ  ix, Twitter 
or YouTube? Certainly not by remaking old 
movies or expanding old universes. We al-
ways reminisce and reﬂ  ect when something 
is almost over: college, a summer camp, a 
sports season or even a movie. Endings and 
goodbyes somehow evoke nostalgia from us. 
Sadly, if we apply this to cinema, we see an 
industry near the end looking fondly back at 
its better days. What’s even sadder, the the-
ater still thinks it can have those days back 
again.  
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.This is not our parents’ movie industryColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Sex in the Swamp: Protection
Read about the many options to prevent STIs, pg. 9T op Indie Games 2018
Check out our favorite indie video games from last year, pg 8GAINESVILLE ROCK BAND 
PREPARES FOR TOUR
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Warm up your ﬁ  ngers, practice scale exercises and 
stay hydrated. 
For songwriter and guitarist Mike Llerena, it’s the 
little things that help him get ready before a big show.  
Mike Llerena & The Nerve, Articles and Dial Drive 
will perform at 9 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 31 at The Atlan-
tic, located at 15 N. Main St. Doors open at 8 p.m. 
Mike Llerena & The Nerve is a rock ’n’ roll band 
headlining at The Atlantic on Jan. 31 to kick off their 
upcoming tour that will feature weekend performanc-
es across the state of Florida and Georgia. 
Llerena describes going on tour as a great adven-
ture in more ways than one. 
“In a way, going out on tour and playing these 
shows is a great excuse to see friends that we don’t 
get to see very often throughout the year,” Llerena 
said. “It’s a chance to visit places that we have fond 
memories of. It’s the chance to have a little weekend 
adventure for us working the normal 9-to-5 during the week.” 
Heavily inﬂ  uenced by punk and folk music, the 
band got together in June 2017 while Llerena was in 
the process of making his fourth solo album. With 
Brian Jones, 43, on base, Scott Marshall, 37, on drums 
and Llerena, 27, writing the songs – the band immedi-
ately had amazing chemistry. 
Taylor Harmon, 26, joined the band as the new 
drummer in the summer of 2018 when Marshall had 
to step down due to family matters. Together, the 
three-member band released their album “Old Haunts 
& New Horizons” in June 2018. 
The subject matter from their 10-song album rang-
es from topics including romance, friendships and cur-
rent events. Llerena said he tries to keep an element of 
honesty in all his songs. 
This week, the band will be debuting a three-min-
ute music video for “Crossﬁ  re,” the ﬁ  rst single that 
was released off their album last year. 
“The song speaks to feeling caught in the middle of 
two opposing sides in an argument really at its core,” 
Llerena said. 
@vanessablankie
Vblankenship@alligator.orgMike Llerena & The Nerve prepares for tour of Southeast
MUSICAFTER 28 YEARS 
CALDWELL LEAVES THE 
HIPPODROME
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
On Jan. 21, the Hippodrome State 
Theatre announced the departure of 
its artistic director, Lauren Warhol 
Caldwell, a director, performer and 
educator at the regional theater for 28 
years.  
Caldwell was appointed artistic di-
rector in 1996 and made many artistic 
contributions that shaped the theater 
over time. She wanted to expose 
Gainesville audiences to different 
structures of theater through projects 
that featured classical and contempo-
rary elements, as well as elements of 
devised theater. Some of her proudest 
pieces included “The Glass Menager-
ie,” “Eurydice” and a revised version 
of “Alice in Wonderland.”
“I know I made an impact in this 
city as artistic director of that the-
ater,” Caldwell said. 
Caldwell started as an actress at 
the Hippodrome in 1988 when she 
ﬁ  rst came to Gainesville with a friend 
and pursued her Masters of Fine Arts 
in Acting at UF. Upon graduation, 
Caldwell worked at UF in an adjunct 
position and at the Hippodrome in 
the education department. As the Hippodrome education department 
grew, Caldwell committed to the the-
ater full-time. She worked in the edu-
cation department and volunteered 
in the box ofﬁ  ce, the cinema and the 
Theatre for Young Audiences touring 
program.   
Caldwell invested time in edu-
cating kids in theater training and 
expanding the education to the proj-
ects, halfway houses and prisons. 
She claimed there was a need to ﬁ  ll 
kids’ pockets with better, more di-
verse choices in life and hoped that 
she impacted their lives in some way.  
Caldwell herself was a con-stant student while an actor and di-
rector at the Hippodrome. As a direc-
tor, she learned how to communicate 
with both performers and technicians 
to achieve the ultimate artistic vision 
of the show. 
The Hippodrome impacted her 
theater education extensively be-
cause she learned how to work with 
the Actors’ Equity Association and 
diverse groups of actors and play-
wrights. 
“I spent time learning the the-
ater as a whole, which eventually 
led to the artistic director position,” 
Caldwell said.Caldwell’s time at the Hippo-
drome helped her grow artistically 
and personally. She stated that work-
ing in the same regional theater for 
almost 30 years allowed her to cre-
ate rather than compete. The Hip-
podrome was her artistic home. She 
wondered if she made the right deci-
sion staying in the same place for so 
long because she claimed she put the 
theater’s growth before her own po-
tential career growth.  
“It was my life,” Caldwell said. 
“The regional theater allowed me to 
think, ‘How can I produce this show 
with more imagination?’ I ﬂ  exed my muscles at creativity.” 
Caldwell’s time as a director al-
lowed her to create so many families 
out of shows and do something col-
lectively with actors who were just as 
hungry as she was.  One of her fa-
vorite developments from the Hippo-
drome is the co-production between 
the theater and UF. She claimed the 
relationship between a university act-
ing program and a regional theater 
was “invaluable.”  
“I loved walking into a room with 
young acting students who had a 
thirst for improvement and veteran 
actors who had years of experience,” 
Caldwell said. “The co-production is 
the one show I look forward to more 
than any other show.”  
As artistic director, Caldwell envi-
sioned the Hippodrome to be a leader 
in storytelling, not a follower, and 
tell a story that impacted someone to 
change the way they thought about 
something. More than anything, she 
wanted to honor the playwright.  
Caldwell stated that she would like 
to continue working in other theaters 
as a director  while writing plays and 
having her freedom to concentrate on 
the art. She said she couldn’t see her-
self sitting in that director’s chair any 
longer; it was time to switch gears 
and spread her wings.
@emmamcavoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgHippodrome State Theatre announces departure of 
Artistic Director Lauren Warhol Caldwell
Steph Strickland
Caldwell has called the Hippodrome 
home since 1988.Steph Strickland
Caldwell gazes into a mirror in the 
Hippodrome State Theatre dressing room.
Courtesy to The Alligator
From left, Mike Llerena plays guitar and sings, Brian Jones plays bass and T aylor 
Harmon plays drums for the Gainesville rock band preparing for tour.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
When you’re on the mic, 
you become dope. You be-
come bold and wonderful and 
proud, and someone to re-
spect and admire, Lady K said.
Wearing a tan hijab and an 
orange-and-blue gator-themed 
scarf knitted by her father, 
Kalimah Ujaama, a 22-year-
old UF political science senior, 
also known as “Lady K,” com-
fortably sat at her hotel desk 
after giving speeches all day 
at a debate conference in Vir-
ginia.
Since her freshman year, 
Ujaama has helped manage 
and host DOPEnMIC, Gaines-
ville’s hottest open mic venue. 
DOPEnMIC occurs every last 
Wednesday of the month at a 
venue free of charge and with 
no cover. 
DOPEnMIC will take place 
tonight at 9 p.m. at The Back-
yard at Boca Fiesta & Palomi-
no. Bring a blanket and some 
change because they are fun-
draising for Porters Quarters, 
one of Gainesville’s oldest and 
most historic African Ameri-
can neighborhoods to children who are in desperate need 
for clothes, shoes and food.
In this interview, Ujaama talks about DOPEnMIC, her up-
coming book, inspirations and poetry.
The Avenue: Describe for someone who has never heard 
of it what spoken word poetry is.
Kalimah Ujaama: Spoken word poetry is performance 
poetry. When you’re up on stage, you’re dedicating your 
words to the crowd, so it’s not technical. The words are more 
comprehensive for people to understand and acted out in a 
performance way, like how actors would act. Spoken word 
is dedicated for the people. This is poetry for the masses.
The Avenue: Who is “Lady K?” 
KU: Lady K takes names. She is the ultimate warrior. She 
spits ﬁ  re. Lady K is someone who is bold and proud to be 
loud. She doesn’t care what anyone says. At the end, she 
ﬁ  ghts for what she believes in. She’s the same as Kalimah. 
For me, Lady K is there for others.
The Avenue: How did you come up with choosing your 
stage name? 
KU: I came up with the name Lady K in high school 
when I was choosing a name for myself doing spoken word. 
It kind of reminded me of Beyoncé and how she also had the 
name Sasha Fierce. “Lady” comes from this fantasy of want-
ing to be royalty. The “K” is for Kalimah. The name reminds 
me that no matter where I am, I am to be respected and to look out for others too.
The Avenue: What are 
your inﬂ  uences for your writ-
ing?
KU: My family and any 
external events that happen 
to my community. A lot [fo-
cuses] on my identities being 
a woman, Muslim and black 
and what affects these com-
munities. Some of these inﬂ  u-
ences include police brutality, 
mass incarceration and indig-
enous rights.
The Avenue: Tell me 
about the book that you are 
working on.
KU: I wanted to create a 
book that spoke to the Afri-
can and indigenous diaspora, 
but created in a young adult 
fantasy kind of way. I started 
this project in January 2017. 
Hopefully I will ﬁ  nish the 
book soon so that it will come 
out later in 2019.
The Avenue: What is 
your favorite line of your own 
poem?
KU: My favorite line is “I 
am a dragoness spitting acid 
in the form of ﬁ  re,” because it 
reminds me how strong I am 
and how strong I will still con-
tinue to be. It comes from my poem, “Preface.” The reason 
the poem is called “Preface” is because it is an introduction 
to who I am.
The Avenue: What is the story behind how DOPEnMIC 
came about? 
KU: During the second half of my freshman year, I had 
met a wonderful poet, Desirae Lee. She founded DOPEnMIC 
in 2016 and then graduated from UF in 2018. She asked me 
if I wanted to join the DOPEnMIC team and I said, “Yes!” 
From there, Desirae and I had grown DOPEnMIC to be what 
it is now. Besides it being an open mic with a feature, in 
the past we have given out two scholarships and even held 
a scholarship poetry contest. We’ve done charity work and 
fundraising, supporting causes like ending domestic violence 
and breast cancer as well as local community organizations 
like the Civic Media Center.
The Avenue: Are there certain literary ﬁ  gures that you 
admire? Who inspires you?
KU: Shonda Rhimes inspires me to dig deeper of what I 
want in a story. Also, Toni Morrison. I have a quote of her on 
my wall. It says, “You wanna ﬂ  y, you got to give up the shit 
that weighs you down.” Sarah J. Maas is my literary go-to. 
“Throne of Glass” is such a good series.
@sarahan921
shan@alligator.orgArtist Spotlight: Lady K  
ICONIC SPAGHETTI LUNCHES ON PLAZA OF THE 
AMERICAS WILL NO LONGER BE AVAILABLE
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Serving around 900 students on the Plaza of the Americas 
on Wednesdays, Krishna Lunch recently removed spaghetti 
day from their weekly lunch menu.
Nancy “Nanda” Cofﬁ  n, 47-year-old service manager of 
the Krishna House, said the menu changed based on feed-
back from students who complained the spaghetti was dif-
ﬁ  cult to eat. 
“Spaghetti day we’ve been doing for many years and 
we noticed people weren’t coming around as much as they 
usually do for spaghetti day, so we thought we needed a 
change,” Cofﬁ  n said.
The Wednesday menu will now consist of penne pasta and a chunkier, more savory sauce. 
Cofﬁ  n said switching from spaghetti to penne has been 
well-received by guests because it tastes better and is easily 
accessible for students on the go. 
“We had more people this past Wednesday and the lines 
were shorter because it was served so quickly, so I think in 
all respects it’s more convenient for everybody,” Cofﬁ  n said. 
Anika Huda, a 21-year-old UF visual art studies senior, 
comes every week to enjoy Krishna Lunch but she was never 
a fan of spaghetti day. 
“To be honest, I think spaghetti days are the most boring 
day,” Huda said. “I just like the other days more and I think 
the food is better and ﬂ  avorful.” 
Huda prefers Tuesday’s menu, which features Kofta balls 
with rice and vegetables.  
@vanessablankie
Vblankenship@alligator.orgKrishna changes Wednesday menuQ&A with UF spoken word poet
Courtesy to The Alligator
Kalimah Ujaama, 22, performs spoken 
word as Lady K, the host of DopenMic.
MALE CONDOMS ARE NOT YOUR 
ONL Y OPTION FOR SAFE SEX
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
With a pair of scissors, a condom and ninja-like precision, 
a dental dam may just be at your ﬁ  ngertips. 
Most people know about roll-on condoms (also known as 
male condoms), but there are other forms of protection that 
leave people wondering, “I put THAT where?” Dental dams, 
insertable condoms and anti-HIV medication give sexually 
active individuals the means to say safe in whatever situation 
they ﬁ  nd themselves. 
One of the more obscure forms of protection from sexu-
ally transmitted infections, dental dams, provides a physical 
barrier during oral sex. 
“A lot of people do not really associate oral sex and the 
need for protection” Samantha Evans, GatorWell sexual 
health educator, said.
The main threat the thin piece of latex protects against is 
STIs that could affect the mouth, throat, anus or genitalia. 
STIs, like syphilis and herpes, can be contracted by perform-
ing or by receiving oral sex with someone with these infec-
tions, according to the Center of Disease and Control.  
Dental dams can be hard to ﬁ  nd, but Evans, 38, shared an 
innovative suggestion to create one using a more commonly 
found form of protection. Take a roll-on condom, cut along 
the side of the ridge, make an incision on the tip of the con-
dom and unroll it. Even though it is not as big as a prepack-
aged dental dam, it does provide a ﬂ  at latex material that can 
be placed over the vaginal or anal opening. 
Because someone must hold it in place, the dental dam 
can be cumbersome. The solution calls for a specialty piece. 
“People can actually buy harnesses that will allow you to 
pull the dental dam tight and put it on,” Evans said.  “Nei-
ther partner has to worry about using their hands to hold the 
dental dam.” 
Another hands-free option is the insertable condom (as 
known as the female condom), which, in Evans’ experience, 
has left her audiences with a bewildered look. 
“It’s kind of big, and people look at it and are like, ‘What 
is that thing’?’” Evans said. 
She explains that the idea of roll-on condoms have been 
around since the Egyptian period, making it a tool used for 
centuries. But the insertable condom has only been around 
for a few decades, making it an unlikely contender for the 
choice protection device. 
Not only that, but photos of the insertable device are 
shiver-worthy. Many women feel uncomfortable with the 
insertable condom. 
“Appearance-wise it can be kind of a turn off for some 
girls, and some girls may not be comfortable inserting the 
female condom into the vaginal canal,” said Nerissa Patel, 
28, a health educator for the Alachua County Department 
of Health. 
Although not a form of barrier protection, PrEP, Pre-
Exposure Prophylaxis, prevents users from contracting HIV. 
When taken every day once a day, the medication protects 
HIV-negative individuals from contracting the STI even if 
they have sex without a condom, but it does not protect 
against other STIs. 
“I liken it to hormonal birth control but for HIV,” said 
Patel.
The medication can be taken by both men and women 
and protects the cells that would be attached if someone was 
exposed to the virus. 
When taken daily, the medication is up to 99% effective 
at preventing HIV, according to the iPrEx study. But even 
with PrEP’s high effectiveness, barrier protection should still 
be used to prevent STIs. With options like dental dams and 
insertable condoms, there’s something for everyone. 
@jackiedef7
jdefritas@alligator.org 
Graphic Design by Ferna SimbulanPROTECTION10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any 
day of the week. Come in and check out one of the 
best wine lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you 
wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness from 
the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties 
for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-
9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years as an 
alternative to alcohol used for ceremonial, 
political, medicinal, and social purposes. Come 
try our Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas in 
Downtown Gainesville. Open weekdays 12pm-
12am, weekends 12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-
5pm.  17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comINDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven 
tandoor cooking for succulent Halal beef, 
chicken, lamb, and goat made fresh daily 
for tikka masalas, vindaloos,  kormas, and 
paneers. Vegetarian and vegan available 
too! Daily lunch specials include rice, 
naan, appetizers, salad, desserts. Open 
Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order ahead 
www.kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 
13th St. 352-792-6764.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
Indie games have always been an outlet for up-
coming developers. Each year a variety of indie games 
are released, and in 2018, some had an incredible 
story and a beautiful design, while others were simple 
and silly. With so many games to come, let’s look 
back and recognize the top ﬁ  ve indie games of 2018.
‘Celeste’
“Celeste” was created as a prototype in just four 
days for the Pico-8 fantasy console during the annual 
hackathon Game Jam in 2015. Canadian develop-
ers Matt Thorson and Noel Berry later ﬁ  nished their 
game, which is now considered one of 2018’s top in-
die games.
Players play as a young woman named Madeline 
who begins to climb Celeste Mountain while avoiding 
various deadly obstacles. Besides jumping and climb-
ing walls, she also has the ability to perform a mid-air 
dash in whatever direction she’s facing. 
During the 2018 The Game Awards, “Celeste” was 
the winner for Games for Impact and Best Indepen-
dent Game. Available on: PC, Playstation 4, Xbox One and 
Nintendo Switch.
‘The Gardens Between’
“The Gardens Between” is a beautiful puzzle 
game that is centered around one simple idea: time 
manipulation.
Developed by Australian studio, The Voxel 
Agents, the game is set on a series of small themed 
islands that tests a player’s logic and observation.
Players will play as Arina and Frendt, two teenag-
ers who are next-door neighbors. One stormy night, 
the two teens sneak out and hide in their tree house, 
which was built on a garden between their homes. 
Arina and Frendt notice a light sphere form in front 
of them. The sphere causes the treehouse to fall into a 
vast ocean with small islands made up of their shared 
experiences. As they sail between each island, their 
goal is to light every portal on top of that island.
Players can inﬂ  uence each character’s action, but 
not their individual movements. They must move the 
characters as a unit forward or backward in time. 
“The Gardens Between” integrates childhood ob-
jects to create incredible puzzles. 
Available on: PC, Mac, Nintendo Switch, Playsta-
tion 4 and Xbox One.‘Gris’
“Gris” is a platform-adventure game developed by 
Spanish developer Nomada Studios. Players have the 
opportunity to explore a world that is like a watercolor 
painting come to life.
Players play as Gris, a girl who found herself in 
the palm of a crumbling statue of a woman. Attempt-
ing to sing her way out, Gris chokes up and causes 
the statue to break, dropping her to a colorless world 
below. After she lands, she notices a number of odd 
structures that seem to be powered by mysterious 
points of light, which resemble stars. By collecting 
each light, she gains a variety of abilities and creates a 
path of constellations. 
“Gris” is a beautiful game with a variety of pastel 
colors. Her character design alone is breathtaking — 
her hair is the color of the sky and is covered in stars. 
Available on: PC, Mac and Nintendo Switch.
“Dead Cells”
“Dead Cells” is an action platformer that was de-
veloped and published by Motion Twin. 
Described as a “roguevania,” a combination of 
procedurally generated roguelike games and action-
exploration-based metroidvania games. 
At the start of each game, players control a mass 
of cells that control the body of a deceased prisoner. 
Exploring a series of dungeons, players ﬁ  ght a vari-
ety of creatures and collect weapons, armor, abilities, 
power-ups and money. 
Like most roguelike games, players will always 
start at the ﬁ  rst level after every death, losing any 
amount of progress and “cells” collected within the 
dungeon, unless they reach a vendor between each 
level.Unfortunately, this game is not like Hollow Knight 
where you have the opportunity to return to the scene 
of your death and collect your cells again. This may 
frustrate players, but the game allows players to ﬁ  nd 
runes that unlock special abilities that make every 
playthrough much easier.
“Dead Cells” is the kind of game that determines if 
you like to play it safe or risk it all. 
Available on: PC, Mac, Playstation 4, Xbox One 
and Nintendo Switch.
“Donut County”
Developed by American indie designer Ben Es-
posito, “Donut County” has a simple concept where 
players must swallow objects, which makes the hole 
larger.
“Donut County” is about a girl named Mira who 
works for her friend BK, a racoon who owns a local 
donut shop called Donut County. She notices BK play-
ing with a mobile app that causes holes to appear in 
the area consuming homes and residents. Mira then 
uses the app to order a hole to swallow the donut 
shop. The two friends are then trapped underground 
with the other consumed residents. They all learn that 
this was part of the Racoon King’s plan to collect more 
trash. Using the app to wreak havoc within the king’s 
home, Mira and BK start their mission to stop the Ra-
coon King.
Donut County may be short, but with its quirky 
characters, incredible soundtrack and its pleasing aes-
thetic, it sure is a great game to pass the time.
Available on: PC, Mac, iPhone, Playstation 4, 
Xbox One and Nintendo Switch.
acamargo@alligator.orgBest Indie Games of 2018
One month into the new year, we 
praise the best inventions of 2018BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate 
the sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to 
a company looking out for the owner. Rent 
collection, tenant screening, maintenance, 
bug removal. Cannon Real Estate Company 
Inc. 603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern 
Mass.        2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
 Make an extra or full-time income from your 
photography. With just a camera, turn your 
hubby into a profitable business. 
Go to: http://photographyoppurtunity.club      
2-6-19-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
1. MOVIES: Which 1969 movie fea-
tured the song “Raindrops Keep Fal-
lin’ on My Head”?
2. LITERATURE: What is the name 
of Harry’s owl in the “Harry Potter” 
book series?
3. MUSIC: Which American actor 
performs music as his alter ego Child-
ish Gambino?
4. FOOD & DRINK: Which kids’ 
snack, contained in a box with a string 
handle, was first marketed in 1902?
5. GAMES: In what game is a shut-
tlecock used?
6. SPACE: Who piloted America’s 
first and shortest flight into space?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: Which 
fish is the fastest in the world?
8. GEOGRAPHY: What is Saigon’s 
current name in Vietnam?
9. ART: Which city is home to the stat-
ue “David” created by Michelangelo?
10. MONEY: What was the basic 
currency of Greece before the euro?
Answers
1. “Butch Cassidy and The Sundance 
Kid”
2. Hedwig
3. Donald Glover
4. Animal-shaped crackers then 
known as “Barnum’s Animals”
5. Badminton
6. Alan Shepard, 1961, 15 minutes
7. The black marlin
8. Ho Chi Minh City
9. Florence, Italy
10. Drachma
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 28, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR    13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attemted 
to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-4903 
2-08-7-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Doug Peterson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/30/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/30/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 30, 2019
ACROSS
1 Arrangement 
holder
5 Pursues with 
bloodhounds
11 Pampering, 
briefly
14 Mideast airline
15 Ace, in poker
16 That lady
17 Blink of an eye
19 Poison __: villain 
in Batman comics
20 Tip of a wingtip
21 Oprah’s channel
22 Quick cut
23 Former Soviet 
orbiter
24 “The Life of 
Pablo” hip-hop 
artist
26 Half-brush 
partner
29 Old AT&T rival
30 ’60s pigskin org.
31 Grows faint
34 Hank with 755 
homers
38 Comb and 
scissors, to a 
stylist
42 Sean of “Stranger 
Things”
43 In any way
44 Bakery order
45 Aunt, in 
Andalusia
47 Flat-lying volcanic 
flow
50 Tucked-in 
clothing part
55 __ heartbeat
56 Formally 
surrender
57 Did some laps
58 Put into gear?
61 Liquid in a drum
62 Musical 
ensemble ... or 
what the ends 
of 17-, 24-, 38- 
and 50-Across 
comprise
64 Lyrical tribute
65 Periodic reviews
66 “M*A*S*H” star
67 “Deck the Halls” 
contraction
68 Inky goofs
69 Set in a purse
DOWN
1 Suit piece
2 Gravy Cravers 
pet food brand3 Stephen King 
novel featuring 
vampires
4 Draw forth
5 Butter amt.
6 Kick oneself for
7 Major maker of 
can material
8 Rodeo __
9 Saxophonist 
with 17 Grammy 
nominations
10 Normal: Abbr.
11 Your, old-style
12 Wranglers 
competitor
13 Chamber in a 
vampire movie
18 Pool protector
22 Get bleeped, 
maybe
24 Item in a kitchen 
block
25 Coup d’__
26 Pollster’s 
collection
27 Aerial enigmas
28 Hurly-burly
32 “Total Request 
Live” network
33 Seaside 
souvenir
35 Competition 
where rhymes 
are exchanged36 Garfield 
housemate
37 Have to have
39 Petrol purchase
40 Tizzy
41 Cy Young Award 
winner’s stat
46 Naturally lit 
courtyard
48 Home 
improvement 
guru Bob
49 Fur-lined jacket
50 Hurry along51 “America’s Got 
Talent” judge 
Klum
52 Lazes around
53 “Storage Wars” 
network
54 “The Jungle 
Book” setting
58 Get bleeped, 
maybe
59 Actress Lamarr
60 Flight sked info
62 “That __ close!”
63 NFL period
By Frank Virzi
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/29/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/29/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, January 29, 2019
ACROSS
1 Tricky road 
curves
6 Too hasty
10 “Boy, am I dumb!”
13 Bowl over
14 Valpolicella wine 
brand
15 Suffix with 
project or 
percent
16 *Killjoy
18 Metro stop: Abbr.
19 State south of 
Wash.
20 *Face 
consequences 
for poor 
decisions
22 Like Lincoln 
in the Lincoln 
Memorial
24 Yom Kippur 
observers
25 Italian wine hub
26 South African 
golfer Ernie
28 Make a wool cap, 
say
29 MLB exec 
Joe who was 
the Yankees’ 
manager for 12 
seasons
32 Wrangler’s ropes
34 *Furniture 
restorer’s 
chemical
37 Wild cards, 
maybe
38 Arrive at
39 “At Last” singer 
James
40 Charged particle
41 Recipe amts.
45 Polar expedition 
vehicles
48 ’70s-’80s FBI 
sting
50 *Airborne unit 
member
53 Tijuana gold
54 “__ little teapot ... ”
55 Stationery supply 
with a blade ... 
and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
57 Min. part
58 Companionless
59 Quai d’Orsay’s 
river
60 WNW opposite61 Swiss watch 
brand
62 Trial rounds
DOWN
1 Señor’s wife
2 Stock market 
purchases
3 Furious with
4 Outer: Pref.
5 Video 
conferencing 
choice
6 Carrot or turnip
7 Dominant dogs
8 Wintry pellets
9 Marx brother with 
a horn
10 Mete out, as 
PEZ candy
11 Hidden, as 
motives
12 Publishing family
14 __ Wonder: 
Robin
17 Note-taking aid
21 Classic ’30s-’50s 
vocal quartet, 
with “the”
23 Lake on the 
border of Bolivia 
and Peru
26 Critical-care ctrs.
27 Release30 Queen’s “Another 
__ Bites the Dust”
31 Shares again on 
Twitter, briefly
32 Set a match to
33 Befitting
34 Love handles?
35 Grand Prix, e.g.
36 Han and Leia’s 
son Kylo __
37 Loathe
40 14-legged 
crustacean42 Nova __
43 Mother or father
44 Gooey campfire 
treats
46 For face value
47 Song syllables
48 NRC forerunner
49 Hair salon staple
51 Winery prefix
52 Opposite of  
post-
56 Shirt with a 
V-neck, perhaps
1.  Shock, scare
1.  Economical 5.  Habit, custom
2.  Picture6.  Deduce
3.  Attentive7.  Small falcon
4.  Sprint faster thanHRFTGI
GLFARUGAEUS
NIRFE
MENIIAG
DEUFLHERNIMEL
RUOTNUANSWERS: 1A-Fright  5A-Usage  6A-Infer  7A-Merlin
1D-Frugal  2D-Imagine  3D-Heedful  4D-Outrun  B-Lithium1-30-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This metal can be cut with a knife.
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators announce date for Orange and Blue Game 
The Florida football team will play its spring game on Saturday, April 13 at 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. There is no announced time for kickoff yet.Freshman gymnast Trinty Thomas 
earned SEC Gymnast of the Week, 
while sophomore Megan Skaggs won 
SEC Specialist Gymnast of the Week.Russell Westbrook plays basketball 
like he’s mad at the world. In re-
turn, the world is mad at him.
His abrasive style of play and 
demeanor make him an easy tar-
get for fans and opponents. NBA fans call 
him “Westbrick” for his apparent shooting 
struggles, and his opponents, like Phila-
delphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, say he’s 
constantly “in his feelings” when they go 
toe-to-toe on the court.
I’m not going to correct either one of 
those knocks, because they're both at 
least partially true. But I will defend West-
brook’s honor, who’s on his way to aver-
aging a triple-double for the third-straight 
season, in case you didn’t know.
If his current stats hold (21.6 points per 
game, 10.8 rebounds, 10.7 assists), West-
brook will have recorded three of the four 
seasons in which a player has averaged a 
triple-double in the NBA’s 72 year history. 
Oscar Robertson also accomplished this 
feat in the 1961-62 season.
Despite missing eight games this sea-
son, Westbrook is tied for second in the 
NBA in double-doubles with 32, trailing 
only Rudy Gobert (41), and stands alone 
atop the league with 16 triple-doubles. 
Nikola Jokic is the next closest with seven. 
Westbrook leads the NBA in steals per 
game (2.3) and assists per game (10.7), 
both of which are career-highs.
So now to address the shortcomings of 
his play this season: shooting. Westbrook 
shoots 41.4 percent from the ﬁ  eld and a 
career-low, league-worst 24.7 percent 
from three. There’s no ‘but’ here. It’s atro-
cious.
His performance at the free-throw line 
has also dipped, where he shoots a career-
low 64.9 percent. There is sort of a ‘but’ 
here, because the league recently altered 
its rules for players at the free-throw line 
in an effort to speed up the game. West-MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s basketball 
team can best be compared to a 
seesaw this season, with its offense 
on one side and its defense on the 
other. 
The Gators are shooting well 
when the offensive side is highest, 
like when guards KeVaughn Allen 
and Noah Locke combined for 15 
three-pointers against Texas A&M 
on Jan. 22, but that usually comes 
at the price of its defense. The 
Aggies dropped 71 points in that 
game, well above UF’s average of 
61.5 points allowed.
The same goes for when the 
seesaw is the other way around. 
UF tends to forget how to shoot 
when it puts an added emphasis 
on its defense. Just look at the TCU 
game from Saturday, where the 
Gators scored 50 points but held 
the Horned Frogs to 55. That’s the 
sixth-lowest amount scored by an 
opponent this season. 
Florida hasn’t found that middle 
ground, that perfect balance where 
it can play strong defense and still 
shoot the ball well. It will need to 
if it wants to escape its upcoming 
stretch of tough SEC games, start-
ing with 14-5  Ole Miss tonight. 
“Sometimes we really execute. Some-
times our execution fails us a little bit,” UF 
coach Mike White said. “That’s where our 
focus is right now in terms of ourselves in 
addition, obviously, to the Ole Miss Rebels.”
That seesaw favors the offensive side 
when the team executes. The Gators are sec-
ond in the SEC in three-point attempts (503) and, as a result, are second in made three 
pointers. When they make their shots from 
deep, where most of their offense runs from, 
they win their games without having to rely 
on defense.
That won’t be the case against Ole Miss. 
The Rebels average 77.7 points per game 
and hold opponents to 69.4 points per game. 
They are a threat all over the court both of-fensively and defensively. On average, they 
out-rebound and out-assist their opponents, 
and they have a higher three-point shooting 
(.365) and ﬁ  eld goal (.480) percentage than 
the Gators do. 
A lot of the credit for Ole Miss’ shooting 
goes to guards Breein Tyree (17.3 points per 
game), Terence Davis (15.8) and Devontae  Gators hope to balance seesaw before Ole Miss
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen leads the Gators in scoring this season with 12.7 points per 
game. He is averaging 17.8 points per game in conference play.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The Gators tried to get one 
last shot off before the buzzer 
sounded. They had an excel-
lent opening quarter on Sunday 
against Arkansas and were up 
by 12. 
Guard Kiara Smith mis-
handled the ball, and it went 
careening toward the scorer’s 
table. Forward Kristina Moore, 
in her attempt to save the play, 
dived landed awkwardly on her 
left arm and stayed grounded well after the buzzer sounded. 
After a few minutes, she 
was gingerly led off the court 
and into the locker room while 
coach Cam Newbauer looked at 
his bench trying to ﬁ  nd some-
one to ﬁ  ll her role. 
The Florida women’s bas-
ketball team will look to end a 
three-game skid on Thursday in 
Knoxville, Tennessee, when it 
faces the Lady Volunteers. But 
it will do so without its 6-foot-1 
forward in the lineup. 
Moore, who is currently the 
only player to start all 20 games this season, is expected to miss 
up to six weeks while she re-
covers from a left arm injury. 
She'll leave a big hole in a line-
up that already lacks the size to 
compete with other teams in the 
paint. 
The Gators rank dead last 
in the SEC in total blocks this 
season with 17 and are the only 
team in the conference to aver-
age less than a block per game. 
Moore leads the team in blocks 
with ﬁ  ve on the year, and her 
absence will worsen an already 
weak interior defense.“The team really needed to 
overcome some adversity with 
Kristina (Moore) going down 
like that,” Newbauer said af-
ter the game on Sunday. “They 
played well, adjusted well. 
Hopefully, we can continue to 
do that.”
Tennessee will try to take 
advantage of that hole in the 
middle on Thursday by using 
the size and aggressiveness 
of forward Rennia Davis. The 
sophomore’s 6-foot-2 frame will 
create mismatches against Flor- Undersized UF hindered by Moore's injurySEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Russell 
Westbrook: 
normalizing 
the abnormalKyle's Files / Opinion
 Kyle Wood
Twitter: @KkylewoodWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
Shuler (9.5).
“They’ve got one of the best 
backcourts in the country,” White 
said. “Shuler is much improved and 
the other two are potential all-league 
guys, both of them, potential pros.”
If Florida wants to beat Ole Miss, 
it’ll need to balance the seesaw, 
where the offense and defense are 
playing at nearly the same efficien-
cy. It'll need players like Kevarrius 
Hayes, Keyontae Johnson and Don-
tay Bassett to step up defensively un-
der the basket, while Locke and Al-
len continue to score at a high level.
“I said, ‘Guys, if you want to play 
postseason, if we want to have a win-
ning record ... if you want to have a 
chance to play in the NIT, play in the 
NCAA Tournament, we’ve got to win 
some of these games, guys,’” White 
said. “It’s not just going to happen if 
we don’t take it, if we don’t capital-
ize, if we don’t execute offensively 
and defensively.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 14Ole Miss shoots 48 percent from the fieldida’s undersized interior defense. 
Davis averages 13.6 points per game and 
pulls down a team-leading 7.7 rebounds.
Florida will rely on forward Zada Wil-
liams to anchor the middle of the defense. 
The redshirt junior is second on the team in 
total blocks (4) and rebounds per game (5). 
She will need to play at another level entirely 
while her frontcourt partner is out.There is some reason for optimism head-
ing into the game on Thursday, though. Ju-
nior guard Delicia Washington is expected 
to return from a one-game absence after suf-
fering a blow to the head against Mississippi 
State on Jan. 24. She leads the team in re-
bounds per game (7.9) and is second in scor-
ing (11 points per game). 
Her return will add much needed speed 
and athleticism to a roster without Moore’s 
presence in the post. UF will depend on her 
agility and quickness at the perimeter to help 
defend against a Tennessee offense which ranks second in the SEC in scoring (77.4 
points per game). Washington will need to 
contain UT’s high-powered offense headed 
by Evina Westbrook, who leads the Lady Vol-
unteers with 16.3 points per game.
“We have confidence in every player in 
our locker room and their abilities,” guard 
Funda Nakkasoglu said. “I think that’s what 
makes us such a good group of girls.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Washington expected to return to starting lineup
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Delicia Washington is expected to return for Thursday's game against T ennessee. She took a hit to the head against 
Mississippi State on Jan. 24 that forced her to sit out a game as she went through concussion protocol.
brook used to walk behind the three-
point line between his free throw at-
tempts. He can no longer continue his 
routine, which he says he has done 
since high school.
The NBA is a shooting league. It’s 
never been more clear. Ever since 
Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and 
the Golden State Warriors began liv-
ing by the three — and they have yet 
to die by it — the rest of the league 
followed suit. Three-point records 
are set every year only to be broken 
the following one. Even centers such 
as Karl Anthony Towns, Marc Gasol 
and Embiid added the outside shot to 
their repertoire.
It makes sense that Westbrook is 
the butt of the joke. But the beauty of 
Westbrook’s play is that he can, and 
does, impact the game in other ways. 
And for the first time since Kevin 
Durant left Oklahoma City, he has 
learned how to take a step back for 
someone else. That someone else is 
Paul George, who’s having an MVP-
caliber season.
Westbrook is just two years re-
moved from setting an NBA-record 
41.7 usage percentage (which esti-
mates the percentage of team plays 
used by a player while they are on the 
floor). For reference, James Harden, 
king of the iso, is just behind 2016-17 
Westbrook at a 40.6 percent clip this 
season. Naturally, giving up the rock 
hasn’t been the easiest task for the 
ball-dominant point guard. 
That being said, his usage per-
centage has dropped more than 10 
percentage points since that season 
as he adjusts to playing with George, 
a more offensive-minded Steven 
Adams and a capable backup point 
guard in Dennis Schroeder.
Tracy McGrady recently said on 
ESPN’s “The Jump” Westbrook needs 
to shoot better, not less. As simple as 
this advice is, he’s right. 
Twice in the past five seasons, 
Westbrook has won the scoring title 
despite never shooting better than 35 
percent from the three-point line. 
He’ll eventually shoot his way 
out of his slump. And in the event 
he doesn’t, I’m sure Billy Donovan 
is just fine with his point guard grab-
bing double-digit rebounds and dish-
ing out double-digit assists on a night-
ly basis, even if his shooting  suffers.
Westbrook is being punished for 
normalizing greatness. A Westbrook 
triple-double just doesn’t have the 
same ring to it anymore. It’s almost 
expected. The fact that we have come 
to expect at the very least 10 points, 
10 rebounds and 10 assists from him 
every night is more of an endorse-
ment of his skill than an indictment 
of the feat itself.
He may not be Daryl Morey’s de-
sired analytical specimen. He may tell 
your team’s best player that he can 
mess them up (in a much more ex-
plicit manner) or that he’s been bust-
ing their behind for years. But he’s 
doing something no player has done 
before, and the Thunder are better off 
because of it.
Kyle Wood is a sports writer. Fol-
low him on Twitter @Kkylewood and 
contact him at kwood@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 15
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Ole Miss is led in scoring by guards Breein Tyree, T erence Davis and Devontae Shuler. "They've 
got one of the best backcourts in the country, " UF coach Mike White said.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019
TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Florida’s women’s tennis team 
hasn’t had an ideal start to the sea-
son. 
With a 1-2 record, the Gators  
tied their worst start since 1986 and 
failed to reach the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association Indoor Champi-
onships for just the fourth time in 
program history.
Coach Roland Thornqvist expect-
ed a slow start for Florida due to the 
inexperience of its starting lineup — 
three freshmen and two sophomores 
— but he insists these matches will 
be building blocks to learn from.
“This is an environment that 
none of our new players have expe-
rienced,” Thornqvist said after Mon-
day’s loss. “We are going to have to 
have more of these situations where 
we compete, and we need to become 
comfortable with being uncomfort-
able.”
With a strong core in No. 9 ranked 
Ida Jarlskog, per the ITA, and No. 29 
McCartney Kessler, Florida has two 
leaders in singles play who it must 
continue to rely on moving forward. 
Kessler and Jarlskog both stand at 
2-1 in singles. They can lead by ex-
ample during the large three-week 
gap before UF returns home to play 
Florida State on Feb. 19. 
The Gators have also been with-
out sophomore Victoria Emma, who 
has been sidelined with a wrist in-
jury. Though there is no timetable 
for her return, Emma could provide 
some big-game experience which 
Thornqvist mentioned his young 
team has continually lacked.
The UF men’s team, on the oth-
er hand, started exactly the way it wanted. 
After defeating Florida Atlantic 
and clinching a trip to the ITA Na-
tional Indoor Championships for the 
eighth time in the tournament’s 11-
year span, the No. 4 ranked Gators 
sit at 2-0 and have yet to lose a sin-
gles match. 
Their skills will be tested with a 
difﬁ  cult upcoming slate, though.
Led by three players ranked in the 
ITA top 50 in singles play — No. 9 
Oliver Crawford, No. 37 Andy An-
drade and No. 46 Johannes Ingildsen 
— Florida will face UCF on Jan. 31, 
No. 19 Florida State on Feb. 2 and 
No. 22 TCU on Feb. 10. 
The Gators enter the match 
against UCF with a head-to-head 
record of 18-0. Though it appears 
Florida will dominate on paper, it 
hasn’t opened its matches particu-
larly strong. 
Florida lost the doubles point to 
FAU before cruising to four straight 
singles victories and the match win. 
Coach Bryan Shelton was proud of 
how his team responded despite the 
unexpected loss and will look for his 
team to continue playing with this 
level of energy moving forward.
“Overall, I thought that was one 
of the best parts of the match with 
how we responded so quickly and 
to put our one, two and three sin-
gles out there and for them to be so 
dominant,” Shelton said in a release 
after Sunday’s victory. “When you 
get popped in the mouth, you jump 
right back up on your feet, and you 
start throwing punches. I was really 
pleased with that.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.org
  Same goal, diﬀ  erent start for Gators men’s and women’s teams
Alligator File Photo
UF men’s tennis sophomore Oliver Crawford is the No. 9-ranked collegiate player. He is one of 
three Gators ranked in the top 50.
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS