We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF eliminated in SEC Tournament
The Gators are on the bubble for the NCAA 
T ournament, pg 11
New UF graduate program to launch in fall
The program will be held in Orlando and will teach creative architec-
tural design for entertainment spaces, pg 3
SG Senate meeting canceled last minute
Student Body President Michael Murphy requested cancelation, pg4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 89
OVER 70 PEOPLE ATTENDED, 
INCLUDING TWO COUNTY 
COMMISSIONERS 
By Lina Ruiz
Staff Writer 
More than 70 people crowded 
into a Santa Fe board Tuesday 
meeting to protest the work condi-
tions, wages and lack of beneﬁ  ts for 
adjunct professors. 
The Board of Trustees meeting 
in boardroom S-322 overﬂ  owed 
with board members and protesters 
at Santa Fe College. Adjunct faculty 
and supporters protested on behalf 
of their rights to form a union at the 
meeting, which began at 4 p.m. The board allowed 15 minutes 
for people to voice their concerns. 
Five people spoke during this time, 
including County Commissioner 
Ken Cornell. 
Protest organizer and Santa Fe 
College adjunct professor Glynn 
Hayes, 51, spoke ﬁ  rst on behalf of 
the faculty. He has taught biology 
and earth science at the college for 
10 years without beneﬁ  ts or a se-
cure contract. 
“We ﬁ  nd it disheartening and 
concerning that the administration 
has made efforts to block adjuncts’ 
democratic right to vote for a pro-
fessional union,” he said. 
Hayes said in an interview fol-
lowing the rally he and his peers ﬁ  led to have an election to form a 
union in December. The college 
hired a law ﬁ  rm to block the elec-
tion because the adjuncts did not 
have enough showing of interest.
At least one-third of adjunct pro-
fessors had to provide their signa-
tures to ﬁ  le for the union, which is 
what they did, Hayes said. 
Jay Anderson, the college’s com-
munications manager, conﬁ  rmed 
Santa Fe hired legal representation 
when the Service Employees Inter-
national Union represented the ad-
junct professors.
The contract between the union 
and the college is bound to a legal 
process expected to end in the mid-
dle of June, Anderson said. “The two parties themselves, the 
adjuncts and the college, can’t really 
say too much one way or another,” 
he said. “That is the issue that should be resolved by the middle of June, 
and then both sides can move for-
ward with what the next steps are.”Santa Fe College adjunct professors 
protest at Board of Trustees meeting
DOG ADOPTIONS ARE 
ON HOLD
By Sarah Pickett
Contributing Writer
Alachua County Animal Servic-
es is mourning the loss of six dogs 
after an infectious outbreak.
The dogs, infected with canine 
distemper, were euthanized to min-
imize the spread of the virus. The 
shelter’s dog kennels are currently 
under quarantine and being moni-
tored for infection for at least two 
weeks, according to an Alachua 
County press release.
Dr. Richard Sammy, a local vet-
erinarian at Suburban Animal Hos-
pital, said the virus results in upper respiratory infections and pneumo-
nia and can progress to vomiting, 
diarrhea and loss of appetite. Neu-
rological signs, including dementia 
and unconsciousness, can appear 
as the infection becomes more se-
vere.
Distemper is primarily found 
in young and unvaccinated dogs, 
Sammy said. In a shelter environ-
ment, a viral infection like distem-
per tends to go through multiple 
animals in a short amount of time.
Because the disease is a virus, 
the treatment is adapted to each 
animal’s needs, Sammy said. Treat-
ment can include antibiotics, ﬂ  uid 
support and medications for sei-
zures.
“[Distemper] is quite serious, Alachua County Animal Ser-
vices quarantined due to virus
IT WOULD GO INTO 
EFFECT ON JAN. 1, 2020 
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
Paper straw, metal straw or 
even pasta straw?
These are just some of the 
different alternatives Gainesville 
residents may have to consider 
after the Gainesville City Com-
mission votes on a single-use 
plastic straw ban in June.
If passed, the ordinance 
would take effect on Jan. 1, 2020. 
The City Commission dis-
cussed the possible plastic straw 
ban on May 16. This came less than a week after Florida Gov. 
Ron DeSantis vetoed a bill pro-
hibiting local governments from 
implementing their own plastic 
straw bans.
The ordinance would include 
plastic straws and stirrers, but 
there would be some exemp-
tions, Mayor Lauren Poe said 
during the May 16 meeting.
Despite some concerns about 
how the ordinance would affect 
disabled individuals, Poe noted 
there would be an exemption for 
those who need plastic straws, 
such as the elderly and disabled 
people who rely on straws, dur-
ing the meeting. 
This vote on banning plastic straws is part of a larger initia-
tive to make Gainesville waste-
free by 2040, which includes the 
outlawing of single-use plastics 
and foam containers. 
City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos said he fully sup-
ports the ordinance. 
“I think this community cares 
about the environment,” Hayes-
Santos said. “I think this commu-
nity understands that we need 
to be a leader in looking at ways 
that we can reduce the amount of 
waste we’re creating.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgCity Commission to vote on sin-
gle-use plastic straw ban in JuneSam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser speaks  to protesters Tuesday.
SEE VIRUS,  PAGE 3SEE SANTA FE,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  63°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
Got something going on?  Want to 
see it in this space? Send an email with 
“What’s Happening” in the subject line to 
jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj@alligator.org. T o request 
publication in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after 
the above events and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.New crocodile exhibit 
now open at Florida Museum
Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory visitors may now test their 
strength against a crocodile’s bite, 
learn how they hunt using sound-
waves and see live reptiles in the 
new “CROCS: Ancient Predators 
in a Modern World” exhibit. Ad-
mission is $8 for adults, $7 for 
Florida residents and $5.50 for 
ages 3-17. Museum members and 
UF students with a valid Gator 
1 card receive free admission.
Students receive free ad-
mission to Florida Museum
Students with a valid Gator 1 
Card receive free admission to the 
“Butterﬂ  y Rainforest” and other 
fee-based exhibits year-round at 
the Florida Museum of Natural 
History, sponsored by UF Stu-
dent Government. The museum 
is located at 3215 Hull Road just 
south of the Southwest Rec Cen-
ter in the UF Cultural Plaza. The 
museum is open from 10 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Monday through Satur-
day and from 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday.
Arcade Bar four-year anniversary
On Thursday night head to Arcade 
Bar for their celebration of four 
years of gaming, drinks and music. 
The party starts at 10 p.m. There's 
no cover. If you get a colored token 
from the change machines, you win 
free gifts, drinks and tokens. There 
will be DJs on the third ﬂ  oor, in the 
alley and at the Atlantic next-door.
Purely Red, Heavy Pedal 
and Static Haze at High Dive
Saturday night High Dive will host 
Purely Red, a local hard-hitting 
three-piece hard rock/alterna-
tive metal band. The band will be 
preceded by Heavy Pedal, a rock 
band of 11- to- 13-year-olds who 
say they came together through 
their love of music, riding bikes, 
playing sports and having fun. 
Static Haze will take the stage 
ﬁ  rst. Tickets are $6 if purchased on ticketﬂ  y.com in advance or $8 
at the door. There is an addition-
al $3 charge if you are under 21. 
The Florida Vintage Market
On Saturday, Gazzelli Vintage will 
host its monthly Florida Vintage 
Market at Bo Diddley Plaza, 111 
E University Ave. At the unique 
shopping experience, you can en-
joy a variety of vendors curating 
some of the best in vintage gar-
ments, jewelry and handmade 
goods in the city. It is free for all 
ages and runs from 1 to 6 p.m.
Experiencing the Other
On Friday, May 31 the Theatre for 
Community Change, Ignite Applied 
Theatre, and Your Authentic Self 
Work will be hosting an interac-
tive workshop starting at 7 p.m. at 
the Civic Media Center. It intends 
to allow attendees to collectively 
discover personal connections to 
stories of incarceration through 
role play, improvisation and image 
work and ﬁ  nd new ideas and per-
spectives, learn about other attend-
ees' journeys and discover new 
avenues for advocacy and empathy 
through community interactions.
Sally B.’s Dashing Re-
vue – Live Music Burlesque
Friday night go to High Dive, 210 
SW Second Ave., from 8 to 11 p.m. 
to enjoy a lively burlesque show 
from artist Sally B. This one of a 
kind show features dazzling bur-
lesque performances by local and 
touring artists with live music by 
local jazz band Swing Theory. 
You’re guaranteed to laugh, gasp 
and scream wildly. In addition to 
the headliner, the show features 
performances by Aurora Natrix, 
Franki Markstone, Florence Rosé 
and Grifﬁ  n Wulf. Attendees are 
encouraged to wear formal attire. 
Tickets are available for $15 if pur-
chased in advance or for $20 at the 
door.
Grilling Pop Up at Lucky’s 
Market
Go to Lucky's Market, 1459 
NW 23 Ave., Fridays from 4 p.m. until 7 p.m. or Saturdays and Sun-
days from 11 a.m. until 3 p.m. for 
a freshly grilled cheeseburger or 
black bean burger and a side for 
just $6. This event reoccurs every 
week.
Memorial Day college weekend 
at the springs
Every Memorial Day weekend 
Ginnie Springs hosts college 
weekend. This will be the fourth 
year with a true concert produc-
tion. There were reportedly 4,000 
attendees last year and more are 
expected this weekend. There will 
be multiple touring DJs performing 
throughout the weekend, includ-
ing DJ Ginga R3ll.
Heartwood Presents Someday 
Honey
On Saturday go to the Heartwood 
Soundstage, 619 South Main St., 
to listen to the melodic sounds of 
Kaleigh Baker's band Someday 
Honey. Baker's raspy voice and 
talented band deliver gut-wrench-
ing performances, which seam-
lessly blend technical prowess 
with soulful roots. The show starts 
at 8 p.m. and will last three hours. 
Tickets are $12 if you buy them 
in advance on heartwoodstound-
stage.com and $15 if purchased 
the day of the show.
Survivor Art Exhibit
The Gainesville Commission on 
the Status of Women is hosting an 
art exhibit featuring original work 
from survivors of interpersonal 
violence. The work is on display 
now at the Hippodrome, 25 SE 
Second Place. On Friday, the ﬁ  nal 
day of the exhibit, there will be a 
closing reception from 6 p.m. until 
8:30 p.m. when some artists will 
give performance pieces.
James Bond Movie Trivia
Saturday night from 7 p.m. un-
til 9 p.m. hang out at Blackadder 
Brewing Company, 618 NW 60th 
St., to be tested on the most famous 
spy. There will be sixty questions 
all relating to the Bond ﬁ  lms. The 
ﬁ  rst, second and third place win-
ners will all receive themed prizes.
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 89
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editor
PhotographersLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie DeFrietas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Chris KingSam ThomasKaylyn Ling
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Emily Perpich,THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
UF is launching a new master’s program 
this fall that will bring students to Orlando for 
a reason other than the Magic Kingdom. 
The UF College of Design, Construction 
and Planning is launching a new graduate 
program in the School of Architecture CityLab-
Orlando that will teach creative architectural 
design for entertainment spaces from theme 
parks to museums, said Frank Bosworth, pro-
gram director of CityLab-Orlando.
The new program was developed over the last year with extensive input from the indus-
try and from Dean Chimay Anumba of the 
College of Design, Construction and Planning, 
said assistant director of CityLab-Orlando Ste-
phen Bender.
The program will offer a 36-hour master’s 
degree in architectural studies with a concen-
tration in themed environment integration, 
which focuses on spaces such as theme parks 
and cruise ships, costing students $27,000, 
Bender said. There will also be a 21-hour cer-
tiﬁ  cate option that will cost about $15,750.
There will be 10 spots available for the ini-
tial group of students, with application deci-sions being released in July, Bosworth said. 
Due to the small size of the program, there 
will be a collaborative group of faculty mem-
bers working closely with the entering stu-
dents in a hands-on approach, Bosworth said. 
“Working together as a community to-
wards a speciﬁ  c end product produces better 
results than the work that is currently being 
done by a group of siloed professions,” he 
said.
Steven Grant, who has worked with Walt 
Disney Imagineering for 28 years, will start as 
the program director on July 1, Bosworth said. 
Bender said as the program director, Grant 
will be the face of the program while manag-ing and teaching creative architecture design.  
“An integrator is someone who can bring 
together teams to complete complex projects 
and support a clear vision,” Bender said. 
According to Bender, Grant succeeded at 
Disney because he has many qualities of an 
integrator. Grant has brought together teams 
to support the worldwide build of creations 
for Disney for nearly three decades. 
“Having Steven Grant on board adds 
greater depth and rigor to the courses and 
program,” Bender said. “His connections in 
the industry will beneﬁ  t our students tremen-
dously.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgUF launches new graduate program in Orlando for fallChris Day / Alligator Staff
Irmen holds his tattered “Thank You” sign. He said he panhandles two to three times a week 
and generally makes between $20 and $50 in a day. Irmen uses the money he collects to buy 
food, cigarettes, beer and medication for an aching back. 
Nicole Nesberg, another ad-
junct professor who spoke to 
the board, said she has taught at 
the college for 13 years. She said 
she loves her job, but struggles 
with the lack of beneﬁ  ts it pro-
vides. She said her and her col-
leagues can make a maximum 
of $24,000. 
“I have two children over 
there,” Nesberg said, pointing to 
her kids sitting in the front row. 
“I need to make more than that. 
I need healthcare. I need sick 
leave. I need something better 
after 13 years of service.” 
She continues to teach be-
cause of the impact she’s made 
on students’ lives, she said. She 
recalled a moment last year when a student 
told her they 
were going to 
quit college un-
til they took her class. 
“That’s why I stay, because I 
make a difference, and I deserve 
to support my family by making 
that difference,” Nesberg said. 
After the 15 minutes of pub-
lic dialogue, the Board of Trust-
ees Chair Lisa M. Prevatt said 
the college could not work di-
rectly with adjunct professors 
concerning wages, hours and 
working conditions right now. 
“We just need to be patient 
while we see what happens at 
the administrative proceed-
ings,” Prevatt said. “So if ulti-
mately the petition is dismissed, 
then we will be glad to work di-
rectly with you.”
Protesters moved outside 
building S after this announce-
ment to allow more faculty and supporters to speak about their 
thoughts and experiences. 
After six more people spoke, 
including County Commission-
er Marihelen Wheeler, Santa 
Fe College President Jackson 
Sasser walked outside near the 
rally. Protesters chanted to him, 
“Hear our voice! Let us vote!” 
Sasser said the contract, be-
tween the college and the Ser-
vice Employees International 
Union, ends in the middle of 
June, and he would love to have 
the meeting again to talk about 
the next step.
“If the numbers are there, 
then I’m not opposing the 
union,” he said. “But I do agree 
that our contract, which is what 
we’re in now, needs to be hon-
ored.” 
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org SANTA FE,  from pg. 1Over 70 attended
and it’s highly contagious, but it is 
also entirely preventable if you vac-
cinate your animals,” Sammy said.
Ed Williams, the director of animal 
services, said every dog coming into 
the shelter gets vaccinated — but vac-
cines are not a cure. It can take up to 
two weeks to develop any signiﬁ  cant 
immunity to the disease.
According to the county press re-
lease, canine distemper is carried 
and transmitted by wildlife, such as 
raccoons, foxes, skunks and coyotes. 
Unvaccinated or undervaccinated 
stray dogs are primarily the ones car-
rying the disease, Williams said.
The Alachua County Animal Ser-
vices shelter has asked the public to 
not bring any dogs to the shelter until 
the risk of infection has passed. 
Local animal welfare organiza-
tions in the community, including 
the Alachua County Humane Society, 
Puppy Hill Farm or Haile’s Angels Pet 
Rescue, are a better alternative, Wil-
liams said.This sudden outbreak of the dis-
ease has put dog adoptions on hold, 
but the shelter’s cat adoption pro-
gram remains open.
A free sterilization program for 
male dogs weighing more than 40 
pounds has been postponed until 
June, Williams said. Before the out-
break, the program was scheduled to 
start on May 16.
Maddie’s Shelter Medicine Pro-
gram at the UF College of Veterinary 
Medicine is conducting the distemper 
testing and absorbing the costs of the 
outbreak, Williams said.
Williams urges everyone in the 
community to make sure their dogs 
are vaccinated properly. 
“Good, responsible dog owners 
that want to do something about this 
should call their veterinarian and 
make sure that their dog has adequate 
protection against this virus through 
vaccination,” he said.
@sarahlpickettt
sarahpickett@uﬂ  .eduVIRUS,  from pg. 1Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Irmen asks for money Tuesday in the median of Florida State Road 24 
where it intersects with East University Avenue in Gainesville. Irmen 
moved from Michigan three years ago for the warmer weather. He 
switches between this spot and others around town. “When people get 
used to seeing you in one spot, they kind of don’t want to help, ” he said.  
Disney Imagineer is coming to UF as the program directorMan on the Street 
Potential ban a ffects panhandlers’ livelihoods
Gainesville currently has 
an ordinance that prohibits 
panhandling, but it is not 
enforceable due to free speech. 
The laws may change soon after a 
panhandler was struck and killed 
in April. City commissioners 
said the new ordinance won’t 
incriminate panhandlers but limit 
where they’re allowed in order to 
keep them safe. Some Gainesville 
residents, like William Irmen, a 
54-year-old homeless man, rely 
on panhandling in these spots for 
consistent income.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
THE MEETING WILL BE 
RESCHEDULED LATER 
THIS WEEK 
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Tuesday’s UF Student Senate 
meeting was canceled by Senate 
President Libby Shaw less than three 
hours before it was set to begin. 
In her email to the senators, Shaw said she was canceling the meet-
ing per the request of Student Body 
President Michael Murphy. She said 
Murphy wanted to be present for the 
meeting because it was considering 
a revision of the 200 codes, which 
govern the executive branch. The 
revision had been vetoed by former 
Student Body President Ian Green. 
“It would be counterproductive 
to consider an executive veto on 
legislation when the legislation’s au-
thors aren’t present,” Shaw said.Senate procedure was followed 
when canceling the meeting, accord-
ing to Shaw.
Senate Minority Leader Ashley 
Grabowski, a 23-year-old UF politi-
cal communication master’s student, 
said she doesn’t think Shaw is au-
thorized to cancel a Senate meeting 
once it has been announced and the 
agenda has been set.
“The Senate President was mere-
ly using the veto as an excuse to not 
meet tonight because meeting before this Thursday [today] is not in the 
majority party’s best interests,” she 
said. 
Grabowski and 18 other sena-
tors met despite the cancellation, 
but they couldn’t proceed with the 
agenda due to not meeting quorum.
“We still met because the Sen-
ate was still technically obligated to 
meet, and we believe in following 
the established rules,” Grabowski 
said. 
The Senate Executive Committee and the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee will meet today to ap-
prove summer replacements for Sen-
ators who will be out of town. 
Shaw said Murphy would contact 
the senators about scheduling a spe-
cial meeting later this week.
The Alligator was unable to reach 
Murphy for comment. 
@charlie_daffron
daffronc@gmail.comSG Senate President cancels meeting last minute
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
Jenny Neelands, 35, and 
Kayla Ventura, 25, both won 
money on a trivia app to pay off 
their student loans. 
The two won a combined 
total of over $22,000 through 
Givling, an app that helps 
Americans pay off student loan 
and mortgage debt. Ventura, 
who won $10,901.17, gradu-
ated from UF in 2016 with a 
bachelor’s degree in health 
science. Neelands, who won 
$12,246, graduated from UF in 2010 with a master’s in sports 
management and in 2015 with 
a master’s in public health. 
“When you’re playing, you 
want to win, but there’s so 
many games happening, and 
it’s shocking to see that you’re 
actually in first,” Neelands said.
Seth Beard, Givling’s chief 
marketing officer, said the app 
has about 450,000 users.
By playing each day, users 
are entered into drawings that 
could earn them $500 in cash 
— or $10,000 towards their stu-
dent loans or mortgages, Beard 
said. 
“We have anything from ge-ography to math to pop culture, 
history — ‘Game of Thrones’ 
even,” Beard said.
Lynn Tramonte, public rela-
tions representative, said Giv-
ling has given away a total of 
$3,184,900 as of May 20. 
“I feel like [student loan 
debt] can be something that’s 
kind of hard to talk about or 
something that people don’t 
want to put out there, even 
though student loan debt is af-
fecting so many people,” Nee-
lands said.
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgUF graduates win over $22,000 
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Security cameras helped Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office deputies track down two al-
leged thieves, according to an arrest report.
Deputies responded to a burglary at La 
Chua Trail Saturday afternoon. A woman 
parked her 2017 Chevrolet Tahoe in the 4801 
Camp Ranch Rd. parking lot before hiking. 
She returned to a smashed rear driver’s side 
window, according to the report. 
The woman reported multiple items miss-
ing from her vehicle including credit cards, ac-
cording to the report.
Several fraudulent charges were made, in-
cluding over $650 at Hibbett Sports at 3630 SW 
Archer Rd. Authorities reviewed security foot-age with the manager and viewed two suspects 
making the fraudulent purchase. 
Authorities identified one suspect as An-
thony Quinn Lockhart, 18, due to a previous 
encounter with him. Security camera footage 
showed both suspects making the purchases at 
Hibbett Sports. 
Lockhart and Issac Lenard Johnson, 32, 
were arrested in connection to the incident.
Lockhart was charged with burglary, larce-
ny and dealing in stolen property. He remains 
in Alachua County Jail with a $25,000 bond. 
Johnson was charged with grand theft, 
dealing in stolen property, burglary, illegal use 
of credit cards, in-person fraud and larceny. He 
remains in custody with a $60,000 bond. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgTwo arrested for La Chua burglaryTHURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE SUMMER PROGRAM 
WILL BEGIN JUNE 11
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Building confidence and help-
ing cats find homes go hand in 
paw for the Humane Society of 
North Central Florida. 
On Tuesday, about 22 par-
ents and children attended an 
informational meeting about the 
Purrs and Tales Summer Reading 
Program. Beginning on June 11, 
children ages 5 to 12 can prac-
tice their reading skills by read-
ing aloud to cats and kittes with 
adult supervision, said Sarah Ma-
cLennan, the director of volun-
teer programs.
The program at the north 
campus will take place on Mon-
days, Tuesdays and Wednesdays 
for the third summer in a row, 
McLennan said.
MacLennan, 31, said she has  
watched this program’s impact 
on both the children and the cats 
over the years. Last summer, one 
extremely shy cat came out of 
her shell thanks to one persistent 
reader, MacLennan said. 
“It was just that reader coming 
in, reading out loud and just sit-
ting with her that really got that 
cat to come out and be a little bit 
more social,” MacLennan said. 
“Shortly after that, this cat did 
get adopted, so it really does help 
the animals.”
Often, the cats will curl up in 
the readers’ laps as they listen, 
providing a non-judgemental au-
dience for children who might not 
be comfortable reading in front of 
people yet, MacLennan said. “There has been some research 
that shows they do a little bit bet-
ter reading to audiences like the 
cats instead of reading out loud 
to their teachers, friends or even 
their parents,” MacLennan said.
Those who wish to continue 
on with the program can attend 
a training session where they can 
tour the facility’s eight cat rooms, 
one of which is reserved for kit-
tens, as well as learn a little bit 
about cat safety, MacLennan 
said.
The Humane Society requests 
a $10 fee so participants can 
purchase a volunteer shirt, but 
if there are any financial con-
straints, it can be waived, Ma-
cLennan said.
“We just want people who 
love cats and love reading to 
come out and spend some time 
with us,” MacLennan said.
Those who are interested can 
email volunteer@humanesoci-
etyncfl.org for more information.
Wynn Oulman, 41, attended 
this first meeting with her daugh-
ter, Ever Oulman, 7, after they 
saw advertisements for it on sev-
eral Facebook groups such as 
the Gainesville Word of Mouth 
group.
Oulman was already interested 
in volunteering at an animal shel-
ter once a week over summer, so 
this opportunity really caught her 
eye, she said. 
“We’re excited to do it be-
cause Ever is really into reading 
right now,” Oulman said. “We’ll 
be excited to pick up books and 
to help the cats get adopted.”
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgTHE REVISIONS WILL 
FOCUS ON CLARITY
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A March arrest of a Guatemalan 
man sparked questions regarding 
Gainesville Police’s current policies 
surrounding notification to U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment of foreign nationals who may 
be in the country illegally.
A statement released by GPD 
on April 3 reported the Gainesville Police General Order 40.3 “Foreign 
Nationals” states, in part, “If an of-
ficer has contact with a foreign na-
tional, a contact that generates pa-
perwork, it shall be clearly noted in 
the narrative section of the report. 
The Records Manager, or designee, 
is responsible for forwarding the 
proper information or documents to 
the appropriate agency, as required 
by federal regulations.”
The current policy does not in-
clude this statement, according to 
an online copy of the GPD General 
Order.
There are no federal laws that require local law enforcement to re-
port foreign nationals to ICE. 
GPD spokesperson Capt. Jorge 
Campos said revisions are being 
made to the policy for the sake of 
clarity but have not yet been ap-
proved. He said the policies that 
were rewritten were more about 
how to interact with those whose 
primary language is not English. 
“We don’t make notifications 
[to ICE] unless it’s something that’s 
warranted,” Campos added.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgKids read to cats as part of the Humane Society program
GPD to revise current policies on 
reporting foreign nationals to ICEAshley Lazarski / Alligator Staff
Sarah MacLennan holds one of the kittens in the Humane Society of North Central Florida’s 
kitten room. Children can read to cats as part of the Purrs and T ales Summer Reading Program.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Iron Throne was 
built by men, for men
Everyone seeks Beyoncé’s approval — actress Emilia Clarke 
included. Clarke, who plays the Mother of Dragons, First of her 
Name Daenerys Targaryen, feared Beyoncé would hate Daenerys 
after the recent season. Clarke showed no ignorance with this 
worry. Now that we know what we know about Daenerys, sea-
son eight of Game of Thrones has us wondering: “Do the writ-
ers...possibly...not know women?”  
The most well-funded show in the history of television has 
failed consistently in delivering plausible arcs for almost every 
female character. Maybe that’s because out of 73 episodes, only 
four were written by, and another four directed by women. It’s 
difﬁ  cult to subvert harmful tropes when your writing room looks 
like a Boy Scouts of America meeting in Springﬁ  eld, Missouri.
Let’s begin with a woman who could be seen as a victor of the 
game: Sansa Stark. The show’s framing of her personal growth 
was problematic to say the least.
It was a questionable decision to show Sansa’s rape in season 
ﬁ  ve. The bigger issue was how the writers positioned it, along 
with other abuse, as her pivotal moment of growth. In episode 
four of the ﬁ  nal season, Sansa said she would have remained a 
“little bird” her entire life without Ramsay, Little Finger and the 
rest of her abusers. While it is true trauma massively impacts a 
person, a survivor’s growth is a product of their own strength, 
not to the credit of the person or people who dehumanized them.
Watching the ﬁ  nal episode of Game of Thrones, it is difﬁ  cult 
to view Daenerys as anything but a crazed villain. In the last 
two episodes, the showrunners reduced a complex character into 
a caricature of a hysterical woman. Throughout the series, she 
made questionable decisions, but all had explanations until the 
ﬁ  nal episodes.
In episode ﬁ  ve, Dany is fresh from the loss of her two most 
trusted conﬁ  dants and two of her “children,” but somehow all 
her personal sacriﬁ  ces seem to be forgotten. In the ﬁ  rst scene 
we see one of her advisors attempt to assassinate her. Only one 
scence shows the queen tormented by isolation and betrayal 
though, because the writers decided to stop showing her point of 
view. Instead, the episode focuses on the destruction she caused. 
While it’s admirable for the writers to draw attention to the plight 
of innocents, most viewers were taken aback by The Breaker of 
Chains’ dramatic change. If the writers had more time, Dany’s 
ending could have made sense. Instead, she ultimately seemed 
like a deranged power-hungry trope. 
We give props to the writers for managing to muster enough 
courage to keep Arya Stark and Brienne of Tarth away from the 
pit of female character destruction, but even this triumph is bit-
tersweet. The framing of Arya losing her virginity was refresh-
ing compared to the usual “ﬁ  rst times” we see too often. Female 
characters having sex for the ﬁ  rst time usually show timidness, 
and regret. Here, Arya owned her sexual experience. It was on 
her terms, and she was not afraid to show it. 
Brienne of Tarth’s strength only made her more admirable. 
The ﬁ  rst female knight in the Seven Kingdoms was a beacon of 
the story’s idea that we make our own destinies. Her story brings 
inspiration to the misﬁ  ts who never stopped being true to their 
aspirations, regardless of how unlikely the chances of success. 
The triumph in Arya and Brienne make the defeat of char-
acters like Sansa and Daenerys harder to swallow. It seems the 
characters who embodied more masculine qualities were allowed 
to succeed, while those closer to the traditional feminine norm 
suffered the most. Hopefully, the spin-offs will have more women 
behind the camera, so masculinity will no longer be a require-
ment to winning the game of thrones.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORThe War on Women has 
been in full force since the 
Reagan administration and 
recent anti-abortion laws 
are just the newest assault 
on women’s reproductive 
rights. On May 15, Alabama 
signed a bill into law that 
bans virtually all abortions. 
It does not include excep-
tions for rape or incest and 
makes performing an abor-
tion a felony punishable by 
99 years in prison. 
This law is the latest of 
anti-abortion laws passed in 
the South. Four other states 
have passed “fetal heartbeat 
bills.” All prohibit abortion 
once a fetal heartbeat can be 
detected, which often occurs 
before a woman knows she 
is pregnant.
These laws are so ex-
treme that even some Re-
publicans are distancing 
themselves from them. 
For example, Mitt Rom-
ney told CNN, “I’m pro-life, 
but there ought to be excep-
tions for rape and incest and 
where the life of the mother 
is at risk.” Even conserva-
tive internet personality Tomi Lahren and 
President Don-
ald Trump have 
distanced them-
selves.
While the re-
ligious right likes 
to argue that 
these restrictive 
laws are to “pro-
tect the life of the unborn,” 
it is obvious from looking at 
their stance on other issues 
what their true motives are.
If Republicans care about 
the lives of children, then 
why do they allow private 
adoption companies to dis-
criminate against LGBTQ+ 
couples? Why do they con-
tinue to oppose laws aim-
ing to reduce gun violence, 
which kills nearly 1,300 
children every year? Why do 
they ridicule Medicare-for-all 
– a policy that could save the 
lives of thousands of chil-
dren with a life-threatening 
pre-existing condition? 
It’s simple. Anti-abortion 
measures have never been 
a means to save the lives of 
children. It has always been 
a means of controlling wom-en. With the pow-
er to control what 
a woman can or 
cannot do with 
her body, they 
take away wom-
en’s freedom. It 
effectively makes 
women second-
class citizens to 
their male counterparts.
Meanwhile, men have 
the freedom to have sex 
with whomever they want, 
whenever they choose and 
without the fear of later con-
sequences. Not only do they 
not have to worry about be-
coming pregnant, but there 
is also no obligation for 
them to stay and support the 
mother.  
The late comedian George 
Carlin perfectly summarized 
the Republican obsession 
over reproductive rights stat-
ing, “They’re not pro-life. 
You know what they are, 
they’re anti-woman.” To 
add to this sentiment, I think 
a better term to refer to pro-
life conservatives is “pro-fe-
tus,” as the religious right’s 
concern over a fetus ends as soon as it is born. 
These recent anti-abor-
tion laws will certainly be 
challenged as a violation of 
the 1973 Roe v. Wade Su-
preme Court case. But with 
the new conservative major-
ity on the Supreme Court, 
there is a real risk of Roe v. 
Wade being overturned. 
However, not all hope 
is lost if this does happen. 
Abortion would then be-
come a state issue likely 
resulting in more “liberal” 
states protecting a woman’s 
right to choose and more 
“conservative” states plac-
ing restrictions bans on 
abortions.
Ultimately, it’s scary 
to see how much power 
a small number of people 
hold. Just 25 white men of 
the Alabama Senate passed 
the anti-abortion law, which 
affects the lives of millions of 
women. Only three women 
were able to vote in this life-
changing measure. It is im-
perative to elect female poli-
ticians (particularly those 
who are pro-choice) as it 
should be women deciding 
laws surrounding women’s 
health. 
Cassidy Hopson is a UF 
journalism junior. Her col-
umn appears on Thursdays.The War on Women continues 
What the Alabama abortion ban is really aboutColumn
I mentioned Student Body President Michael 
Murphy’s borderline plagiarized inaugural 
speech in my last column. I feel like I should 
do my due diligence and write about another 
instance of plagiarism in the past.
Come, pull up a chair to the dumpster ﬁ  re 
that is SG, and let me tell you a story to pass 
the time.
Once upon a time, SG put closed captioning 
on their videos… and then they didn’t. Around 
two years ago, in a video featuring Smith “Mo-
torcycle Pusher-Over” Meyers and Blake “Totally Not the 
Only Reason His Little Brother is President” Murphy, SG an-
nounced the opening of Newell Hall. 
Someone commented: “This past year great strides for 
accessibility were made by providing captions on these vid-
eos. Already we’re back to not having captions, and ignoring 
students and visitors who are deaf or hard of hearing. It’s 
distasteful. What needs to be done to get captions back?”
I saw that comment and upon further research, I found 
out SG didn’t really have any accessibility measures codiﬁ  ed. 
I worked with a bipartisan group of Senators to create legis-
lation that codiﬁ  ed video closed captioning and  transcripts 
by default.
Unfortunately, the legislation got vetoed by the outgo-ing Student Body President Meyers. But before 
the original authors could re-submit the bill with 
suggested changes, Senator Branden Pearson and 
another individual sent in a bill with the same title 
containing much of the same language as our’s. 
None of the original authors were credited. 
Where the bill differed was only in ways that 
made it worse. The bill’s mandate of accessibility 
had been watered down. There was a reference to 
wanting to comply with “Title III of the American 
with Disabilities Act.” First, it’s supposed to be plu-
ral (“Americans”) and secondly, it references the wrong sec-
tion of the ADA (it’s supposed to be Title II).
Now, the Senate Judiciary (probably) caught on that it 
was probably plagiarism, so they changed the title (but for-
got to change it later in the bill) and then added some of 
the original authors as sponsors (but didn’t ﬁ  x the incorrect 
reference). The error still exists in our code.
Our social media is generally better with closed caption-
ing and marginally better with providing transcripts. When 
someone does screw up, I’m there. I like to remind them to 
add captions to their video and to add a link to a transcript. 
It’s a simple ask but one that means a lot to many people.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.Plagiarism in Student Government, Part 2
Cassidy Hopson
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Florida set to take on T ennessee in NCAA
Pg 11Celebrate Memorial Day the Gainesville way
Find out how to spend your Memorial Day in Gainesville this  
year. 
Pg 8GAINESVILLE RESIDENTS 
GO TO HIGH DIVE TO SEE 
WHO TAKES THE THRONE
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
After eight seasons and 73 epi-
sodes, the historic run of “Game of 
Thrones” has come to an end.
About 60 people gathered at the 
High Dive Sunday to watch the ﬁ  nal 
episode of “Game of Thrones.”
Matthew Kriz, the ﬂ  oor manager 
for the High Dive, said the bar decid-
ed to screen the show after receiving 
a ﬂ  ood of community interest.
“We got a lot of calls this week 
regarding if we were going to do a 
screening of the ﬁ  nale” Kriz said. 
“This is something that we knew 
people would come out for, and who 
doesn’t want to have a beer while 
they watch their favorite show?”
The ﬁ  nal season of “Game of 
Thrones” has been met with luke-
warm reactions. Complaints about 
rushed storylines and sloppy produc-
tion have been pervasive throughout 
its massive audience, especially on social media.
Over 1.4 million people have 
signed an online petition to “remake 
‘Game of Thrones’ season eight with 
competent writers.”
Fan backlash did not stop people 
from watching. According to the 
Hollywood Reporter, the ﬁ  nale had 
19.3 million ﬁ  rst-day viewers, the 
most in HBO history.
Most of the show’s issues were a 
product of their own successes.
“Game of Thrones” became too 
big, with too many characters and 
storylines. It was going to be impos-
sible for showrunners David Benioff 
and D.B. Weiss to both conclude the 
series while satisfying all its fans. 
Benioff and Weiss took liberties 
with the pacing and character de-
velopment during the ﬁ  nal season. 
There were some disappointing 
omissions and plot holes, but each 
character’s ending made sense.
Daenerys Targaryen’s descent 
into madness was fast. However, she 
was crucifying people back in season 
four and had a well-established re-
cord of burning people alive. 
Some were disappointed in Jaime Lannister’s decision to return to Cer-
sei, but his inability to stop loving 
her, regardless of how evil a person 
she became, was a constant motif 
throughout the entire show.
Season eight was not the best 
season of “Game of Thrones.” There 
are plenty of reasons to be upset or 
disappointed with the direction the showrunners decided to take.
However, the ﬁ  nal season did not 
ruin the show. More episodes would 
not make the show any better be-
cause it ran its course. 
It is amazing Benioff and Weiss 
were able to create a show that 
has inspired such passion in its 
fanbase. Instead of getting caught up in all 
the small details of the ending, let’s 
enjoy the journey that got us here.
Goodbye “Game of Thrones”, 
and thanks for all the memories.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.org
TELEVISION
Courtesy to The Alligator
The famed series came to an end after its eight-year run on television.
THE POPULAR 
GAINESVILLE BAR 
CELEBRATES FOUR 
YEARS OF OPERATION
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville residents should gath-
er their tokens to celebrate four years 
of this popular bar.
Arcade Bar on E University Ave 
is hosting its four-year anniversary 
party today. The bar’s doors open at 
5 p.m. but the music, giveaways and 
fun start at 10 p.m. 
According to entertainment man-
ager Vijaya Sexias, there will be 
three DJs performing at the event. 
DJ Sketch will be performing at The 
Atlantic, Dunestan Wallace in the al-
ley and DJ Young Turk on the third 
ﬂ  oor. 
Sexias said the diverse mu-sic attracts all kinds of people in 
Gainesville from middle-aged Alach-
ua County residents to older college 
students.
“There’s going to be music for 
everyone. We have ‘80s and ‘90s 
hits, hip-hop, pop and house music 
throughout the venue,” Sexias said.
The event will also have give-
aways with prizes such as drink dis-
counts and Arcade Bar merchandise 
for redeeming painted tokens scat-
tered throughout the arcade, said  
Alex Olen, Arcade Bar Manager.
Olen also said there is no cover 
at the event. It is strictly for ages 21 
and over. 
If you can’t make it, the owner 
of Arcade Bar also owns The Top, 
which will host its 19th-anniversary 
two-day party this summer from July 
19-20.
@lilygirton
lilygirton@uﬂ  .eduArcade bar four-year 
anniversary celebration
NIGHTLIFEA Goodbye to ‘Game of Thrones’
Eim Thai Brings New Food 
to Innovation Square
The weekly food truck day got 
a new addition this week.
On Tuesday, May 21 nearly 25 employees of UF’s Ayers Medical Plaza gathered 
in Innovation Square to get a taste of Eim Thai’s authentic Thai food.The event 
was part of Food Truck Day, a weekly event organized by local real estate 
agency Avis Young. Food Truck Day brings food trucks from all over Florida to 
Innovation Square every Tuesday from 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Priya Dames / Alligator Staff8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
1. Internship Credit Hours  Earn credit hours while interning
2. Valuable Skills Team work and client relations
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative
4. Build Your Resume
5. Hands On Training
6. Flexible Schedule
7. No Weekends!ADVERTISING INTERNS
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Intern Coordinator
intern@alligator.org
Applicants must be enrolled in classes at 
the University of Florida or Santa Fe CollegeHELP WANTED
· No Weekends
· Gain Sales Experience
· Flexible Work Schedule
· Learn Prospecting SkillsADVERTISING SALES REP POSITION
Available for Summer 2019
E-mail Resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
***Applicants must be enrolled in classes at the University of Florida or Santa Fe College***HELP WANTEDBy Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s no secret that Gainesville is a 
unique place.  When it comes to cel-
ebrating holidays like Memorial Day, 
the city’s individuality shines through. 
Whether you’re looking for a quiet 
reﬂ  ection, a challenging workout or a 
weekend-long celebration, Gainesville 
has something for you. 
Ginnie Springs: Memorial Day 
college weekend 
Celebrate Memorial Day with a 
three-day party at Florida treasure, 
Ginnie Springs. The college weekend 
kicks off on Friday, May 24 and goes 
through Sunday, May 27.  
DJ Ginga R3ll and other live DJs 
will be performing throughout the 
weekend as people ﬂ  oat down and 
camp the springs. Last year about 
4,000 people came out, according to 
the event Facebook page. To reserve 
a campsite call (386) 454-718 or visit 
their website  http://ginniespring-
soutdoors.com/.
Memorial Mile 2019
The Memorial Mile will be a touch-
ing sight to see this Memorial Day. 
The Veterans for Peace Chapter 14 
will place handmade tombstones 
alongside NW 8th Avenue from Satur-
day through Monday.
Each tombstone will represent a 
U.S. service member that has lost 
their life in Iraq or Afghanistan dating 
back to 2001. Tables will be set up at the beginning and end of the display 
for those who want information about 
the tribute, according to the veteran 
group. For more information, visit the 
event webpage. 
Memorial Day Sew-a-thon and 
kit building
Nothing says thank you like paying 
it forward. Days for Girls, an interna-
tional organization devoted to educat-
ing women in developing nations, will 
be sewing menstrual hygiene kits for 
women in need on Monday from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m. They plan to make 200 
kits this Memorial day, according to 
the Facebook page. 
Holiday ﬁ  tness challenge
Local ﬁ  tness gyms LIV Athletic and 
Burn Boot Camp will host a workout 
known as the Murph on Monday in 
honor of hero Lt. Michael Murphy, 
who was killed in action in 2005. The 
workout consists of a one-mile run 
followed by 100 pullups, 200 pushups 
and 300 squats topped off with anoth-
er mile. 
Crossﬁ  t’s gyms across the nation do 
the Murph workout as a tribute to our 
nation’s fallen. If working out like the 
U.S. military seems like a ﬁ  t for you, 
the workout will be held at LIV Ath-
letic 5:30 a.m. and 10 a.m. as well as 
at Burn Boot Camp 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. 
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comCelebrate Memorial Day 
the Gainesville way
Pay tribute to those who fought for our freedom 
by relecting, partying and working out
LIFESTYLE
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer 
This week on the Avenue’s weekly playlist, staff writers have put together 
a multi-genre jam session of music’s newest hits. The list features songs from 
both rising stars and household names. K-pop group Blackpink is just reaching 
new Western success after their dynamic performance at Coachella this year. 
Similarly, viral hip-hop star Megan Thee Stallion just released her album “Fe-
ver” on May 17 and it debuted in the top 10 of the iTunes U.S. albums chart. 
When talking about new music, it wouldn’t be right to forget about DJ Khaled. 
Many fans of the artist wrote on Twitter that it wouldn’t be summer without 
a new album from the producer and songwriter, and he did not disappoint. 
He released his newest project, “Father of Asahd,” last Friday, and it featured 
many notable collaborations including the recently departed activist and rap-
per Nipsey Hussle. Follow the Avenue on Spotify for more weekly favorites in 
music. Weekly Avenue Playlist
MUSIC
“Kill This Love”
“Realer”
“Simon Says”
“Higher”
“C.U.D.I (Can U Dig It)”
“Would That I”
“Divide”
“Evil Doer”
“The Devil Wears Flannel”Song Title Artist
Blackpink
Megan Thee Stallion
Megan Thee Stallion
ft. Juicy J
DJ Khaled ft. Nipsey 
Hussle & John Legend
Cosmo’s Midnight 
Hozier
Odesza ft. Kelsey Bulkin
Radkey
Dollar SignsTHURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDHouse for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,000/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-30-19-102-2
GREAT FOR UF STUDENT
3BR/3BA, 2-story condo behind Gainesville 
Sun Office. July 1st, $875 / mo each. nghe@
msn.com or phone 352-327-2931    5-30-19-
6-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1050/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard,
large closets, pets welcome, no application
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100        8-13-19-24-2
ONLY 4 LEFT...1/1's Available for UF 
Students for the Fall! Quiet student com-
munity on Archer. $865-$900 includes water, 
gas, basic cable and Internet. Call Erika at 
352-373-2700      6-6-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Did you know? The NASA Vehicle Assembly Building in 
Florida is so huge it has its own weather.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Trump MAGA wearers hate this hat for 
mocking theirs Make A Hole Go A Way of 
course the MAGA on this hat is much lager 
than all of the other. Go to Gville Craigslist and 
type in Blue Hat to see the hat and contact info.     
5-30-19-4-10
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church 
need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, 
windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews 
and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com       5-23-1-10
Honda EU7000is 7000w Inverter
Generator 120/240v, 
18 hours. never an issue. $800! Contact: 
7864924736     6-6-19-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who re -
sponds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or 
investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
P/T babysitter,$12/hr, help take kids age 10-
16 to summer activities. Experience babysit-
ting, car needed. I pay for gas as well. Email 
to rosenson@ufl.edu      5-28-19-5-14
OFFICE ASSITANT $8.75/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-6-19-
8-14
Work for students,
yard, help at home, day labor, teaching math, 
languages etc.   Call 352 331 0523      5-23-
19-1-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 12 Autos 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Please recycle this newspaper.
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Did you know? Ravens in captivity can 
learn to talk better than parrots.Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Researchers at the University of Florida are 
looking for cigarette smokers to participate in
a study involving incentives for quitting. If 
interested, call the Behavioral Health and 
Technology Research Clinic at 352-273-
2151 or email us at motiv8@psych.ufl.edu.    
6-4-5-20
Did you know? Africa is the only continent 
with land in all four hemispheres.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
1. HISTORY: Which woman won 
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for her 
work with the poor in Calcutta, India?
2. LITERATURE: What was the last 
known play written by Shakespeare?
3. LANGUAGE: “Cyborg” is a 
shortened version of which futuristic 
phrase?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
men’s haircut was named after a style 
adopted by college rowing teams?
5. MOVIES: Who wrote the screen-
play for the original “The Heartbreak 
Kid” movie?
6. GEOGRAPHY: Which three 
countries mainly make up the Scandi-
navian Peninsula?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to be awarded a Purple 
Heart?
8. U.S. STATES: Which state has the 
most active volcanoes?
9. ANATOMY: What is a more com-
mon name for enlargement of the thy-
roid gland?
10. GAMES: How many letters does 
each player draw to begin a game of 
Scrabble?
Answers
1. Mother Teresa
2. “The Two Noble Kinsmen”
3. Cybernetic organism
4. The crew cut
5. Neil Simon
6. Sweden, Norway and Finland
7. John F. Kennedy was wounded in 
WWII.
8. Alaska
9. Goiter
10. Seven
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 20, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1.  Nullified
1.  Roman god of fire5.  Table ____
2.  Dunk, steep6.  Type of insect
3.  Trap7.  Latest
4.  Prestige, distinction DOIDEV
ACVNULPMLSA
ORCAH
MRESMEI
ERNSENAWSTENE
CHTEACANSWERS: 1A-Voided  5A-Lamps  6A-Roach  7A-Newest
1D-Vulcan  2D-Immerse  3D-Ensnare  4D-Cachet  B-Cantaloupe5-23-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: A ____ is called a spanspek
in South Africa.
BONUS
By Joe Schewe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, May 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Analyze critically
6 Counting gadgets
11 Business address 
abbr.
14 Michener novel 
with astronauts
15 Answer an insult 
with an insult, say
16 Short flight
17 U.S. gaming 
release of 1989
19 It often follows 
you
20 Ivan or Nicholas
21 Actor Chaney
22 Windy home, 
probably
24 Chiffon-like 
materials
28 Left the country?
31 Piccadilly Circus 
statue
32 Plain text
33 Future first lady 
wed in 1842
37 It’s all around us
38 Hangs on a line?
40 Word from a bull
41 Foam toy
44 Line to the 
audience
46 Took the bus
47 Becomes a 
burden
49 Rocky Mountains 
nickname
53 Give a speech
54 Longing
55 Cheese with an 
edible rind
59 Beans or baloney
60 Simple salad ... 
and what the 
starts of the five 
other longest 
answers are?
64 Aardvark snack
65 European 
woman’s name 
meaning “peace”
66 Safe places?
67 Caustic chemical
68 State of northeast 
India
69 Temporarily 
unavailable
DOWN
1 “Hey!”
2 Gibbons, e.g.
3 Music featuring 
sitars4 Often colorful 
accessories
5 Neurologist’s 
printout, briefly
6 “Dover Beach” 
poet
7 __ Bag: 
eponymous ’70s 
designer label
8 Remote batteries
9 Third-century 
date
10 Delivery 
announcement
11 Puppeteer Lewis
12 Tire-shaped
13 They’re heavier 
than foils
18 Nobelist Wiesel
23 Once, old-style
25 Poem of  
homage
26 Skillful deed
27 SFO postings
28 Time period
29 Buffalo’s county
30 Irish pop group 
family name
33 End of a 
corporal’s URL
34 Sapporo sashes
35 “Seriously, man!”
36 Adds highlights 
to, perhaps38 Arabian arroyo
39 Words after 
shake or break
42 Worry
43 Czech Republic 
region
44 Likely
45 Nutrient-rich 
legume
47 Winter eave 
buildup
48 “Merciless” Flash 
Gordon foe49 Story lesson
50 Device common 
on “Seinfeld”
51 Starbucks order
52 Spotted African 
predator
56 OPTI-FREE rival
57 Contents of many 
cartridges
58 To be, to Brutus
61 Apr. addressee
62 Crosses (out)
63 Slugger’s stat
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, May 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 Receives at one’s 
roof garden
6 “Shoot!”
10 Bounces on the 
waves
14 Food safety 
concern
15 Miracle Mets 
outfielder 
Tommie
16 Bell town in a 
Longfellow poem
17 Car engine part
19 Like racehorses
20 __ Bora: Afghan 
region
21 Roman 151
22 Prolonged 
assault
23 U.K. honor
24 “Tell me about it”
27 Numbers to 
crunch
29 Veer off course
30 Poe’s  
“Annabel __”
31 Stately horse
32 Orbit segment
33 Alpha-Bits cereal 
maker
34 Custodian
38 Talk show host 
Cavett
41 Zamboni surface
42 Stretches out for 
a bit
46 Bat wood
47 Aromatic  
garland
48 Bob Cratchit’s 
son
50 Lonely Planet 
publication, e.g.
53 Zodiac feline
54 Relaxed
55 Salem-to-
Portland dir.
56 Gardener’s 
bagful
57 Outdo
58 Temporary fix, 
or what’s found 
in this puzzle’s 
circles
61 Came to rest
62 First name in 
stunts
63 Superachievers
64 Get out of bed
65 Obsolete demo 
medium
66 Cap billDOWN
1 Strong-arms
2 Cirque du Soleil 
performer
3 “Us, too”
4 Radius neighbor
5 Dental suffix with 
Water
6 Mexico’s national 
flower
7 From the top
8 Sports replay 
reviewer
9 After-tax
10 Not advanced
11 The lord in “O, 
beware, my lord, 
of jealousy!”
12 Irish accents
13 Extra gambling 
action
18 Highlander
22 Clinch, with “up”
24 “Gotham” actress 
__ Pinkett Smith
25 Supermodel 
Banks
26 Access illegally, 
as a computer
28 Swabbing site
32 Tucked away
33 One being hunted
35 Cambodian 
currency36 Vaping product, 
briefly
37 Sea eagle
38 Baked snack with 
dried fruit
39 Lod native
40 Car’s  
supporting  
frame
43 Midwest city 
named for a 
French king
44 Connect with45 Do a slow burn
47 Took charge of
48 Wind chime 
sound
49 Creative spark
51 Sporty Chevy
52 Gen. Assembly 
member
56 Études, e.g.
58 Not just damp
59 In vitro supply
60 Race in the 
driveway
05/21/1915 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior defensive lineman 
Jabari Zuniga was named to 
the Lott IMPACT Trophy Watch 
List on Tuesday. The award 
recognizes character and 
athletic performance.Two Florida linebackers transfer
Kylan Johnson joined Pitt as a graduate transfer and Rayshad Jackson en-
tered the NCAA transfer portal on Wednesday. They recorded 27 and 36 
tackles in 2018, respectively,SOFTBALL
BASEBALLBy Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
Following a trouble-free NCAA Regional that saw 
it cruise to three-consecutive shutout wins, the Gators 
softball team will enter familiar territory this weekend.
No. 5-seeded Florida (47-15) advanced to its sev-
enth-consecutive NCAA Super Regional last weekend. 
Gainesville will again serve as host to a best-of-three 
series at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium beginning this 
Friday at 7 p.m.
This weekend’s opponent is a familiar one for coach 
Tim Walton and his squad.
SEC rival and No. 12 Tennessee (42-15) will match 
up against the Gators. The Volunteers, who won the 
Knoxville Regional, carry with them solid momentum 
that sets up well for an intriguing clash come Friday.
Though Florida recently topped the SEC with its 
tournament victory a few weeks ago, it was Tennessee 
that earned the higher seed (No. 2) entering the tourna-
ment because of a stronger regular season.
The Volunteers boast a conference second-best bat-
ting average (.307) -- a statistic in which UF sits last -- 
that helped them plate 22 runs in their four regional 
games last weekend.
The Tennessee lineup, made up of six .300 hitters, is 
the greatest threat to Florida’s success this weekend. In-
ﬁ  elders Aubrey Leach, Chelsea Seggern and outﬁ  elder 
Haley Bearden lead UT’s production, with the trio ac-
counting for nearly half of the team’s home runs (22).Tennessee also trekked into Gainesville and defeat-
ed the Gators 2-1 in a three-game series back in March, 
with the Gators only managing one run in the two de-
feats.
What the Gators lack in offense head-to-head against 
their conference foe, however, they compensate for in 
the circle.
The success of Florida’s pitching staff has been well-
documented this year and will ultimately serve as the 
backbone to the team’s performance throughout the re-
mainder of the postseason.
The brilliance of senior Kelly Barnhill (32-11) is no 
secret, and she will be well-rested to endure several 
innings of work. The assistance of freshman Elizabeth 
Hightower, sophomore Natalie Lugo and junior Katie 
Chronister has resulted in UF producing an SEC-best 
1.78 ERA.
History also fares on the side of the Gators this 
weekend.
UF holds an all-time 19-7 record in Super Regional 
play and has advanced to the Women’s College World 
Series nine of the last 11 years. Tennessee, on the con-
trary, last advanced in 2015.
Three games separate the Gators from their third-
consecutive WCWS berth, and a tough challenger 
awaits. Florida will need to draw on familiarity this 
deep in the postseason to overcome the Volunteers.
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org
 By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team 
dropped a heartbreaker on Tuesday 
morning in Game 1 of the SEC Tour-
nament against Texas A&M.
The Gators and Aggies went 
back and forth for most of the game, 
but a walk-off single in the bottom 
of the 10th by A&M sealed the 8-7 
victory and blew the opportunity 
for UF to secure itself a spot in the 
NCAA Tournament.
Now Florida will leave its fate 
in the hands of the NCAA selec-
tion committee and hope to hear its 
name called during the NCAA Se-
lection Show on Monday afternoon.
Sitting at 33-24 with a conference 
record four games under .500, UF is 
ﬁ  rmly on the bubble, currently pro-
jected as one of the “last ﬁ  ve in” in 
D1baseball.com’s projected NCAA 
Tournament ﬁ  eld.
The team is 60th out of 64 teams, 
ahead of Missouri (34-22-1), Michi-
gan (38-17), Virginia (32-22) and UCF (34-21). It’s projected to be 
placed in the Coral Gables Regional 
with Miami, Florida Atlantic and 
Florida Gulf Coast.
The Gators faced all three teams 
during the regular season, winning 
a series in Gainesville against the 
Hurricanes back in February, split-
ting a two-game set with FGCU 
in March and dropping the only 
matchup with FAU in April.
A high RPI ranking (28) and the 
fourth-toughest schedule in the 
country has many believing Florida 
is safely in the ﬁ  eld.
Those numbers, along with 
13 RPI-top 50 wins, enhance UF’s 
chances of being selected.
However, the team’s ugly con-
ference record and 24 total losses are 
keeping them near the cutline as the 
NCAAs draw closer.
If Florida does miss the tourna-
ment, it can look towards the incon-
sistencies on the mound as a main 
reason.
Tuesday’s late-game collapse is 
a microcosm of the many missed 
opportunities the team has had throughout the season.
Six losses this year have come by 
two runs or less, including back-to-
back one-run losses to Tennessee in 
Gainesville earlier this month.
The bats have been consistent for 
the Gators, but back-breaking re-
bound runs given up by the pitching 
staff have squandered some games 
they should’ve won.
With those wins, Florida’s NCAA 
outlook wouldn’t be as uncertain. 
Instead, coach Kevin O’Sullivan and 
his team will be nervously watching 
as the 64-team ﬁ  eld is unveiled.
O’Sullivan hasn’t missed the 
tournament as coach of Florida since 
he took over in 2008.
Eleven-straight NCAA Tourna-
ment appearances, including four-
straight College World Series visits, 
would be two streaks snapped if the 
committee decides to leave UF out.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org Gators set to take on UT in Super Regional
UF awaits fate after early SEC exit
Alligator File Photo
Coach Kevin O'Sullivan and the Florida baseball team were 
eliminated in the ﬁ  rst round of the SEC T ournament on Tuesday.Chris King / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill went 15 innings in the Gainesville NCAA 
Regional, giving up no runs on six hits while striking out 14 
batters.
12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Alligator File Photo
Sierra Brooks was Florida’s highest finisher at the NCAA Cham-
pionships since 1986, placing second. 
WOMEN’S GOLF
By River Wells
Sports Writer
Play was suspended due to 
darkness at 8:30 p.m at the NCAA 
Championships in Fayetteville, 
Arkansas, on Monday. 
When teams resumed play in 
the morning, the Gators women’s 
golf team was not among them.
UF had been eliminated from 
the tournament, finishing in 11th 
place and missing match play by 
just four strokes. The team exited 
the tournament 11 places higher 
than it did last year. Despite the 
season’s end, Florida has quite a 
few reasons to be excited about 
its future, starting with two of its 
centerpieces.
The first is junior Sierra Brooks, 
who made her mark on UF history 
Monday. Brooks shot 215 (4 un -
der) throughout the tournament, 
which was good for second place 
individually. Her placing is the 
highest for a UF women’s golfer in NCAAs since Page Dunlap won 
the individual title in 1986.
“I’m incredibly proud of Sier -
ra,” coach Emily Glaser said in a 
release. “She leaves no stone un -
turned when it comes to being the 
best athlete she can be.”
Brooks, who is preparing to 
compete as an amateur at the 
Women’s U.S Open next week, 
would certainly be an anchor for 
the Gators next year if she de -
cides to return. She particularly 
impressed at the Augusta National 
Women’s Amateur, where she fin -
ished in a tie for 10th. 
“Yeah, I was really pleased 
with all three rounds, especially 
on this golf course,” Brooks said 
of her performance on Monday in 
a release. “It took all the shots and 
it was a great test of golf.”
Another golfer who could make 
an impact on the Gators’ future is 
junior Marta Perez. Perez played 
with Brooks at the national in Au -
gusta, where she finished tied for 21st. Perez was also among three 
UF golfers to find their way to 
the Arnold Palmer Cup watchlist, 
where she ranked 19th.
A large part of success comes 
from momentum, and the main 
thing the Gators can look forward 
to is the return of their roster. 
UF is expected to retain every 
member of the team heading into 
next year, and with a higher fin -
ish in this year’s NCAAs, Florida 
will hope to capitalize on the up -
ward trend when next year comes 
around. 
“(UF) played some great golf 
and had a tremendous amount of 
growth both on and off the golf 
course,” Glaser said. “Everyone 
from this team will return next 
year and I know they will be able 
to use the experiences of this 
week as fuel for next season.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgBrooks, Perez give UF hope for future
MEN’S TENNIS
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Sam Riffice looked like he had 
been there before.
The Florida freshman casually 
tossed the ball up in the air, then 
smashed it over the net and toward 
Ohio State’s JJ Wolf, the No. 2 
men’s tennis player in the country. 
The two engaged in a brief ral-
ly after Wolf returned the serve. 
Then, with Riffice positioned close to the net, Wolf sailed one over the 
Florida player’s head and out of 
bounds.
Match point.
Rifice pulled off the biggest 
upset of the NCAA Singles Cham-
pionships in Orlando on Monday, 
defeating the Big Ten Player of the 
Year in comeback fashion to ad-
vance to the quarterfinals. Riffice 
is now Florida’s sole representative 
at the event, as sophomore Oliver 
Crawford was eliminated by North Carolina’s William Blumberg.
It was always going to be an up-
hill battle for Riffice, and the task 
became even more difficult when 
he dropped the first set 6-3. Riffice, 
however, showed remarkable com-
posure for someone playing in his 
first NCAA Round of 16 match and 
took the second set 6-3, setting up 
a do-or-die third set.
Riffice kept his composure once 
again, taking the set 5-2 and hand-
ing Wolf just his second loss of the season.
“I thought I played an amazing 
match today. I had a good game 
plan I felt, like, to kind of disrupt 
his rhythm because he is such a 
powerful player,” Riffice said in a 
release. “I thought I executed my 
game plan really well today.”
The victory prolongs Florida’s 
representation for at least anoth-
er day. The team as a whole was 
eliminated last week in the NCAA 
semifinals, and Riffice is UF’s last hope to take home some hardware 
after Crawford’s loss to Blumberg, 
the No. 9 player in the country. 
Riffice, who became the first 
Florida player since 2014 to ad-
vance to the quarterfinals with the 
win, will face No. 10  Aleksandar 
Kovacevic of Illinois on Thursday. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgRiffice upsets Wolf to advance to NCAA quarterfinals