We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A string of dog attacks
A second dog attack has been reported in the same Gainesville 
neighborhood within a year’s time, pg. 5
Halfway to a million
A local homeless shelter hit a milestone in charitable meals, pg. 3Gators clinch season series over FSU
Jud Fabian scored two of the UF baseball team’s 
four runs to beat FSU 4-2 in Jacksonville, pg. 14WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 73
KEVIN O’LEARY SPOKE TO 
MORE THAN 1,700 PEOPLE
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Mr. Wonderful believes in investing cor-
rectly, pitching wisely and devouring cup-
cakes to succeed in business.
On Monday night, Mr. Wonderful, also 
known as Kevin O’Leary, an entrepreneur 
and a star of ABC’s “Shark Tank,” spoke at 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. 
He was paid $95,000 to speak at the hour-
long event hosted by the UF Accent Speak-
ers Bureau.
Before O’Leary entered, Accent chair-
man Greg Wolf warned more than 1,700 
audience members if they presented a busi-
ness pitch that night, they forfeit their op-
portunity to present on the show. 
The audience sighed together.
For about 50 minutes, O’Leary discussed 
his golden rules of investing, how to pitch 
an idea and how he will not give his chil-
dren money after college to save them from 
entitlement.
“Entitlement is a disease in a family,” he 
said. “The dead bird never learned how to 
ﬂ  y.”
O’Leary said “Shark Tank” has featured 
thousands of pitches over the course of 10 
seasons.‘Shark Tank’ star speaks at UF about investing
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Kevin O’Leary, the 64-year-old businessman and a star of the television show “Shark T ank, ” speaks Monday to a packed 
auditorium at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. O’Leary used clips from the television show during the 
presentation and took questions from the audience at the end. 
 SEE SHARK TANK,  PAGE 4
THE UNIVERSITY IS 
REQUESTING $7,837,400 
FOR THE CENTER
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is lobbying to receive millions 
of dollars to be the ﬁ  rst Florida uni-
versity to create a Center for Artiﬁ  cial 
Intelligence.
The university has lobbied the 
state legislature since the start of the 
legislative session, which resumed 
March 5, to receive funding for the 
2019-2020 ﬁ  scal year for Center for 
Artiﬁ  cial Intelligence, said Samantha 
Sexton, UF’s director of government 
relations. The requested funding totals to 
$7,837,400. About $3.8 million would 
go toward faculty and research equip-
ment and $4 million for competitive 
interdisciplinary grants, Sexton said. 
The funds were requested from the 
Executive Ofﬁ  ce of the Governor. 
The center would not be a physi-
cal building but a feature within the 
Herbert Wertheim College of Engi-
neering, she said. Sexton described 
Artiﬁ  cial Intelligence (AI) as a collec-
tion of advanced technologies that al-
low machines to sense, comprehend, 
act and learn. 
“AI is honestly reinventing how 
businesses run, how to compete, how 
our economy and industries thrive,” UF lobbies for ﬁ  rst Center 
for Artiﬁ  cial Intelligence 
ONE HAD A HAIR COMB WITH 
A HIDDEN KNIFE IN IT
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
The ﬁ  rst thing Raegan Fink saw when she 
got in the shower in the Jennings Hall commu-
nal bathroom was a UF Alert that terriﬁ  ed her 
early Monday morning.
The alert read, “Armed Robbery at Jennings 
Hall. Avoid area or secure in place if nearby.”
She said she didn’t know what to do. 
“I called my mom on the phone, and I start-
ed crying, and I was very worked up,” said 
Fink, a 19-year-old UF business management 
freshman. 
She waited alone in the showers until the 
alert came in that said the suspects left the res-
idence hall. She immediately ran to her room and locked the door.
In the next two hours, University Police ar-
rested two men and a woman accused of steal-
ing items from a dorm in the hall, according to 
a University Police arrest report. 
Brittni Nikol Michaelis, 20, of Gainesville, 
walked into Jennings Hall when a student 
opened the door, at 1509 Museum Road, with 
Alexander Antonio Garcia, 21, of High Springs, 
and Jay Bharat Patel, 19, of Summerﬁ  eld. The Two men, woman accused 
of robbing UF’s Jennings Hall
SEE LOBBYING,  PAGE 4 SEE JENNINGS,  PAGE 4Patel
 Michaelis
 Garcia
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Dumisani Washington: The 
Top Anti-Semitic Myths 
About Israel
When: 7 p.m.
Where: McCarty Hall A, Room 
1142
What: Dumisani Washington, 
a pastor, composer, author and 
teacher in northern California, 
has spent years studying the 
Jewish diaspora in Ethiopia, 
India, Myanmar and other 
countries. Washington will 
dispel the top anti-Semitic 
myths surrounding Israel, dis-
cuss the pro-Israel stance of 
the civil rights movement and 
talk about the relationship be-
tween the U.S. and Israel. The 
speech will be followed by a 
30-minute Q&A session. Chick-
fil-A will be provided.  
Plant Nite at First Magnitude 
Brewing Co.
When: 7-10 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude 
Brewing Co., at 1220 SE Veitch 
St.
What: The featured project 
will be a Buddha Zen Garden 
or Lily Bowl Terrarium for 
about an hour and a half. 
Attendees will learn how to 
create these projects and how 
to decorate homes with suc-
culent plants. Tickets are $46 
per person and can be bought 
at yaymaker.com. Attendees 
can save $10 on tickets with the code Yay10. Planting sup-
plies include a solid container, 
soil, plants, rocks, decorative 
elements, a smock and music.
RPB Presents: Open Mic Night
When: 8-10 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Orange 
and Brew
What: This will be the last 
open mic night of the year. 
Attendees can showcase tal-
ents as a singer, comedian or 
poet. Sign-ups start at 7:30 
p.m.
UF Bike to Campus Day
When: 7:30-11 a.m.
Where: Plaza of the Americas
What: Sustainable UF will 
celebrate bicyclists who cycle-
commute to campus with free 
breakfast and information 
about bike programming on 
campus.
THURSDAY
Fonts, Book Arts and Comic 
Graphic Arts with Jan 
Cumlivski
When: 7-9 p.m.
Where: Sweetwater Print Co-
operative, at 117 S. Main St.
What: Jan �Cumlivski is a 
Prague-based graphic design-
er, book artist and historian 
of graphic design. He has won 
prizes for his art books and 
teaches at Prague’s Academy 
of Art, Architecture and Design 
and Bratislava’s Academy of 
Fine Arts and Design. He will 
show his printmaking and 
book arts. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Correction:  In a story titled 
"Gainesville modern landmarks 
seek more recognition" in Monday's 
edition, Gainesville Modern hosted 
the weekend, and designation on the 
National Register of Historic Places 
is honoriﬁ  c and does not afford any 
protections. In order to qualify, a 
landmark must be associated with 
events that have made a signiﬁ  cant 
contribution to history or associated 
with a signiﬁ  cant person in the past 
or possess high artistic value or 
embody the character of a type, 
period or method of construction. 
The Alligator previously reported 
differently.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458. 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  52°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 73WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.THE TEAM HAS 22 MEMBERS  
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gainesville Police SWAT team is get-
ting back to work after being inactive for 
about four months. 
On Sunday, the team reactivated after re-
placing six positions, which included a team 
commander, an executive ofﬁ  cer and four 
team leaders, said GPD spokesperson Chief 
Inspector Jorge Campos. The team now has 
22 members. 
The team commander, which is the head 
position of the team, will be Lt. Michael West, 
who served as an operator on the SWAT team 
from 1997 to 2003. In 2003, he left the SWAT 
team to work full time in the trafﬁ  c unit. 
West, 35, has been a Gainesville Police of-
ﬁ  cer for almost 24 years, he said.
“I jumped at the opportunity to come 
back and be the commander of the team, 
something that’s kind of near and dear to my 
heart,” West said.
GPD’s SWAT team was deactivated in No-
vember due to four members resigning after a 
shooting at a concert on Nov. 4 at the Heart 
of the City Hookah Lounge, at 1221 E. Univer-
sity Ave. The local police union sent a letter 
to the city manager and GPD criticizing the 
department for ignoring safety concerns.
GPD used the Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce SWAT team instead beginning Nov. 19. 
Before reactivating, the team trained at 
least 24 hours a month since January at spe-
cialty schools that teach different functions of 
the SWAT team, like commanding and snip-
ing, West said.
“We have to make it a cohesive team and 
that’s what we have here,” West said. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgGPD’s SWAT 
team returns
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
Grace Marketplace fed Gainesville’s 
homeless out of a crockpot and a barbe-
cue grill ﬁ  ve years ago. On Monday, in 
its kitchen cafe, the shelter served its 
500,000th meal. 
About 200 people attended the nonprof-
it shelter’s milestone celebration dinner, 
at 3055 NE 28th Drive, said Grace Direc-
tor Jon DeCarmine. Meatloaf was provided 
by Bread of the Mighty Food Bank and the 
Florida Fresh Meat Company.
Grace Marketplace started in 2014 and 
served its ﬁ  rst 70,000 meals without a 
kitchen, DeCarmine said. In November 
2015, it introduced a new kitchen called 
Cafe 131. Before the kitchen cafe, the shel-
ter relied on church groups to cook meals 
and to bring them to Grace Marketplace to 
be served. 
“It made something as simple as shar-
ing dinner with people basically a six- or eight- or 12-hour process for these groups,” 
DeCarmine said.
In the past ﬁ  ve years, Grace has served 
12,000 people, DeCarmine said. The orga-
nization provides about 400 meals a day 
and has 114 beds for emergency shelter, 14 
of which are reserved for veterans.
Jong Kim, a 55-year-old volunteer chef 
at Grace Marketplace, said he started cook-
ing meals for the homeless three years ago. 
Every Tuesday, he cooks for an hour and 
then does “God’s work” for another hour. 
Kim said an example of “God’s work” 
for him is when he prayed for a man at 
Grace Marketplace who attempted to com-
mit suicide. The next day, all of the man’s 
fears and worries were gone.
“God chose me to help all these people,” 
Kim said. “People are being saved through 
healing.” 
One of the attendees, 46-year-old 
Charles Gillyard, became homeless in 2016 
after a crash in Lake City, Florida, he said.
Gillyard was supposed to use a wheel-chair for 18 months but started walking 
after three, he said. He now has six screws 
in his left foot and is unable to work as a 
result. 
He said Grace Marketplace helped him 
ﬁ  nd housing and a warm meal, but he is 
currently homeless again.
“If it wasn’t for them, I wouldn’t be on 
my feet now,” Gillyard said.
While Grace continues to serve hot 
meals, DeCarmine said the next goal for 
the shelter is to expand permanent housing 
on its properties. 
He said the shelter has moved nearly 
700 people into permanent housing, which 
has reduced homelessness in Alachua 
County by 36 percent since 2014. 
“All of the meals in the world don’t 
matter if they don’t ultimately help get a 
person off of the street,” DeCarmine said. 
“So we measure all of our impact in terms 
of our success in ending homelessness for 
people.”
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.orgGrace marketplace serves its 500,000th meal  
About 200 people attended the celebrationLina Ruiz / Alligator Staff
Attendees wait in line for meals outside Cafe 131 at Grace Marketplace on Monday evening. The nonprofit assistance 
shelter celebrated serving its half-millionth meal on Monday.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019she said. “We would serve as a na-
tional leader for the application and 
commercialization of artificial intel-
ligence.”
The project proposal was submit-
ted on Feb. 4 to the Florida House of 
Representatives, and UF will know 
where this project stands at the end of 
the state’s legislative session on May 
3, Sexton said. 
Most recently, the project went to 
the appropriations committee on Fri-
day, March 15. 
If the appropriate funds are re-
ceived, UF can start planning and 
creating the Center for Artificial Intel-
ligence next year, she said. This may 
include organizing a new curriculum, 
hiring new faculty and purchasing 
equipment. 
“We partner with education, re-
search, community, businesses, 
military, you name it, and grow this industry on behalf of our local com-
munities and the entire state of Flori-
da,” she said.
For Collin Hamilton, a 20-year-old 
UF mechanical engineering junior, AI 
is important for students in the STEM 
field as technology becomes more ad-
vanced, he said.
Although Hamilton’s mechanical 
engineering major does not deal much 
with AI, he said he enjoys learning 
about AI outside of his classes. He 
even considered going into software 
engineering, which may have had 
more coursework in AI, but he want-
ed to be in a more hands-on field, he 
said.
“I decided sitting at a desk every 
day wasn’t for me,” he said. “The in-
terest in AI is mainly because I see 
that going forward. It’s really become 
a focus point in STEM fields.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgLOBBYING,  from pg. 1The proposal was submitted Feb. 4
Requested funding according to Appropriations Project Request
Non-recurring total:   
$7,837,400
5 faculty/6 support staff: 
$1,437,400
Expenses associated with the new faculty/staff:  
$300,000
Research equipment:  
$2,100,000
Competitive interdisciplinary grants for faculty:  
$4,000,000
Any good pitch, especially 
the successful ones on the show, 
must follow three rules: articulate 
the plan in 90 seconds or less, 
convince investors that you are 
the right team for the business 
and know every number about 
the business model.
“If you can’t do this, then I 
guarantee you will fail,” O’Leary 
said. 
O’Leary scored the most profit-
able deal in “Shark Tank” history 
with two entrepreneurs and their 
cupcake shop: Wicked Good Cup-
cakes. 
After the show, thousands of 
customers saw the cupcake busi-
ness on social media posts and lo-
cal news stations.
He said the business didn’t 
have to spend a single dollar on 
advertising to gain new custom-
ers. He made his $75,000 invest-
ment back in 28 days. 
“What’s more of a commod-
ity than a cupcake?” O’Leary 
said. “Cupcakes don’t sell for $8. 
Theirs do.”On the show, fellow inves-
tor Mark Cuban inhaled a jar of 
Wicked Good cupcakes, which 
made people think the products 
must be good without even trying 
them, O’Leary said.
After the presentation, O’Leary 
answered questions about his 
stint in Canadian politics and get-
ting into business at a young age. 
“For those of you graduating, 
you are getting into a fantastic 
market,” he said. “You are the 
luckiest.”
One of O’Leary’s points that 
stuck to Stephen Lawrence, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engi-
neering sophomore, was to pur-
sue a career in engineering in or-
der to succeed.
Having someone as successful 
as O’Leary speak at UF will help 
other students become successful 
by following a business icon’s ad-
vice, Lawrence said.
“He’s gotta be different than the 
rest of us,” he said. “He gave me a 
lot of confidence in my future.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgSHARK TANK,  from pg. 1O’Leary said he had the best deal in ‘Shark Tank’
Tips from O’Leary in “Shark Tank”
If you can’t make money in three years, you are not a 
business; you are a hobby.
Never own more than 20 percent in one industry or 
sector.
Think about how much of your day is spent listening 
and speaking.trio was there to confront Mi-
chaelis’ ex-boyfriend, who lives 
in the building, the arrest report 
said. 
None of the three are UF 
students. The building needs a 
key fob to get inside, the report 
said.
Michaelis was in the hallway 
when Garcia and Patel went 
into her ex-boyfriend’s dorm 
room and took the student’s 
PlayStation 4, three jackets and 
a gold watch, the report said. 
The student called his room-
mate and told him that people 
were in the room. 
When the roommate went 
into the room, he saw Garcia 
and Patel with the items, the 
report said. Patel lifted his shirt 
and said, “I got that stick on 
me.” The roommate told police 
he saw what looked like a fire-
arm.
Multiple witnesses told po-
lice Patel had a firearm, but 
police did not find a gun when 
they arrested him, the report said.
Police found a hair comb 
with a concealed knife blade in 
the handle, the report said. 
Michaelis and Garcia were 
charged with burglary of an 
occupied dwelling, the report 
said. Patel was charged with 
aggravated assault to commit 
a felony, armed burglary of a 
dwelling or structure and pos-
session of a concealed weapon.
Patel and Michaelis remained 
in the Alachua County Jail Tues-
day. Patel has a $110,000 bond, 
and Michaelis has a $25,000 
bond. Garcia was released on a 
$2,000 bond Tuesday.
Garcia could not be reached 
for comment. 
Although the incident was 
over, Fink said she fears it 
could happen again.
“It could happen anytime, 
anywhere, and we just live in 
a world today where obvious-
ly things are taken to the ex-
treme,” Fink said.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgJENNINGS,  from pg. 1One has a $110,000 bondMORE THAN 270 STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT PRESIDENTS 
ATTENDED 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government 
President-Elect Michael 
Murphy traveled out of The 
Swamp to engage in interna-
tional affairs this weekend.
Murphy attended the an-
nual American Israel Public 
Affairs Committee confer-
ence Sunday through Tues-
day in Washington, D.C., Murphy wrote in an 
email. He said the American Israel Public Af-
fairs Committee partially covered his and his 
fellow student body presidents’ transportation 
to D.C. 
Murphy said he paid less than $250 out of 
pocket to attend. 
While already in D.C., Murphy also attend-
ed the signing of President Donald Trump’s ex-
ecutive order Thursday to back free speech on 
college campuses, although he said he didn’t 
attend the with UF Young Americans for Free-
dom. 
Murphy’s support of Israel comes from var-
ious trips to Israel over the years. He said he 
will attend the Passages trip with UF Gators 
for Israel this summer. 
“I am a strong supporter of the state of Is-
rael and hope to lobby our elected leaders to 
speak out against anti-Semitism in Congress 
and to recognize Israel’s sovereignty over the 
Golan Heights,” Murphy said. 
The Golan Heights are an area of land on 
the border of Syria and Israel that has been contested for more than 50 years, according 
to The Associated Press. On Monday, Trump 
signed a proclamation recognizing Israel’s 
claim to this territory.  
According to the committee’s Twitter ac-
count, more than 270 student government 
presidents attended this year’s conference that 
ended Tuesday. Murphy said the conference 
is the largest gathering of student body presi-
dents in the country. 
“Eight of the past ten Student Body presi-
dents attended the AIPAC policy conference,” 
Murphy said. “University of Florida Student 
Government has a strong history of support-
ing AIPAC and a stronger United States-Israel 
relationship.”
Murphy said despite differing opinions, he 
is firm in his support of Israel.
“If Israel put down all of their weapons to-
morrow, there would be no more Israel,” Mur-
phy said. 
Rebecca Prince, the secretary for the UF 
chapter of Students Organize for Syria, a non-
political humanitarian organization, said poli-
tics may change over time, but the suffering of 
Syrians should be the focus. 
“Even though politics may wax and wane, 
the crisis is at its worst. Crises are on the 
long-term the hardest things to reduce,” the 
20-year-old UF health science junior said.  
“The social implications of that are the hardest 
to deal with.”
Murphy’s support of Israel’s claim over the 
Golan Heights was probably made with the 
right intentions, but was ultimately misguided, 
Prince said. 
“I don’t think he realizes what this means 
to the Syrian people,” Prince said.
   
        @hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgUF SG president-elect paid to 
attend pro-Israel conference 
Murphy
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman and her dog were at-
tacked by a pack of dogs Friday in 
the same neighborhood an emotion-
al support dog was mauled.
Five dogs that were described as 
pit bulls owned by Reynaldo Davila 
escaped through a damaged fence 
at his home, in the 5900 block of 
NW 30th Terrace, in the Northwood 
Pines neighborhood, said Gainesville 
Police Department Chief Inspector 
Jorge Campos.
“The dogs went charging down 
the road and went after one woman 
and her dog,” he said.
The attack happened a street over 
from where escaped pit bulls killed a 
dog named Bella in September. 
One of the dogs in the most re-
cent incident went to the doorway of 
the woman’s house and attacked her 
dog, Campos said. Other neighbors 
also showed up to help when they 
heard screaming and barking. 
Some neighbors trapped two 
of the dogs in a backyard and held 
them down until help arrived, he said. 
Police arrived as residents held 
down the dogs. One dog most likely 
suffocated while the resident held it 
down, and the other was shot by a 
GPD ofﬁ  cer after it acted aggressive-
ly toward him when the neighbor 
couldn’t hold it any longer, Campos 
said. 
The three living and two dead 
dogs were conﬁ  scated by Alachua 
County Animal Services, Campos 
said.
If Davila wants the dogs back, 
he will have to pay $400 per dog to 
register them with the county, $50 a 
year to renew that registration, steril-
ize, microchip and vaccinate all the 
dogs and undergo a house inspection 
to ensure the dogs will not be able to 
escape again, said Ed Williams, the 
director of Animal Services. 
“He has the right to ask for a 
hearing, but we’re full speed ahead 
in an attempt to declare them as ag-
gressive,” Williams said. 
Williams said there has been 
some suggestion that Davila and 
Pettiford are friends, and that one of 
the dogs involved in the attack was 
given to Davila by Pettiford. Williams said Animal Services is 
looking to strengthen its ordinanc-
es to prevent this from happening 
again. 
“The responsibility is 100 percent 
on the owner. We have been out 
and investigated this owner but, at 
the time, all we could do was warn 
him,” he said. “No one would go 
on record saying they saw the dogs 
escape and acted aggressively, and 
without that, we can’t cite him for 
anything.”
Davila could not immediately be 
reached for comment. 
Bella’s owner, Linda Swinburn, 
said she is still traumatized from 
Bella’s attack and heartbroken over 
Friday’s attack. 
Swinburn said she will continue 
to work with the city and county to 
get new laws passed to ensure the 
safety of dogs and owners. 
“I will make a difference, along 
with the support of our community 
and the victims and their families 
who (have) gone through this trau-
matic and vicious killing,” she said.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgPack of ﬁ  ve dogs attack woman, dog
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
To be initiated, he had to drink 
an entire bottle of Wild Turkey 
bourbon. He did. Then, he went 
unconscious on the couch. 
The next morning, he was 
dead.
Florida State University student 
Andrew Coffee suffocated due to 
hazing as a pledge of Pi Kappa Phi 
in November 2017.
A new bill, HB 727, is being 
proposed in the Florida state leg-
islature that would give legal am-
nesty to the ﬁ  rst person to call 911 
in a hazing emergency. But those 
who knew of, planned or partici-
pated in the activity would be held 
accountable.
The UF chapters of Pi Kappa 
Phi, Alpha Epsilon Pi and Chi Phi 
were under investigation for haz-
ing reports in September. The 
fraternities are currently under de-ferred suspension, according to the 
Interfraternity Council website.
Chip LaMarca, a Republican 
member of the Florida Legislature 
representing District 93 from Bro-
ward County, proposed the bill 
after reading about the death of 
Coffee, who lived in his commu-
nity, he said. The bill is waiting 
for approval by the House of Rep-
resentatives Judiciary Committee 
Thursday.
UF will look at all policies and 
regulations related to hazing and 
adjust them accordingly if the bill 
passes, UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando wrote in an email. 
Erin Guby, a Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority member, said the 
law sounds good overall but has 
some issues.
“Obviously you need to help 
someone if they’re dying, but it’s 
tricky because why should the ﬁ  rst 
person get amnesty but not anyone 
behind them?” she said.Anti-hazing bill moves 
through state legislatureThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
With only a few days left of Women’s History Month, 
we thought we’d discuss the topic of feminism and 
what it means in respect to today’s current social and 
political climate. Feminism is often a misconstrued 
word, but its most basic deﬁ  nition is equality for all 
sexes in any social, political and economic sphere. Feminism’s 
history is extensive and has seen multiple phases all aimed at 
achieving different goals; however, in most of its history, it has 
left out key minority groups. In today’s phase, the fourth phase, 
this is changing.
We could compare all four waves of feminism, but that seems 
inappropriate, considering pitting women against women is 
a major issue in the equality of women. We can acknowledge 
previous waves of feminism have sometimes contradicted one 
another, and they have certainly ignored intersectionality. But 
that’s where we, the fourth wave of feminists, come in. The 
fourth wave has no set beginning, but it is fairly well-understood 
it began sometime in the early 2010s. Its goal can also be con-
tested. Generally, a fourth wave feminist is “queer, sex-positive, 
trans-inclusive, body-positive and digitally driven,” according to 
an article from Vox. It’s an all-encompassing term for supporting 
the equality of all women.
Feminism, especially in the past, has not been perfect. There 
have been many women who have been left behind in the advo-
cation of equality. Over the past couple of years, the term “inter-
sectional” has inﬂ  uenced how we view feminism today. In broad 
terms, intersectionality acknowledges how discrimination comes 
in many forms and can often overlap. This is something many 
women of color, queer women and other minorities experience. 
Acknowledging the experiences of all women and how they have 
been treated is a way in which we can learn and grow. It’s how 
we’re able to advocate for the equality of all women, something 
that hasn’t always been done in the past.
We are in a new age of feminism, one that has different goals 
from previous waves. However, we can respect the work of femi-
nists before us, while also growing and expanding on what they 
have achieved in our history. Women in the U.S. have differ-
ent goals for feminism than in other parts of the world. While 
the #MeToo movement continues to play out, there are women 
across the globe who still do not have continued access to men-
strual products. This wave of feminists has to understand that 
feminism is in shades of gray. There is no one deﬁ  nition, and 
there is no one goal.
Even now, as we explain feminism, we understand that how 
you interpret the word and what it means to you may be differ-
ent. And it should be. As women, we need to be tolerant and 
understanding of others and their struggles, which will allow us 
to help other women in their journeys. Equality is not an easy 
road; it has thousands of paths with no one right way. We live in 
a generation of social media, where a simple like or retweet is a 
form of solidarity. We have more women in Congress than ever 
before and more women in leadership roles, in general. We have 
access to so many people’s stories, and it is our job as feminists 
to give women a platform to express their stories and for us to 
grow from them.
As we reﬂ  ect on the end of this month and feminism, we must 
remember to remain kind and understanding of all women. We 
are lucky enough to reap the beneﬁ  ts of the women before us, 
and it’s our turn to continue their work. We have to build women 
up, not tear them down. Be respectful, and understand that there 
is still work to be done in terms of equality and that it’s our turn 
to ﬁ  ght for it, whatever that means to you. Feminism: what it 
means in today’s society
The idea of retail therapy has never ap-
pealed to me, but there are times when 
I’ve found myself buying something 
in the name of self-care or because I 
thought I deserved it. Retail therapy does 
have some standing in terms of being a psycho-
logical coping mechanism; however, it’s hard to 
say how beneﬁ  cial it actually is to our mental 
health and to our wallets. Some people use it to 
help with their anxious or depressive episodes 
or anything else they may be experiencing. Kit Yarrow, a 
consumer research psychologist, wrote an article for Psy-
chology Today in which she says she does not consider re-
tail therapy a form of therapy, but she does mention some 
of its positive effects, which can be seen as psychological 
rewards. It isn’t something that is going to cure you of your 
problems, but it can bring gratiﬁ  cation for a short time. 
It begs the question: Can buying things actually help with 
our anxiety, or does it only make it worse? One of the ﬁ  rst 
things Yarrow addresses is the idea of retail therapy “eas-
ing transitions.” It happens when we are at major turning 
points in our lives, say, moving to college or going through 
a breakup. When we are shopping, we are practicing visu-
alizing. We are seeing what our lives would be like with 
that item. When going to college, we dorm shopped, and 
it allowed us to visualize a positive future, which relieved 
some of our stress. Or if we are experiencing a breakup, we 
often go through a purge of anything reminding us of that 
person, like your favorite band T-shirt from a concert you 
went to together. So, you go shopping for new clothes in 
hopes of mentally preparing yourself for a new life. 
Another interesting phenomenon Yarrow mentions is “a 
boost in creativity and aesthetic appreciation” from buy-
ing. If you feel like there has been a lag in your creative 
ﬂ  ow, buying some new stationery to give your workspace 
some personality is a way to keep your creative mind ac-
tive. The point is that retail therapy can take on many dif-ferent forms. It allows you to feel that rush of 
dopamine and that feeling of possibility, which 
can be addictive if you have been feeling down. 
However, when has retail therapy gone too 
far? I have seen people enjoy aromatherapy and 
get nice little vaporizers and essential oils for 
modestly cheap prices. But once a trend starts, it 
quickly can get out of hand. It starts out as buy-
ing something to make yourself feel better, but 
it turns into an addiction — and an expensive 
one. The trend of commercializing our means of relaxation 
is something I feel goes against the actual spirit of self-care 
and trying to make yourself feel better. People should not 
put a price on enjoying themselves, whatever that means. 
I have fallen for the retail trap myself. I had never gotten 
a good pair of sneakers for myself before, but I found my-
self at the Nike store one day in the mall and could not keep 
my eyes off a particular pair of Nike Air Force 1 mid-suedes 
from 2017. I found myself visualizing what my life would 
be like with those shoes. I quickly looked at the price tag, 
balked and researched until I found a bargain price. I revere 
and take care of those shoes almost religiously because I 
not only enjoy wearing them but wish for them to last. 
Still, how we spend our money and our free time in the 
name of self-care can be self-destructive if we do not have 
a ﬁ  rm grasp on our means. Treating ourselves every once 
in a while, within our means, can create a positive effect 
on our mental well-being, but it is certainly not a long-term 
solution to any mental illnesses. However, it is more about 
being able to visualize ourselves in different situations that 
allow us to relax during a short time period. It is important 
to take time to indulge ourselves, but it’s all about modera-
tion and what’s going to make you happy. 
Daniel Gamboa is a UF journalism sophomore. His col-
umn normally appears on Fridays.Retail therapy is not a form of therapy at all 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Daniel Gamboa
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
I recently met a local attorney who likes 
to write short stories and poetry in his 
spare time. I, too, like to write creative-
ly, and I was interested in how he has 
balanced his career and his writing. I 
was hoping for some encouragement be-
cause I plan on ﬁ  nding a job that will allow 
me time to write on the side. Instead, how-
ever, he sighed and looked at me with tired 
eyes. He said he has received hundreds of 
rejections, and he ended by saying that the world 
owes me nothing. Just because I have a passion or 
a dream does not mean either will inevitably come 
true.
We shook hands at that point, and I thanked him 
for his time, though I wasn’t entirely grateful. I saw 
myself in that man, 20 years from now, weary and 
battered, with a family, a job and a mortgage. I had 
been telling myself I was chasing after a tangible 
dream, but in reality, I was chasing after the wind, 
something I’d never be able to catch. His advice hurt, 
like ﬁ  ngers digging in an open wound. It took me a 
while to admit that perhaps it hurt so much because 
it was true.
The more I have reﬂ  ected on our conversation, the 
more I think he was right. We think that because we 
have strong passions, we ought to be able to act on 
them. It’s not just that our dreams will come true, 
but that they should come true. It feels like the world 
owes us the ability for our dreams to become a reality.  
But where does that leave people like the attorney 
I met? By all accounts, he is living a ﬁ  ne life. He has 
a family, a home, a stable job and a way to incorpo-
rate creativity into his everyday rhythm, even if he 
has had to face rejection. He has found a way to take 
a passion seriously and to also provide for his loved 
ones.We are taught our passions shouldn't 
guide us in deciding our careers, to ﬁ  nd a 
place where our dreams and reality come 
together. However, I think my brief ex-
change with the attorney taught me that for 
every one or two people who are living out 
their passions every day, there are 20 who 
have to ﬁ  t their hobbies in maybe once ev-
ery other day. For every person who can 
say “I’m a writer” when asked at a party, 
there are 50 more whose passion for writing lies un-
derneath blankets of other responsibilities and reali-
ties. “Writer” would not be his ﬁ  rst identiﬁ  er or even 
his second, I bet.
The hard-earned wisdom of my attorney friend 
seems to be this: Life is less generous to us than we 
think. Life is less of a personal assistant and more of 
a parent, stern and unrelenting. I have felt entitled to 
be able to do what I want in life as if it’s a guarantee 
simply because I have a passion.
Instead of letting this reality crush us, should we 
allow it to set us free? Maybe it’s just me, but it seems 
like college students feel saddled with the burden of 
ﬁ  nding a job that perfectly ﬁ  ts us. However, disil-
lusionment is common among us, and how could it 
not, with such extreme expectations of what our life 
should be?
“The truth shall set us free.” I have found that 
these words ring true in many areas of life. The truth 
is, most of us will have to settle, and that is okay. 
There are realities that will ﬁ  nd us in our lives that 
we may not have pictured in our daydreams, and 
maybe that is a good thing. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His column 
appears on Wednesdays. Our dreams don't always turn out to be our reality Column
“Five Feet 
Apart”  
is a 
movie  
that fol-
lows cystic fibro-
sis patients Stella 
(Haley Lu Richard-
son) and Will’s 
(Cole Sprouse) re-
lationship, as they 
must stay six feet apart to keep 
from catching each other’s bac-
teria. Walking out of the movie, 
I wondered how someone with 
cystic ﬁ  brosis would feel after 
watching “Five Feet Apart.” It 
also made me think about why 
sick characters are often used 
in books and movies targeted at 
younger audiences. 
“The Fault in Our Stars,” “My 
Sister’s Keeper” and “13 Reasons 
Why” belong to a sub-genre of 
young adult novels called “sick-
lit.” As the name suggests, the 
stories revolve around a charac-
ter who is ill either mentally or 
physically, or, for example, suf-
fering from CF like in “Five Feet 
Apart.” Critics of the sub-genre 
argue it romanticizes diseases. 
As I watched the ﬁ  lm, I hoped 
no one would be dumb enough 
to think CF was a disease that 
came with the love story of 
your dreams.  However, that 
is a fear associated with these 
ﬁ  lms, especially when young, 
love-obsessed watchers are the 
target audience. They may forget 
that, although the ill characters' 
stories are told through a roman-
tic lens, these diseases are seri-
ous problems that affect people’s 
lives and not in an idealized way. 
On the other hand, it may 
be unfair to assume teens are 
too naïve to understand this 
concept.  With the target audi-
ence of these ﬁ  lms being young 
adults, maybe critics of “sick-lit” 
assume younger audiences can-
not pull knowledge and under-
standing from the meaningful 
lessons being taught about these 
life-threatening diseases. John 
Green, author of  “The Fault 
in Our Stars,” said, “I’m tired 
of adults telling teenagers that 
they aren’t smart, that they can’t 
read critically, that they aren’t 
thoughtful,” in response to a 
Daily Mail critic who expressed 
the sub-genre as “distasteful” 
and that the plot of “The Fault 
in Our Stars” was “exploitative 
at worst.”
With “Five Feet Apart,” there 
are similar concerns that have 
popped up. There are worries 
that a romantic story with CF 
characters would not accurate-ly describe the life-
threatening aspects 
of the disease. Also, 
there is the fear that 
another “sick-ﬂ  ick” 
movie would bring 
about the wrong mes-
sage. As CF activ-
ist and blogger Elsie 
Tellier wrote: “Termi-
nally ill people are not 
alive just to make healthy people 
‘appreciate their lives’ more.”  
The goal of “sick-lit” movies 
are usually to bring awareness to 
a disease or give representation 
to a group of people who don’t 
often see their stories told. 
CF YouTuber Morgan Grind-
staff, or Cystik1, posts videos 
about his ﬁ  ght with the disease 
and attempts to bring awareness 
through his videos. He posts 
videos ranging from “Port Dress-
ing Change” to “My Daily Cystic 
Fibrosis Routine.” In a video of 
him reacting to the “Five Feet 
Apart” trailer, Grindstaff ex-
plains that in other media depic-
tions of CF, a lot of the details CF 
patients have to deal with were 
left out. For example, the g-tubes 
and ports in the movie’s trailer 
made the YouTuber excited and 
hopeful the movie would bring 
awareness to the rare disease. As 
one might expect, Grindstaff did 
address the fact that the mov-
ie might be romanticizing CF 
through its Hollywood tropes of 
one patient (Stella) who follows 
protocol and ends up helping an-
other patient (Will) who likes to 
break all the rules. “There’s real-
ly nothing romantic about it, it’s 
a killer disease that wrecks your 
body but obviously it’s a Holly-
wood movie, so I’m not gonna 
pick it apart for that reason. 
Anything that drives awareness 
to Cystic Fibrosis is awesome in 
my book,” Grindstaff said in his 
“Five Feet Apart” reaction video. 
After watching “Five Feet 
Apart,” I was confused as to how 
I should feel. But after watching 
Grindstaff’s videos and reading 
other people’s comments ex-
pressing how his videos and the 
movie pushed them to research 
the disease, I realized any movie 
or book that brings awareness to 
a disease is beneﬁ  cial. It is up to 
us as consumers to not roman-
ticize life-threatening diseases 
when they involve storylines 
that might make it easier to for-
get just how detrimental an ill-
ness is. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF 
journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Are movies like 'Five Feet 
Apart' romanticizing how we 
see life-threatening illnesses? Column
I can keep up my side of the conversation 
until I’m sick of the sound of my voice. 
As an extrovert, it is easy for me to keep 
my cool in social situations. Small talk 
is a skill that has always come naturally 
to me. 
Both nature and nurture made me this 
way. I’m naturally outgoing, but I’ve also 
grown up with outgoing parents. My parents 
are still the last ones to leave every party. 
When I was younger, my mom scolded me 
every time I tugged at her sleeve, begging her to end the 
10-minute exchange with the familiar face we bumped 
into at the supermarket, the beach, the restaurant, etc. 
Now, my friends like going out, sometimes for no rea-
son other than to be seen and remind people we exist. 
I always happily tag along for the night out.
I have a bad habit of assuming everyone is as out-
going and expressive as I am. If someone isn’t smil-
ing ear-to-ear or showing enthusiasm throughout our 
interaction, I usually label them as unfriendly. When 
I see people I know on campus, I always expect them 
to wave to me. If they don’t, I question their kindness.
According to Forbes, it only takes seven seconds to 
make a ﬁ  rst impression of someone. A Harvard study 
says that it takes an average of eight different encoun-
ters after the initial encounter to change the ﬁ  rst im-
pression from negative to positive. 
I look for similar excitement and extraversion in 
people, and this can lead me to form a lot of nega-
tive ﬁ  rst impressions. I ﬁ  nd myself cut off from a lot of 
people who do not give off the same energy as I do. I 
crave reciprocation in most of my relationships. It took 
a long time for me to realize some people may not be 
unfriendly or standofﬁ  sh; they may just be shy.
It wasn’t until this week when I noticed I needed to 
give introverts more of a chance. I was showing some family friends around the campus when I 
tried to make conversation with their daugh-
ter, who is considering coming to UF as a 
freshman in the Fall. I asked her about her 
interests and what she was looking for in 
a university, and I was only given shrugs 
and “I-don’t-knows.” Immediate frustration 
set in.
We went to dinner that night, and she 
seemed more relaxed. She leaned back in 
her chair and scrolled through Instagram. 
She laughed at her dad’s jokes, and she talked to me 
about Ariana Grande’s latest album. She was a really 
sweet and smart girl after all, and that’s when I real-
ized I need to lay off the snap judgments. I should have 
considered how stressed she probably is by the whole 
college decision process and coming to a new place that 
could be her future home. 
Having a big personality might seem advantageous 
to outsiders, but it is important to keep to yourself 
sometimes. When extraversion gets in the way of let-
ting people in, it is actually doing the exact opposite job 
that it should be doing. Being uninhibited is no excuse 
for a lack of consideration and attention to social cues 
from others.
There is value in taking the time to get to know 
people. It is unfair to assume everyone can be imme-
diately comfortable in situations they are thrown into. 
You never know what people have going on that could 
lead them to be more reserved. They might be having 
a bad day or a bad week. They have a disposition to be 
shy, or, who knows, they might just be unfriendly after 
all. You’ll never know if you don’t give people a chance 
beyond those ﬁ  rst seven seconds.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays. The ‘unfriendly’ kid might just be a shy kidColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Hippodrome History
Learn the legacy of downtown’s cultural hub, pg. 9Queer Poetry Jam
Read about Danez Smith’s moving performance for Pride 
Awareness Month, pg. 10GAINESVILLE’S ICONIC PIZZERIA
By Alyssa Feliciano
Avenue Contributing Writer
Rachel Chastain-Gross wasn’t sure her 
date was going to show up.
After meeting online, they made arrange-
ments to meet at Leonardo’s By The Slice, 
but after waiting for 15 minutes she almost 
gave up on him. She is glad she didn’t.
Now, almost 10 years later, Chastain-
Gross and her date are married with two 
daughters. They visit the restaurant on the 
anniversary of their ﬁ  rst date, which was 
Sept. 9, 2010, every year. 
 “We have two daughters now and it’s 
fun to take them there and think: ‘This is 
where we ﬁ  rst met. Now we are here with 
our children,’” Chastain-Gross said.
Chastain-Gross and her husband are just 
one example of many who have memories at 
Leonardo’s By The Slice, which has been lo-
cated at 1245 W. University Ave. since 1973. 
Ken Peng, more commonly known as Ken 
Eats Gainesville on Facebook, said the ﬁ  rst 
time he went to Leonardo’s By The Slice was 
as a UF freshman in 2004 when he walked with his friends from Beaty Towers. 
“Its visibility and convenient location 
make it a good spot for a lot of students to 
visit in between classes or for UF employ-
ees to visit on a short walk,” Peng said. “Not 
much has changed inside of it either, and 
its owners have been actively involved and 
committed for decades.”
Brian Johnson, an employee of 25 years 
and now co-owner of the restaurant, can at-
test to its steadfastness.
“We’ve been pretty consistent as far as we 
run things,” Johnson said. “What’s changed 
is the landscape of Gainesville. We’ve been 
holding true to what we do as a local busi-
ness, but what’s changed is there are more 
corporate places.” 
In August 2016, UF bought the pizzeria, 
leaving its future unknown. The university 
plans to build a new school of music where 
the restaurant is located. For now, Johnson 
and his employees are staying put.
The lease for the restaurant is through 
June  2020, Johnson said. He hasn’t started 
looking yet but said he’d like to get a smaller 
space.Since UF purchased the restaurant, the 
property taxes have tripled. 
Johnson said they are looking to do a combination of Leonardo’s By The Slice 
and Bistro 1245 possibly somewhere on the 
northeast side of Gainesville, near Satchel’s 
Pizza or Public and General. 
In the meantime, Johnson said he is go-
ing to keep doing what he loves: making 
pizza. He enjoys producing something and 
getting feedback on how much customers 
loved the food.
“That’s the high,” Johnson said.With Leonardo’s future in the air, John-
son said he wants people to come in and ex-
perience the restaurant while they can. 
“We’ve been here since 1973, we’d love 
to see you come in,” Johnson said. “Who 
knows what’s going to happen? Come in 
now because you don’t know what the fu-
ture is going to hold for us. If you want a 
slice of awesome pizza, I’d say do it now 
and then hopefully keep coming back.”Leonardo’s By The Slice
Pizza
Alligator File Photo
After 46 years, Leonardo’s By The Slice  is a staple of Gainesville culture, but 
the future location of the beloved resturant is unknown.
By River Wells
Alligator Staff Writer
On March 8, “Captain Marvel,” 
the last solo ﬁ  lm of the Marvel Cin-
ematic Universe’s third phase of 
movies, premiered. Marvel’s Phase 
Three is set to end once “Avengers: 
Endgame” releases on April 26. 
“Captain Marvel” introduced us to 
a hero that may take center stage in 
Phase Four of the MCU, the charis-
matic Kree soldier Carol Danvers.
It was a good MCU movie, 
though it wasn’t on par with the 
other recent movies such as “Thor: 
Ragnarok,” “Spider-Man: Home-
coming” and “Black Panther.”
Here are two things that shine 
about “Captain Marvel” and two 
things that could have been better. 
Samuel L. Jackson’s Nick Fury 
steals the show
You remember that time Samuel 
L. Jackson phoned in a role?
Yeah, me neither.Jackson was born to play Nick 
Fury — Marvel Comics’ “Ultimate” 
universe based Fury’s appearance 
off Jackson before the movies came 
out — and his role in “Captain Mar-
vel” showcases the character, per-
haps, better than any other MCU 
movie. This Fury is not the battle-
hardened man we ﬁ  rst saw in “Iron 
Man,” but Jackson still shows his 
signature dry wit and charm.
The digital de-aging of Jackson 
for the movie was phenomenal. 
Jackson looked as if he was just 
done shooting Pulp Fiction, and 
he never had an “uncanny valley” 
look of some de-aging processes.
The plot twist was a nice sub-
version of traditional Marvel 
tropes
At the beginning of the ﬁ  lm, 
we are introduced to the Skrull, an 
alien race that can shapeshift into 
any form it desires. They are imme-
diately portrayed as the villains of 
the movie, and with one played by Ben Mendelsohn, notorious for vil-
lain roles, the audience believes it.
Later we see the Skrull are actu-
ally terrorized by the Kree that ad-
opted Carol Danvers: We see Skrull 
civilians hidden away with their 
families and fearing for their future 
during the climax. 
It’s a fresh plot twist and gives 
us an insight into how Danvers 
was manipulated to believe she 
was a hero.
Now, for the bad:
The ﬁ  rst act is a drag
You’re kind of thrown into 
“Captain Marvel” at the start, and 
it is hard to understand what is re-
ally happening.
We see that Carol Danvers is 
suffering from nightmares about 
a mysterious woman, but the au-
dience has no idea why. This 
plot device is almost immediately 
interrupted by Danvers and her 
gang undergoing a mission to ex-
tract an undercover operative 
held by the Skrulls.
It all goes by very fast, and there 
is quite a bit that can only be un-derstood by the most die-hard Mar-
vel fans. The memory bit, along 
with the Kree’s AI leader in the Su-
preme Intelligence, are left largely 
unexplained until much later, and 
we are introduced to some Kree 
characters who are left behind al-
most immediately after Carol gets 
to Earth. The moment she lands in 
that Blockbuster, the movie really 
starts to ﬁ  nd its stride.
Brie Larson’s performance 
was a bit iffy
Brie Larson’s Danvers is set to 
be a mainstay in the upcoming 
phase of the MCU, and if her per-
formance in this movie is an indi-
cation of what’s to come, it might 
be a rocky tenure.
Larson is at her best when she is 
witty and wisecracking, especially 
when she is playing off of Jackson’s 
Fury. She seems very natural when 
she brings out Danvers’ cocky and 
fun side, and she is a joy to watch 
when she is in her element.
In Carol’s serious moments, 
though, such as when she discov-
ers the truth about her past on Earth and when she confronts the 
Kree commander who trains her, 
she falls largely ﬂ  at. The moments 
where she is supposed to ﬁ  nd pur-
pose in her life and do the right 
thing are rather uninspiring, large-
ly because Larson fails to move the 
audience.
Hopefully, we will see her ex-
plore the serious and gritty aspects 
of Danvers’ character much better 
next month in “Endgame.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgIt’s not perfect, but ‘Captain Marvel’ still ﬂ  ies high
Movies
W e’re in the endgame nowWEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
THE STORY OF HOME OF 
GAINESVILLE’S ARTS AND 
CULTURE COMMUNITY 
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Pillared with ornate corinthian columns and 
a unique neoclassical style of architecture, the 
Hippodrome State Theatre is considered one 
of the most beautiful buildings in Gainesville. 
The building, located at 25 SE Second Place, 
was not always a theater, though. For more 
than 100 years, it has accumulated stories that 
make it a historical marker of the city. 
Construction began in 1909, according to 
Bob Robins, the production manager and light-
ing designer at the theater. The building was 
designed by the United States Department of 
Interior. 
When it opened in 1911, it served as a post 
ofﬁ  ce and federal courthouse.   
The U.S. Government decided to make 
Gainesville Federal Court District C, which was 
important because Gainesville was recognized 
as a federal entity, Robins said.  
Every crevice and corner of that theater has 
seen pieces of history. The mechanical eleva-
tors are more than 100 years old, and the base-
ment is marble-encased. According to Robins, 
the dressing room basement’s stalls were once 
holding cells for inmates awaiting trial.
The structure served as a courthouse until 
1963.
The building was empty until the early 
1970s when the Alachua County School Board 
took over the space brieﬂ  y quickly left the 
building to rot. 
Enter six ambitious UF alumni who were 
looking for fresh, cutting-edge theater and a 
space to create. 
During a time when the building was dilap-
idated, the Hippodrome was founded by the 
six from UF in 1973, Robins said. The six students — Mary and Greg Hausch, 
Marilyn Wall, Kerry McKinney, Bruce Corn-
well and Orin Wechsberg — began the Hip-
podrome State Theatre Company out of an 
abandoned 7-Eleven off of Hawthorne Road. 
They were ambitious and in search of a 
contemporary theater that would push bound-
aries. 
“The students called themselves a bunch 
of wild hippies who were collectively involved 
with theater,” said Lauren Caldwell, the for-
mer artistic director of the Hippodrome.  
While the students moved to different lo-
cations, such as an empty warehouse on U.S. Route 441, they searched for a home for their 
new company. In 1979, UF architecture pro-
fessor Harry Merritt had a vision for the aban-
doned downtown building to be a cultural 
center.  
According to Robins, Merritt gathered his 
students to collaborate with the six artists and 
the city to build the Hippodrome. 
It was the birth of an economic boom and a 
redevelopment for downtown Gainesville.   
“Downtown revitalization in the 1980s was 
centered around the Hippodrome,” Robins 
said. “The Hippodrome acted as a cornerstone 
of that redevelopment, bringing in restaurants and bars.”  
The Hippodrome became a large source of 
economic stability for the city. 
“Back when the Hippodrome was founded, 
it was a good time in our country for theater,” 
Caldwell said. “The National Endowment for 
the Arts was healthy, and arts funding was in 
a place that allowed for a lot of growth for the-
aters.” 
Both Caldwell and Robins agree that this 
theater is, and has always been, a crown jewel 
of culture in Gainesville. 
One of the aspects of this space that makes 
it the artistic monument it is today is that the 
company continues to strive for excellence and 
creativity and the commitment to the search 
for creative collaboration, Robins said.    
The Hippodrome is not only a historical 
monument — it is home to some of the most 
creative theater artists and collaborators in the 
Gainesville community. 
Over the years, this theater has transformed 
into one of the most prominent regional the-
aters in the state of Florida. 
“Staying in a town like Gainesville to work 
in a regional theater is very surprising, and it 
just proves what falling in love with a theater 
can do for you,” Caldwell said. “It’s changed 
the face of the city by providing opportuni-
ties for people to seek professional theater in 
a town that would normally not support such 
a place.” 
The Hippodrome has also provided many 
opportunities for the community because of its 
co-productions with its Theatre for Young Au-
diences Program and the UF School of Theatre 
and Dance.
This crown jewel has given actors across 
the state and the country a space to create new 
theater in, as well as a space for Gainesville 
locals and college students to sit back, relax 
and escape.
@emmamcavoy1  
emcavoy@alligator.orgThe Hippodrome State Theatre: A historical treasure trove   
Theater
Courtesy to The Alligator
The building at 25 SE Second Place now houses the Hippodrome State 
Theatre, but began its life as a federal courthouse and post ofﬁ  ce in 1911.
THE MUSIC VENUE THAT DEFINES 
DOWNTOWN
By Jackie De Freitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Creaky wooden ﬂ  oors, noteworthy musical 
acts, performances of almost every medium and 
Saturday food truck rallies make up High Dive, a 
deﬁ  ning feature of downtown Gainesville. 
Located on Southwest Second  Avenue, the 
venue has gone through plenty of phases and 
name changes. 
In the ‘80s, Spectrum Disco was the name and 
being a dance club for gay clientele was the game. 
After that, in 1992, the venue was called the Cov-
ered Dish until 2004 when it changed to Common 
Grounds. Common Grounds ran its course, and 
the owners moved on to other things. 
“They approached me to help keep the venue 
alive, as it is so vital to the local music scene, 
and they didn’t want to see it closed again,” Pat 
Lavery said. 
Lavery, the executive promoter at High Dive, 
books the musical performances at the wood-clad 
event space. 
When Common Grounds ended, High Dive be-
gan (except for the small hiccup where the place 
was called Double Down Live, and a Las Vegas 
saloon ordered a cease and desist on the grounds 
of its trademark infringement).
Common Grounds had largely the same setup as High Dive but “was a little rougher around the 
edges,” Lavery said. 
Since making the switch from Common 
Grounds to High Dive, considerable aesthetic 
changes to the venue have been made. 
When it was Common Grounds, the venue ca-
tered to a larger punk rock clientele, as that was a 
time when bands like Against Me! and Hot Water 
Music and labels like No Idea and Fueled By Ra-
men were active in Gainesville. 
High Dive has two walls of old show ﬂ  yers from 
both the Covered Dish and Common Grounds in 
the hallway by the bathroom.
Past performance speaks for High Dive’s rep-
utation: The Black Keys, Green Day, The Avett 
Brothers and Paramore. If a popular band stops in 
town, it will probably jam out at High Dive. 
Not only is the venue the place to see more 
famous acts, but local artists ﬁ  nd support there 
as well. Gainesville-based groups like The Forum, 
The Hails and The Savants of Soul are just some 
local acts to perform at High Dive in the future. 
High Dive reﬂ  ects Gainesville’s eclectic style 
not only with its choices of musical acts, but also 
its history of revolving style.
 From dance club to punk place to indie and 
local music venue, whatever it has been called, 
High Dive is the beacon of the Gainesville mu-
sic scene. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.orgHigh Dive: A beacon for Gainesville music and events
MUSIC
Chris Day, Alligator Staff
Demun Jones takes a moment to rest between songs while 
performing at High Dive in downtown Gainesville on July 20, 2018. 
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern 
portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try our 
new specials! Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this add and get 10% off 
your order!BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on 
premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, 
ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english muffin or 
bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will be 
ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
On March 19, at the Game 
Developers Conference, 
Google announced it has de-
cided to take a crack at the 
video game streaming industry 
with its new cloud-based gam-
ing platform, Stadia. 
The platform isn’t a physi-
cal console, but a game 
streaming service that will be 
accessible online on a variety 
of platforms. 
During an onstage demon-
stration, the famous search 
engine company showed a 
player playing a game on a 
Chromebook, then playing the 
same game on a phone and 
ﬁ  nally picking the game back 
up on a PC, all in real time.
During the conference, Phil 
Harrison, Google’s vice presi-
dent and general manager, 
said the company will give de-velopers access to its data cen-
ters, which would be located 
in more than 200 countries 
and territories. 
According to Harrison, 
players will be able to ac-
cess and play Stadia games 
within seconds. He showed 
a YouTube video of Ubisoft’s 
game, “Assassin’s Creed Odys-
sey,” which featured a “Play” 
button that offers players in-
stant access to the game. No 
download, patch or updates 
required.
Stadia will be able to 
stream games in 60 frames 
per second, with HDR and 4K 
resolution, said Google’s vice 
president on Project Stream, 
Majd Bakar. 
The idea behind Stadia is to 
be “instantly enjoyable, with 
access for everyone.” 
@AlexCamargo95
acamargo@alligator.orgBy Priya Dames
Avenue Contributing Writer
Following a warm introduction from 
the host, there was the faint click-clack 
of a low-heeled boot as the performer 
walked to the front of the room. The 
audience clapped in anticipation, won-
dering what they should expect. Danez 
Smith cleared their throat, put their 
mouth to the microphone, and let out 
one of many jokes of the evening.     
Smith, who goes by the singular 
they pronoun, is a black, queer poet 
from St. Paul, Minnesota. The Pride 
Student Union hosted them at the 
Queer Poetry Jam on Friday as the 
featured performer. The event was an 
open mic night at the Reitz Union in 
honor of Pride Awareness Month. 
About 10 students of all back-
grounds and levels of experience per-
formed their pieces. Although the style 
of poetry differed, from spoken word 
pieces to satirical comments on society, 
the unifying element was experiences 
they all faced as LGBTQ+ individuals.
Smith is a prominent member in the 
writer’s community. They are a found-
ing member of Dark Noise, a collective of poets dedicated to creating space for 
people of color in the industry and co-
host of “VS,” a poetry podcast where 
writers can discuss their ideas. They 
also received of numerous honors in-
cluding the Lambda Literary Award 
for Gay Poetry and is a ﬁ  nalist for the 
National Book Award for Poetry. Smith 
is no stranger to hard work. This is evi-
dent in their writing.
Smith started off by warming the 
audience up: cracking a few jokes, re-
leasing the tension, slowly taking com-
mand of the stage with their relaxed 
conﬁ  dence. Once everyone was com-
fortable, they launched into just over 
an hour of wonderfully crafted poetry. 
Poem after poem, the audience leaned 
forward in the seats mesmerized. 
The topics ranged from the presi-
dential administration to transgen-
der rights to best friends. Letting out 
pithy truths like they were cracking 
a whip. Wedging pop culture refer-
ences between heavy metaphors. Get-
ting into character by splicing words 
with tongue pops. Garnering sighs of 
shared pain and crackles of laughter 
from the enraptured audience. Letting 
their voice go from a shout to barely a whisper. Letting their melody go from 
singsongy to brassy, rounding out their 
voice, letting the words out like a mar-
ble circling the drain. 
The words, although delivered with 
ease, were contemplative and intro-
spective. They seemed to come from 
a life of observing the in-betweens. 
A common thread that ran through 
Smith’s poems was honoring these 
crevices of life. 
In a poem called “My President,” 
Smith played on the current trend of 
calling things we love “my president” 
from Rihanna’s makeup to a good plate 
of food. Smith recounted things in 
their life that were their president: “my 
grandma is my president and her Cabi-
net is her cabinet.”
After the show, I joined the swarm 
of people in line to buy Smith’s most 
recent book, “Don’t Call Us Dead: Po-
ems.” With the same sincerity of their 
poetry, Smith informed me of their 
upcoming collection of poems about 
friendship — titled “Homie” and set to 
release in Spring 2020. When asked if 
they think they have grown since the 
ﬁ  rst book, they answered, “I sure hope 
so.”Stadia: Google’s new 
video game platformQueer Poetry Jam with Danez SmithBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
1 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT- 
THE OAKS SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM 
APARTMENT WITH BALCONY FOR RENT. 
WALK TO OAKS MALL, RESTAURANTS- 
CALL 404-323-9338     3-29-5-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 27, 2019
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu -
dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs 
a week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours 
and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy 
interacting with others in a professional man -
ner and have a positive attitude. Retail, cus -
tomer service or volunteer experience is a 
plus. Apply online for requisition #: 222980 at 
www.gatordining.com      3-27-19-6-14  
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
CAREGIVER(S) DISABLED 60 y.o. MALE
Spinal Cord Injury with Quadriplegia
Safe Central Gainesville Location 
6 AM to 10:30 AM - 12 to 16 hours weekly 
$17 to $20 hour - CNA or Equivalent
Details Email: caregiverprovider@cox.net    
3-27-19-3-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St
PLEASE APPLY IN PERSON
4-1-19-5-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in -
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14Rockycreek Paintball
In Gainesville, now hiring PT, Sat & Sun.
Call 352-371-2092     3-29-19-3-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
1. MOVIES: Which film with a liter -
ary title won the 1999 Oscar for Best 
Picture?
2. ANATOMY: What gives red blood 
cells their color?
3. FOOD & DRINK: What spice 
gives Hungarian goulash its character -
istic flavor?
4. HISTORY: Who were the two 
women who tried to assassinate Pres-
ident Gerald Ford on two separate 
occasions in 1975?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of swine called?
6. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in 
our solar system (other than Earth) is 
known as the “Blue Planet”?
7. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in word “veto” mean?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the fastest growing plant in the 
world?
9. LITERATURE: Which children’s 
fantasy series featured a ship called 
“The Dawn Treader”?
10. MUSIC: What was English sing-
er Billy Idol’s name at birth?
Answers
1. “Shakespeare in Love”
2. Hemoglobin
3. Paprika
4. Sara Jane Moore and Lynette 
“Squeaky” Fromme
5. A sounder
6. Neptune
7. To forbid or prohibit
8. Bamboo
9. “The Chronicles of Narnia”
10. William Broad
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 25, 2019King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
PT JOB - 12 - 15 HRS / WK
Pleasant, upbeat & energetic person for light 
office work in a chiropractic office.
Mon, Wed, & Fri afternoons
 $12.50 / hr. text or call 352-215-5060    4-1-
19-3-14
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. 
Must be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, 
love motorsports and basic car skills bonus. 
Management@GoRally.com to apply. NO 
CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM learn more before 
applying.     4-17-19-10-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
By Norfleet Pruden
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/27/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/27/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, March 27, 2019
ACROSS
1 Sow chow
5 Sport with clay 
disks
10 “House Hunters” 
channel
14 Kind of 
curriculum
15 Mural prefix
16 Nécessité for a 
soufflé
17 Food thickener
18 Anti-wrinkle 
option
19 Hearty bowlful
20 Shenanigans
23 Wrinkly little  
dog
24 Gore and  
Green
25 Defunct 
supermarket 
chain that once 
had nearly 
16,000 stores
27 Lines on a list
29 Thick slice
32 Break bread
33 Adds bubbles to
36 Tropicana Field 
MLB team
37 “Nonsense!”
40 Cry under a pop 
fly
41 Shiraz resident
42 Find a job for
43 Organic 
compound
44 Freeways and 
parkways
48 Store in a queue 
for printing
50 Like some pkgs.
52 India-born author 
Santha Rama __
53 Nabisco product 
whose package 
formerly 
displayed circus 
cages
58 Soon, long ago
59 Baby’s ailment
60 Oodles
61 URL connection
62 Tiny amount
63 Beekeeper 
played by Peter 
Fonda
64 Deck quartet
65 Underground 
home of the Ninja 
Turtles
66 Surname of the 
stars of 20-, 37- 
and 53-AcrossDOWN
1 Shrimp dish
2 Leave a chat 
room, say
3 Grand Marnier 
flavor
4 Central __: 
“Friends” coffee 
house
5 Female oracle
6 Drawer handles
7 Words to a traitor
8 Love god
9 Roll to the 
runway
10 Biblical prophet
11 Comes close to
12 When general 
U.S. elections 
are held
13 Ex-GIs’ gp.
21 Makes less 
difficult
22 Catch red-
handed
26 Qt. halves
28 Stable mother
29 Base runner’s 
ploy
30 Like tough 
economic times
31 Wine province 
near Turin
34 Free __: carte 
blanche35 Jackson 5 hairdo
36 City that aptly 
rhymes with 
“casino”
37 From Latin 
America
38 Like a typical 
therapy session
39 Capital of 
Canada?
40 Juilliard subj.
43 Shade tree
45 Colorful ring
46 Quick mover47 English Channel 
county
49 Sty chorus
50 Haggling focus
51 Indiana NBA 
player
54 Show parts
55 Handed-down 
stories
56 Crab’s grabber
57 “America’s Got 
Talent” judge 
Heidi
58 Miss. neighbor
By Parikshit S. Bhat
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/26/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/26/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 26, 2019
ACROSS
1 Captain Sparrow 
portrayer Johnny
5 Exam for jrs.
9 Indy 500 family 
name
14 Rio contents
15 Machu Picchu 
builder
16 Loud salute
17 Beethoven’s birth 
city
18 *Evaluation by 
one’s colleagues
20 Colorful carp
22 “Born Free” 
lioness
23 Skin woe
24 *1984 Prince 
classic
27 Razz
28 Like plagiarized 
work, say
29 Focus and Fiesta
30 Office asst.
31 Spectacles on 
one’s nose
36 “That isn’t nice”
37 Intensive goodwill 
campaign, briefly 
... and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
38 Except for West 
Wendover, 
Nevada summer 
hrs.
41 Sicilian seaport
42 Hard to come by
43 Glossy finish
46 Harsh critic
48 Very fancy
49 *Region 
bordering the 
world’s largest 
ocean
53 USA part: Abbr.
54 Whirl around
55 Drink from leaves
56 *Yellowstone VIP
59 French movie
62 Like much bar 
beer
63 Make, as money
64 “In your dreams!”
65 Abodes for birds
66 Liberal or martial 
things
67 Tenant’s payment
DOWN
1 Pat softly
2 Locker room 
issue3 *Green Day 
genre
4 Impressive 
collection
5 Spot on a die
6 Derisive look
7 Amtrak high-
speed train
8 Ankle bones
9 Function
10 Four Corners 
natives
11 Sandwich 
maker’s aid
12 Smoothed
13 Sculls 
competitors
19 Took off in a 
hurry
21 Percent suffix
24 Attention-getting 
sound
25 Four Corners 
natives
26 Some MIT grads
29 Tasseled hat
32 Scale units: Abbr.
33 Baba among 
thieves
34 Confession 
disclosure
35 Work support 
group
37 Cross product
38 *Union demand39 Eins und zwei
40 Educational 
period
41 Mongoose family 
member that 
uses its tail to 
stand erect
42 9-Across vehicle
43 Apply hurriedly
44 Showing 
compassion
45 Applies, as 
pressure47 On fire
49 “Don’t text and 
drive” ad, briefly
50 Snorer’s disorder, 
perhaps
51 Groucho’s 
smoke
52 Like noble gases
57 Rotation meas.
58 IV league?
60 Diarist Anaïs
61 Amphibian 
youngster
1.  Turbulent 
1.  Drain5.  Stand-in
2.  Smelly6.  ____ layer
3.  Spring prop7.  Property, belongings 
4.  Touch lovingly MRYSOT
HSINOPXRPOY
NEZOO
DOROSUO
MELOPAYSTESAS
ERCSASANSWERS: 1A-Stormy  5A-Proxy  6A-Ozone  7A-Assets
1D-Siphon  2D-Odorous  3D-Maypole  4D-Caress  B-Pony Express3-27-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____ route was 
about 1,900 miles long. BONUS
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida defensive end Antonneous 
Clayton announced his intention 
to transfer from UF on Monday in 
a Twitter post. Football team hosts open practice on Wednesday
The Gators will open the Sanders Practice Field to fans and media on 
Wednesday from 4:55 p.m. to 7:10 p.m. This is following Florida's Pro Day, 
which is also open to the fans and media starting at 9:30 a.m. at Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Two UF men’s basketball players have entered the 
NCAA transfer portal.
Following a season in which an ACL tear in January lim-
ited him to just 17 games, forward Keith Stone will transfer 
after being with the program for three years, as confirmed 
by UF on Tuesday in a release.
Shortly after reports of Stone’s transfer, sophomore 
guard Mike Okauru announced via Twitter his intention to 
leave the program as well.
Stone, a redshirt junior, was a four-star prospect out of 
Zion Lutheran Christian School in Deerfield Beach, Florida, 
and he was a part of former Florida coach Billy Donovan’s 
final recruiting class in 2015.
Stone redshirted during the 2015-16 season, and his red-
shirt-freshman campaign saw him average 3.6 points and 
2.2 rebounds in 34 appearances off the bench.
He played in every game — started in 26 — as a redshirt 
sophomore, averaging 8.8 points and 4.3 rebounds per con-
test. 
Before suffering a season-ending ACL injury against 
Georgia on Jan. 19, he averaged 6.1 points per game and 
3.9 rebounds.
Stone is set to graduate from UF in the spring, and he 
will be eligible to play immediately next season as a gradu-
ate transfer. 
“Keith has been a part of three NCAA Tournament teams 
and a lot of wins,” coach Mike White said in a release. “He 
has represented the Florida program the right way, and we Keith Stone, Mike Okauru to transfer from Florida  
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Keith Stone announced he is transferring from the program. He played in every game as a 
sophomore and started in 26 contests, averaging 8.8 points and 4.3 rebounds.
SOFTBALL BASEBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators softball team’s offense has 
been a work in progress all season, but when 
given a chance to experiment against one of 
the nation’s worst pitching staffs in Mercer, 
it finally saw positive results. 
No. 6 Florida (27-6) scored more than five 
runs in a game just once this month before 
plating 17 runs in two games against the 
Bears. 
The offense should have another confi-
dence booster against Bethune-Cookman on 
Wednesday at home before a crucial SEC 
road series against Ole Miss this weekend. 
Kendyl Lindaman served as the catalyst 
for the Gators’ offensive production last 
week. Her last six hits have all been home 
runs, including one against Minnesota, her 
former team, which stood as the game win-ner, and four against Mercer. Lindaman’s 
offensive explosion earned her Louisville 
Slugger/NFCA Division I Player of the Week 
honors.
Coach Tim Walton shuffled the batting 
lineup around for the weekend series against 
Mercer. He moved first baseman Amanda Lo-
renz and Lindaman from the No. 1 and No. 
2 positions to No. 3 and No. 4, respectively. 
Outfielder Jade Caraway, previously 
tasked with flipping the lineup around at the 
No. 9 hole, was inserted as the leadoff hitter, 
where she batted at North Carolina State be-
fore transferring to Florida. Second baseman 
Hannah Adams was used in the No. 2 spot. 
Walton likes the new-look lineup, even 
though it has seen limited action against a 
lesser opponent.
“It just feels like Amanda Lorenz and 
... Kendyl Lindaman just make that middle By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team capital-
ized on every error Florida State com-
mitted on Tuesday night.
A fielding error helped UF take the 
lead in the fifth inning, and a throwing 
error helped take it back in the seventh.
The Gators finished the game with 
no earned runs as a result. But the 
four unearned runs they scored were 
enough to secure a program-record 
10th-straight victory over the Semi-
noles.
Florida defeated Florida State 4-2 at 
a neutral site at the Baseball Grounds 
in Jacksonville to clinch the season se-
ries for the fourth year in a row.
UF’s Nolan Crisp and FSU’s Jonah 
Scolaro kept both offenses scoreless 
through four innings. Scolaro allowed 
just one hit in that time frame, while Crisp held the Seminoles to none.
Jud Fabian reached base on an field-
ing error to lead off the top of the fifth 
inning, and Austin Langworthy drove 
him in with an RBI double down the 
right-field line to put the Gators ahead 
1-0.
The Seminoles (17-7) took their 
first lead of the night in the bottom of 
the sixth. Matheu Nelson led off with 
a walk, and Mike Salvatore followed 
with a two-run homer to put FSU up 
2-1.
But it didn’t take long for the Gators 
(17-10) to respond.
In the top of the seventh inning, Ja-
cob Young came to bat with two outs, 
Fabian on second and Brady Smith on 
first. Young singled to second base, 
scoring Fabian, and reached second 
on a throwing error by Salvatore, the 
second baseman. Brady McConnell hit UF sticking with new batting 
order ahead of the WildcatsGators clinch series over FSU 
for fourth-straight seasonSEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
The Gators women’s golf team finished 
the final round of the Evans Derby Expe-
rience strong, but its second round woes 
haunted it to a fifth-place finish. 
The Gators carded an even-par 288 as a 
team for the second time this tournament 
in Auburn, Alabama, to solidify its seventh 
top-five finish this season. Its second round 
score of 304 (16 over) left Florida in a hole it 
couldn’t dig itself out of, moving up just one 
spot in the final day of the tournament.
“Our second round was a little bit of a 
fluke,” coach Emily Gaser said in a release. 
“We let it get away from us on Day 2 which 
hurt our chances to win. But we showed a 
lot of toughness this week, and we’ve had a 
tremendous amount of growth as a team in 
the last few weeks.”
Florida dominated the back nine with a 
flurry of birdies from all five lineup players 
which helped it hold on to fifth place. The 
Gators youth led the way with freshman Clara Manzalini playing like a seasoned vet-
eran.
She carded a 1 under for the tournament, 
while sophomore Elin Esborn finished tied 
for 12th with a 3-over finish. 
Manzalini finished with a team-best third 
place finish after shooting a 4-under 68 in 
the first round. Her remaining two rounds 
weren’t as dominant as she carded a com-
bined 3 over, yet the freshman continues to 
impress after a 4-over finish at the Gator In-
vitational two weeks ago.
Esborn excelled during Monday’s final 
round, moving up 13 spots with a 1-under 
71 — a tournament-best for her. Junior Si-
erra Brooks also found success on Monday, 
jumping up 17 spots for her third-consecu-
tive top-25 finish. 
“We played well this week,” Glaser said. 
“Clara was a bright spot for us this week for 
sure. She played very well and was poised 
beyond her freshman status. Really happy 
for her to have a solid tournament.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgUF’s final-day success hindered by second-round struggles 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
The last time the Gators men’s 
swimming and diving team com-
peted, it captured its seventh SEC 
Championship in as many years, a 
dominant effort that placed it com-
fortably over runner-up Missouri.
It has been over a month since 
that commanding performance, 
however, and the Gators need to 
recapture the spark that surged 
them to display such a showing.Only time will tell how Florida 
will fare.
No. 6 Florida enters the pool 
this week at the Lee & Joe Jamail 
Texas Swimming Center in Austin, 
Texas, for the 2019 NCAA Champi-
onships. A humble blend of youth-
fulness and veteran leadership has 
carried them throughout the year.
Seventeen UF swimmers were 
invited to compete this week at the 
University of Texas, a diverse con-
tingent of old and young that could 
bode them well.Senior Alex Lebed is set to 
make his fourth appearance at the 
season-ending championships in 
the individual medley — the most 
on the team. He is joined by two 
third-timers, five second-timers, 
and seven fresh faces to NCAA 
Championship competition.
After a successful campaign 
that saw the Gators finish 9-1 
(their only loss coming early in 
Austin at the hands of then-No.3 
Indiana), UF is entering the most 
critical week of the year in stride.Florida has already had success 
in Texas this season despite its loss 
to Indiana. A 178-175 victory over 
then-No.1 Texas back in October 
propelled a win streak that lasted 
the rest of the season.
The Gators also boast a team of 
accomplished swimmers holding 
numerous accolades on the year. 
Freshman Trey Freeman earned an 
SEC Swimmer of the Week hon-
or, while Junior Maxime Rooney 
has two. SEC Freshman of the 
Week honors have been awarded twice to Freeman, and once each 
to Kacper Stokowski and Robert 
Finke.
All of the accomplishments, 
accolades and performances lead-
ing up to this week for the Gators 
cease to matter once competition 
begins.
But it serves them well and puts 
them in a quality position to cap-
ture a title come Saturday.
 
@jack_braverman
jackbraverman@alligator.orgGators’ season to conclude at NCAA ChampionshipsLACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Aggressive coverage from Brown de-
fender Olivia Lee didn’t deter Madi Hall.
The UF lacrosse team trailed for most 
of the first half against the unranked 
Bears, and she knew the Gators needed 
to assert control. 
She powered through the tough de-
fense and snuck a shot past BU goalie 
Erin Tucker as she fell to give Florida a 
7-6 lead.
That goal led to seven more in a row, 
and UF never relinquished the lead in a 
dominating 22-11 victory over Brown on 
Tuesday night. Florida’s scoring attack 
also set a new season high in scoring.
“We knew they had a really good 
zone,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “We 
knew that ball movement and making ex-
act passes and finishing was going to be 
the key.”
The Gators’ performance was any-
thing but dominant at the start, however. 
A back-and-forth first half saw the 
lead change four times with five ties. The 
Bears’ largest lead of the evening was 3-1 
early in the opening frame.Two of Brown’s first three goals came 
from attacker Risa Mosenthal, who led 
BU (4-5) in scoring with three goals in 
the defeat.
The Bears were in control for much of 
the first half, but free-position attempts 
gave the Gators (5-6) opportunities to 
stick around. Brown committed 22 fouls, 
and UF, in turn, converted on 6 of 12 
free-position chances in the game.
“We’re really good when we play 
physical,” O’Leary said. “I thought 
Brown equaled our physicality, and it’s 
fun to play a team that does that.”
Florida concluded the half on a six-
goal run to take a 12-6 lead to the locker 
room.
That run continued into the second 
half. The Gators scored two straight goals 
to open the second period before a goal 
from Brown’s Claire Jeschke halted their 
streak.
UF still pulled away in the second half 
with the benefit of a running clock for 
most of it.
Attacker Lindsey Ronbeck, the No. 9 
leading scorer in the nation entering the 
game, led the Gators in scoring with six 
goals in the victory. She also notched two assists.
Midfielder Shannon Kavanagh scored 
five goals and reached 100 career points. 
She’s the third-fastest Gator and sixteenth 
all time to do so.
In addition to her goal to start the 
Gators’ run, Hall scored three more goals.
Both goalkeepers had rough outings, 
with Tucker’s save percentage (.214) 
slightly behind UF goalie Haley Hicklen’s 
(.286).
But Florida put up 28 shots on goal 
compared to only 15 from Brown. Tucker 
allowed the most goals she has all sea-
son.
The Gators will now begin conference 
play in the American Athletic Conference 
for the first time since leaving the Big 
East after last season. They play Temple 
in Philadelphia on Saturday.
“For us, it’s just business as usual,” 
O’Leary said about playing in a new con-
ference. “It’s going to be the same prepa-
ration that it would be for anything else 
that we’re doing.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFlorida trounces Brown behind strong offensive showingAlligator File Photo
Florida golfer Sierra Brooks finished the Evans Derby Experience in Auburn, 
Alabama, tied for 25th with a score of 5 over.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Madi Hall scored four goals in 
Florida’s 22-11 win over Brown on Tuesday at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect 
WEDNESDAYS 
 
$4 Yuengling Pitcher
$6 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSwish him nothing but the best.”
Okauru, a Raleigh, North Carolina, 
native, was a three-star recruit (accord-
ing to his 247Sport composite) out of the 
Brewster Academy.
The 6-foot-3, 184-pound guard aver-
aged just 1.4 points and 6.6 minutes in 
35 appearances this season after averag-
ing 11.1 minutes and 3.8 points during 
his freshman campaign.With forward Chase Johnson’s trans-
fer from Florida in December, Stone and 
Okauru’s departures leave the Gators 
with three open scholarships ahead of 
the 2019-20 season.
Florida will have two McDonald’s All-
Americans on their roster next season in 
ﬁ  ve-star forward Scottie Lewis, out of Ea-
tontown, New Jersey, and ﬁ  ve-star guard 
Tre Mann from The Villages, Florida.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Lewis, Mann join UF in 2019
of the lineup so much different,” Walton 
said. “We’ll still have to wait a little while 
for them to come back up, but it certainly 
didn’t feel the same as it's been feeling.”
The Gators will have plenty of chances 
to see if this new lineup works, as pitch-
ers Alexis Bermudez and Destiny Enriquez 
both have ERAs over 4.00. Bethune-Cook-
man (12-22) has played four ranked teams 
this season, lost to three of them and gave 
up 29 runs in the process. Florida’s pitchers will also have an 
enormous advantage over the Wildcats’ of-
fense. The Gators are No. 13 in the country 
in ERA and will face a Bethune-Cookman 
lineup that is the 13th-worst in batting av-
erage (.208). 
Wednesday’s game is UF’s last chance 
to gain conﬁ  dence, as the Gators will start a 
grueling stretch of seven games in 10 days 
against Ole Miss, No. 3 Florida State and 
No. 13 Arkansas.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Florida is No. 13 in NCAA in ERAa two-RBI double in the next at-bat, scoring 
Smith and Young and giving the Gators a 4-2 
lead which held for the remainder of the game.
Crisp threw a career-high ﬁ  ve innings, al-
lowing two runs on three hits and ﬁ  nishing 
with a career-high four strikeouts. He was re-
lieved by Jordan Butler for 0.2 innings, who 
faced just three batters and struck out one 
and was then replaced by the winning pitcher, 
Christian Scott.
Scott threw 3.1 scoreless innings in relief, a 
career-high, allowing just one hit and striking 
out ﬁ  ve, also a career high.
The Seminoles exhausted much of their 
bullpen. Five pitchers followed Scolaro, and  
Antonio Velez recorded the loss.
UF ﬁ  nished the game with 10 strikeouts, and 
all nine batters struck out at least once. McCo-
nnell’s go-ahead RBI was arguably the biggest 
at-bat of the game. He was the best hitter for 
the Gators, accounting for two of the team’s six 
hits and two of its three RBIs.
No. 24 UF improves to 3-5 against ranked 
opponents this season with the win over No. 
20 Florida State.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14 Crisp threw for career-high ive innings 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida center ﬁ  elder Jud Fabian scored two runs during UF's 4-2 win over Florida State in Jacksonville on Tuesday.
