We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
NEMBHARD WITHDRAWS
Guard Andrew Nembhard withdrew from the 
NBA Draft on Wednesday and will return to UF 
for his sophomore season, pg 12.
Man arrested, punches K-9
A Gainesville man was arrested for possessing a stolen vehicle 
and punched a police K-9 while trying to escape on foot, pg 4
Bath & Body Works to open at Butler Plaza
The new story will open in late July by T arget, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 91
THE ORDINANCE  
PASSED UNANIMOUSL Y
By Tien Le
Staff Writer 
Rows were dotted with doz-
ens of people wearing purple 
T-shirts, sweaters and bow-
ties in solidarity at Tuesday’s 
Alachua County Commission 
meeting. 
On Tuesday, Alachua 
County Commissioners voted 
unanimously 5-0 in support of 
a conversion therapy ban ordi-
nance.
“I take our job of making 
sure that our kids are safe 
seriously,” County Commis-
sioner Ken Cornell said at the meeting. “I think that this is 
potentially a step in the right 
direction. Protecting the physi-
cal and psychological well-be-
ing of minors, public safety. 
I think that’s like job one for 
us.” 
Conversion therapy is the 
practice of changing an indi-
vidual’s sexual orientation or 
gender identity. 
Terry Fleming, vice presi-
dent of the Human Rights 
Council of North Central Flor-
ida, said the LGBTQ commu-
nity is very excited the county 
commission has passed this 
conversion therapy ban.
The ordinance bans li-
censed professionals from 
practicing conversion therapy on minors. Those who violate 
the ordinance could face a ﬁ  ne 
of $500. 
In April 2018, Gainesville 
passed its own ordinance pro-
hibiting conversion therapy. 
“A lot of folks don’t be-
lieve that it is actually hap-
pening in this area,” Flem-
ing said. “They feel like ‘Oh, 
Gainesville is a great place to 
live. We have the University 
of Florida, we’re very progres-
sive,’ so people make assump-
tions that we have equal rights 
to the LGBTQ community, that 
conversion therapy isn’t hap-
pening.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgAlachua County Commission bans 
conversion therapy ordinance
THE DEPARTMENT GAVE $4.8 
MILLION TO THE COLLEGE
By Meleah Lyden 
Staff Writer
Hurricane Irma destroyed large por-
tions of Florida in 2017, but it paved 
the way for Santa Fe College to receive 
a grant to help revitalize the region’s 
economy.  
The U.S. Department of Commerce 
gave Santa Fe a $4.8 million grant for 
the college’s Center for Innovation and 
Economic Development, said Jay An-
derson, Santa Fe spokesperson. 
The center works with small start-
up companies to assist them in devel-
oping  their businesses and hire local 
people.The Department of Commerce’s 
Economic Development Administra-
tion created the grant in 2017 to aid 
those impacted by natural disasters 
like Hurricane Irma, he said. 
“When Hurricane Irma impacted 
the area, basically the entire state was 
named a disaster area and was eligible 
for this kind of a grant,” he said. “The 
college tried to get the grant to help re-
build and expand the Center for Inno-
vation and Economic Development.”
Anderson did not know why it took 
two years to receive the grant, but ﬁ  g-
ured it was because the system moves 
slowly at times. 
“Things often do move slowly,” he 
said. “Wheels will turn not as fast as 
we would like them to.”U.S. Department of Commerce 
invests in Santa Fe College
SEE SANTA FE,  PAGE 3THIRTEEN NEW AGENCY HEADS 
WERE APPROVED TUESDAY 
By Charlie Daffron 
Staff Writer
Devon Philip has put in countless hours volun-
teering and organizing events as part of the Fresh-
man Leadership Council, an organization designed 
to teach new students leadership skills. 
This past year, Philip was the FLC chairman.
“FLC was the reason I stayed at UF,” the 
20-year-old UF business administration senior 
said. “After the ﬁ  rst meeting, I ﬁ  nally felt that I 
was in a place that was home.” 
Each FLC class is composed of about 50 fresh-
men who work with a group of directors who are 
typically past members. Each year the FLC Chair is 
chosen by the Student Body president.
This year, Student Body President Michael 
Murphy’s nomination, Austin Carroll, became the 
subject of controversy, both within FLC and the 
Senate. Carroll has never been a member of FLC and was chosen over two past FLC members for 
the position, Philip said.
Carroll’s application was submitted to Murphy 
via email 38 days after the deadline. It consisted 
of two pages, a resume and the answers to three 
questions that totaled just over 350 words.
Another applicant, who had two years experi-
ence working with FLC, submitted a 10-page ap-
plication.
Murphy said Carroll will be a great ﬁ  t in the po-
sition, bringing new leadership to the organization. 
Philip was among over a dozen speakers pres-
ent at Tuesday’s meeting to contest Carroll’s ap-
pointment. Speakers aired their grievances about 
appointments over the course of nearly two hours 
at the start of the meeting. 
The Senate was set to approve the president’s 
nominations for agency heads, cabinet chairs, 
cabinet directors and executive secretaries Tues-
day night. Because of a special rule, all candidates 
were voted on as blocks instead of each candidate 
being considered individually.
Members of the public, Student Senate votes to approve 
contested executive nominations 
Charlie Daffron / Alligator Staff
Ashley Grabowski (left), the Senate Minority Leader, addresses the room 
during Tuesday’s SG Senate meeting. 
SEE SG, PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION MEETING 
June 24, 2019 at 5:00 p.m. 
Jack Durrance Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
12 SE 1ST STREET, GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA 
PURPOSE: The M etropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area has scheduled a public meeting  to receive input concerning the 
proposed Transportation  Improvement Program for Fiscal Years 2019-20 to 
2023-24.   The Transportation  Improvement Program  is a staged  implementation 
program  of transportation projects consistent,  to the  maximum extent feasible,  with 
the Alachua County and City of Gainesville comprehensive plans.   
Projects  in the proposed  Transportation I mprovement  Program are also consistent  with the Gainesville Metropolitan Area 
Year 2040 Long-Range Transportation Plan. This plan identifies  transportation system modifications expected  to be 
needed to serve projected volumes and patterns of traffic through the Y ear 2040.  A final decision  regarding all projects 
contained in the Transportation Improvement P rogram w ill be forwarded to the Florida Department of Transportation by 
the adoption of this Transportation Improvement P rogram document. 
Public notice of public involvement activities and time established for public review and comments on the T ransportation 
Improvement Progr am will satisf y the Progr am of Projects. 
The Federa l Obligations  Reports  are included  in Appendix  B of the T ransportation I mprovement  Progr am.  These  Reports 
show the expenditure  of fede ral funds  within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area  from October  1, 2017 through September 
30, 2018. 
This map only shows some of the t ransportation p rojects scheduled during the next  five years.   The proposed  Transporta-
tion I mprovement  Prog ram includes  transportation p rojects such as: bicycle; pedestrian; p roject  development and 
environmental studies; r esurfacing/ repaving; school s afety concern; transportation a lternatives; and  transit projects, 
including transportation disadvantaged projects. 
THE MEETING ROOM WILL BE OPEN AT 4:30 PM FOR THE PUBLIC TO REVIEW THE PROPOSED 
TRANSPORT ATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 
AND STAFF WILL BE PRESENT T O ANSWER QUESTIONS.  
Copies  of the meeting agenda and  more detailed  information concerning the F edera l Obligations  Report and  proposed 
Transportation I mprovement  Program can be obtained  by writing  to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning  Organiza -
tion for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, c/o North Centra l Florida  Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gaines-
ville, Florida 32653,  by appearing  in person a t the a bove address during business hours, at the w ww.ncfrpc.org/mtpo 
website,  or by calling 352.955.2200.   All persons  are advised that, i f they decide to contest  any decision made at this 
public meeting, they w ill need a r ecord  of the proceedings and,  for such purpose, they may need to ensure that a v erba-
tim record  of the proceedings is made, which  record includes the testimony and evidence upon which  it is to be based.  
All interested persons  are invited to attend and  be heard.  Public participation  is solicited  without  regard to r ace, color,  
national origin,  age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status,  religious status, disabilit y, familial status  or gender identity.  
Persons who r equire special a ccommodations under the American w ith Disabilities Act, or persons who  require  translation 
services  (free of charge), should contact Scott K oons at 352.955.2200, extension 101,  at least  seven (7) d ays before the 
public meeting. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area consists of the Gainesville City 
Commission, the Alachua County Commission and  nonvoting advisors of the University of Florida, the Florida Department 
of Transportation and the Alachua County League o f Cities.   The Metropolitan Transportation Planning  Organization  for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area is responsible  for the continuing, comprehensive and cooper ative urban  transportation 
planning  program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  This planning  program is r equired in order  to receive  federa l and 
state funds for transportation projects. 
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 91
COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION MEETING 
June 24, 2019 at 5:00 p.m. 
Jack Durrance Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
12 SE 1ST STREET, GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA 
PURPOSE: The M etropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area has scheduled a public meeting  to receive input concerning the 
proposed Transportation  Improvement Program for Fiscal Years 2019-20 to 
2023-24.   The Transportation  Improvement Program  is a staged  implementation 
program  of transportation projects consistent,  to the  maximum extent feasible,  with 
the Alachua County and City of Gainesville comprehensive plans.   
Projects  in the proposed  Transportation I mprovement  Program are also consistent  with the Gainesville Metropolitan Area 
Year 2040 Long-Range Transportation Plan. This plan identifies  transportation system modifications expected  to be 
needed to serve projected volumes and patterns of traffic through the Y ear 2040.  A final decision  regarding all projects 
contained in the Transportation Improvement P rogram w ill be forwarded to the Florida Department of Transportation by 
the adoption of this Transportation Improvement P rogram document. 
Public notice of public involvement activities and time established for public review and comments on the T ransportation 
Improvement Progr am will satisf y the Progr am of Projects. 
The Federa l Obligations  Reports  are included  in Appendix  B of the T ransportation I mprovement  Progr am.  These  Reports 
show the expenditure  of fede ral funds  within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area  from October  1, 2017 through September 
30, 2018. 
This map only shows some of the t ransportation p rojects scheduled during the next  five years.   The proposed  Transporta-
tion I mprovement  Prog ram includes  transportation p rojects such as: bicycle; pedestrian; p roject  development and 
environmental studies; r esurfacing/ repaving; school s afety concern; transportation a lternatives; and  transit projects, 
including transportation disadvantaged projects. 
THE MEETING ROOM WILL BE OPEN AT 4:30 PM FOR THE PUBLIC TO REVIEW THE PROPOSED 
TRANSPORT ATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 
AND STAFF WILL BE PRESENT T O ANSWER QUESTIONS.  
Copies  of the meeting agenda and  more detailed  information concerning the F edera l Obligations  Report and  proposed 
Transportation I mprovement  Program can be obtained  by writing  to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning  Organiza -
tion for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, c/o North Centra l Florida  Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gaines-
ville, Florida 32653,  by appearing  in person a t the a bove address during business hours, at the w ww.ncfrpc.org/mtpo 
website,  or by calling 352.955.2200.   All persons  are advised that, i f they decide to contest  any decision made at this 
public meeting, they w ill need a r ecord  of the proceedings and,  for such purpose, they may need to ensure that a v erba-
tim record  of the proceedings is made, which  record includes the testimony and evidence upon which  it is to be based.  
All interested persons  are invited to attend and  be heard.  Public participation  is solicited  without  regard to r ace, color,  
national origin,  age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status,  religious status, disabilit y, familial status  or gender identity.  
Persons who r equire special a ccommodations under the American w ith Disabilities Act, or persons who  require  translation 
services  (free of charge), should contact Scott K oons at 352.955.2200, extension 101,  at least  seven (7) d ays before the 
public meeting. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area consists of the Gainesville City 
Commission, the Alachua County Commission and  nonvoting advisors of the University of Florida, the Florida Department 
of Transportation and the Alachua County League o f Cities.   The Metropolitan Transportation Planning  Organization  for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area is responsible  for the continuing, comprehensive and cooper ative urban  transportation 
planning  program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.  This planning  program is r equired in order  to receive  federa l and 
state funds for transportation projects. 
Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersEngagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Katherine Moore
Meagan DiPolo
Noura Al-Rajhi
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.orgSYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production StaffADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie DeFrietas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan GoldwichKaylyn Ling
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Emily Perpich,THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 SIX PANELISTS DISCUSSED 
MEDICAL MARIJUANA’S 
NATIONAL IMPACT
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
The devil’s lettuce. The horrible 
herb. Satan’s salad. The medical 
use of this controversial leafy green 
was up for discussion Wednesday 
night.
UF HealthStreet, a community 
engagement branch of the UF Clini-
cal and Translational Sciences In-
stitute, has been hosting interactive 
town halls since 2015. However, it 
held its first informational event 
on medical marijuana, said Ta-
mara Millay, spokesperson for UF 
HealthStreet. 
More than 40 people attended 
the hour-long event, which was 
also live streamed.
The event featured expert pan-
elists including Patrick Tighe, a UF 
associate professor of anesthesiol-
ogy, Jay Kuchera, who is on the 
American Board of Anesthesiol-
ogy and Pain Medicine, and Robert 
Cook, a UF epidemiology professor.
Two professionals also tuned in 
online: Shanna Babalonis from the 
University of Kentucky College of 
Medicine and Ruben Baler, a health 
science administrator from the Na-tional Institute on Drug Abuse.
The town hall allowed audience 
members to ask anonymous ques-
tions to the panelists, and spurred 
a discussion on the impact of medi-
cal marijuana.
The panelists presented their 
thoughts on medical marijuana, 
which they considered often over-
used and not medically beneficial 
for long-term treatment. Tighe read 
the first question asking why they 
thought this when people like Dr. 
Oz from “The Dr. Oz Show” are 
saying the opposite. 
Tighe explained the No. 1 rea-
son medical marijuana is used in 
this country is for pain reduction, 
but new studies have found insuffi-
cient evidence for the effectiveness 
of it in treating general pain. 
From an anesthesiologist per-
spective, Kuchera said that because 
marijuana addiction has increased 
from 10 percent to 30 percent in 
recent years, the amount of anes-
thesia medical professionals have 
to administer is increasing between 
25 percent to 300 percent. 
“That’s not something that I 
want to get wrong in one of my 
patients and that is a really big 
change that we have completely 
unanticipated,” Kuchera said.
Kuchera said marijuana could 
have positive treatment results if it is used properly, but through his 
research and medical experience 
he sees more of a desire for recre-
ational use, which is causing a lack 
of trust between the patient and 
the medical professionals. 
“I definitely see a lot of suf-
fering, and I see a lot of need,” 
Kuchera said. “If we are too ag-
gressiveand we make too many claims, if we do it the wrong way 
we can damage this drug that is 
very promising.”
Miaisha Mitchell, 74, traveled 
from Tallahassee to Gainesville 
Wednesday morning to learn about 
this controversial drug. 
She said she enjoyed the meet-
ing because she left with a fuller 
understanding of medical mari-juana.
“I was interested to find out if 
medical marijuana was actually 
a beneficial treatment alternative 
or if it was just a bunch of peo-
ple jumping on the bandwagon,” 
Mitchell said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgGainesville community gains insight on medical marijuana
T ori Whidden / Alligator Staff
Patrick Tighe (left), a UF associate professor of anesthesiology starts off the T own Hall Medical 
Marijuana at UF HealthStreet.  He sits with panelists Jay Kuchera (middle) and Robert Cook (back 
THE PROGRAM RANKED 
FOURTH OUT OF 142
By Sarah Morton
Contributing Writer
What does $23.7 million get you? For 
UF’s College of Pharmacy, the answer is 
fourth place.
The American Association of Col-
leges of Pharmacy (AACP) ranked 142 
pharmacy programs across the country, 
and UF made it in the top five in all 
three categories. 
The UF College of Pharmacy ranked 
fourth in the total amount of funding 
with $23.7 million, which includes pri-
vate and public money. In federal re-
search funding, UF ranked fifth with 
$19.3 million. Of the federal money, the 
college received $16.5 million from the 
National Institute of Health, landing it 
the fourth spot in that specific catego-
ry. The rankings, released May 8, were 
based on the time between October 
2016 to September 2017. 
Matt Splett, director of communi-
cations for the college, said a number 
of factors contributed to UF’s national 
rankings, especially the faculty’s im-
pressive research on various aspects of 
human health.
“Funding agencies look at the 
research,” Splett said. “They see that 
there is a lot of potential there, and 
that is why these grants have been 
awarded.”While UF is the No. 1 pharmacy col-
lege in the state according to the U.S. 
News & World Report rankings, Splett 
said the college is trying to help not 
only the state of Florida but also the 
world with its discoveries.
Part of the college’s research aims to 
address opioid abuse, Splett said. Re-
searchers look for alternatives to han-
dle pain, stop addiction and safely use 
existing drugs.
Julie Johnson, the college’s dean, 
credited some of the success in grant 
funding to the new faculty, including 
those working on the opioid research 
that draws in a lot of funding. New 
hires lead to a more advanced research 
group tackling pain and addiction.
“It’s brought new energy and ex-
pertise to the existing faculty that has 
allowed us really to step up,” Johnson 
said.
Johnson believes the college will 
move up in the rankings when they 
come out next year. The college has 
already collected more funding than it 
had in the previous cycle.
“My research team and I had really 
mapped the trajectory that we thought 
we would be on and hoped we would 
be on in terms of both dollars and rank-
ings, and we’re ahead of both of those,” 
Johnson said. “For next year, we’re 
confident that our numbers are going 
to be stronger than the data that just 
came out.”UF College of Pharmacy receives 
top funding across country
Santa Fe was already expanding the Center 
for Innovation and Economic Development, 
but the grant will help fund it, he said. The 
funding will enable the center to expand and 
provide additional space, so it can have more 
incubation areas for small businesses.
“The work that the Center of Innovation 
and Economic Development does — helping 
get businesses started up — is fantastic,” he 
said. “We are very grateful we have this op-
portunity.”
The expansion should be complete in Spring 
2021, Anderson said. Kathryn Lehman, Santa Fe director of spon-
sored projects, wrote in an email the funding 
will allow Santa Fe to continue to lead the re-
gion toward economic growth and resiliency, 
because it offers entrepreneurs the skills they 
need to turn their idea into a viable company.
So far, the center has served over 150 start-
up companies, she said.  
“These companies are the future of our 
state, and that is very exciting to me and all 
of us here at Santa Fe College,” Lehman said.
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgSANTA FE,  from pg. 1as well as the Senate, contested other execu-
tive appointments, citing lack of qualifications. 
Such appointments included agency heads of the 
Nightlife Navigators and Students Taking Action 
Against Racism, as well as cabinet directors of 
Finance and Affordability, Women’s Affairs, Vet-
eran’s Affairs, Innovation and LGBTQ Affairs. 
There was also contestation of the Diversity 
Affairs executive secretary.
Murphy said he had many of his nominations 
in mind before he took office, but he and his staff 
went through a rigorous selection process anyway.
“I and my staff made the choice to go above 
and beyond, accepting applications and conduct-
ing hours and hours of interviews for over 183 
applicants,” Murphy said. 
Senate President Libby Shaw said it is nor-
mal Senate procedure for the appointments to 
be heard in a block, and it was approved by the 
Replacement & Agenda Committee. 
Senate Minority Leader Ashley Grabowski 
and other Inspire Party members tried several 
tactics to prevent the appointments they dis-
agreed with from being voted on. 
“We wanted to make sure we communicated why we opposed things,” Grabowski said.
They attempted to overturn the special rule, 
bring the nominations back to the executive 
branch and to have candidates from certain 
blocks, like Carroll, considered individually by 
the Senate. All of these resolutions failed to pass 
by a Senate majority vote.
The agency heads’ block was voted on at the 
end of Tuesday’s meeting and was approved.
Senator Will Sandifer said he supported each 
of the nominations confirmed.
“Student Body President Murphy and the 
executive branch went above and beyond in 
screening for qualified applicants,” Sandifer said. 
“I am happy to have confirmed the next genera-
tion of our university’s student leaders.” 
Other blocks couldn’t be voted on because a 
group of Inspire Party members led by Grabows-
ki walked out so the Senate could no longer 
maintain quorum. 
Shaw said all procedures were followed dur-
ing the meeting, and the rest of the blocks will be 
voted on at next week’s senate meeting.
Inspire plans to have the results of the agency 
heads vote overturned. 
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG,  from pg. 14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
K-9 IS EXPECTED TO MAKE 
A FULL RECOVERY 
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
For one Gainesville man, a Sunday morn-
ing incident resulted in multiple charges. For 
K-9 ofﬁ  cer Ace, he was just doing his job.
Arthur Leonard Lang, 40, was seen driv-
ing a vehicle, recently reported as stolen, 
near The Niche Student Apartments, located 
at 4000 SW 37th Blvd. When Gainesville Po-
lice attempted to pull him over, Lang ﬂ  ed on 
foot, according to the arrest report.
Ofﬁ  cer Ed Ratliff deployed K-9 Ace to 
pursue Lang, but Lang punched the police 
dog multiple times. Lang reentered his ve-
hicle and was again confronted by ofﬁ  cers, 
according to the report. While attempting 
to handcuff Lang, Ofﬁ  cer Ratliff and his 
colleague, Ofﬁ  cer Ross Shugan, sustained 
blows before apprehending him.
During a search of the stolen vehicle, ofﬁ  cers found 25 grams of synthetic canna-
binoid, or “spice,” along with a crack pipe, 
according to the report.
Sgt. Charles Owens, GPD Canine Unit 
Team Supervisor, said K-9 Ace, 2.5-year-old 
German Shepherd, is expected to make a 
full recovery.
“He’s a little sore but no lasting injury,” 
Owens said. Ofﬁ  cer Ratliff will need surgery 
for a broken hand sustained during the in-
cident.
Lang had an active warrant for burglary 
and grand theft. He was charged with bat-
tery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer, grand 
theft auto, possession of a controlled sub-
stance with intent to sell, possession of drug 
paraphernalia, resisting arrest, striking a 
police animal and driving on a suspended 
license.
He remains in jail in lieu of a combined 
bond of $156,000.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan arrested after driving stolen car, punching K-9
THE BUSES WILL BE 
ABLE TO CARRY 12 
PASSENGERS EACH
By Sarah Pickett
Contributing Writer
Gainesville is waiting on govern-
ment approval for public use of au-
tobuses, which run with electricity 
instead humans.
City Spokesperson Chip Skinner 
said Gainesville hoped to receive 
approval from the Federal Highway 
Administration last year, though of-
ﬁ  ce closure during the federal gov-
ernment shutdown resulted in a 
backlog. Once approved, the service could 
be up and running within two to four 
weeks, Skinner said. The bus would 
run along Southwest Second Avenue 
around Innovation Square. 
If the service is successful, the 
route will expand to the Rosa Parks 
Downtown Station and, eventually, 
to the UF campus.
With funding from the Florida 
Department of Transportation, the 
city is leasing four autonomous bus-
es from Transdev, Skinner said. 
Each bus can carry a total of 12 
passengers, six standing and six sit-
ting.
Gainesville began testing the ﬁ  rst 
bus last August. Skinner said the bus was moni-
tored while learning how to drive on 
Gainesville roads. The testing phase 
has since been completed. 
“We took the lead vehicle and 
downloaded everything that it 
learned during that testing period 
into the other three vehicles,” he 
said. 
Once the lease ends, the city will 
determine if the service is beneﬁ  cial 
and cost-effective. Skinner said the 
buses could signiﬁ  cantly help people 
and allow for morning shuttle servic-
es from the east side of Gainesville 
to the Rosa Parks Downtown Station 
where they can catch larger buses.
“[The autobus could] allow peo-ple to manage their time more efﬁ  -
ciently,” he said.  “Instead of driv-
ing their vehicle, they could possibly 
ride an automated vehicle and get 
some work done on the way to the 
ofﬁ  ce.” 
A 2018 survey conducted by the 
city and the UF Transportation Insti-
tute found mixed feelings about the 
use of autobuses. 
While some people are excited 
to see new technology coming to 
Gainesville, others do not want their 
children riding their bikes on the 
same road as an autonomous vehi-
cle, Skinner said.
Some people also expressed a 
concern for the RTS drivers whose jobs may be affected, but Skinner 
said the autonomous buses would 
create new jobs because people will 
monitor them and control the buses 
remotely if necessary.
Mitchell McGahan, a 24-year-old 
Santa Fe College operational man-
agement junior, lives in the area 
where the bus would operate. He 
said he would “deﬁ  nitely” be open 
to trying the new bus.
“American cities are really lag-
ging behind on electrical buses, 
compared to Europe,” McGahan 
said. “I’m happy to hear that a city 
in America is trying to implement an 
electronic bus system.”Gainesville awaits government approval for autobuses
Chris Day / Alligator Sports
Ofﬁ  cer Ed Ratliff pets Ace, 2, Saturday, February 23 during a Gainesville Police Department 
K-9 unit demonstration at the 2nd annual Stop Paws Learn event at the Santa Fe College 
T eaching Zoo. Ace is an apprehension and narcotics certiﬁ  ed dog, who is trained to track 
and ﬁ  nd people and drugs for the police department. Ratliff has been working with Ace on 
the road since the Summer 2018. THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
The Ronald McDonald House of North Central Florida will be cleaned 
on Monday for free Triple-C System of Citrus Springs, Florida.  
THE STORE IS EXPECTED TO 
OPEN IN LATE JUL Y 
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Gainesville shoppers will soon have the 
option to tackle their holiday and grocery 
shopping in one trip with the opening of a 
Bath & Body Works location near Target in 
Butler Plaza West.
The new store, located at 3948 Archer 
Road., is anticipated to open in mid to late July, said a Bath & Body Works representa-
tive in an email. Construction for the store 
began May 5, and it will be approximately 
3,550-square-feet and feature a White Barn 
shop within the store. 
The Bath & Body Works in Oaks Mall 
will remain open, said Ana Collins, store 
manager.
Mary Reichardt, the marketing director 
at Butler Enterprises, said the store is not 
necessarily about attracting more business 
but to cater to shoppers who are there al-
ready.“We just hope that the right co-tenan-
cy, which would be adding a store similar 
to what other people are already coming 
there for, would just make it more conve-
nient for the shoppers are already there,” 
Reichardt said. 
Nicole Moscoso, a 21-year-old UF health 
science senior, said that for students who 
don’t want to take a trip to the mall, the 
location is convenient and will allow cus-
tomers to pick up items quickly while gro-
cery shopping.
“Their range of scents is wide enough for anyone to find something they like,” 
Moscoso said. “My favorite scent is the 
aromatherapy scent Focus.”
Most of the stores opening in the Butler 
area this year are going to be in the new 
development, Butler Town Center. But-
ler Enterprises currently has four or five 
openings scheduled by the end of the year, 
Reichardt said.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgNew Bath & Body Works coming to Butler Plaza WestTRIPLE-C SYSTEM 
WILL CLEAN THE 
ENTIRE HOUSE ON 
MONDAY FOR FREE
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
The Ronald McDonald 
House is known for help-
ing those in need. This 
Monday, it will receive 
help of its own.
Triple-C System, a 
cleaning service based in 
Citrus Springs, Florida, 
will drive over an hour 
Monday to clean the 
North Central Florida lo-
cation for free. 
For Brian Crain, the 
owner and operator of 
Triple-C System, this is 
not the first time he has 
given back. For the last 
few years, he and his 
team have also cleaned 
the Ronald McDonald 
House in St. Petersburg at 
no cost. “This was a nation-
wide thing,” Crain said. 
“A lot of cleaners have 
been doing this and giving 
back, and I just felt the ur-
gency to reach out on my 
own.”
Crain reached out to 
the Gainesville house at 
1600 SW 14 St., which 
was more than happy to 
set up an appointment to 
meet, Crain said. He and 
his team of around 15 to 
20 people want to do what 
they can to help others.
“They’re a good or-
ganization,” Crain said. 
“They’re helping people 
when their kids are sick.”
Sherry Houston, the 
executive director of the 
Ronald McDonald House 
Charities of North Cen-
tral Florida, remembers 
when Crain first called her 
to ask if he could take a 
look at the 22,000-square-
foot house she runs in 
Gainesville. One after-noon, he stopped by and 
inspected its tile floors. 
“No matter how many 
times our floors are 
mopped and the grout 
is cleaned, it just looks 
like a 40-year-old floor,” 
Houston said. 
The house has 31 
rooms, all of which are 
occupied. The average 
waitlist of families is be-
tween 30 to 40 families 
at all times. As expected, 
hundreds of people walk 
across the floors every 
day, Houston said.
Families are allowed to 
stay at the Ronald McDon-
ald House from the time 
they receive a room until 
their child is discharged, 
Houston said. The aver-
age stay is approximately 
48 days, though they also 
have three short-term 
rooms for families who 
only need to stay for a 
week. 
“We just had a family who just left us who were 
here for 18 months,” 
houston said. “Their son 
received a heart, and he is 
waiting for kidneys now.”
The top three diagno-
ses of children who stay 
at the house are heart dis-
ease, cancer or premature 
birth, Houston said. 
Crain’s team will work 
all day Monday, starting 
at 10 a.m. and finishing 
around 5 p.m. 
“Good things happen 
in the world,” Houston 
said, “and it’s really nice 
to see people who are 
kind, considerate, gener-
ous and want to put a 
smile on people’s faces. 
It’s really humbling to be 
on the receiving end of 
that.”
@AshleyLazarski
alazarski@alligator.orgCitrus Springs crew to clean Ronald McDonald HouseThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnYou ﬁ  nally pulled enough money together to buy a ﬂ  ight out 
of Orlando. 
Thanks to a super cheap Spirit ticket, you will be catching 
ﬂ  ights, instead of feelings in your lonely apartment. The time has 
come for you to escape this ghost town. Of course, the one time 
you decide to leave your apartment, there’s not only trafﬁ  c but an 
accident... and construction. 
You roll up to the airport but have to run through terminals 
and security check. You rush up to the screen showing which 
ﬂ  ights are arriving and departing to ﬁ  nd your ﬂ  ight gate. You look 
for your ﬂ  ight and then you see it…
Darts & Laurels
The idea of climbing Mount Everest sits on top of many ad-
venturers’ bucket lists. But this climbing season has seen a death 
toll of at least 11 people as of Wednesday. The increase in climb-
ers trying to take advantage of the good weather in the Himalayas 
has too many people on top of a small summit. We are giving a 
dart to this situation. People are putting themselves at risk by 
overcrowding the highly coveted climbing spot. The Nepal gov-
ernment issued a record high of 381 permits in an attempt to 
commercialize the mountain, as the New York Times put it. 
Another dart goes to Johnson & Johnson as the trial for its 
potential inﬂ  uence on the opioid epidemic began Tuesday. In 
2017, the Oklahoma attorney general sued the company, Purdue 
Pharma, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and other big pharma 
companies, accusing the companies of de-emphasizing risks and 
over-exaggerating opioid’s beneﬁ  ts. Purdue Pharma settled for 
$270 million and Teva Pharmaceutical settled for $85 million. 
Johnson & Johnson argues it can’t be held liable for the crisis 
because its products are FDA approved. 
MacKenzie Bezos has us thinking “always look on the bright 
side of life.” She received more than $35 billion in her divorce 
from Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. We’re giving her a laurel, 
because she pledged to donate more than half. Speciﬁ  cally, she 
signed the Giving Pledge, a promise wealthy patrons make to do-
nate more than half of their assets sometime in their life or after 
death. Bezos has yet to say where speciﬁ  cally her money will 
go, but she said she will keep donating “until the safe is empty.”
We know the future is here because Pizza Hut has changed 
its Original Pan Pizza for the ﬁ  rst time in over 40 years. New 
cheese, new sauce, new cooking pan — it looks like Pizza Hut 
just broke up with their long-term boyfriend and invested in an 
all-out makeover. We are giving a laurel to the pizza company 
for taking a risk and throwing out the 49-year old recipe and 
ﬁ  nally welcoming the 21st century. 
Pizza Hut isn’t the only company cha-cha-changing its classic 
products. We are giving the new Apple iPod Touch a laurel for 
giving the iconic iPod Touch a new processor and simultaneously 
giving us a reason to spend money we don’t have on items we 
don’t need. Nothing screams middle school nostalgia like blasting 
emo tunes to drown out the sorrow of being a preteen. Hopefully, 
the iPod Touch makes a comeback so we can disconnect from the 
notiﬁ  cations that get in the way of our music therapy.
Since Botswana lifted its ban against hunting African ele-
phants, we feel it is fair to put it in the place of an elephant and 
send a hurtling dart its way. On May 22, Botswana’s government 
removed the ban making the vulnerable elephant population 
open to hunters. Under the International Union for Conservation 
of Nature’s Red List, the elephant is classiﬁ  ed as vulnerable. Be-
tween 2007 and 2014 the number of elephants fell 30 percent. An 
elephant never forgets. Hopefully thousands of years from now, 
evolution gives elephants the ability to wreak revenge on those 
who allowed open season on them.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORLast year, Twitter banded together to ditch 
plastic straws. Viral tweets declaring, “Save 
the turtles!” received hundreds of thousands 
of retweets from people across the political 
spectrum. While banning plastic straws may 
seem like a great way to help the planet, plas-
tic straws aren’t the problem. 
Plastic straws contribute to only 0.025 per-
cent of the 8 million tons of plastic that ﬂ  ow 
into the ocean annually. Even if everyone 
stopped using plastic straws it wouldn’t have a signiﬁ  -
cant impact on the oceans’ total plastic waste.
So why did the reusable straw movement gain so 
much traction? Because it is such a small change people 
can make in their daily lives which allows them to feel 
like they are making a difference when in reality -- they 
aren’t. 
Cigarette butts, plastic food packaging and plastic 
bottles are the biggest contributors to ocean waste. But 
giving up smoking or easy to-go packaged food isn’t 
something most people are willing to do.
Am I saying to keep on using plastic straws anyway? 
No. Plastic straws still constitute a percentage of the 
oceans’ plastic. If you are someone who doesn’t need to 
use plastic straws due to a disability, then you probably 
should cut them out.  
The reusable straw movement should act as a step-
ping stone toward reducing our plastic use. For exam-ple, we can introduce a tax on plastic bags 
or ban single-use plastic bags like the city of 
Gainesville has done. 
While these solutions help reduce the 
waste of the average citizen, they leave out 
the elephant in the room — major corpora-
tions. Companies contribute far more to plas-
tic waste than individuals. Coca-Cola, Pepsi-
Co and Nestle are the top three producers of 
plastic trash, according to Greenpeace. 
Major corporations are not being held responsible. 
Simultaneously, people are constantly being preached 
to recycle or to take shorter showers to help “save the 
planet.” But why should the little guy bear the burden 
of protecting the environment while the greatest con-
tributors do nothing?
Holding major corporations responsible for plastic 
pollution is complicated and not as trendy as the anti-
straw movement, but it’s what needs to be done for the 
environment’s sake. Researchers estimate plastics will 
outweigh ﬁ  sh in the ocean by 2050. If we keep follow-
ing “solutions” to end plastic pollution, rather than ad-
dressing the real issue, the Earth will suffer as a result.
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Thursdays. To read the full column, 
visit the Opinions section at the alligator.orgHow the reusable straw movement fails the environment
Cassidy Hopson 
opinions@alligator.org
Column
Now that summer is 
fast approaching, some of 
you may be looking for 
ways to spend these sunny 
days. For those who have 
an empty summer ahead 
of you: congratulations. 
For those who already 
have travel plans, try to 
hold off on telling us un-
fortunates every exciting 
detail of your upcoming 
vacation. It gets old quick-
ly for folks, like me, stuck 
in Gainesville: attending 
classes, working or oth-
erwise unable to travel to 
exotic locales. 
If you have the time 
and funds, I would heart-
ily suggest traveling. Don’t 
think by traveling I auto-
matically mean going on a 
cruise to a Caribbean  is-
land or hopping on a plane 
to spend a month back-
packing in Europe. Any 
trip, big or small, counts, 
even if it is a road trip to 
visit your grandparents in 
Georgia.
With that disclaimer out 
of the way, the following 
advice is for those plan-
ning to travel this summer: Go solo. 
Now with-
in reason, of 
course. I’m not 
saying to close 
your eyes, throw 
a dart at a world 
map and go 
where it lands. 
Make sure to 
thoroughly research where 
you are going, how you 
are going to get there, your 
accommodations and all 
your relevant tickets. 
Solo traveling will seem 
daunting at ﬁ  rst. I mean 
traveling by yourself on a 
plane, train or any other 
kind of transportation will 
seem scary at ﬁ  rst. The 
distance from home (espe-
cially if traveling outside 
the U.S.) will add to your 
anxiety. 
Don’t worry, it will be 
temporary. You will look 
back on your journey with 
pride at your accomplish-
ment of going alone and 
fondness at all the fun you 
had. 
Still not convinced? Let 
me give some ﬁ  rst-hand 
experience.My senior 
year of high 
school a group 
of teachers or-
ganized a senior 
trip to Europe. It 
was not my ﬁ  rst 
trip outside the 
U.S., but it was 
my ﬁ  rst trip to 
Europe and my ﬁ  rst where 
I was unaccompanied by 
parents. 
I was excited but a 
little nervous. The nerves 
came from the thought of 
traversing Europe alone. 
Well, as alone as you can 
get with a couple of teach-
ers as chaperones and at 
least 10 of my classmates 
traveling with me.   
I didn’t expect to enjoy 
traveling solo as much as I 
did. It was liberating! I felt 
like an adult for the ﬁ  rst 
time. I ate what I wanted, 
bought what I wanted and 
explored where I wanted 
with no parent hovering 
over me. The best part 
was nothing happened to 
me. Obviously this is due 
to the presence of chaper-
ones and being in a group however, I have traveled 
completely by myself in a 
foreign country before and 
still nothing happened to 
me. Nothing bad automati-
cally happens to you when 
you travel by yourself. 
There are more things to 
gain by traveling solo that 
far outweigh the possible 
negatives. You gain inde-
pendence. You might meet 
cool people along the way. 
You get to explore what 
you want when you want 
without worries about the 
rest of your traveling com-
panions. You’re free to eat 
what you want without a 
parent looking disapprov-
ingly at the McDonald’s 
chicken nuggets you just 
had to try (yes, I know 
they taste exactly same 
but it’s about the novelty 
of eating them while in a 
foreign country!). 
Take my advice. The 
next trip you go on, trav-
el by yourself. You won’t 
regret it. You might even 
learn something new, like 
how mussels are deli-
cious or how Germany is 
so beautiful you just must 
come back. 
Stay safe and happy 
travels!  Why solo traveling is worth it
Liana Murphy 
opinions@alligator.org
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
NATIONAL BURGER 
DAY CELEBRATED AT 
FIRST MAGNITUDE 
BREWING COMPANY
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
Mayﬂ  ower Cellars threw 
quite the “patty” Tuesday, 
celebrating National Burger 
Day at First Magnitude Brew-
ing Company via food truck. 
Typically offering various 
artisanal meats, the truck’s 
Tuesday menu featured its 
best burger combinations. 
The Avenue put these burg-
ers bun-to-bun to see which 
would be crowned king.
The Island Burger:
This sweet burger was 
composed of a signature beef 
patty, jerk seasoning, pine-
apple salsa, grilled onions, 
mixed greens and lemon 
garlic aioli between a chal-
lah bun. It had a complex 
contrast between the sweet 
pineapple and onion, was juicy, well-seasoned and 
cooked ﬂ  awlessly. The bun 
was ﬁ  rm despite all of its 
juicy contents. 
Mayﬂ  ower Cellars chef 
Cade Goulin said, “The is-
land burger is my favorite. 
The tropical ﬂ  avors and 
fresh pineapple salsa make it 
better than the rest.”
Price: $9
Rating: 10/10
Curry Burger:
This unique burger was 
made of a curry chicken pat-
ty, muenster cheese, grilled 
onions, pickles, mixed 
greens and lemon garlic ai-
oli with a challah bun. The 
curry taste was subtle and 
tied the ﬂ  avors of the other 
ingredients together nicely. 
The onions added a sweet 
crunch as well. This burger 
was much better than ex-
pected. 
Price: $8 
Rating: 9/10Classic Burger:
The Classic Burger 
featured a toasted challah 
bun stuffed with a classic 
beef patty, American cheese, 
tomato, pickle, red onion and 
mixed greens. This burger is 
pricy for what it appeared to 
be, though the size and taste 
justiﬁ  ed it. The patty was 
perfectly cooked and the 
mixed greens tasted really 
fresh. Mayﬂ  ower Cellars’ 
crispy fries compliment this 
burger very well.
Ashley Putlack, a 20-year-
old UF marine science junior 
said, “I highly suggest put-
ting the fries in the burger.” 
Price: $8, or $11 with fries
Rating: 9/10
The Island Burger was 
crowned the burger king. 
However, if tropical burgers 
aren’t for you, Mayﬂ  ower 
Cellars’ diverse menu has a 
different ﬂ  avor combination 
for every burger lover.
@lilygirton
lilygirton@uﬂ  .eduAvenue Eats: Bun-ches of National Burger Day ﬂ  avors
FOOD
Lily Girton / Alligator Staff
Mayﬂ  ower Cellars restaurant frequently posts food trucks throughout 
Gainesville.
“A WALK IN THE PARK” TO 
OPEN THIS FRIDAY AT THE 
THOMAS CENTER
By Harley Smith
Avenue Staff Writer
In the 150 years since Gainesville has 
been incorporated, its parks have played a 
big role in the lives of its residents.
To honor the more than 90 parks over-
seen by the city, the “A Walk in the Park” 
art exhibit was created and will open this 
Friday, May 31 at 7 p.m. in a gallery at the 
Historic Thomas Center. 
The collection will contain pieces from 
10 local artists featuring the preserved 
lands, recreation complexes, historic gar-
dens and dog parks of Gainesville. The 
art encourages the viewer to look at these 
spaces, which may be taken for granted 
day-to-day, in a different way. 
Russell Etling, cultural affairs manager 
for Gainesville’s parks, recreation and cul-
tural affairs department, hopes this exhibit 
brings attention to and encourages people 
to enjoy these natural assets. “I can stand in Depot Park and watch 
kids splashing in the water and just be 
thankful that our community invests in 
these facilities to improve all of our quality 
of life,” Etling said.
After the grand opening, there will be a 
reception held from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., which 
will include waltzing and live music in the 
Spanish Court at the Thomas Center. The 
exhibit and reception are open and free to 
the public. 
This collection of art honoring the parks 
won’t be here forever. The exhibit will be 
at the gallery until Saturday, Jan. 4, 2020. 
“A Walk in the Park” is one of many 
projects organized by citizens and city em-
ployees as a part of the “Gainesville150!” 
celebration, which commemorates the 
150th anniversary of Gainesville becoming 
an ofﬁ  cial city. 
“For the 12 months of this anniversary 
year, we will be doing a variety of pro-
grams… marking this very important mo-
ment in time,” Etling said.
@harleyj_smith
harleyjune8@gmail.comNew art exhibit makes viewers 
reimagine Gainesville’s parks
FOOD
ZOMBIES, WEREWOLVES AND 
VAMPIRES WELCOME
Priya Dames
Avenue Staff Writer
Start practicing your best zombie walk, 
because Boca Fiesta is celebrating its 10th an-
niversary with a zombie prom themed dance 
party. 
The event will take place Saturday from 8 
p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Backyard at Boca Fiesta 
and Palomino, 232 1/2 SE 1st St.
The popular hangout spot throws a par-
ty every year to celebrate the anniversary 
of their ﬁ  rst year in business, and this isn’t 
their ﬁ  rst party for the living dead. The res-
taurant’s ﬁ  rst anniversary was also zombie 
prom themed.
“Originally, we thought about what’s a 
fun costume party that you don’t need to 
go spend a bunch of money to look the part 
of the theme,” Jacob Ihde, Boca Fiesta co-
founder, said.
The restaurant will be ordering pizza for 
all attendees so employees can take a night 
off to enjoy the party.
“We’re giving the night off to our em-
ployees so we can thank them for being the 
biggest part of us being here for 10  years,” Ihde said.
There will also be live music and a DJ. 
One of the bands from the ﬁ  rst anniversary, 
the Ex-Boogeymen, will perform as well.
Idhe described the band as American ga-
rage rock-inﬂ  uenced punk a la the Stooges 
and the Cramps, with the macabre theatrics 
of Alice Cooper and Screamin.
The host, Reverend Liaison, will be an-
nouncing the zombie prom royalty and DJ 
Wax Atom will play prom hits for the rest of 
the night. 
The best-dressed zombies will be award-
ed prizes. There will also be photo booths set 
up for attendees and drink specials at Boca 
Fiesta, Palomino Pool Hall, and The Back-
yard Bar.
Attendees must be 21 or older. Admission 
is $5 or free with a non-perishable food item 
that Boca Fiesta will donate to the Bread of 
the Mighty Food Bank.
Ihde said humans aren’t expected to 
show up.
“Hopefully just zombies; werewolves and 
vampires also invited.” Ihde said.
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduBoca Fiesta to celebrate 10th 
anniversary with zombie prom
MUSICPERFORMANCE ARTIST 
TOM MILLER COMPLETES 
HIS FIRST SCREENPLAY
By Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer 
Tom Miller, who held an exor-
cism for Richard Spencer at his open 
mic show last year, is writing a love 
letter to Gainesville in his newly ﬁ  n-
ished screenplay, “The Tabernacle 
of Hedonism.”
The screenplay, currently has the 
same name as his open mic show. 
Miller, 53, did not want to give 
too much away about the script, 
but he does conﬁ  rm that the story is 
about a group of oddballs and mis-
ﬁ  ts in Gainesville forming a church 
of absurdity to legalize marijuana, 
defeat the Alien Motherhood and 
spread the word of Jamba, who is 
the Great Dumpster Goddess.
While there is a sci-ﬁ   part to this 
script, it is loosely based on Miller’s 
life as well as his open mic show.
The screenplay was actually an 
assignment for the school Miller at-
tends: the Maharishi University of 
Management. It is a private univer-
sity in Fairﬁ  eld, Iowa founded by 
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who was a 
guru to The Beatles. The school teaches conscious-
ness-based education and it also 
practices Transcendental Medita-
tion. It is a type of meditation usu-
ally called TM created by Yogi. 
“Transcendental Meditation 
played a huge part in the writing 
of this script, allowing me to ac-
cess deeper levels of intuition and 
creativity than ever before,” Miller 
said.
Miller has only written two 
screenplays as of now, and both 
were for the David Lynch MFA in 
Screenwriting program he is pursu-
ing at school.
Miller has written plays for the-
ater in the past, and his ﬁ  rst play 
produced was called “UMMU.” It 
had a staged reading at the Across-
town Repertory Theatre on June 
26 and 27 in 2015. It premiered at 
Acrosstown on May 12, 2017. 
Miller attributes his love for art 
to his aunt, Alice Reed, who taught 
piano. He was adopted by Reed’s 
sister, Alfreda, and her husband, 
Nathan Miller, when he was 1.
Growing up, Miller loved music, 
acting and writing. Miller has been 
in many bands in his life and cre-
ated over 50 albums.  
In 1984, he followed some 
friends to Gainesville and fell in love with the place. Miller later received 
his BA in acting at UF in 2017.
“Gainesville has a spirit and an 
energy,” Miller said. “In a way it 
has its own consciousness and if 
you dig deep and go in you can ﬁ  nd 
the most extraordinary things in 
this town.” 
Many of the characters in his 
story are based on people he met in 
Gainesville. One of the main char-
acters in the story is based on Paul 
Cohen, who was selling his poems 
in 1984, when he met Miller. 
Cohen later became Rev. Angel-
dust, who leads The Church of Ab-
surdity that started in 2013. 
“The church encourages free 
thinking and expression,” Rev. An-
geldust said. “It is using counter 
culture and hard drugs to try to end 
violence.”
Another person who has a char-
acter in the script is Rose Loston, a 
woman, who now goes by Granny, 
who has struggled with homeless-
ness her entire life. 
She said she does not mind 
being written about in Miller’s 
screenplay. 
Miller hopes this story is picked 
up by a movie company and pro-
duced. He is plans to send his 
story to industry insiders, vetted script lists and Hollywood.
“The story is about embracing 
diversity, freedom of speech and 
accepting one’s self with no apolo-
gies.” Miller said.  “Yeah, so it has those deep messages and it has 
aliens.”
@BtNWallace
bwallace@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
CHINESE HOTPOT RESTAURANT 
NINE SPICES FONDUE IS HAVING 
A GRAND OPENING
Brittany Wallace
Avenue Staff Writer
Nine Spices Fondue is now gearing up for its 
grand opening this Saturday. They already had a 
soft opening May 11, which had a positive recep-
tion from the Gainesville community, according 
to co-owner Julie Ou.
The restaurant is co-owned by husband Zha-
oxiong Zheng, who goes by Jimmy, and his wife 
Julie. Nine Spices Fondue is a Chinese hotpot res-
taurant located at 3333 SW 34th St.
Since 2000, the couple has been running res-
taurants out of Atlanta, Georgia, but in 2017 they 
moved to Florida and opened Nine Spices Hotpot 
in Orlando. Nine Spices Hotpot is a chain restau-
rant with other locations in Florida, but the only 
locations Zheng and Ou own are in Orlando and 
Gainesville. 
The couple came to Gainesville because of its 
diversity and student population.
“The people are really nice, and I haven’t had 
any problems,” Ou said. 
Hotpot is a common style of cuisine in many 
Asian countries. It is a place where customers 
have a burner on the table and cook their own 
food, adding it to a premade soup broth of their 
choice. 
At Nine Spices Fondue, there is a conveyor 
belt where different vegetables and meat can be 
chosen and then taken back to the table to be 
cooked. There are two ways to make a hotpot at the 
restaurant: the buffet version, which costs $26.95, 
and a single portion version, which ranges from 
$13.95 to $19.95, depending on which meat you 
choose.
For the buffet version, customers can pick 
their broth and add as much meat and vegetables 
as they desire for two hours.
My Le, 22, the student manager of the res-
taurant, is planning the grand opening. She said 
there will be two deals offered this Saturday. The 
ﬁ  rst deal is 10 percent off the buffet meal, which 
is currently offered. The second deal allows a free 
meal to one of your guests: if you bring in six 
people the sixth eats for free. 
Although all the soups are originally beef- and 
pork-based, if a customer asks, the kitchen staff 
can make a broth for both vegans and vegetar-
ians. 
“The kitchen staff are very sterile, and they 
know that if it’s vegan they would change gloves 
and use standard precaution needed,” Le said.
There is also a bar section of the restaurant, 
which sells liquor as well as milk teas, fresh 
squeezed fruit juice and fruit tea.
Le mentioned she hopes people who come to 
the restaurant will share a meal and it will bring 
them closer to one another. 
“[In Asian culture,] we don’t really express 
love out loud, we do it through our actions,” Le 
said. “When Chinese families are cooking and 
sharing food that is how we say we love you.”
@BtNwallace
bwallace@alligator.orgNine Spices Fondue brings new 
Chinese hotpot to Gainesville
NIGHTLIFE
THE NEW “MOVEMENT 
AND MUSIC” FESTIVAL 
MIXES EXERCISE, ART 
AND LIVE MUSIC TO 
CREATE A DISTINCT 
FESTIVAL EXPERIENCE
By Nick Hudson
Avenue Staff Writer
A new twist on the traditional mu-
sic festival will come to Gainesville 
Saturday.
KINECTION is a traveling move-
ment and music festival that com-
bines different exercise and move-
ment styles with live music.
Attendees can expect to be intro-
duced to a variety of unique move-
ment activities, such as acroyoga 
and human foosball, while also par-
ticipating in 30-minute workout and 
yoga sessions.
The festival will be at Curia on the 
Drag and begin at 6 p.m. This week-
end will be the second time the event 
is held in Gainesville, as the city was 
a stop during KINECTION’s inaugu-
ral tour in Fall 2018.
Gainesville is the ﬁ  rst stop of the 
2019 tour with Austin, New York 
City and Boston also to have events 
throughout June.
KINECTION predominantly fea-
tures local artists, musicians, ven-
dors and movement specialists.Gainesville guests participating 
in the festival include yoga instruc-
tors from Flow Space, who will be 
leading workshops and breakout 
sessions, vegan food joint Radha’s 
Kitchen and local bands Tamayo and 
the Dolce Kings.
The festival began as an idea be-
tween friends Danielle Gertner and 
Sarah Gaines, who met each other 
online in early 2018. Together, they 
co-founded KINECTION.
Gertner, a Gainesville resident and 
UF alumnus, believes Gainesville is 
the perfect place to host this event.
“We have so many incredible peo-
ple, movement artists and musicians 
that are hidden, and I wanted to have 
an event that brought them together 
and put them in the spotlight,” Gert-
ner said.
For Gertner, the purpose of the 
event is to expose people to new 
kinds of movement and to help them 
connect with their community.
“We are celebrating the energy 
that is created when you connect to 
your body, your mind and your com-
munity,” Gertner said. 
To buy tickets or learn more about 
the event, check out its website at ki-
nectiontour.com.
@Nick_R_Hudson
nhudson@alligator.orgAll about KINECTION 2019Brittany Wallace
Writer and Gainesville resident T om Miller looks over his 
most recent work “The T abernacle Hedonism. ”
Local resident writes a love letter to Gainesville
LIFESTYLE
FOODBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,000/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-30-19-102-2
GREAT FOR UF STUDENT
3BR/3BA, 2-story condo behind Gainesville 
Sun Office. July 1st, $875 / mo each. nghe@
msn.com or phone 352-327-2931    5-30-19-
6-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1050/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard,
large closets, pets welcome, no application
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100        8-13-19-24-2
ONLY 4 LEFT...1/1's Available for UF 
Students for the Fall! Quiet student com-
munity on Archer. $865-$900 includes water, 
gas, basic cable and Internet. Call Erika at 
352-373-2700      6-6-19-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10Trump MAGA wearers hate this hat for 
mocking theirs Make A Hole Go A Way of 
course the MAGA on this hat is much lager 
than all of the other. Go to Gville Craigslist and 
type in Blue Hat to see the hat and contact info.     
5-30-19-4-10
Honda EU7000is 7000w Inverter
Generator 120/240v, 
18 hours. never an issue. $800! Contact: 
7864924736     6-6-19-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 3 Subleases 10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!"
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau -
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver -
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
ACCOUNTING RESEARCH ASSISTANT/
FULL AND PART TIME
Join our exciting, fast-paced Content 
Production team and assist with writing, edit-
ing, and publishing the best review and study 
materials available. Our Content Production 
Department crafts the products that the 
rest of the departments support. Content 
Production is dedicated to providing our cus-
tomers the most up-to-date knowledge trans-
fer systems. Many of our team members are 
students and from the University of Florida, 
Santa Fe College, and Embry Riddle. We of-
fer an engaging, challenging work environ -
ment; flexible schedules; great benefits; ca-
sual dress; and a positive work environment. 
Drug test and background check conducted 
when job offer is extended.
DESCRIPTION:
Perform customer support through emails. 
Critical reading, editing and research are ad-
ditional responsibilities. This is an ideal po-
sition for new accounting graduates looking 
for full time while they study for the CPA or 
accounting students that would like to learn 
while they earn. We have a great success 
rate of ARA's who pass the CPA on the first 
try. Assist with special projects, as needed. 
Miscellaneous other duties as needed.
Perfect for graduating students who are 
looking for full time work and want to work 
in Gainesville for the next year or accounting 
students that are in their fourth or fifth year of 
study and can work at least 15 hours a week. 
Students will receive $14.00/hr during the 
training period, $15.00/hr upon completion 
and $16.00 after successful completion of 
the 90 day period.
REQUIREMENTS
● Must be able to work on-site in Gainesville, 
Florida.
● Typing 40+ wpm.
● 4th or 5th year Accounting student that 
has taken auditing and tax classes or is in 
the process of starting auditing and tax or are 
graduating. 
● 3.0+ GPA.
● Must be available at least 15 hours per 
week. Full time is available during the sum-
mer or throughout the year. 
● Able to work in a library environment.
Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    
6-6-19-4-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-20-19-
12-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
Is your business, club or organization 
having an event? Do you have a special 
Announcement? Place your ad here and get 
it noticed!
Researchers at the University of Florida are 
looking for cigarette smokers to participate in
a study involving incentives for quitting. If 
interested, call the Behavioral Health and 
Technology Research Clinic at 352-273-
2151 or email us at motiv8@psych.ufl.edu.    
6-4-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a 
service? Place your ad in the  Services 
Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
East Side High SchoolCONGRATULATIONS!
Hall of Fame, 2019
East Side High School
East Side High School
East Side High School
CONGRATULATIONS!
CONGRATULATIONS!
CONGRATULATIONS!
Dante del Rosario
By Ross Trudeau
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/30/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/30/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, May 30, 2019
ACROSS
1 Hairy swinger
4 Blue 
semiprecious 
stone
11 Vainglory
14 “Blue Bloods” 
actor Selleck
15 Joint Chiefs 
member
16 Bubbly title
17 Dreamed of a 
career in politics
20 Mythical hunter
21 Considerable 
stretches
22 Thames 
academy
23 Old Opry network
24 Nice picnic spot?
25 Burn soothers
26 Took part in a 
revival
29 Hit one out, in 
baseball parlance
30 Atomic number of 
nitrogen
31 TV commentator 
Navarro
32 Fort Collins sch.
34 Cone producer
35 “Amscray!”
38 Singer Lopez
40 Name on a “Little 
Women” book 
jacket
42 “We can’t win!” 
and “It’s useless!”
45 “Something 
to Talk About” 
singer
46 Low-quality
47 Mining supply
48 Subject of the 
documentary 
“Blackfish”
49 __-g
50 Terra __
52 New father’s task, 
maybe ... and 
what the three 
other longest 
puzzle answers 
have in common?
55 Luv
56 Candy bowl 
holder’s rule on 
Halloween
57 __ generis
58 Short albums, for 
short
59 “Afterwards ... ”
60 Word before cow, 
dog or lionDOWN
1 Somewhat
2 Physics particle
3 Spanish stuffed 
pastry
4 Taj Mahal city
5 Zombiepocalypse 
start?
6 Like a zombie
7 Snappy 
comebacks
8 Japanese show 
set in a kitchen
9 New Mexico 
resort
10 Pixie
11 Publishing house 
hiree
12 Start admitting 
both men and 
women
13 Fodder for 
soothsayers
18 Navel variety
19 Pen denizen
24 Soft drink 
choices
25 Last Olds 
models
26 Dustin Johnson’s 
org.
27 Confidential
28 More wicked
33 Still wrapped35 Garganta of 
“Femforce” 
comics, e.g.
36 “No kidding?”
37 Road gunk
38 Saturn’s largest 
moon
39 “It’s not coming 
to me”
41 “High five!”
42 Drive-in server
43 Puerto __: San 
Juan natives44 “Camptown 
Races” refrain 
syllables
45 Valium maker
49 “A People’s 
History of the 
United States” 
writer Howard
50 “High Hopes” 
lyricist
51 China setting
53 Small Indian state
54 Puck’s place
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/29/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/29/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, May 29, 2019
ACROSS
1 Was short
5 Cut short, 
NASA-style
10 “Got it”
14 “The Great” 
detective of 
kid-lit
15 “Green Acres” 
co-star
16 Tobacco plug
17 *Cocktail 
ingredient often 
made with a 
mallet
19 Come up short
20 Hand-held allergy 
treatment
21 Invite to one’s 
home
23 Not from a bottle
26 Swivel around
27 Seasoned sailors
30 Automated blog 
participant, for 
short
32 Runs in neutral
35 They may be 
23-Across
36 Anne of Green 
Gables or Annie
38 Orchestra __
39 Skit bit
40 *Sleep
41 Ottoman bigwig
42 911 response 
letters
43 Stick a stake in, 
as a vampire
44 Pale
45 Totally sexy
47 La-la lead-in
48 Strongly craves, 
with “after”
49 “Sorry to say ... ”
51 Blazer material
53 Performer’s 
“Nailed it!” 
gesture
56 Followed
60 Rubs the wrong 
way
61 Rowdy play, and 
what’s hidden in 
each answer to a 
starred clue
64 Cuba libre mixer
65 First name in 
cosmetics
66 Persia, now
67 From the top
68 Direct
69 Brooding placeDOWN
1 Some time ago
2 What wet boards 
may do
3 Special case
4 Cruel rulers
5 Contract 
negotiator
6 Naughty
7 Kimono 
accessory
8 Almond __: 
crunchy candy
9 Hair piece
10 Apple backup 
service
11 *Quarterback’s 
underhand  
move
12 Maneuver 
carefully
13 Still-life subject
18 Coop group
22 Ryan’s “French 
Kiss” co-star
24 Sudden
25 Toaster pastry
27 Learned  
advisors
28 Enterprise 
competitor
29 *Restraint on a 
prisoner31 Long-armed 
institution
33 “Magic” ball digit
34 Collar inserts
36 Unit of 
resistance
37 Cry from a pro
40 Raga instrument
44 Port on some 
stereos
46 Familiar saying
48 Sister of Rachel
50 Aloe targets52 Former 
anesthetic
53 Layered rock
54 Common club 
choice on a par-
three hole
55 Publish in an 
online forum
57 Tackle box item
58 Those, in Tijuana
59 Minor progress
62 4 x 4, briefly
63 “Hmm”
5/28/1914 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 22 Tickets 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Women's basketball assistant 
Kelly Rae Finley was 
promoted to associate head 
coach on Wednesday. Three softball players named NFCA All-Americans
Junior Kendyl Lindaman and seniors Kelly Barnhill and Amanda Lorenz  
were selected as NFCA All-Americans on Wednesday. It was Lindaman's 
first selection, while Barnhill and Lorenz were named for the third and 
fourth times, respectively. SOFTBALL
BASEBALLBy Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
 
A national championship is 
within reach for the Gators soft-
ball team.
Florida earned its place in the 
Women’s College World Series 
with a dominant postseason per-
formance, scorching through its 
regional unscathed and fending 
off a stern Super Regional charge 
from Tennessee this past week-
end.
This week’s trip to Oklahoma 
City for the 2019 Women’s Col-
lege World Series marks the 
Gators’ third-consecutive ap-
pearance at the event. Coach Tim 
Walton’s teams have competed in 
ten of the last 12 WCWS, a mark 
that leads the nation over that 
span. 
The two bracket, double-elim-
ination tournament sets the No. 5 
Gators against No. 13 Oklahoma 
State on Thursday to open play. 
Joined alongside them in Bracket 
2 are No. 1 Oklahoma and No. 8 Alabama, due to match up in the 
following game.
Oklahoma State arrives in 
Oklahoma City for its eighth ap-
pearance all-time in the WCWS, 
and the ﬁ  rst since 2011. It is also 
the ﬁ  rst trip to the tournament 
for fourth-year head coach Ken-
ny Gajewski, who leads a group 
capable of beating elite teams but 
marred with inconsistencies.
The Cowboys punched their 
ticket to the WCWS after a strong 
regional victory and a closely 
contested Super Regional series 
win over Florida State in Talla-
hassee.
Oklahoma State has 10 wins 
over top-15 opponents and is 49-
29 in games decided by two runs 
or less since the start of the 2016 
season.
However, Oklahoma State 
does have brutal defeats to UT 
Arlington and Colorado State on 
its resume.
The Gators enter this matchup 
and the rest of this tournament 
with conﬁ  dence and newfound grit, the latter earned through 
their toughness last weekend 
against Tennessee.
Kelly Barnhill will once again 
start for Florida, and the back-
to-back SEC Pitcher of the year 
looks to command the circle for 
the Gators. In the midst of a spec-
tacular season, the senior ﬁ  nds 
herself only 14 strikeouts away 
from Stacey Nelson’s 2008 pro-
gram record (363).
Florida has also increased 
production at the plate. Inﬁ  eld-
er Hannah Adams has played a 
huge role in providing a spark 
for UF's lineup this postseason, 
leading the team with a .429 bat-
ting average and nine hits.
Outﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz 
also continues to lead Florida’s 
offensive production and is close 
to becoming the only player in 
program history to hit for over 
.400 in three different seasons.
UF holds an all-time 26-16 
record in WCWS play, and has 
advanced to the championship 
series in ﬁ  ve of its last nine tournament appearances.
If Florida is to claim its third 
national championship, and its 
ﬁ  rst since back-to-back titles in 
2014 and 2015, it will need to advance out of a challenging 
bracket and rely on veteran 
experience to lead the way.
 
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
 
The Florida baseball team 
had little time to celebrate after 
the NCAA ﬁ  eld was announced 
on Monday.
A sigh of relief reverber-
ated around the clubhouse at 
McKethan Stadium, as well as a 
spark of joy when UF secured its 
12th straight appearance in the 
NCAA Tournament.
The Gators want to do more 
than just be in it though, having 
appeared in four straight Col-
lege World Series dating back 
to 2014.
Standing ﬁ  rst in their path 
will be the Dallas Baptist Patri-
ots out of the Missouri Valley 
Conference.
The Patriots come into the 
postseason with an overall re-
cord of 41-18, having won the 
MVC regular season title.
Here are some things to 
know about DBU and why Flor-
ida needs to be prepared head-
ing into the matchup in Lub-
bock, Texas:
Johnson and Martinson 
lead Patriots pitching attackDallas Baptist features one of 
the strongest pitching staffs in the 
country, including two of its best 
starters in MD Johnson and Jor-
dan Martinson.
The two have combined for a 
17-5 record this season, totaling 
213 strikeouts with two ERAs 
under three. 
Johnson, Friday’s prob-
able starter across from Florida’s 
Tommy Mace, looks to give the 
Gators problems at the plate.
His opponent batting aver-
age is below .200, and he’s only 
allowed more than three runs in 
an outing once, when he gave up 
four against Missouri State on 
May 4.
In the pen, the Pats have a few 
impressive relievers that help the 
team boast the 47th best team 
ERA in the country at 3.92.
Burl Callaway is DBU’s most 
consistent arm from the bullpen.
The southpaw has appeared 
in 26 games, owning a 4-2 record 
with an eye-opening 2.54 ERA.
Two others that stand out on 
the roster card are relievers Mac-
Gregor Hines and Jarod Bayless.
Both right handers have a 
10-2 combined record and have 
combined for over 100 strikeouts (Hines with 45 and Bayless with 
53).
DBU’s bats feature potential-
ly dangerous pop
Florida’s pitching staff has 
been damaged by the long ball 
quite a bit this season.
The team has given up 59 
home runs this year and pro-
jected starter Mace has allowed 
seven.
Those numbers may rise a bit 
on Friday as Dallas Baptist is tied 
for 21st  in the country with 70 
home runs hit this season.
Inﬁ  elder Bryce Ball is the most 
dangerous bat in the lineup for 
DBU.
His 17 home runs are the most 
on the team, and he’s tied for the 
most RBIs with teammate Glenn 
Jackson at 52.
Inﬁ  elder Jimmy Glowenke 
has hit only six homers during 
his sophomore campaign, but 
he has 70 hits on the year, DBU’s 
best.
 Dallas Baptist has been a sta-
ple in the NCAA Tournament  DBU doesn’t have that known 
name that’s going to pop off the 
screen, and because of this, many 
Florida fans probably feel conﬁ  -
dent going into Friday.
Don’t be mistaken, though  — 
the Patriots belong, and they’re 
not new to the NCAA Tourney 
scene.
DBU is making its sixth 
straight regional appearance this 
season, one of just nine teams to 
do so.
This year, the team is primed 
to make it to its ﬁ  rst Super Re-
gional in that span.
The Pats were in the Lubbock 
Regional in 2016, just one game 
away from the Super Regionals 
when they lost to Texas Tech 5-3.
A victory over DBU would 
certainly put UF in a great posi-
tion to make a run deep in the 
Lubbock Regional.
If the Gators can limit the 
damage from DBU’s batters and 
take advantage of the timely 
mistakes from their opponent’s 
pitching staff, Florida may pick 
up a huge win on its way to ad-
vancing to a ﬁ  fth-straight super 
regional.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgGators set to open WCWS against Oklahoma State
Florida begins NCAA Tournament FridayChris King / Alligator Staff
Jaimie Hoover's walk-off single sent UF to the Women's College 
World Series, where it will face Oklahoma State on Thursday.
Alligator File Photo
T ommy Mace is expected to toe the rubber 
when UF opens regional play against 
Dallas Baptist University on Friday. 
12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2019
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!GATORS IN THE NBA
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
The University of Florida basketball pro-
gram has developed multiple NBA players 
whose seasons are now over as the NBA Fi-
nals approach. Here’s a recap of what some 
former Gators did this year: 
Washington Wizards shooting guard 
Bradley Beal had arguably the best season 
of his career. Beal posted career highs in 
games played (82), minutes per game (36.9), 
rebounds per game (5.0), assists per game 
(5.5), steals per game (1.5) and points per 
game (25.6).
Beal and the Wizards failed to reach 
the playoffs for the first time since he was 
drafted out of Florida in 2012 with the third 
overall pick. Beal played one year with the 
Gators during the 2011-2012 season, where 
he became the first player in school history 
to be named First Team All-SEC and SEC All-Freshman in the same season. 
Boston Celtics center Al Horford had his 
season come to an end at the hands of the 
Milwaukee Bucks in the second round of the 
playoffs after his team posted a regular sea-
son record of 49-33. Horford, a 12-year NBA 
veteran, averaged 13.6 points in his third 
year with the Celtics.
Horford spent three years at UF and was 
a key player in bringing back-to-back na-
tional titles to Gainesville in 2006 and 2007. 
Horford was drafted by the Atlanta Hawks 
with the third overall pick in 2007.
Joakim Noah only played 42 games in 
his first season with the Grizzlies. The cen-
ter averaged 7.1 points per game during the 
regular season and his team failed to make 
the playoffs.
Noah played three seasons at the Uni-
versity of Florida from 2004 to 2007 and was 
another star player for the 2006 and 2007 
championship teams. Noah was First Team All-SEC his sophomore and junior years 
and was drafted with the ninth overall pick 
in the 2007 NBA Draft by the Chicago Bulls.
Sacramento Kings forward Corey Brew-
er, like Noah and Horford, played three sea-
sons under coach Billy Donovan and was 
drafted in 2007 by the Minnesota Timber-
wolves with the seventh overall pick. 
Brewer averaged 4.9 points per game 
this season and the Kings failed to reach the 
playoffs. This was Brewer’s first season with 
the Kings, his eighth NBA team.
Long-time NBA player Udonis Haslem 
finished his 16th season in 2019, all with the 
Miami Heat. The power forward’s future is 
uncertain, however, and retirement is a pos-
sibility. 
Haslem played four years at Florida and 
was a starter every season from 1998 to 2002. 
Haslem left Florida as the winningest player 
in the program’s history and never missed a 
game in his collegiate career.Despite his success, Haslem went un-
drafted in 2002. Instead, Haslem signed with 
French team Chalon Sur-Saone before join-
ing the Heat in 2003.
Memphis Grizzlies forward Chandler 
Parsons finished this season averaging 7.5 
points a game in his third season with the 
Grizzlies. Parsons played basketball at Flori-
da from 2007 to 2011 before being drafted by 
the Houston Rockets in the 2011 NBA draft 
with the 38th overall pick.
Dallas Mavericks forward Dorian Finney-
Smith played for the Gators from 2013 to 
2016 after transferring from Virginia Tech. 
Finney-Smith averaged 7.5 points per game 
in 81 games for the Mavericks this season.
Finney-Smith went undrafted but signed 
with the Mavericks before the start of the 
2016 season. 
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@ufl.eduGators in the NBA season recap: Beal, Horford shine
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Andrew Nembhard is back at 
Florida.
The 6-foot-5, 191-pound guard 
from Aurora, Ontario, has decided 
to come back to UF after declaring 
for the NBA Draft on April 12. In 
2016, the NCAA ruled that enter-
ing the NBA Draft would not re-
sult in forfeiture of eligibility, al-
lowing Nembhard to return to the 
Gators after his withdrawal.
“Super excited to come back 
and play with my brothers and for 
Gator Nation!” Nembhard tweet-
ed on Wednesday.Nembhard finished his 2018 
freshman campaign with 289 
points, 103 rebounds and 194 as-
sists (fourth in school history), 
which was enough to make him 
a member of the SEC’s All-Fresh-
man team. Nembhard’s shining 
moment came in the SEC Tourna-
ment, where he hit a three-pointer 
at the buzzer to knock the LSU 
Tigers out of the tournament and 
ensure UF a spot in the NCAA 
Tournament.
There were some concerns 
about his play with his announce-
ment to enter the draft, though, as 
he shot just 41.4 percent from the 
field and did not receive an invite to the NBA Combine earlier this 
month.
Nembhard will return to 
Florida with fellow rising 
sophomores Keyontae Johnson 
and Noah Locke. That trio will 
hope to compliment the 2019 
recruiting class that came in at No. 
7 in 247Sports’ rankings.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgAndrew Nembhard returns to UF after NBA Draft declarationBASKETBALL
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Andrew Nembhard will return to UF for his sophomore season. 
