We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
GATORS IN THE WORLD CUP
Four current/former Gators have seen ac-
tion at the Women’s World Cup, pg 11
Cannabis-themed restaurant coming to town
Cheba Hut, marijuana-themed sandwich shop, plans on opening 
two Gainesville locations in 2020, pg. 5
Organizers protest to bail out dads
Four organizations raised over $7,000 to post bail for a jailed 
dad to rejoin his family. He is being held for drug charges, pg. 6FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 96
THE PROJECT WAS PARTIALL Y 
FUNDED BY A GRANT FROM THE 
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
UF is looking to bring itself to the fore-
front of wind hazard and hurricane research 
with a newly constructed fan bank.
The fan bank, located in the Powell Fam-
ily Structures and Materials Laboratory, con-
sists of 319 individually controlled fans that 
can simulate a variety of wind conditions, 
such as those occurring from severe storms 
and tornadoes, said Kurtis Gurley, associate 
director of UF’s Engineering School of Sus-
tainable Infrastructure and Environment. 
A majority of the funding for the project 
came from a Major Research Instrumenta-tion Program grant just under $1 million. It 
was awarded to the university by the Na-
tional Science Foundation, Gurley said.
Many of the parts used to construct the 
fans were produced at UF using the Powell 
Lab’s machine shop and 3D printers. Gurley 
said the project is the culmination of about 
four years worth of work. 
The fans work in conjunction with an-
other portion of the wind tunnel called the 
terraformer, which can be manipulated to 
mimic trees and structures like houses and 
buildings that wind would pass through in 
actual weather conditions, Gurley said.
“Wind hazard is an important aspect of 
community resilience in Florida and other 
coastal areas,” he said. “Having a labora-
tory where we’re able to study how the in-
frastructure of buildings feels the load is an 
THE COUNTY RECEIVED THE 
“COUNTY GOVERNMENT 
BEST PRACTICES AWARD”
By Tien Le
Staff Writer
Florida is in the midst of hurricane 
season, but this app will leave Alachua 
County prepared for even the worst of 
storms.
Alachua County received the 
“County Government Best Practices 
Award” from the Florida Counties 
Foundation at the Florida Association 
of Counties (FAC) Annual Conference 
celebration dinner on Thursday. 
The county received the award for 
the Emergency Operations Center Shel-
ter Communications App, created by 
the County’s Information & Telecom-munications Services department. Ala-
chua County was one of seven coun-
ties honored during the dinner. 
Chris Nielsen, Alachua County web 
services supervisor, said he and his 
team have been working on the app 
since just after Hurricane Irma, which 
made landfall in Florida on Sept. 10, 
2017.
The app they created can track a 
shelter’s population, including the 
number of pets, in real time even with 
weak or no internet and broadcast 
high-priority alerts from the Emergen-
cy Operations Center to all shelters. It 
also allows for text-based chatting be-
tween shelter managers and with the 
Emergency Operations Center. 
Nielsen said it is an honor to have 
the hard work of his employees recog-UF builds fan bank for wind tunnel 
capable of simulating hurricane
Alachua County honored for 
hurricane, disaster phone appSEE WIND TUNNELS,  PAGE 3
SEE APP AWARD,  PAGE 3Courtesy to The Alligator
The terraformer is made up of 1,100 rectangular blocks that can be individually 
manipulated to mimic trees and buildings during wind tunnel experiments.
GAINESVILLE FIRE RESCUE 
IS EVALUATING WHETHER 
IT WILL MAKE THE CHANGE 
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Florida paramedics who are 
assigned to a special tactical 
team, such as a SWAT team, 
will be able to carry guns open-
ly while they are in the ﬁ  eld 
with these teams now that Gov. 
Ron DeSantis has signed House 
Bill 487. This law will go into 
effect July 1, but Gainesville 
has yet to decide if it will par-
ticipate. 
Capt. Jorge Campos, 
Gainesville Police Department 
spokesperson, said this law 
will only apply to paramedics in tactical teams, not just any 
paramedics. 
Before the law was in place, 
paramedics could not legally 
carry a gun and openly display 
it as part of their uniform, even 
if they had a concealed weap-
ons permit, Campos said. 
Campos notes a mission in-
volving an active shooter might 
require paramedics to have ac-
cess to guns. This could be es-
pecially important if the SWAT 
team needs to keep moving 
while the paramedics stop to 
help victims, Campos said. 
“This way, paramedics can 
defend themselves and their 
victims as they treat them,” 
Campos said. “That’s why this 
law was passed.” Both the Gainesville Police 
Department and the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce have 
SWAT teams. Paramedics from 
the Gainesville Fire Rescue are 
assigned to those SWAT teams. 
Jeff Lane, the ﬁ  re chief of 
the GFR, said only a few of its 
over 90 paramedics work with 
SWAT teams, though they do 
not release the exact number 
for security purposes. 
Since the paramedics began 
working with SWAT teams, 
GFR ofﬁ  cials have discussed 
the possibility of arming them 
in addition to the plans already 
in place to safeguard them, 
Lane said.
“They have already had the Florida law allows paramedics to  
carry guns during special operations
SEE ARMED EMT,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  88° LOW  75°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 96
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Meagan DiPolo
Noura Al-RajhiKatherine MooreKaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) Liu The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th St., Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. 
and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator 
sign located in the lobby. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read 
information regarding the application process. No phone calls, please.  
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 
4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and selections by the 
Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, July 26th (time to be announced). Applicants 
must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will 
be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:
Rolling Thunder Poker Run 
“Vets Helping Vets”
Saturday, June 22nd, 2019
Registration at Gainesville Harley-Davidson
$15 Entry (1 Hand/Food) $10 per passenger and additional hands
Registration :0900  KSU:1100   Ride Ends: 1600
“When one American is not worth the effort to be found, 
then we as Americans have LOST!”
Corrections: In an article entitled 
"Student Senate approves executive 
nominations and resolutions" that 
ran in Thursday's edition, the 
LGBTQ Affairs Director's name was 
misspelled and is Brandan Birsic.  In 
addition, the paragraph detailing 
budget amendments should have said 
"increasing student assistant salaries" 
rather than "decreasing," and the 
“Student Legal Center Program budget” 
should be the “Student Legal Services 
Program budget.”
In an article entitled "Aspiring rapper 
GUFF returns to Gainesville," his 
ﬁ  rst headlining show will be at "The 
Range GNV." The Alligator previously 
reported differently.TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
THEY ARE PART OF 
UF’S INTERNATIONAL 
PIANO FESTIVAL
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Beethoven, Ravel and Schubert 
echoed through the UF Health Shands 
Cancer Hospital Monday as pianists 
honored the classics.  
Surgeon Edward Staples was 
among those watching the artists 
play. He has attended the UF Interna-
tional Piano Festival for at least ﬁ  ve 
years, going to different events at the 
weeklong festival. 
His wife, son and father play pia-
no, and, Staples, a guitar player, ap-
preciates the music. 
“The students are always enthusi-
astic, and they present such a variety of music,” he said. “These are really, 
really good performers.” 
Jasmin Arakawa, director of the 
festival, said it has been held annu-
ally since 2007. 
The festival, which started Satur-
day, invites international pianists to 
attend master classes and compete, 
Arakawa said. 
Participants have come from 
countries such as Russia, Peru, Viet-
nam and China. 
“We gather here and immerse our-
selves in the art and the craft of piano 
playing,” Arakawa said. 
The festival will have two com-
petitions: the artist division and the 
rising artist division, both occuring in 
UF’s Music Building room 101, she 
said. 
The artist division is for more ex-
perienced piano players and will take 
place Friday at 7 p.m. The winner of 
this competition will receive $750. The rising artist competition will take 
place Saturday at 10 a.m. 
The festival has a rigorous appli-
cation process, but Arakawa urges 
young musicians to apply. 
“I really encourage all the young 
students who want to pursue music 
really consider coming here and re-
ally be in music,” Arakawa said. “Not just play or listen, but be in music.”
Twenty-six-year-old Ahui is com-
peting in the artist division category.   
Ahui said she has played piano 
for 16 years, including in her band 
Screwdriver. This is her ﬁ  rst time at-
tending Florida’s piano festival. 
She said the festival is helpful in 
terms of learning teaching tips. She is minoring in piano pedagogy (teaching 
piano) at the University of Georgia.
“You get to work with other pia-
nists [at the festival],” she said. “We 
play duet, Franz pieces. And also you 
get to meet new people.”
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.org
important ﬁ  rst step in learning 
how to design systems to resist 
them.”
The terraformer is made 
up of 1,100 individually con-
trolled blocks that can be 
raised and lowered from the 
ﬂ  oor of the tunnel, he said.
The wind tunnel is a 
shared-use facility due to the 
funding from the National Sci-
ence Foundation, Gurley said. 
This means researchers from 
all over the country can use 
the facility for their own ex-
periments for free.    
While the UF faculty do-
ing wind research has “great” 
ideas, Gurley welcomes use 
by researchers outside of the 
university to further study the 
ﬁ  eld. “There are other people 
who have really good ideas, 
and they need a place to test 
them out,” he said. “That’s 
what our facility is.” 
One of the unique features 
of the terraformer is that it can 
be reset in 90 seconds, while 
it can take other labs days to 
do the same thing, said Scott 
Powell, the lab manager at the 
lab.
Powell said the lab is con-
tinuing to develop exciting 
scenarios that have never been 
tested before.
“It’s major for the univer-
sity to be able to study wind 
in this setting,” Powell said. 
“With the scale of this model, 
we are able to test the equiva-
lent of hurricane-force winds.”
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgweapons training and qualiﬁ  ca-
tions, they just could not by law 
carry a weapon,” Lane said.  
Though it is legal for them to 
carry weapons now, Lane said this 
change will not apply to Gainesville paramedics until GFR evaluates 
whether it would be appropriate 
and make the environment safer. It 
has not determined whether it will 
do so yet. 
Lane said this law illustrates the 
increased number of events that 
are happening nationwide which 
require the deployment of these special teams. While safety is al-
ways a concern to Lane, he notes 
that more frequent deployments 
may result in an increased risk of 
incidents. 
“The safety of our responders is 
always at the foremost of our mind 
when we plan for these events,” 
Lane said. 
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgWIND TUNNELS , from pg. 1ARMED EMT,  from pg. 1319 fans in the tunnelEMTs work with SWATMeleah Lyden / Alligator Staff
UF’s International Piano Festival participant Ahui plays classical music at UF Health Shands Monday. 
nized.
Nishant Maurya, a systems ana-
lyst, and Lindsay Hall, a web designs 
specialist were also on his team. 
“We love serving our community 
and our neighbors,” Nielsen said. 
They created this app because 
Alachua County was required to open more shelters during Hurricane 
Irma than any time in recent history, 
Nielsen said. This increase in shel-
ters opening heightened the need 
for efﬁ  cient communication between 
shelters and the Emergency Opera-
tions Center. 
“The Alachua County Commis-
sion, in speaking for them, I can tell 
you that they were extremely proud 
of this award and they prioritize making sure we do everything we 
can to be prepared and effective dur-
ing emergency situations,” Alachua 
County Spokesperson Mark Sexton 
said. “They were very happy that 
the Florida Association of Counties 
chose to recognize them for this.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgAPP AWARD,  from pg. 1The app was created after IrmaPianists perform in UF 
Health Shands Hospital 4  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the 
modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a 
wide array of desserts and treats made 
daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side Car Our 
Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open LateBREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises 
daily since 1990. Egg & cheese 
with bacon, ham, or sausage 
on a Thomas’s english mufﬁ  n 
or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-
0376. Your order will be ready 
when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-ﬁ  , 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh 
bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle 
soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  
Come try our new specials! 
Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this ad 
and get 10% off your order!
,DEPUTIES SAY SHE STRUCK 
A CHILD IN THE FACE 
NUMEROUS TIMES
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Mery Cruz-Martinez was arrested Sun-
day after hitting a 14-year-old girl in her 
care, according to the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
Cruz-Martinez, 30, was highly intoxi-
cated with her boyfriend when they began 
to argue and “act extremely aggressive” 
at a Hawthorne, Florida, home Sunday 
around 1 a.m. Cruz-Martinez told the girl 
in her care to run to Love’s Travel Stop and 
call 911 because of the ﬁ  ghting, according 
to the police report.
Cruz-Martinez picked up the girl from 
the gas station and drove to nearby Hitch-
cock’s supermarket, still highly intoxi-cated. The child tried 
to get out of the car in 
the Hitchcock’s parking 
lot but was restrained 
by Cruz-Martinez, who 
hit her in the face sev-
eral times. The child’s 
clothes were torn in 
the process, but she es-
caped and return to the 
Love’s, according to the report.
Cruz-Martinez attempted to follow the 
girl but was greeted by law enforcement 
when she arrived at Love’s, according to 
the report.
Cruz-Martinez was charged with two 
third-degree felonies: cruelty toward a 
child and neglect of a child without great 
bodily harm. Cruz-Martinez was released 
on her own recognizance.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgSHE PINNED ANOTHER WOMAN 
AGAINST A CAR WITH HER CAR
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Alicia McCord was arrested after she drove 
her vehicle into another woman Sunday eve-
ning, according to Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce deputies.
The incident began when a Gainesville 
woman drove to her husband’s home, which 
is separate from her residence, to bring him a 
Father’s Day gift. When she arrived, she found 
a white Kia Soul parked in his driveway. The 
woman took pictures of the car. She suspected 
her husband may be having an affair with the 
driver, 38-year-old McCord. The woman left 
after her husband denied McCord was at his 
house, according to the report.
McCord drove to the woman’s home and re-
portedly demanded the woman delete the pho-tos of her car or hand them 
over to her.
The woman declined 
and asked McCord to leave. 
When she refused, a ﬁ  ght 
broke out between the two 
women. Witnesses broke 
up the ﬁ  ght, and McCord 
got back into her car, ac-
cording to the report.
Before leaving, McCord put her car in 
drive and headed toward the woman. McCord 
pinned the woman’s right leg between her car 
and another vehicle parked in the driveway be-
fore reversing and leaving the area, according 
to the report.
McCord was charged with aggravated bat-
tery, a second-degree felony.
McCord was released Monday afternoon af-
ter posting a bail amount of $10,000.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgAlachua County woman charged 
with child cruelty and neglectGainesville woman arrested for 
hitting someone with her car 
Cruz-Martinez
 McCord
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
SHE’S ONE OF 20 
STUDENTS IN THE U.S. TO 
RECEIVE THE AWARD 
By Kyndal Rock 
Contributing Writer
Madison Grasty was asleep 
in Prague when her phone lit up 
with notiﬁ  cations from family and 
friends. She woke up to exciting 
news. 
Miracle Network Dance 
Marathon named Grasty a recipient 
of the national 2019 Miracle Network 
Dance Marathon Distinguished 
Leadership Award. The award was 
given in mid-May. 
Grasty, a 23-year-old UF 
information systems and operations 
management graduate, was one of 
20 college student leaders selected 
from thousands of applications 
across the country.
Although Grasty raised $22,745 
over the course of ﬁ  ve years, she 
said she believes the winners 
were chosen based on overall 
involvement and passion for the 
cause instead of the money they 
raised.
“We are all passionate students 
who have worked hard giving back to the cause we love most,” Grasty 
said. “If you’re doing something for 
Dance Marathon, you are making 
a tangible impact on kids at the 
hospital.”
Miracle Network Dance 
Marathon works with the nonproﬁ  t 
organization Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals to raise funds 
and awareness for 170 pediatric 
hospitals across the country, 
according to a press release. 
The leadership award’s 
recipients were recognized for 
their impact on the program, their 
individual college campus and their 
local Children’s Miracle Network 
Hospital.  
Lindsay Ritenbaugh, senior 
development associate for 
Children’s Miracle Network at UF 
Health Shands Children’s Hospital, 
works closely with Dance Marathon 
as its hospital adviser.
In 2019, UF had 6,020 students 
registered to participate on campus, 
along with hundreds of alumni, 
community partners, families and 
high schoolers supporting from 
around the state and country, 
Ritenbaugh said. 
Ritenbaugh’s responsibilities 
include guiding and advising 
organization members like Grasty. “(Miracle Network Dance 
Marathon is) looking for people 
who are leaders on paper but also 
leaders in their actions,” Ritenbaugh 
said. 
The award is only given to 
graduating seniors, Ritenbaugh said. 
The recipients were chosen after the 
majority of the participating schools 
were done with their marathons. 
More than 300 independent Dance 
Marathons happen around the 
country, Ritenbaugh said.
Dance Marathon at UF is the 
second-highest fundraising Miracle 
Network Dance Marathon program 
in the nation, raising $3,230,025.23 
in 2019 and more than $21.4 million 
since it started in 1995. 
Grasty is the fourth UF recipient 
of the award in the three years it has 
been in existence. In 2018, Analiese 
Wagner received the award, and in 
2017, both Drew Carlton and Kelsey 
Torgerson received it.
Grasty was a part of the Dance 
Marathon organization at UF for ﬁ  ve 
years, holding numerous leadership 
and involvement positions. 
“She really wanted to look at the 
whole picture,” Ritenbaugh said. 
“Instead of just saying, ‘How can I 
make my Dance Marathon better?,’ 
she wanted to make it better for every single person.”
Krystina Lopez, the mother of 
miracle child Izabella Neira, met 
Grasty when she ﬁ  rst started her 
involvement in Dance Marathon 
and watched her grow into the 
leader she is today. 
“She goes above and beyond for 
the kids, and the families absolutely 
appreciate it,” Lopez said. “I’ve 
seen her ﬂ  ourish into a strong, 
compassionate, dedicated young 
woman and am so blessed to now 
call her a friend.” 
Lopez said Grasty has developed 
meaningful connections with all of 
her children. 
“Even before the end of Dance 
Marathon 2019, my kids were crying 
about the fact that they would have 
to say goodbye to her this year,” 
Lopez said. 
John Lauck, president and CEO 
of Children’s Miracle Network 
Hospitals, described the award 
recipients as being the core of the 
Miracle Network Dance Marathon 
mission. 
“Each student honored has 
led his or her Dance Marathon 
organization to success by serving 
as a role model for other students, 
while growing the Dance Marathon 
movement on their campus,” Lauck said. 
Grasty served as recruitment 
captain for Dance Marathon at 
UF in 2016, assistant director of 
campus relations in 2017, internal 
communications manager in 2018 
and executive director in 2019, 
According to the network’s website.  
Grasty said she has received 
various awards and recognitions 
throughout her life, but this award 
was the highlight of her college 
career. 
“I feel like I have done more in 
ﬁ  ve years of college than I’ll ever do 
for the rest of my life,” she said. 
Grasty and the other award 
recipients will receive a plaque 
recognizing their leadership, as 
well as recognition on the Dance 
Marathon Facebook and Instagram 
channels and on the Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals’ website, 
according to the press release. 
Grasty plans to move to 
Philadelphia and has already 
registered to be a part of Dance 
Marathon Alumni. However, she 
wants to return to UF to support the 
big event next year. 
“Dance Marathon at UF, just 
Shands in general and all our 
miracle families — it’s like you can’t 
really beat UF Health,” she said.
THE FRANCHISE PLANS TO OPEN 
TWO LOCATIONS IN GAINESVILLE 
IN 2020
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Gainesville will soon have another 
restaurant for residents to satisfy their cravings 
with a sandwich shop that takes munchies to a 
whole new level.
Cheba Hut, a cannabis-themed sandwich 
shop, features subs named after strains of 
marijuana, sides called “munchies,” and drinks referred to as “cottonmouth cures,” a 
dry-mouth side effect of having a dry mouth 
from smoking marijuana.
The cannabis-themed franchise plans to 
open two locations in Gainesville in 2020. It is 
interested in the intersection of West University 
Avenue and Northwest 13th Street, said Seth 
Larsen, chief relationship ofﬁ  cer.
“The demographics are good, the city is 
good,” Larsen said. “I feel like there’s room 
for a concept like ours. There’s no doubt about 
it that we love campus locations and great 
younger-ish cities that the university kind of 
creates.”
Cheba Hut is looking to expand and has deals for locations in Orlando and St. 
Augustine. It will open ﬁ  ve new shops across 
the country by the end of the year, Larsen said
The sandwich shop is based out of Fort 
Collins, Colorado, and was founded by 
Scott Jennings in 1998. The franchise has 25 
locations operating in seven states, primarily 
on the West Coast.
Despite its theme, Cheba Hut is inclusive 
and welcomes any kind of customer, Larsen 
said.
“There is an underlying theme to what 
we do, it’s not what deﬁ  nes us.” Larsen said. 
“There’s plenty of people that probably come 
into a Cheba Hut and have no idea that that’s the case. They just know that they come in 
and get really good food and solid service, and 
it’s not super expensive. And we’re cool with 
that.”
Sarwaan Ansari, a 20-year-old computer 
science senior at UF, said he would visit 
the sandwich shop if a location opened in 
Gainesville.
“The theme seems like a good idea since 
I don’t know any restaurant with that type of 
theme,” Ansari said.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgUF graduate selected as a recipient of national DM award
Cannabis-themed sandwich shop coming to GainesvilleChris Day / Alligator Staff
Ellen Allen holds up a sign protesting the prison system Monday while taking part in the 352 Father’s 
Day and Juneteenth Bailout. Allen participated because she has worked for years in outreach and 
advocacy for people who are homeless and in social justice. “This is my life’s work, ” she said. Organizers ﬁ  ght to bring dad home
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Panagioti Tsolkas, 38, cups his phone 
to the receiver of a megaphone 
Monday while Danielle Chanzes, 26, 
holds it up so prisoners inside the jail 
can hear. Tsolkas, an organizer for 
Fight T oxic Prisons had called the 
parents of Gerald Bell, who is in jail for 
drug-related charges, so they could 
announce his bail would be posted.6  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Protestors chant at Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputy J. Lemmon Monday afternoon. Lemmon walks along a line of cones separating the protestors from the police. Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Danielle Chanzes, a 26-year-old organizer with the Legal Empowerment 
and Advocacy Hub, reads aloud the name of every prisoner currently 
held within Alachua County Jail on Monday. Protesters yelled and played 
drums and other instruments after each name was called. Chanzes’ 
boyfriend was held in Alachua County Jail from October 2018 to May 
2019. She said this motivated her to stand up against the injustice she 
saw in the prison system. “People are innocent until proven guilty and 
cash bail takes away that presumption of innocence, and so by posting 
bail for people today we are restoring that presumption of innocence. We 
are reuniting families. ”
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
The 352 Father’s Day and Juneteenth Bailout 
and Rally was held outside the Alachua County 
Jail on Monday. The event was hosted by 
Fight T oxic Prisons, the Legal Empowerment 
and Advocacy Hub, Gainesville Industrial 
Workers of the World and MAMA’s Club. 
The event aimed to raise money through 
a crowdfunding effort so fathers could be 
released on bail to be with their families after 
Father’s Day. Over $7,000 was raised out of a 
$20,000 crowdfunding goal on DonorBox. The 
$7,000 bail for Gerald Bell, who is imprisoned 
for drug-related charges, is planned to be 
posted today. Protesters held signs containing 
messages like “Abolish Slavery” and “Prisons 
Equal Slavery. ”  The Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce prevented protesters from moving 
close to the jail and four protesters were 
detained after either passing a line of cones or 
attempting to remove these cones.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnColumn
Most people are familiar with the drinking 
age, especially for college students. You’re 
acutely aware it’s illegal to drink an alcoholic 
beverage if you’re under the age of 21. But 
Florida also has a smoking age, and it’s cur-
rently 18. It’s time to change that and raise 
the smoking age to 21 as well.
First is the issue of consistency. It makes 
sense to have the same age for drinking 
and smoking. While many would argue we 
should lower the drinking age to 18, that is unlikely to 
happen in the near future, so for the time being, we’re 
stuck with a drinking age of 21. Thus, our laws should 
reﬂ  ect it and be consistent. Comparable substances like 
tobacco should also have a minimum age of 21. 
There is even more of a reason for a higher smoking 
age from a medical view, especially when you compare 
smoking’s negative health beneﬁ  ts to those of drinking. 
While both alcohol and cigarettes are addictive sub-
stances, cigarettes are harder to use in moderation, as 
even ‘moderate’ amounts can be highly damaging to 
your body. 
A 2010 review found that ‘light smokers,’ which the 
authors deﬁ  ned as “smoking less than 1 pack per day, 
less than 15 cigerattes per day and smoking 1 to 39 cig-
arettes per week” had the same risk for cardiovascular 
disease as daily smoking. It said low-levels of tobacco 
exposure, which includes light smoking) had 70 per-
cent of the overall effects of heavy smoking. 
In contrast, the Mayo Clinic explains that while one shouldn’t take up drinking in order to gain 
health beneﬁ  ts, there has been evidence of 
potential health beneﬁ  ts of ‘moderate drink-
ing,’ which is deﬁ  ned as one drink a day 
for women and men older than 65 and two 
drinks a day for men younger than 65, such 
as reduced risk of dying from heart disease, 
reduced risk of diabetes and reduced risk of 
ischemic stroke. 
Tobacco should be regulated as the health 
risks they are and setting the smoking age at 21 would 
be part of that. While this would not help smokers over 
the age of 21, it could stop people from taking up the 
habit in the ﬁ  rst place. The Center of Disease Control 
estimates 9 out of 10 cigarette smokers start by age 18. 
Setting a higher smoking age would set up additional 
obstacles for younger people trying to get their hands 
on tobacco, making it more likely they won’t even 
bother the hassle of buying it. If a higher smoking age 
will make it less likely that people will ever start such 
a toxic and unhealthy habit, I’m all for it.
As long as the U.S. drinking age is 21, it’s fair to 
treat alcohol and smoking as legally equivalent. Not 
only would this consistency help consumers and busi-
ness, but it would reﬂ  ect the evidence that cigarettes 
are at least as risky and harmful as alcohol, if not more. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.The Florida Senate voted 33-6 in favor of 
a bill that would raise the minimum age to 
purchase tobacco products from 18 to 21. The 
bill received support as a means to stop the 
increasing number of teenagers using e-ciga-
rettes and tobacco products. While almost ev-
eryone agrees that smoking is unhealthy, this 
bill isn’t the right way to curb tobacco use.
Placing this extra restriction on purchasing 
tobacco products is an infringement on per-
sonal freedom, something you think Florida 
Republicans wouldn’t support. However, like 
many things, Republicans support liberty until there 
is any ﬁ  nancial burden on them. Randy Fine from the 
Florida House of Representatives, whose district covers 
southern Brevard County, cites one of the main reasons 
for supporting the bill is that it would lower taxpayer 
costs for Medicare. 
“The debate is not just about freedom,” Fine said. 
“What crosses the line for me is when I’m asked to pay 
for other people’s liberty.”
But we don’t get to directly pick and choose what 
we want our tax dollars supporting. People have to pay 
taxes toward public schools even if they don’t have a 
child. People have to pay taxes funding local libraries 
even if they don’t use them. It doesn’t matter if you like 
what your taxes go toward, you still have to pay them. 
While Fine may not want to pay the Medicare costs 
for people who smoke, he has to. It’s not fair to restrict 
the usage of tobacco on the basis of it being a ﬁ  nancial 
burden for the taxpayer. If Florida politicians are wor-
ried about high taxes, there are plenty of other means to limit the tax burden for the middle class 
without compromising the civil liberties of all 
citizens (e.g. raising taxes on the wealthy).
Not only is the bill an infringement on 
personal liberties, but it assigns fault to ad-
dicts. The bill penalizes the youth suffering 
from addiction, instead of the real culprit: Big 
Tobacco. 
This bill has an unfair exemption for ac-
tive military members. Active members of the 
military would be able to purchase tobacco at 
the age of 18 and up (rather than 21). There 
is no logical reason to make this exemption other than 
as a means of giving active service members some sort 
of “beneﬁ  t.” While giving beneﬁ  ts to military members 
is great, it shouldn’t be done in a way that makes them 
above the law. Giving military members discounts on 
movie and airplane tickets? Great. Giving them a get out 
of jail free card? Not so much. Service members are sim-
ply no different than every other citizen and therefore 
should not be above any law.  
Should this bill become law, it likely won’t even 
have the intended effect. There is no systematic re-
search showing that increasing the smoking age pre-
vents young adults from using tobacco products. Florida 
lawmakers would be better off investing in programs to 
teach youth about the harmful effects of tobacco prod-
ucts rather than passing a restrictive and unreasonable 
ban.  
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn usually appears on Thursdays.
Florida needs to raise the smoking age to 21Florida needs to keep the smoking age at 18 Forgiveness does not 
preclude reparations
On Monday, Kyle Kashuv, a Parkland shooting survivor, said 
Harvard rescinded his admission after screenshots showed him 
using racial slurs in late 2017 and early 2018. Earlier this year, the 
18-year old high school outreach director for Turning Point USA, 
a conservative nonproﬁ  t student organization, was admitted to 
the university class of 2023. 
A former and current student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School shared the racist messages with the HuffPost. A 
related article was then published on May 23. The screenshots 
showed Kashuv using the N-word in text conversations and a 
shared Google Doc.   
When responding to the ordeal on Twitter, Kashuv said this 
is not about him. 
“It’s about whether we live in a society in which forgiveness 
is possible or mistakes brand you as irredeemable as Harvard has 
decided for me,” he said.  
Kashuv brings about a valid question. One that is difﬁ  cult to 
answer because as a society we are currently going through the 
woods on these issues. But forgiveness and reprimanding are not 
mutually exclusive. Part of asking for forgiveness is dealing with 
the aftermath and accepting the consequences of the actions. 
Everyone does stupid things in high school. But the things 
Kashuv said were horrible not just stupid. In the screenshot of 
his Google Doc comment, he said he was so good at typing the N-
word because “practice uhhhhhh makes perfect.” This cannot be 
ignored as just another teenage mishap. If Harvard still admitted 
Kashuv, it would have been glazing over a serious lack of moral 
character and maturity, which the university emphasized as one 
of its main concerns in its response letter to Kashuv’s apology. 
At least one other student on the Google Doc appeared to be 
making racist comments as well. It doesn’t matter if the comments 
were made “in private among equally immature high school stu-
dents” as Kashuv said. Although Kashuv now understands his 
group of friends was a poor choice, we imagine Harvard would 
want a student who would stand up to this group “trying to use 
the worst words and say the most insane things imaginable.” 
In the text messages, Kashuv said “[She] goes for n*****jocks,” 
talking about a female student. Even if he didn’t use this appall-
ing slur, the overall conversation is revealing enough to show his 
character was not great. Rating a girl on a number scale, com-
menting on who she might prefer to be intimate with, saying 
she “over plucks her eyebrows”? Seriously, dude? At the age of 
16, some truths have yet to be learned, but the ones seemingly 
unknown to Kushav are ones most high school students have a 
grasp on. 
Sixteen is old enough to understand the history behind the 
racial slur. Kashuv used the N-word eleven times in a row on 
a shared Google Doc for an Advanced Placement U.S. History 
study guide, an almost ironic place to use such a slur because 
you’d expect someone in said class would have enough history 
knowledge to not even think of using the word. 
It makes sense for Harvard to rescind his admission. It would 
be disrespectful to black Harvard students and applicants who 
were rejected or waitlisted if Kashuv was admitted after his 
choice in words were brought to admission’s attention.  
Saying racist slurs continously cannot be domoted as a simple 
mistake. Kashuv will have to do more to show he has changed. 
He is on the right path by realizing his horrendous actions and 
apologizing. But reparations are in order. 
Forgiving is not forgetting. Kashuv’s comments are disgusting. 
Harvard rescinding his admission does not make him irredeem-
able, just not Harvard material. 
The Alligator Editorial Board includes the Opinions Editor 
Jackie De Frietas, Editor-in-Chief Mark Stine and managing edi-
tors Hannah Beatty and Lindsey Breneman.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOR
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Cassidy 
Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifieds
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers each 
publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-141For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
Answer On Page 9How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more informationTUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-20-19-
12-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
Please recycle this newspaper.BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
A+ CLEANING & PAINTING SERVICES
Seeking homes and offices to clean or paint. 
We customize for each client.
In Central Florida since 1986.
Call 386-717-2929    7-11-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
By Jeff Stillman
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/18/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/18/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 18, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gallery event
5 24 Hours of Le 
__: auto race
9 Out in front
14 __ Field: Mets’ 
ballpark
15 Frantically
16 Prom queen’s 
crown
17 Geological age
18 10-Down 
princess
19 Chipped in a chip
20 *Do something in 
a whole new way
23 Chinese-born 
architect I.M. __
24 Semisoft cheeses
28 Accomplish
31 Fish caught in 
pots
33 Mont Blanc, e.g.
34 *Clever twists in 
a story
36 Sched. 
uncertainty
37 Club used for 
chipping
38 Narc’s org.
39 “Beauty __ the 
eye ... ”
40 Line of work: 
Abbr.
41 *Depressed, 
colorfully
45 Teachers’ org.
46 Like dried soil
47 Dictation takers
48 Bourbon __
50 Summer in Lyon
51 Movie reviewer’s 
warning ... or 
what the last 
words of each 
starred answer 
can be?
58 “Prince Valiant” 
queen
61 Most burger meat
62 Scottish hillside
63 Trig function
64 Slight advantage
65 Not supportin’
66 Smooth and 
glossy
67 Shock, as a perp
68 Doofus
DOWN
1 Natural wound 
protection
2 Yesterday, on the 
French Riviera3 Native 
Nebraskan
4 Capture the first 
piece in chess, 
typically
5 Bond order
6 Indian nurse
7 __ of the above
8 Take off the top
9 Completely 
flummoxed
10 Diwali celebrant
11 Consume
12 “We __ 
Marshall”: 2006 
football drama
13 Pop
21 Actor Dullea of 
“2001” films
22 Look at creepily
25 Nissan brand 
relaunched in 
2013
26 One lacking 
pigment
27 Swats on the rear
28 Negatively 
charged particles
29 Half a sestet, in 
an Italian sonnet
30 Like a good-sized 
garage
31 Barely manage
32 Airline to Tel Aviv35 Fargo’s state: 
Abbr.
39 Words of regret, 
perhaps
41 Treatment for 
swelling
42 Defense 
acronym
43 Highway toll, e.g.
44 Soul singer 
James
49 Lauder with 
fragrances52 “Fat chance”
53 Mother of Castor 
and Pollux
54 Hosp. brain tests
55 “Logically,  
then ... ”
56 Train wheel guide
57 Camp shelter
58 Window cooling 
units, briefly
59 “Gr8 joke!”
60 Legal 
conclusion?
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, June 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Chem lab array
6 Grainy side
11 Pixar SFX
14 Certain Sri 
Lankan
15 Defense concern
16 Orbital section
17 Best Custard 
Enhancement 
award?
20 Like moves in 
casual chess 
games
21 Overly orotund 
orator
22 Sacred symbol
24 Pro __
25 Romeo’s partner?
28 Eve’s incentive 
not to eat the 
apple?
33 “Free to Be... 
You and Me” 
co-creator 
Thomas
35 Information
36 See 13-Down
37 Sette minus sei
38 Also ... and, in 
three parts, a 
hint to the four 
longest Across 
answers
41 Minn. neighbor
42 Jose’s opening?
43 Je ne __ quoi
44 Keyboard 
offering
46 Whom to 
interrupt to end a 
couple’s tedious 
conversation?
50 Part of NAACP: 
Abbr.
51 Roadwork supply
52 Israeli desert
54 Big improvement 
over a mop, for 
short
57 Was horrified by
61 Description of a 
consistent ogre?
63 “Take a load off”
64 Stealthy fighter
65 Result of a 
leadoff single
66 “Feh!”
67 Wyoming county
68 Aggressive 
stingers
DOWN
1 Westernmost 
Aleutian island2 “All the Way” 
lyricist
3 “__ a traveller 
from an 
antique land”: 
“Ozymandias”
4 Like most selfies
5 Cinematographer’s 
option
6 Fraudulently 
increased
7 Martinique, par 
exemple
8 CNN host Lisa
9 Their logo has a 
mirrored letter
10 Diamond corner
11 Disastrous
12 Novelist Iles
13 With 36-Across, 
summer drink
18 “__ Smile Be 
Your Umbrella”
19 Designated driver 
alternative
23 “The Federalist 
Papers” 
co-author
25 What jesters do
26 Mostly private 
Hawaiian  
island
27 Incisors
29 Like Lear, 
ultimately30 Notre-Dame 
honoree: Abbr.
31 Switchback 
features
32 Moth-__
34 Paying attention
39 Stirrup location
40 Bro, say
45 Spot to sip ouzo
47 Kentucky Derby 
showpieces
48 Change the 
itinerary
49 “Great Scott!”53 Nudge
54 Fillmore was the 
last president 
who was one
55 Lisette’s BFF
56 You can see 
Lincoln on one
58 Club payments
59 On
60 Second-ranked 
pinochle cards
61 Nashville sch.
62 Eye in most of 
Iberia
06/13/191. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the traditional stone associat-
ed with July birthdays?
2. MUSIC: In what state was sing-
er-songwriter Tom Petty born and 
raised?
3. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
short story called “The Sentinel,” 
which provided a starting point for the 
film “2001: A Space Odyssey”?
4. HISTORY: What was the only 
state that George McGovern won in 
the 1972 presidential race?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the larg-
est country in South America?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of pelicans known as?
7. GOVERNMENT: Who was the 
longest-serving U.S. House Speaker?
8. MOVIES: Who was nominated for 
Best Supporting Actress in the movie 
“Silkwood”?
9. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of 
food is thrown at the annual food fight 
festival held in Bunol, Spain?
10. BIBLE: Who were King Solo-
mon’s parents?
Answers
1. Ruby
2. Florida
3. Arthur C. Clarke
4. Massachusetts
5. Brazil
6. A pod
7. Sam Rayburn (17 years)
8. Cher
9. Tomatoes
10. David and Bathsheba
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 17, 2019King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 18 Personals 22 Tickets 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Two UF track athletes honored
Gators horizontial jumper Yanis David and all-around athlete Grant Hollo-
way were named semﬁ  nalists for the Bowerman, collegiate track and ﬁ  eld's 
top honor. David also won a Honda Sport Award, which is awarded to the top 
female collegiate athlete in a particular sport. Former UF goalkeeper Haley 
Hicklen joined the Women's 
Professional Lacrosse League's 
Brave last week after being 
called up from the WPLL Player 
Pool.AWARDS
It’s that time of the year 
again. 
Track and ﬁ  eld ended 
their season at the NCAA 
Outdoor Championships. 
Baseball was struck down 
by Dallas Baptist at the 
Lubbock Regional, and Ala-
bama silenced the Gators 
softball team at the Wom-
en’s College World Series.
The UF sports season is 
over, and as is tradition, it’s 
time for the alligatorSports 
Awards. Every summer, our 
writers hand out awards 
to the teams, players and 
coaches on Florida’s athlet-
ic staff based on the Gators’ 
performances during the 
year.
Today, four of our writ-
ers are making the case for 
Florida’s best team over the 
2018-2019 school year from 
a pool of four UF teams: 
football, softball, men’s 
track and ﬁ  eld and men’s 
tennis.
Evan: UF football fans 
had little to be excited about 
entering the 2018 season.The year prior, the pro-
gram was a total dumpster 
ﬁ  re, complete with an ar-
ray of heart-breaking losses, 
lackluster performances 
and death threat accusa-
tions from the head coach, 
Jim McElwain.
First-year coach Dan 
Mullen changed the culture 
of the program far quicker 
than many believed capa-
ble. 
The Gators went 10-3 
in 2018, winning their ﬁ  rst 
New Year’s Six Bowl since 
Urban Meyer led UF to a 
Sugar Bowl victory in 2009.
Despite an early-season 
home loss to Kentucky that 
snapped a 31-game win-
ning streak against UK, the 
Gators quickly turned the 
season around, manhan-
dling Tennessee in Neyland 
Stadium, upsetting Mullen’s 
former school in Missis-
sippi State and upending a 
ﬁ  fth-ranked LSU team in the 
Swamp to open the eyes of 
the college football world. 
The most impressive part 
of the season to me, though, was the home game against 
South Carolina.
Down 31-14 in the sec-
ond half, UF rattled off 21 
unanswered points to defeat 
the Gamecocks 35-31.
The win was the ﬁ  rst of 
four straight for Florida, in-
cluding a 41-14 drubbing of 
in-state rival Florida State, 
the ﬁ  rst win over FSU since 
2012.
Florida football is a top-
10 program once again, and 
for that, the 2018 squad de-
serves to be this year’s al-
ligatorSports Team of the 
Year.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
Dylan: It wouldn’t be 
racing to conclusions to say 
men’s track and ﬁ  eld is the 
team of the year.
In fact, I believe the race 
isn’t even close.
Men’s track and ﬁ  eld 
was the only team to take 
a national championship Alligator Awards: UF 
Sports Team of the Year 
Recruiting is important, 
don’t get me wrong. 
You have to have tal-
ent in order to compete 
with the best college foot-
ball programs in the country.
But do Dan Mullen and the 
Florida Gators have to consistently 
bring in top-5 classes to compete 
for national championships?
I personally don’t think so.
Look at the Clemson Tigers, for 
example.
Dabo Swinney has led his team to two na-
tional championship victories since 2016, and 
the Tigers have been right in the middle of the 
College Football Playoff conversation every sea-
son since 2015.
To me, Swinney is similar to Mullen in a 
couple of ways.
One, Swinney knows how to get the most 
out of the talent he has. And two, Clemson’s 
classes haven’t exactly dropped jaws in the 
rankings.
The Tigers’ highest class ranking in the last 
decade was seventh in 2018. The average rank-
ing over that span? Sixteenth.
Sixteenth is good, but it’s not elite.
And yet, Swinney and the Tigers have 
climbed to the top of the college football land-
scape twice.
Why can’t Mullen and the Gators do the 
same?Florida’s second-year head 
coach has been questioned for 
most of his coaching career when 
it comes to his ability to effective-
ly recruit. He isn’t a Nick Saban, 
Kirby Smart or Jimbo Fisher on the 
trail, but in my opinion, he’s one 
of the more underrated recruiters 
in college football.
Perhaps his bad reputation 
stems from nine years as head 
coach at Mississippi State.
His recruiting classes there usually ranked in 
the top 30, with one class breaking into the top 
20 back in 2009, his ﬁ  rst year as head coach of 
the Bulldogs.
Yes, those numbers aren’t going to wow 
anybody, but you have to understand the cir-
cumstances. Not a lot of recruits envision them-
selves playing collegiately in Starkville, Missis-
sippi. A sold-out crowd full of rattling cowbells 
at Davis Wade Stadium is one of the more icon-
ic sights in college football, but outside of that, 
the town doesn’t have much else to offer.
Despite all of this, Mullen took Mississippi 
State somewhere it had never been with me-
diocre talent.
Why?
Because he’s an elite football coach who 
knows how to get the most out of his players.
In 2014, the Bulldogs were ranked No. 1 
in the nation after victories over three top-10 
teams.Mullen doesn’t have to be an elite 
recruiter for UF to win a championship24/EvanChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida punter T ommy T ownsend celebrates after his team knocked off Michigan in 
the Chick-Fil-A Peach Bowl. It was UF's ﬁ  rst New Year's Six bowl victory since 2009.
Alligator File Photo
Coach Dan Mullen has garnered two top-15 recruiting classes since coming to UF .
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 12
Evan Lepak
twitter: @evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
MLB: Stop juicing the baseballsSam's Strike Zone
The Associated Press
MLB commissioner Rob Manfred has denied altering the league’s baseballs on 
purpose, but admitted at the Associated Press Sports Editors commissioners 
meeting last month that the ball does have less drag. 
Alligator File Photo
UF forward Deanne Rose has only played 15 minutes combined in the Canadian 
National T eam’s two games thus far at the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup.
SOCCER
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
The 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup is 
underway, and UF is represented by a cur-
rent player and three former Gators. For-
ward and rising junior Deanne Rose, along 
with UF alum Adriana Leon, are represent-
ing the Canadian national team in Group 
E. Meanwhile in Group C, former Gators 
Lauren Silver and Havana Solaun are rep-
resenting Jamaica. 
The Jamaican National Team, nick-
named the ‘Reggae Girlz,’ was celebrated 
when they qualiﬁ  ed for the World Cup for 
the ﬁ  rst time in the country’s history. Un-
fortunately, the honeymoon has ended for 
the underdog squad.
Jamaica has yet to score a goal in its 
ﬁ  rst two games, losing its ﬁ  rst match to 
Brazil 3-0 and being routed by Italy 5-0. 
Solaun, who played at UF from 2011 to 
2014, has played 162 minutes and made 
three attempts in her ﬁ  rst two games. Sil-
ver played during the same time period at 
UF as Solaun and has only seen 14 min-
utes of action for Jamaica.
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh has 
coached all four players competing and 
anticipated that her former players would 
face adversity in their ﬁ  rst World Cup ap-
pearance.
“I think for both of them they both had 
to deal with a lot of adversity in different 
ways while they were a part of our team,” Burleigh said in an interview with WRUF. 
“I think both of them showed a lot of re-
silience and perseverance throughout their 
careers, and I think they had to have that 
to get to the World Cup because it was not 
an easy path for Jamaica either and for ei-
ther of them to get on the team as well.”
The two former Gators and their team 
have struggled in their ﬁ  rst two outings 
and they’ll need to show some resilience 
when they face Australia today at 3 p.m. 
The Canadian National Team could not 
have had a more different start. Canada 
has won its ﬁ  rst two games and has yet to 
allow a single goal.
Canada defeated Cameroon 1-0 in its 
ﬁ  rst game of the World Cup, then followed 
it up with a 2-0 win against New Zealand. 
Rose has only played 15 minutes 
throughout the ﬁ  rst two matches, while 
Leon has played a meager six minutes. 
Leon played one season at UF in 2012 and 
also played for Canada’s 2015 FIFA World 
Cup team.
The Canadian National Team will face 
off against the Netherlands on Thursday 
at noon. 
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.orgIf you’ve paid any atten-
tion to Major League 
Baseball this season, you 
probably know what I’m 
talking about.
Routine pop ups carrying 
out of the ballpark. Players 
who were never considered 
power hitters are now hitting 
home runs with regularity. 
Final scores often resemble 
a football game more than a 
baseball game.
MLB is juicing its balls.
The purpose of this column isn’t to 
convince you that it’s happening. Research 
has proven that it is. My problem is what 
the juiced balls are doing to the game – 
they’re turning it into a farce.
The league, as a whole, is on pace to 
shatter the previous record for long balls in 
a season. Entering Monday, 18 players were 
on pace to hit 40 or more home runs. In 
2014, just one did it. Pitchers don’t stand 
a chance.
A moment of silence, then, for the 
pitcher’s duel. What was formerly an 
instrumental part of the game, and one of 
the most intense, is largely a thing of the 
past. If you like good pitching, turn off the 
TV. We’ve reached the point where each 
at-bat has two outcomes: a home run and 
a strikeout. All or nothing. It’s not fun to 
watch.
It’s bad for baseball and it disgraces the 
legacy of the game. Any records set this 
season should be considered illegitimate in the same way that records set 
during the steroid era are. The 
only difference is that the balls are 
juiced now instead of the players.
Commissioner Rob Manfred 
says he’s not sure why the balls 
have changed, but I don’t buy it. 
Attendance is down. He wants 
to drum up interest. People like 
home runs, and they like seeing 
people chase records.
He’s not fooling anyone, 
however. Baseball fans are 
smart. They know that off-balance, one-
handed swings shouldn’t result in 400-foot 
home runs. They know that a light-hitting 
veteran second baseman like Derek Dietrich 
shouldn’t have a career-high 17 home runs 
by mid-June.
They see what Manfred is doing, and his 
plan isn’t working. Attendance is down once 
again this year. People aren’t interested in 
inﬂ  ated stats.
The most insulting thing about this 
whole saga is the commissioner’s ofﬁ  ce’s 
refusal to do anything about it. Manfred can 
say that he doesn’t know why the ball has 
changed. Major League Baseball, however, 
is a multi-billion-dollar organization that 
has the resources to identify and ﬁ  x an 
issue with the manufacturing process. 
Instead, it has done nothing but watch as 
baseballs continue to ﬂ  y out of parks at an 
alarming rate.
Rob Manfred: Do something.
Gators see little World Cup 
action as Jamaica struggles 
and Canada dominates 
Sam Campisano
twitter: scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS 
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYShome this year, winning the NCAA 
Indoor Championships back in 
March. The star-studded squad 
also secured second place in the 
NCAA Outdoor Championships 
this month.
The team was led by junior 
sprinter Grant Holloway, one of the 
greatest athletes to ever represent 
the Gators. Holloway, who is ex-
pected to leave the team en route to 
the 2020 Olympics in Japan, won 
eight individual national champi-
onships in his career, a UF record.
Holloway also broke records in 
the indoor 60 meter hurdles at 7.35 
seconds and the outdoor 110 meter hurdles in 12.98 seconds.
In the outdoor championships, 
Holloway, Raymond Ekevwo, Ha-
kim Sani Brown and Ryan Clark 
were a part of the national title 
team in the 4x100 meter relay.
Senior AJ McFarland also set a 
record, finishing with the highest 
weight throw in school history.
Florida’s success on the track, 
along with the finish to Grant Hol-
loway’s UF career, make the Flor-
ida’s men’s track and field squad 
the Florida team of the year.
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.org
Joseph: The UF softball team 
was by far the best team to repre-sent the Gators this year.
It compiled a strong 49-18 re-
cord and won an SEC Tournament 
championship. It went undefeated 
in the NCAA Regional and capped 
off its run with a walk-off win 
against the No. 12 Tennessee Vol-
unteers from junior Jaimie Hoover 
to advance to the Women’s College 
World Series.
It was also Amanda Lorenz and 
Kelly Barnhill’s last season with 
the Gators. It’s not like the team 
needed any more attention, but 
college softball and UF were say-
ing goodbye to two of the most 
dominant players to ever play the 
sport. Unfortunately, both players’ 
careers ended in heartbreak.
It’s difficult to forget Barnhill 
walking off the mound with her 
team down 11-0 to Alabama during 
the final game of her storied career. UF would go on to lose the game 
15-3.
Nonetheless, the softball team 
gave Gainesville something to 
cheer for and be proud of.
 
 @JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.org
Sam: Despite falling short of its 
national championship goal, the 
Florida men’s tennis team is my 
pick for alligatorSports Team of the 
Year. 
Florida’s season was historic. 
After an Elite Eight appearance in 
2018, the Gators went a step fur-
ther with their first SEC regular 
season title and Final Four appear-
ance since 2005. They also went 
undefeated in the conference for 
the first time in 16 years and had 
their best record since that last Fi-nal Four season.
This is a program that has 
never won a championship. The 
2019 squad is arguably the best in 
school history. 
For that, they deserve to be 
recognized. Coach Bryan Shelton 
did a brilliant job getting the most 
out of his young players. Sam Rif-
fice, one of the top recruits in the 
country, had a fantastic freshman 
season for Florida and finished as 
the No. 23 player in the country. 
Oliver Crawford, in his sophomore 
season, was the No. 7 player in the 
country at season’s end. Expect 
men’s tennis to be a regular on this 
list in the future if those two con-
tinue to improve. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 10Softball won an SEC title
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Jaimie Hoover's walk-off single to send the Florida softball team to the Women's College World 
Series was a highlight of the 2018-2019 athletic season for UF.
Led by a team assembled by 
classes ranked 41st, 22nd, 24th 
and 36th and a three-star quar-
terback in Dak Prescott, Mullen 
guided his team to a 10-2 regular 
season record and a major bowl 
game (Orange Bowl) for the first 
time since 1941.
At Florida, there’s no doubt 
Mullen’s classes will consistently 
be in the top 15, similar to Swin-
ney’s numbers.
But most Gator fans, especially 
the ones on Twitter, will tell you 
that’s simply not good enough.
But why can’t it be?
Mullen completely ripped up 
the last regime’s mistakes and 
laid new groundwork from the minute he stepped on campus.
He turned an undisciplined 
team that went 4-7 the year prior 
into a 10-win squad that blew 
out Michigan in a New Year’s 
Six Bowl.
His first two classes at UF 
have both ranked in the top 15, 
and even with the decommit-
ments and transfers that have 
gripped the program recently, 
the 2020 class currently ranks 
eighth.
I believe that’s more than 
enough to put Florida in prime 
position to make the College 
Football Playoff and possibly 
win a championship very soon 
under Mullen.
 24/EVAN,  from pg. 10UF 's 2019 class was 
No. 9 in the country