We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
School of Theatre + Dance premieres musical
“Hills on Fire” explored drug addiction with recyclable set, pg 3
Former UF VP of Student Aﬀ  airs remembered
Patricia T elles-Irvin co-founded the Machen Florida Opportu-
nity Scholars, pg 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF track and ﬁ  eld ﬁ  nishes strong
Grant Holloway became the ﬁ  rst collegiate 
athlete in history to run the 110-meter 
hurdle in under 13 seconds, pg 10
TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 94
BUILDINGS FROM THE 1920S 
AND 1930S WILL BE REBUILT
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
The Board of Trustees has approved four 
construction projects on the UF campus total-
ing over $100 million. 
The board met on Thursday and Friday to 
discuss the current state of UF, as well as ap-
prove new projects and proposals. Trustees 
approved a new student healthcare center, a 
new university police department facility, a 
special collections facility at the Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History and a thermal infra-
structure project.
The money for these projects is coming 
from UF’s main operating budget, which is 
primarily from the state, said UF spokesper-
son Steve Orlando. There is currently no time 
frame on these projects. 
“I think it’s important that they approved 
these speciﬁ  c projects because three out of 
four of these cases are buildings and struc-
tures that are outdated and very much need to be replaced,” Orlando said. 
The current UF Student Health Care Cen-
ter Inﬁ  rmary Building was built in the 1930s 
when the university was much smaller. The 
board approved spending $26 million on a 
new one, Orlando said. 
The University Police is in a building that 
was constructed in the late 1920s as a radio 
station, he said. The board approved $20 mil-
lion on the construction of a new building.
“It’s very much outlived its usefulness,” 
Orlando said. 
There is $8 million going into the Florida 
Museum’s Special Collections Facility where 
it will keep specimens requiring distinctive 
storage conditions. This is the only one of the 
four projects that isn’t calling for a whole new 
infrastructure, Orlando said. 
Around $50 million, is going towards ther-
mal infrastructure, which includes the large 
pipes underground that carry steam to heat 
buildings, Orlando said. 
“That’s one of those things you don’t see 
and you don’t think about,” he said, “but it’s 
actually very important to the operation of Board of Trustees approves over $100 
million in construction projects
SEE UF BOARD,  PAGE 5HEYZEL OBANDO 
WAS FOUND DEAD 
ON VALENTINE’S 
DAY 2016 
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Former UF defensive 
back Earl Antonio Joiner, 
also known as Tony Joiner, 
was arrested and charged 
on Saturday with the sec-
ond-degree murder of his 
wife, Heyzel Obando.
Joiner was arrested in 
Lake Wales, Florida, after 
an arrest warrant was is-
sued on Friday in connec-
tion with the 2016 mur-
der, according to Yahoo! 
Sports.
Obando, 26 at the time, 
was found fatally shot in 
her Maple Crest Apart-
ments home on Valentine’s 
Day 2016. Her death was 
ruled a murder two months 
later. Until Saturday, no ar-
rests were made, according 
to Fort Myers News-Press.Joiner, 33, was arrested 
twice before on the charge 
of domestic violence bat-
tery. The arrests took place 
in June and Dec. 2013, the 
latter included another 
charge of aggravated bat-
tery with a deadly weapon. 
Joiner was also arrested 
for a probation violation 
just a month after Oban-
do’s death but was released 
on May 8, 2016, according 
to arrest records.
Obando and Joiner had 
two children, ages 3 and 
6. Permanent guardianship 
was given to Obando’s 
mother, Isabel Martinez, in 
2017.
“Now that he is ar-
rested, I hope he feels the 
weight of the law,” Marti-
nez said in the News-Press 
article.
It is unknown why it 
took police over three 
years to arrest Joiner.
Joiner played for the 
Gators football team from 
2004-2007 under coach Ur-ban Meyer and is the sec-
ond player from the 2007 
team to be arrested for 
murder. 
Former tight end Aaron 
Hernandez was arrested in 
2013 for the murder of Odin 
Floyd and was convicted in 
2015 of ﬁ  rst-degree mur-
der. Hernandez committed 
suicide in April 2017 while 
serving a life-sentence.
Joiner was also arrest-
ed in October of 2007 for 
burglary while he was a 
captain on the UF football 
team. Joiner lost his cap-
tain status after the charges 
were dropped.
Joiner is being held 
without bond in the Polk 
County Jail for second-
degree murder and will 
be transferred to the Lee 
County Jail following his 
ﬁ  rst appearance, according 
to gatorsports.com.
@JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.orgFormer UF football player arrested for wife’s murder
Alex Kolyer / Alligator File Photo 2007
Earl Antonio Joiner was a defensive back for the Gators from 2004-2007. He is the 
second member of the 2007 team to be charged for murder.
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Taylor Croft, 23, pets her newly adopted 
dog, Sunday afternoon at PetSmart during 
the North Florida Pet Adoption Days event 
organized by the North Central Florida 
Humane Society. The dog, who was born 
with only three paws, was named Tripod by 
the Humane Society, but Croft says she plans 
to change the name because she says she 
ﬁ  nds it a little demeaning. All the adoptable 
animals brought in for adoption on Saturday 
and Sunday were available for free. Croft said 
adopting was not her initial plan. “We walked 
by and I said ‘oh she’s cute’ , ” Croft said when 
she ﬁ  rst saw Tripod. “Then I saw the leg and 
thought ‘that’s gonna be my dog’ . ” have to clip 
when she’s trimming the dog’s nails.
SEE PETS,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  90° LOW  75°
Science on Tap: 
‘Secrets of Seagrass’
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History and the University 
of Florida’s Thompson Earth 
Systems Institute will host 
“Science on Tap” at Cypress & 
Grove Brewing Co. on June 13 
from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Guest 
speaker Savanna Barry of the 
Nature Coast Biological Station 
in Cedar Key will discuss the 
importance of healthy seagrass 
meadows and helpful practices 
to prevent their damage. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
sot-seagrass or call 352-273-2062.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 94
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Josephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Hannah Beatty, Jackie DeFrietas
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
Jessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Morgan Goldwich
Meagan DiPolo
Noura Al-RajhiKatherine MooreKaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) Liu
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th St., Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. 
and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, July 10th. Look for the Alligator 
sign located in the lobby. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read 
information regarding the application process. No phone calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Friday, July 12th at 
4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and selections by the 
Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, July 26th. Applicants must be degree-seeking 
college or university students. Preference will be given to those who 
have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the Fall semester:TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
“HILLS ON FIRE” PRESENTS 
A UNIQUE PERSPECTIVE ON 
DRUG USE
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
Students of the UF School of The-
atre + Dance brought the heat with 
their premiere of the musical “Hills on 
Fire” this past weekend. More than 40 
students, faculty and family members 
were present for the cast’s final perfor-
mance Sunday afternoon.
“Hills on Fire” is a ghost-story-mu-
sical about the opioid crisis in Appa-
lachia. It was created by UF’s School 
of Theatre + Dance in collaboration 
with Tilted Windmills Theatricals. It 
ran June 6-9. 
Assistant Director Katie Hauser 
said the School of Theatre + Dance 
does an artistic residency program 
throughout the summer where the 
school invites theater practitioners to 
help the students develop a script. 
Hauser also explained how the musical highlights heart and humanity 
in the midst of a town’s crisis.
The musical takes place in Per-
due, Pennsylvania. It starts off with 
the main protagonist, Kelsey Stray 
(MaRah Williams), almost losing her 
widower father, Edipus Stray (Bryan 
Ferriter), in a coal mining fire. 
To cope with his pain from the 
fire, her father is given prescription 
medication, which Kelsey’s brother 
Mark Stray (Wildlin Pierrevil) sells to 
his drug dealer friend Jeremy (James 
Dennis) for $500 for the first bottle and 
even more for the subsequent bottles 
Later, Kelsey’s brother relapses into 
his former drug addiction and she is 
forced to assume the matriarch role 
and deal with the ups and downs in 
her family’s life. 
The musical delivers a fresh per-
spective on the frequently discussed 
social issue of drug addiction while 
emphasizing the importance of family.
Wooden explained the cast dis-
cussed addiction together when writ-
ing the script and shared stories about 
family and friends struggling with drug addiction.
After the performance, the cast held 
a discussion with the audience about 
drug use and how it affects them. One 
crowd member shared how the play 
really hit home for them because of 
their background as a medical practi-
tioner who prescribes medication. 
Also, rather than being excluded 
from the rest of the cast, Jeremy is 
portrayed as extroverted and normal, 
which is atypical for a drug dealer role.
Co-writer Keaton Wooden said 
when writing the script he did not 
intend to have villains, he wanted to 
make his characters have certain traits 
and let the audience decide whether 
they were good or bad.
“Everyone’s seen Breaking Bad,” 
said Wildlin Pierrevil, who played 
Mark. “We wanted to do something 
different.”
@lilygirton
lilygirton@ufl.eduSchool of Theatre + Dance puts on “fireocious” performance
Courtesy to The Alligator
Third-year MFA acting students Elaina Walton (Wilma 
“Grandma Ma” Stray) and MaRah Williams (Kelsey Stray) 
embrace during rehearsal for “Hills on Fire. ” 
THE SET COST THE 
COLLEGE LESS THAN 
$1,000 
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
A UF student decided to save mon-
ey by turning to something greener 
after seeing thousands of dollars spent 
on new theater set materials each year. 
 The UF School of Theatre + Dance 
used only recyclable materials on the 
set of “Hills on Fire” this past week-
end. Samantha Lewis, a 24-year-old UF 
scene design master’s student led the 
initiative. 
“I was definitely inspired by how 
I felt personally after the last show, 
and how wasteful we were, and how 
I could literally see all the ways that 
we could have been better about it,” 
Lewis said. Lewis visited The Repurpose Proj-
ect, a nonprofit resale store on 1920 NE 
23rd Ave., where she retrieved many 
of the materials she needed to make 
this recycled set at a low cost, she said. 
The school spent less than $1,000 
on this set. Set budgets range typically  
from $750 to $4,000 depending on the 
show. Lewis said she is still calculating 
how much money her design saved the 
school.
She started her recycled set chal-
lenge after seeing the school’s “Rough 
Magic” production in April. Most of the 
materials used were disposed of after 
the show.
Lewis encouraged the “Hills on 
Fire” scenic design team to purchase 
windows from The Repurpose Proj-
ect and to buy nicer two-by-six wood 
boards in hopes of recycling for the 
next show, she said.
“I think we only threw the screws and staples away,” Lewis said.  
Lewis worked closely with the 
guest director, Ryan Hope Travis, a 
filmmaker and School of Theatre + 
Dance alumnus. He quickly became a 
cheerleader for her work. 
“It was great to have Sam be able to 
reach out to the community in such a 
sustainable way,” Travis said. 
Travis said Lewis’ work was almost 
metaphorical for this play, which was 
about community relationships. 
“This was a play about the commu-
nity and how those communities and 
community relationships start building 
solutions to long term problems,” he 
said. “So, in a really tangible way, her 
work is doing what the play seeks to 
do in an artistic manner.” 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgUF scene design student makes “Hills on Fire” set recyclable
Photo courtesy of Coral Dixon to The Alligator
The set with lighting for “Hills on Fire” in the Black Box 
Theatre. The lighting design for the show is by Jordan 
Lindquist, a lighting design junior.
4  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun 
brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the 
modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a 
wide array of desserts and treats made 
daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side Car Our 
Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating 
taps, excellent wine selection. 
Open LateBREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises 
daily since 1990. Egg & cheese 
with bacon, ham, or sausage 
on a Thomas’s english mufﬁ  n 
or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-
0376. Your order will be ready 
when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-ﬁ  , 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh 
bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle 
soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  
Come try our new specials! 
Vegan and gluten free options 
available. Mention this ad 
and get 10% off your order!
,· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE TOLD POLICE HE “WOULD KILL 
HIS NEIGHBOR, ” ACCORDING 
TO REPORT
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Gainesville Police responded to a 911 
call from a Gainesville resident who told 
the dispatcher he “would kill his neigh-
bor,” and “he was going to hit someone 
with his machete,” Saturday night. 
Michael George, 51, was arrested Sat-
urday near the 900 block of Southeast Sev-
enth Avenue. He trespassed on his neigh-
bor’s rental property on more than once, 
prompting the neighbor to install multiple 
“no trespassing” signs. George entered the 
property again Saturday, according to the 
police report.
A doorbell camera showed George en-tering his neighbor’s property and using 
his neighbor’s lumber to prop up a fence. 
When he saw the footage, the neighbor 
decided to confront George, according to 
the report.
The confrontation took a turn when 
George retrieved a 2-foot machete from 
his house and approached the neighbor 
in a threatening manner. The neighbor re-
treated to his vehicle and waited until law 
enforcement arrived.
George told police he grabbed the ﬁ  rst 
thing he could get his hands on from his 
house. George was charged with aggravat-
ed assault, which is a third-degree felony. 
He remains in jail in lieu of a $25,000 bond, 
according to the Alachua County Jail.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgPolice say Gainesville man 
wielded machete
HE WAS SERVING 
TIME FOR A 
FEBRUARY ARREST
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s 
deputies responded to an 
incident at the county jail 
Saturday evening after 
a jail employee said an 
inmate exposed his genitals 
to her.
The jail nurse was 
passing out medications 
when the cellmate of 
27-year-old inmate Damian 
Brown distracted her. When the nurse turned 
around to continue passing 
out medications, Brown’s 
pants were around his 
ankles exposing himself. 
He appeared to be 
masturbating, according to 
the police report.
When police questioned 
him, Brown said he had no 
recollection of the events. 
Jail footage was provided 
to corroborate the incident.
Brown was serving time 
at the jail for a February ar-
rest regarding a home inva-
sion with a ﬁ  rearm. 
He remains in jail with 
no opportunity for bond and an additional charge 
of lewd and lascivious 
behavior, a third-degree 
felony, regarding the 
Saturday arrest.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgAlachua County Jail inmate charged 
after exposing himself to nurseTUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
the of the campus.” 
In addition to approving these 
projects, the board also discussed 
improving campus safety, the sta-
tus of current construction proj-
ects, academics and university pro-
tocols. Dean Michael Reid of the 
College of Health & Human Perfor-
mance also presented on the status 
of his college. 
There was time for public com-
ment before the board came to-
gether for their ofﬁ  cial meeting to 
vote on proposals. Two speakers 
representing Divest UF, both of 
whom were not students, present-
ed for three minutes each. 
The speakers presented to pro-test UF’s use of prison labor in ag-
ricultural studies. Each recounted 
personal accounts of the dangers 
and hardships inmates face as 
workers. 
The second speaker was a for-
merly incarcerated person in the 
state of Florida, said Jojo Sacks, UF 
Divest organizer. 
The board did not respond to 
the two public comments. 
“I think they really need to look 
inward to their consciences be-
cause their decisions have such a 
huge impact on actual lives,” Sacks 
said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgUF BOARD,  from pg. 1Board of Trustees meets
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Panagioti Tsolkas, 38, holds up a stack of ﬂ  yers promoting Fight T oxic Prisons (FTP) Thursday afternoon 
while speaking during UF Board of Trustees meeting. Tsolkas, a Gainesville resident and FTP organizer, was 
one of two speakers, both representing Divest UF, to address the quarterly board meeting during public 
comments. Tsolkas criticized the university’s labor contracts with entities that use unpaid workers. 
TELLES-IRVIN HELPED 
CREATE THE MACHEN 
FLORIDA OPPORTUNITY 
SCHOLARS PROGRAM
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
Patricia Telles-Irvin would re-
member small details that would 
seem inconsequential to others.
David Bowles, interim vice presi-
dent and operating ofﬁ  cer for UF Stu-
dent Affairs, remembered going to a 
social Telles-Irvin and her husband 
were hosting. Bowles was one of the 
only people drinking beer while ev-
eryone else drank wine.
Every time Bowles attended an 
event she hosted after, Telles-Irvin 
always offered him a beer when he 
came in.
Telles-Irvin was known as a hard-
working and dedicated leader who 
was active in the community. She died at age 63 on June 3, after a battle 
with cancer. She is survived by her 
husband, Don Irvin, and son, Daniel 
Irvin.
Bowles started a new position in 
student affairs the same day as Telles-
Irvin, who worked as UF’s vice presi-
dent for student affairs from 2004 to 
2011. 
He remembers the ﬁ  rst time they 
met sitting in on her job interview. 
New to student affairs, Bowles stayed 
silent while the other interviewers 
asked her questions. Telles-Irvin no-
ticed his silence. She glanced at him 
and asked if there was anything he 
wanted to know.
“From day one, she wanted to be 
engaged with all of the directors,” 
Bowles said. “She regularly met with 
all of the directors of the larger de-
partments, even though she had been 
advised not to because it would take 
too much time.”
During her time with the univer-sity, Telles-Irvin was known for being 
the co-founder of Machen Florida Op-
portunity Scholars (MFOS), a scholar-
ship program created in 2005 to sup-
port ﬁ  rst-generation college students.
When she met with students, she 
never forgot about them. Even after 
the meeting was over, she always 
wanted to hear how they were doing, 
Bowles said. 
“If she ever saw people she had 
met with previously, she would al-
ways check in and see how they were 
doing,” Bowles said. “And if she had 
any questions after the meeting she 
would send an email follow-up.”
Mary Kay Carodine, assistant vice 
president of UF student affairs, re-
members the enthusiasm Telles-Irvin 
brought to work with her. 
She recalls the dedication Telles-
Irvin had in eliminating ﬁ  nancial 
boundaries that made it difﬁ  cult for 
some students to go to UF. It was 
this passion that fueled Telles-Irvin to help create the MFOS program.
“She always had a twinkle in her 
eye,” Carodine said.  
“She believed in humanity and 
always helping people do the best 
they could.”
After leaving UF, Telles-Irvin ac-
cepted a position as vice president of 
student affairs at Northwestern Uni-
versity in Illinois.
Bethany Koch, a UF alumna who 
graduated in 2011, said she would 
not have been able to graduate with-
out MFOS and the opportunities the 
program provided her.
“It’s such a powerful program,” 
Koch said. “I can’t say enough about 
it. It really shaped who I am. I don’t 
know where I would be without it.”
Daniel Irvin, Telles-Irvin’s 23-year-
old son, remembers his mother as a 
beautiful woman and a beacon of 
light for those around her. He said she was a loving wife and 
mother. She and her husband just 
celebrated their 31st wedding an-
niversary. She is remembered as a 
wonderful cook who enjoyed watch-
ing “Matlock,” a tradition she began 
with her father.
“The biggest lesson I learned from 
her was to always be honest with 
people,” Irvin said. “When you’re 
honest and forthcoming with people, 
the best will happen. Whether it’s im-
mediate or not, it’s going to happen.”
A memorial for Telles-Irvin will be 
held Friday on Northwestern’s cam-
pus. Irvin said it is expected to be a 
large ceremony with about 800 at-
tendees.
“It really shows how much she 
impacted the lives of so many people 
around her,” Irvin said. 
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgFormer UF Vice President of Student Aﬀ  airs Patricia Telles-Irvin rememberedVISITORS CAN CARRY CLEAR PLASTIC 
CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL BOUGHT 
WITHIN THE AREA
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Starting this summer, celebrations can con-
tinue long after Gainesville residents leave the 
bar.
Celebration Pointe has instituted new open 
container rules, which allow visitors to carry 
alcoholic beverages with them as they shop 
and wander the growing area, said Sean Mc-
Intosh, senior vice president of asset manage-
ment at Celebration Pointe. 
Discussions about this regulation began a little under a year ago, McIntosh said. It was 
approved by both Alachua County and Florida 
state ofﬁ  cials in May 2019. 
Within Celebration Pointe, a “natural en-
tertainment environment” composed of shops, 
restaurants and a theater, patrons will be able 
to carry drinks out of restaurants and bars as 
long as the drinks are in a clear plastic contain-
er provided by the restaurant, McIntosh said.
This rule will only apply to alcohol purchas-
es made within the area, including any new 
restaurants such as The Keys, a piano bar and 
seafood restaurant opening in August under a 
former owner of Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar. 
Other restaurants and bars include the Regal 
Cinemas theater, MidiCi The Neapolitan Pizza 
Company, Decadent Dessert Bar and the bar at 
Hotel Indigo, McIntosh said. “Our goal is to make this a place where 
people of Gainesville come to celebrate life’s 
occasions, and this is just one more thing that 
allows people to enjoy this environment and 
enjoy these adult beverages in a responsible 
way,” McIntosh said. 
It will be up to each establishment how it 
handles the new rules, McIntosh said.
Renzo Mori, a server at MidiCi The Neapoli-
tan Pizza Company, said MidiCi and Decadent 
Dessert Bar have allowed open containers for 
the past two weeks. However, he notes an ad-
ditional rule is also in place.
Since the Regal theater has a bar of its own 
and is across the street from both MidiCi and 
Decadent, patrons are not allowed to bring 
drinks from the restaurants to the theater and 
vice versa, Mori said. Drinks must be served by bartenders and 
staff members in their own restaurants to 
prevent people from bringing in old cups 
with outside beverages, due to safety con-
cerns. Any outside liquors may be taken 
by security guards who work in the area, 
which is also how Celebration Pointe han-
dles unauthorized drinking during their out-
door concerts, Mori said. 
“We want to encourage to-go drinks be-
cause it’s just fun to have a nice wine out 
while you’re sitting at the patio and watch-
ing your kids play,” Mori said. 
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.org6  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
NEW HYBRID CLASS 
PROVIDES FLEXIBILITY 
AND ON-CAMPUS 
INTERACTION
By Lily Huerkamp
Contributing Writer
UF’s new hybrid chemis-
try lab now allows students 
to have the ﬂ  exibility to com-
plete assignments online and 
still meet with their instruc-
tors face-to-face for labs.
Alexys Dew, a 19-year-
old UF microbiology and cell 
science sophomore, is one of 
nine students in the new lab. 
“I think it’s very cool that 
it gives you the ability to be 
able to learn in a UF class in-
stead of just doing it online,” 
Dew said. “It’s really neat to 
physically be here and have people you can actually ask 
questions to, aside from 
GroupMe,” Dew said. 
Melanie Veige, UF direc-
tor of general chemistry, said 
the lab teaches the same top-
ics normally covered in Gen-
eral Chemistry 1 laboratory, 
such as measurements and 
how to use tools like Bunsen 
burners and balances. The 
traditional lab and new one 
are also similar covering top-
ics such as dilution and elec-
trolytes.
The chemistry depart-
ment is very excited about 
this different way to ap-
proach the lab and to pro-
vide it in a different format, 
Veige said.
Evangeline Cummings, 
assistant provost and direc-
tor of UF Online, said the chemistry lab is taken over 
the Summer A term for six 
weeks. The ﬁ  rst three weeks 
are 100 percent online, 
where students complete ex-
ercises and watch lessons.  
During the next two weeks, 
the students come to cam-
pus to conduct their chem-
istry labs. In the last week, 
the students ﬁ  nish up any 
outstanding assignments on-
line.
“It really provides great 
ﬂ  exibility for students that 
want the same rigor and the 
same learning outcomes, but 
they want a more ﬂ  exible 
format,” she said.  
Cummings said UF has 
been working with a state-
wide task force for a couple 
of years to ﬁ  gure out how 
the State University System of Florida can provide on-
line students with good labs. 
This new chemistry lab al-
lows UF to provide courses 
in different formats and to 
enhance access for students.
“The really cool thing about this lab is that it is 
UF faculty that made it hap-
pen, but it’s also completely 
connected to this conversa-
tion statewide about how to 
do online labs really well,” 
Cummings said. “It’s a great example of the University of 
Florida innovating but also 
collaborating and working 
as a state to share ideas and 
to provide these really neat 
options for online students.”UF starts in-person lab for online chemistry class
Courtesy to The Alligator
Students conducting their chemistry lab in-person for two weeks with Candace Biggerstaff 
(far left), the teaching specialist for Chemistry I.
Celebration Pointe allows open containers of alcohol
Greyson Dye, 3, stares at a gerbil drinking water Sunday afternoon. Greyson, along with his 7-year-old 
brother, were riding around in a shopping cart pushed by their grandmother, who would stop in front of 
the different animal cages and let the boys look. Greyson’s grandmother said they were originally going to 
search for a dog, but after browsing around, the brothers decided they wanted a hamster instead.
Felicity Jacobs looks at several 
kittens in cages up for adoption on 
her 4th birthday Sunday afternoon. 
Her father said the family had 
adopted a dog a few months ago, 
but now his daughters were trying 
to convince him to get another 
because “every dog needs a friend. ”
Photos by Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Alachua County Animal Services, Humane Society of North Central 
Florida north and south campuses and PetSmart hosted the 5th Annual 
North Florida Pet Adoption Days Saturday and Sunday. Hundreds of 
rescued dogs and cats were brought into these organizations with 
adoption fees waived. Margot DeConna, Humane Society of North 
Central Florida director of development, said the initial goal of the 
adoption event was to get 400 pets adopted. By the end of the weekend, 
a total of 344 pets were adopted. DeConna said the rain on Sunday may 
have been a factor that affected the original goal. 
How much is that dog in the window?
Alachua County Animal Services, Humane Society of North Central 
Yanet Centeno / Contributing WriterThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnColumn
Americans are some of the most pa-
triotic people in the world. Look at 
American conservatives especially, 
and you’ll see patriotism on full dis-
play. While this patriotism can be 
genuine, Republican politicians often take 
advantage of the patriotic immunity granted 
to them.
Conditioned to believe patriotism equals 
decency, we consider patriotism as a virtue 
on par with truth and honesty. Not only is this wrong, 
but many political elites aren’t sincere in their patriotism 
in the ﬁ  rst place. They simply use it as a tactic to gain 
votes and seem more likable. This façade of patriotism, 
in turn, leads to conservative politicians receiving laxed 
judgment from Americans.
Democrats and Republicans get treated differently 
for committing the same offense, as evidenced by the 
Hillary Clinton email scandal. As Secretary of State, 
Clinton used a private email server to discuss ofﬁ  cial 
White House matters and secret information. The 
scandal likely cost her the presidency and deﬁ  ned 
her political career despite her years of service to the 
country. 
Compare her tarnished legacy to Republicans who 
have done the same. Jared Kushner used private 
messaging applications and a personal email to 
communicate about government business. George W. 
Bush and Mitt Romney have had their own email-gates. 
But these Republicans’ legacies are not deﬁ  ned by 
scandal. The Democrat makes one mistake, and their 
political career is over. The Republican makes the same 
mistake, and no one bats an eye.
Other notable Republicans have also carried out less 
than favorable acts but continue to be praised by the GOP. President Ronald Reagan sold weapons 
to Iran despite a U.S. arms embargo. The 
Reagan administration then used the 
proceeds to funnel weapons to Nicaraguan 
insurgents – despite the congressional ban on 
such action. Yet, the GOP worships Ronald 
Reagan, so much so it dubbed itself as “the 
party of Reagan.” 
Furthermore, Richard Nixon committed 
countless offenses during his political career. 
At one point, he undermined peace talks between then-
president Lyndon B. Johnson and Vietnam in order to 
use the war as a campaign talking point. Nixon didn’t 
care that thousands more young American men would 
be killed as long as it could help him get elected.
And then there’s Donald Trump. The theme of his 
inauguration ceremony was “America ﬁ  rst” and yet he 
has never practiced this philosophy. Well before his 
career in politics, he dodged the draft multiple times. 
Meanwhile, he has consistently belittled John McCain, 
a man who served his country when called upon and 
endured years of torture as a result.
Ultimately, Democratic politicians must always be 
on their best behavior while Republican colleagues can 
commit impeachable offenses and get away with it. This 
disparity in treatment is caused by the public holding the 
parties to different standards, a result of the Republican 
party’s guise of patriotism, despite the fact history has 
shown us repeatedly conservative politicians simply 
care about furthering their own agenda.  
Cassidy Hopson is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column usually appears on Thursdays. Read the rest of 
her column online at alligator.org/opinion June is Pride Month, and during this time 
of celebration and unity, many would be 
quick to remind us that the LGBTQ+ com-
munity made great strides in the past de-
cade with growing public acceptance and 
legal victories. But gay people still face threats 
from discrimination, and yes, even physical at-
tacks.
Last week made this abundantly clear when 
Londoner Melania Geymonat posted on Face-
book about her and her same-sex partner being beaten on a 
bus. A group of men began harassing the couple, demand-
ing the couple kiss, according to Geymonat’s account which 
was also reported on. Geymonat’s partner tried to defuse the 
situation, but both were beaten. This attack reveals not just 
homophobia, but a perception of LGBTQ+ people (lesbians 
in particular) as sexual objects. 
While this incident alone would make for an eventful 
start to Pride Month, another less-violent but still offensive 
incident came up earlier this week: Boston’s ‘Straight Pride’ 
parade. According to the parade’s organizers, the event is a 
response to the “identity politics” of the American left, and 
that the group is “committed to creating spaces for people 
of all identities to embrace the vibrancy of the straight com-
munity.” 
Putting aside the fact that regular Pride events are already 
inclusive and accepting of everyone regardless of their iden-tity or orientation, this ‘Straight Pride’ event and 
the sentiments behind it seek to minimize the 
struggles of LGBTQ+ people while redirecting 
the attention to straight people. 
What, then, is the purpose of ‘Straight Pride’ 
parades? Are there any places where straight peo-
ple fear for their lives because heterosexuality is 
against the law? No. Do straight people need to 
stand up against homosexual-dominated govern-
ments to defend their inalienable rights? No. The 
fact of the matter is heterosexuality isn’t under attack in any 
part of the world, so ‘Straight Pride’ parades serve no valid 
purpose other than to distract from LGBTQ+ people and 
their ongoing struggles.
So this Pride Month, let’s not give into hate or distraction. 
Don’t bother going to ‘Straight Pride’ parades, not even to 
protest. Starve them of the media attention the organizers 
desperately crave. Instead, focus on LGBTQ+ people and ac-
tual Pride. Focus on addressing injustices that gay and trans-
gender people still face. Focus on advocacy on behalf of the 
LGBTQ+ community. And above all, be kind to everyone, 
regardless of their sexuality or gender identity. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays. Read the rest of his column online 
at alligator.org/opinion
The problem with patriotism in the GOPHomophobic attacks show why we need PrideWe get it, you drink. Maybe it’s because it’s 
summer and there’s nothing better to do. 
Maybe everyone just so happened to turn 
21 all around the same time in an uncanny 
way that makes you wonder if everyone in 
this town is a Gemini. Regardless, the inﬂ  ux of ﬂ  aunt-
ing binge drinking is all the same, and people joking 
about being “suuuuch alcoholics” is lame. Whether the 
statement is hyperbolic or not, people who’ve dealt with 
alcoholism likely ﬁ  nd these claims eyes-rolling-into-the-
back-of-the-head worthy. 
With Summer B fast approaching and football season 
not so far behind, we expect more sloppy Snapchat sto-
ries to cloud our feed. But now may be the time to check 
on drinking tendencies before the mayhem starts all 
over again. This sounds like a broken record for those 
deep into their college experience, but binge drinking 
is considered consuming multiple drinks in a two-hour 
time period resulting in a blood alcohol level to 0.08 or 
higher, which usually means four or more drinks for 
women and ﬁ  ve or more for men. 
College culture often lets binge drinking slide in a bid 
of “these are the best years of our lives - let’s drink to 
it while we’re young.” When framed this way, blacking 
out, throwing up and passing out all seem like part of 
the fun surrounding college life. Yes, drinking is fun. 
Putting your body and brain through a rollercoaster of 
damage every single weekend, Wednesdays included? 
Not so fun. 
There’s no need to shake a ﬁ  nger at our fellow stu-
dents for drinking excessively. Shaming never gets a 
point across. The “college experience” excuse allows 
for mild alcoholism to not only pass but be borderline 
praised. With talks of “being able to hold your liquor” 
and unspoken social cues, drinking is sometimes treated 
like social currency. 
We should also practice smart drinking practices now 
while we’re young, so we don’t regret otherwise when 
we’re old. Thinking about drinking tendencies using the 
CAGE method (Cutting down, Annoyance by criticism, 
Guilty feeling and Eye-openers) may be helpful in doing 
some introspection. The questions go as followed: Have 
you ever felt you need to cut down your drinking? Have 
people criticized your drinking? Have you ever felt guilty 
about drinking? Have you ever felt you need a drink ﬁ  rst 
thing in the morning as an eye-opener to steady your 
nerves or to get rid of a hangover?
If you answered yes to more than two of these ques-
tions, it may be time to talk to someone or re-evaluate 
one’s drinking habits. There’s nothing wrong with hold-
ing back the reins on drinking. Everyone’s liver deserves 
a break. 
Cutting back is hard if friends push you to keep up 
and be on the same level of drunkenness. They may 
not even say anything. Humans love to ﬁ  t in. And most 
of us have pushed our friends in a bid to have a great 
night. 
So yeah, we get it, you drink. So does everyone else. 
No need to make a competition out of it; there’s no win-
ners if someone’s puking all over the place, only losers 
who’ve had too much to drink. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOR
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Cassidy Hopson
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDAcross from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1050/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard,
large closets, pets welcome, no application
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100        8-13-19-24-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertis -
ing. We suggest that any reader who responds to ad -
vertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 OFFICE ASSITANT $9.00/hr, 5-10 hrs/wk. 
Flexible afternoon/ evening hours only. Misc 
office work, typing skills, computer savvy, 
math abilities. Resume & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    6-20-19-
12-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-141For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished9 Bicycles 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more informationDON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.
(ANSWERS TO MAGIC MAZE ON PAGE 9)TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
Winspire - "Win by inspiring others."
Photography/Video for individuals/businesses.
See winspirephoto.com, IG: @dante_winspire
Email: hello.winspire@gmail.com
We look forward to creating with you!     6-11-
1-15
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
HOW long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, June 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Singer Cyrus
6 Captain with a 
whalebone leg
10 Secretly sends an 
email copy to
14 Cry of domination
15 Sensible
16 “Well, hello there”
17 Run out of pants?
19 Dickens’ Little __
20 Airport approx.
21 Vintage Ford
22 Many a bagpiper
23 Relaxation
25 Steal tent 
holders?
27 Apt. units
29 XV ÷ V
30 For a specific 
purpose
33 Remington rival
37 Hamilton’s bill
40 Share sewing 
cylinders?
42 Choose in a 
booth
43 Pharmacy tablet
44 Praise Guinness 
products?
46 Benchmark: 
Abbr.
47 Carb-loading 
meal
48 Fill in for
49 Lap dog, briefly
51 Spot with saunas
52 Discuss 
cornfields?
58 Kudrow of 
“Friends”
62 Arouse, as an 
appetite
63 Skin care brand
65 Eminem genre
66 “You betcha!”
67 Cook escargots 
perfectly?
69 Cut with a 
surgical beam
70 Fish organ
71 “Fiddler” 
busybody
72 Yemen’s Gulf 
of __
73 63-Across rival
74 Medical pictures
DOWN
1 Long-distance 
runner
2 Steaming mad
3 “Star Wars” 
creator George4 Yellowstone 
grazer
5 Polite rural 
assent
6 Carne __: burrito 
filling
7 Czech diacritical 
mark
8 Joint for a 
bracelet
9 Outdoes
10 Tree in a tray
11 “Look at that!”
12 Actress Sevigny
13 Delta deposits
18 A great deal
24 Social media 
troublemaker
26 Element #50
28 Mic holders
30 Phone downloads
31 “Finish that job!”
32 Polite “Hang on”
33 Chorus for the 
villain
34 Lopsided win
35 Utah ski resort
36 Battleship initials
38 “At Last” vocalist 
James
39 Loch with 
monster stories
41 Student 
advocacy gp.42 Outspoken
45 One in a bar 
array
47 U.K. leaders
50 “In that case, 
fine”
51 Govt. IDs
52 Choreographer 
Tharp
53 In first place
54 Latin ballroom 
dance
55 Be useful to56 Soprano role in 
Bizet’s “The Pearl 
Fishers”
57 Green shade with 
an Irish name
59 Skater Slutskaya 
with two Olympic 
medals
60 Like the ocean
61 Vaulted church 
areas
64 Black gemstone
68 Bubbly prefix
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/07/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/07/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, June 7, 2019
ACROSS
1 Leading trio
4 Cheese made 
from cow’s milk
9 Space Invaders 
platform
14 Swing adviser
15 Come clean
16 More cold and 
wet
17 Play critic?
18 Paul Bunyan 
resting his eyes?
20 They might be 
cracked
22 Pool tactic
23 Sushi garnish
24 Highly season, as 
eggs
26 Head for the 
hills?
28 What a boring 
sermon might 
precipitate?
32 Opposite of stiff
33 Belgian city in 
1917 headlines
34 Region bordering 
Mex.
38 Project Mercury 
chimp
40 Helpless 
numbers?
42 Ask
43 “Same here”
45 ’70s TV talk 
show
47 Suzuki’s 
Quadracer, for 
short
48 Like lectures after 
a big meal?
51 NFLer who was 
a 2017 Sports 
Illustrated 
Sportsperson of 
the Year honoree
54 Cuffed, old-style
55 Attention
56 Drifters
60 Celebrations with 
nos.
62 Unexpectedly 
mild storm?
65 Prefix with -bar
66 Pronged
67 “Fingers 
crossed”
68 Case study?
69 “Love Story” 
author
70 __ bar
71 Part of GPS: 
Abbr.DOWN
1 Financing figs.
2 Depression Era 
sight
3 Morning aroma 
source
4 Spewing dirt?
5 Night __
6 One for the 
money?
7 Russian 
legislative body
8 LAPD messages
9 Stops
10 __ Boston: luxury 
hotel
11 Clued in
12 Drone job
13 Miffed
19 Morales of 
“Ozark”
21 “The serpent 
deceived me” 
speaker
25 Cuts
27 Cut of meat
28 Curtail
29 Tolkien hero
30 Start of a 
seasonal 
Spanish greeting
31 Together
35 Metaphorical 
influence36 According to the 
proverb
37 Duty
39 Cub slugger
41 Cuts
44 Officially injured, 
in previous 
baseball lingo
46 Men of La 
Mancha
49 Siouan people
50 Hot __
51 Kids52 __ and Jack, 
2019 Gap 
acquisition
53 “Guess again”
57 Tempt
58 Org. concerned 
with plants
59 “Hold it right 
there!”
61 Scatters in a field
63 Blues-rocker Chris
64 Radon-regulating 
org.
06/06/1916 Health Services 18 Personals 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida men's golf coach J.C. 
Deacon failed to make the 
cut over the weekend at the 
Canadian Open, his first PGA 
T our event. Deanne Rose makes World Cup debut
UF forward Deanne Rose made her World Cup debut for Canada on Mon-
day against Cameroon. The 2017 SEC Freshman of the Year came on as a 
substitute in the 75th minute and helped her team maintain to a 1-0 lead.By River Wells
Sports Writer
I flew into Los Angeles 
on Wednesday and I’ve 
been here for around six 
days now. It’s my first time 
here and I’ve hit all the typi-
cal tourist stops, but one of 
the coolest things I’ve seen 
on my trip came when I 
hadn’t even stepped off the 
plane: While descending to 
land at LAX, I got a perfect overhead view of the cur-
rently-under-construction 
Los Angeles Stadium at 
Hollywood Park, the future 
home of the Los Angeles 
Rams and the Los Angeles 
Chargers.
And that got me think-
ing.
Recently there has been 
a trend of hiring young 
coaches. It all started with 
Rams head coach Sean Mc-
Vay. Formerly a position coach and coordinator for 
the Redskins, McVay took 
over for a struggling Rams 
team off the heels of the Jeff 
Fisher era and found imme-
diate success. He went 11-5 
with the team in 2017 and 
13-3 last season, and when 
the Rams hit the playoffs 
last year, they looked un-
stoppable.
Teams certainly noticed TRACK
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Grant Holloway raised 
his arms in celebration as 
he crossed the line to win 
his sixth high-hurdle cham-
pionship. The junior from 
Chesapeake, Virginia, never 
left a national championship 
hurdle race without a gold 
medal. Now he will turn pro-
fessional, according to coach 
Mike Holloway, leaving UF 
as one of the most decorated 
track athletes in the history 
of the NCAA and one of the 
best athletes to ever come 
through Gainesville.  The hurdler is not the 
only athlete saying goodbye 
to the Gators — this year’s 
roster featured 12 seniors, 
many of whom were major 
contributors to this season’s 
success for Florida. The 
men’s side won the indoor 
team national champion-
ship and was runner-up for 
the outdoor championship. 
The women finished in sixth 
place for both seasons. Here 
are the athletes UF will miss 
the most next season:
Grant Holloway
At 21 years old, Holloway 
has the 18th-fastest 110-me-ter hurdle time in history at 
12.98 seconds. He is the only 
junior leaving the team, and 
for obvious reasons — he 
could compete in the 2020 
Olympics and has potential 
to move even higher on that 
list. 
Yanis David
The horizontal jumper 
from Lamentin, Guadeloupe, 
came into 2019 with no na-
tional championships to her 
name. She leaves the Gators 
with two, one in each of her 
jumps. She captured the tri-Holloway’s dominance highlights track and field season
The Associated Press
Grant Holloway became the first collegiate athlete to break the 13-second 
mark in the 110-meter hurdle with his time of 12.98 seconds over the weekend.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Justin Alintoff is perhaps the most notable player transferring from Florida. The 
sophomore had a 4.30 ERA and 24 strikeouts in 29.1 innings this year.
BASEBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida’s baseball roster 
has lost three players to 
the NCAA transfer portal 
over the past few weeks.
Junior Santino Miozzi, 
sophomore Justin Alint-
off and freshman Roberto 
Peña have all chosen to 
explore their options out-
side of the baseball pro-
gram at UF.
Miozzi and Alintoff are 
familiar with the transfer 
process, as both came from 
community colleges before 
enrolling at Florida.
Miozzi, a 6-foot-2, 215-pound catcher from 
Orlando transferred to UF 
from Florida Southwest-
ern Community College in 
2017. He played sparingly 
for the Gators this season, 
appearing in 18 games and 
batting .152 with one home 
run and four RBIs.
Alintoff committed to 
the Gators in March 2018 
after spending a season 
at Indian River State Col-
lege, where he appeared 
in 13 games, compiling 77 
strikeouts and a 4.11 ERA 
in 57 innings.
The Jupiter, Florida, na-
tive appeared in 16 games 
from the bullpen for Flori-da in 2019, striking out 24 
and going 1-0 with a 4.30 
ERA. His best outing came 
on March 5 against Flor-
ida Gulf Coast where he 
pitched three innings, giv-
ing up no earned runs and 
just one hit. 
Peña was the only one 
who came to Florida as a 
freshman right out of high 
school.
The Venezuela native, 
who attended Calvary 
Christian Academy in 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 
committed to the Gators 
back in July 2016. He 
posted on Twitter his plans Florida baseball loses three 
to NCAA transfer portalSEE TRACK,  PAGE 12
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 12SEE NFL,  PAGE 12THE EXTRA POINT 
Is the young coach the future? TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
SOCCER
By Jack Braverman
Sports Writer
With 24 teams representing six conti-
nents, women’s soccer’s premier tourna-
ment returns this week in France with the 
2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup.
Four years ago in Vancouver, Canada, 
the United States Women’s National Team 
closed its championship run with a pun-
ishing 5-2 victory over Japan, securing a 
record third World Cup title.
This year, the United States again en-
ters as the No. 1 team in the world, with a 
balanced roster of veteran leadership and 
youth setting it up as the preeminent fa-
vorites to capture its fourth World Cup.
A dozen players from that 2015 run re-
main on the United States’ current roster, 
including star forwards Carli Lloyd (now 
the oldest player on the team, making her 
fourth World Cup appearance), Alex Mor-
gan and Megan Rapinoe.
The USWNT also has a solid contingent 
of young players making their World Cup 
debuts, including midﬁ  elders Rose Lavelle 
and Samantha Mewis and forward Mal-
lory Pugh. All three have developed and 
further enhance the efﬁ  ciency and produc-
tion of the U.S. team.
This updated team, headed by coach 
Jill Ellis, also carries with it recent mo-
mentum.
Following a January defeat to host-
country France, the U.S. has rattled off 
six-straight victories entering the tourna-
ment. It hosted the CONCACAF Women’s 
Championship (North America’s FIFA 
qualifying route) last October and out-
scored its opponents 26-0 on its way to 
the championship and a World Cup berth.
The United States is placed in Group F alongside Chile, Sweden and Thailand. 
The Americans should face minimal ad-
versity in advancing to the knockout stage 
— Sweden is the No. 9 team in the world 
according to the FIFA rankings, while 
Thailand is No. 34 and Chile is No. 39. 
The USWNT takes the pitch for the ﬁ  rst 
time today at 3 p.m. to open up World 
Cup group play against Thailand, followed 
by meetings against Chile and Sweden. 
Though former Gator and USWNT all-
time leading scorer Abby Wambach is not 
on the U.S. World Cup roster for the ﬁ  rst 
time since 1999, there are four current and 
past Florida soccer players representing 
their countries in this year’s World Cup.
Deanne Rose, a rising junior on the 
Gators soccer team, is making her ﬁ  rst 
World Cup appearance for Canada. The 
forward and 2017 SEC Freshman of the 
Year is competing alongside Canada team-
mate and Florida alum Adriana Leon, who 
scored four game-winning goals as a for-
ward for Florida’s 2012 SEC champion 
team and is making her second World Cup 
appearance.
Also representing UF are Lauren Silver 
and Havana Solaun, both playing for Ja-
maica, the ﬁ  rst Caribbean team in history 
to advance to the Women’s World Cup.
Silver donned orange and blue from 
2011-14 and appeared in 82 matches as 
a midﬁ  elder for the Gators before transi-
tioning into a professional. Solaun, a mid-
ﬁ  elder for Jamaica, served as co-captain 
for Florida while earning back-to-back All-
SEC First Team honors in 2013-14.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgUSWNT set to open World Cup, several Gators competing
    On May 28, the Tampa 
Bay Rays hosted the division-
rival Toronto Blue Jays at 
Tropicana Field.
It was a fairly unremarkable 
game on the ﬁ  eld. The Rays, 
owners of the American 
League’s fourth-best record 
at 32-19, handled a hapless 
Toronto squad in a 3-1 victory. 
That wasn’t what made the 
headlines, however.
The announced attendance 
for the game was 5,786. It was the smallest 
crowd in the 21-year history of Tropicana 
Field.
The Rays, as well as the Miami Marlins, 
have struggled with attendance since 
their inception. Baseball fans in Florida 
have stayed away regardless of stadiums, 
players and success on the ﬁ  eld. We’re 
about to enter our fourth decade of Major 
League Baseball in the Sunshine State – if 
things haven’t improved by now, I don’t 
think they ever will.
There have been 57 combined seasons 
between the Rays and Marlins. They’ve 
eclipsed 2,000,000 overall fans in just four 
of them. Both teams did it in their inaugural 
seasons, and the Marlins did it again in a 
world championship year (1997) and the 
ﬁ  rst year of a new ballpark (2012).
I’m not trying to knock the fans of 
either team. Both have some very loyal, 
passionate supporters who spend their 
hard-earned money to watch teams that 
often (especially in Miami) aren’t very 
good. The problem is that, in relation to 
other teams, there aren’t enough of these 
fans.
The league average is about 27,000 
people per game. The Rays average less than 14,000 people, and the 
Marlins under 10,000.
Winning usually cures 
attendance woes. The Rays, 
however, have done plenty 
of that. They’ve had seven 
seasons above .500 since 2008 
and have been pioneers on 
winning games with a small 
budget. Despite that, they’ve 
never been better than 22nd in 
attendance over that stretch. 
It’s the same story with the 
Marlins – in their last playoff season 
(2003), they were 28th in attendance.
If winning can’t solve attendance 
problems, the other tried-and-true method 
is to build a new stadium. That approach 
has failed for the Marlins, however, who 
moved from an outdoor suburban football 
stadium to a retractable roof ballpark in the 
heart of Miami in 2012. Their attendance 
last year was the worst in franchise history.
Attendance for Tampa Bay would 
undoubtedly go up in a new ballpark at a 
new location. But if a team in ﬁ  rst place 
is second-to-last in attendance right now, 
how many people will show up for a losing 
team once the novelty of a new stadium 
wears off?
Last year, MLB attendance was the 
lowest it has been since 2003. Miami drew 
the fewest fans of any team and was the ﬁ  rst 
team since 2004 to draw below 1,000,000 
in a season. Tampa Bay was second-to-last 
despite winning 90 games.
League attendance is down again this 
year. I don’t think either the Rays or the 
Marlins are teams that will buck that trend. 
The window is closing. Maybe MLB would 
be better off if the only games it hosted in 
Florida were during spring training.Is there a future for Major 
League Baseball in Florida?Sam’s Strike ZoneThe Associated Press 
Canada’s Deanne Rose battles Cameroon’s Estelle Johnson in a FIFA Women’s World 
Cup match on Monday. Rose, the 2017 SEC Freshman of the Year, is a rising junior at UF. 
The Associated Press
Empty seats have been a common sight at Tropicana Field and Marlins Park 
(pictured). The Rays and Marlins combined to draw just 22,676 fans last night.
Sam Campisano
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgthe success of the 33-year-old. Dur-
ing a season of head coach carou-
sels, it seemed as if anyone who’d 
shaken hands with McVay would 
be offered a job. Two of McVay’s 
former assistants in Matt LeFleur 
and Zac Taylor were hired as the 
head coach of the Packers and Ben-
gals, respectively. 
Teams in the AFC East also 
went for youth. The Jets hired 
41-year-old Adam Gase and the 
Dolphins brought in 38-year-old 
Brian Flores.
For a bit, it seemed like the trend 
would pay off. McVay’s Rams read-
ily handled their first playoff game 
against the Cowboys and staved 
off a powerful New Orleans Saints 
team that defeated them in the 
regular season (though not without controversy). With that victory, 
McVay had taken Los Angeles to a 
Super Bowl in just his second sea-
son as its head coach.
You know the rest.
Quarterback Jared Goff wore a 
lost, empty gaze from the moment 
he made his first read. The vaunted 
Rams running game was stifled to 
just 62 total rushing yards. The 
New England Patriots were favored 
by 2.5 points, but they won the 
game by 10. Plain and simple, Mc-
Vay got outcoached.
It begs a question. Should all 
those teams that hired the "next 
McVay" be worried? Will a young 
coach crumble under the pressure 
of the bright lights on Super Bowl 
Sunday? Did they make a mistake?
I don’t think so.
As with anything, the game of 
football has evolved. Coaches like 
Pete Carroll and Bill Belichick have done well to keep up with its many 
twists and turns, but other aging 
coaches — like Marvin Lewis , 
for example — found themselves 
swept away by the changing scene. 
People may have criticized McVay 
for his coaching performance in the 
Super Bowl, but keep in mind that 
it’s just his second year. 
Perhaps guys like LeFleur and 
Taylor won’t see success as fast 
as McVay did, but I don’t think 
his tenure with the Rams is an 
anomaly. We’ve hit an era in the 
NFL where young minds will lead 
the charge, and while teams like 
the Buccaneers (Bruce Arians) and 
Broncos (Vic Fangio) may try to 
fight the trend, they’ll find them-
selves swallowed in it once those 
young minds start to find success, 
just as McVay did.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 11, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS 
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSple jump crown during the indoor 
season and collected an outdoor 
title for the long jump in Austin, 
Texas, this past weekend to fin-
ish her career. 
Sharrika Barnett
Barnett was by far the wom-
en’s best non-distance runner. 
She came away with bronze in 
the 400-meter dash in the nation-
al championship race and earned 
the only significant short-distance 
points for the UF women. 
AJ McFarland
In 2014, throwers’ coach Steve 
Lemke received a phone call from 
a 386 number. It was a senior from Father Lopez High School 
wanting to try out for the team. 
Five years later, Lemke says 
goodbye to one of the team’s 
main leaders, AJ McFarland, who 
holds the school record in the 
weight throw. The throwers will 
still enter 2020 with reason for 
optimism, as sophomore Thomas 
Mardal was one spot away from 
bronze in Texas in the hammer 
throw and had a top-10 finish in 
the weight throw during the in-
door season at No. 7. 
Ryan Clark
Clark anchored the national 
championship-winning 4x100-
meter men's relay team. With the 
exit of Holloway and Clark, half 
of Florida’s best relay will need 
to be replaced in 2020. Clark was the finisher for the first collegiate 
team to ever complete the lap in 
less than 38 seconds.
These departures leave the 
Gators with multiple holes that 
need filling heading into next sea-
son. However, the history of Mike 
Holloway’s teams (eight national 
titles and 14 SEC titles) prove he 
and his staff have the ability to 
deal with roster turnover. Hol-
loway has seen plenty of it in 
his 17-year career as the Florida 
men’s coach and eight-year ca-
reer as the women’s coach. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgto transfer last week.
“First of all, I want to thank 
all my teammates and fans for 
making my freshman year an 
unforgettable one,” Peña said. 
“But I will not be returning to 
Gainesville and will open my re-
cruitment process.”
The 6-foot-2, 215-pound in-
fielder played in just 13 games 
and started four. He hit .227 with one home run and two RBIs.
Florida’s 2019 roster has expe-
rienced a lot of turnover recently 
with the addition of these trans-
fer announcements on top of last 
week’s MLB Draft.
UF’s third-ranked 2019 recruit-
ing class, however, should help 
revamp the 2020 roster and re-
place some of what the team has 
lost.
 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgTRACK,  from pg. 10
NFL,  from pg. 10BASEBALL,  from pg. 10David won the long jump national title Peña hit .227 in 2019
Rams went 13 -3 in '18
The Associate Press
Rams coach Sean McVay led his team to a Super Bowl appearance 
in just his second season.
