We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Where in the universe is UF’s moon tree?
The university’s prized, moon-orbiting sycamore has been on 
campus since 1976,  pg 3
Palm-killing disease spreads to Alachua County
Lethal Bronzing Disease is putting sabal palm trees at risk of 
wilting and losing color, pg 5LOOKING AHEAD TO FOOTBALL 
SEASON
The Alligator’s River Wells warns against 
underestimating Miami, pg 10TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 103
By Daisha Peek
Contributing Writer
From beginning to end, the 
second ﬂ  oor of the UF chem-
istry lab building is lined with 
posters of inventor Richard 
Yost’s work — much like a 
museum.
But the 66-year-old UF 
chemistry professor’s great-
est recognition will take place 
Sept. 20 in Tampa when he 
gets inducted into the Florida 
Inventors Hall of Fame. Yost 
will be honored for a life-
saving device the world didn’t 
know it needed: the triple 
quadrupole mass spectrom-
eter.
The Hall of Fame honors 
inventors who have made 
life-changing discoveries that 
impact Florida and other parts 
of the U.S., according to its 
website.
For the past 40 years, the 
$250,000 tool created by Yost 
and his former professor Chris 
Enke at Michigan State Uni-
versity has reshaped analytical 
chemistry. The spectrometer is 
used to measure the weight of 
molecules, Yost said.
Today, it’s used around 
the world for newborn testing, 
Navy research, environmental 
analysis, drug testing for the 
Olympics, blood testing and 
many other applications.Their inspiration for the 
spectrometer came from want-
ing to computerize manual sci-
entiﬁ  c tools, which was a new 
idea in the 1970s, Yost said.
About 20 years before, Ger-
man inventor Wolfgang Paul 
invented the quadrupole, a 
ring of four poles wrapped 
together that sorts out ions by 
weight.
“This quadrupole is a 
beautiful, simple device, and 
I knew in graduate school I 
wanted to do something with 
it and mass spectrometry,” 
Yost said.
Before Yost’s invention, 
mass spectrometry — the 
study of the mass and charges 
of ions — was not widely used 
in chemistry.
Ions are simply atoms 
or molecules with electrical 
charges, and they help scien-
tists understand the chemical 
makeup of things. There are 
many molecules with the same 
mass, so scientists need a way 
to identify which ones they’re 
working with, Yost said.
Yost, an eager student with 
a chemistry background, con-
vinced himself he could ﬁ  nd a 
new efﬁ  cient way to ﬁ  nd the 
weight of molecules with a 
quadrupole.
At the time, scientists who 
didn’t use quadrupoles to 
weigh molecules relied on a 
process that involved curving ions by putting an ion beam 
into a magnet to create an 
electromagnetic ﬁ  eld. Smaller 
ions curved more than larger 
ones. Yost said it was just like 
it sounded: complex and time-
consuming.
The triple quadrupole 
mass spectrometer instead 
turns molecules into ions by 
placing a charge on the com-
pound. Parts of the molecule, 
which can then be individual-
ly weighed and identiﬁ  ed, are 
separated using an electrical 
ﬁ  eld, he said.
The device, made of three 
quadrupoles in a row, was a 
breakthrough, Yost said.
“I sat down and wrote a 
proposal to the National Sci-
ence Foundation to build this 
instrument, and the reviews 
were quite consistent: it was a 
stupid idea, this would never 
work and we didn’t know 
what we were talking about,” 
he said. “So, it wasn’t fund-
ed.”
It was frustrating, but 
Yost’s team didn’t give up.
He sent the invention pro-
posal to the Ofﬁ  ce of Naval 
Research, not knowing if the 
Navy could beneﬁ  t from using 
his device in its nuclear sub-
marines, he said.
“I’m an internal optimist,” 
Yost said.UF professor to join Florida Inventors Hall of Fame
LIBERTY COUNSEL IS 
BEGINNING TO PURSUE 
LEGAL ACTION 
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Weeks after Alachua County’s ban of 
conversion therapy became a countywide 
ordinance, members of Liberty Counsel, 
an Orlando-based conservative Christian 
legal advocacy group, are attempting to  
halt to its progression through legal action. 
Liberty Counsel has sued multiple gov-
ernment entities for similar legislations 
across the country, including the states of 
New Jersey and Maryland.
Roger Gannam, the assistant vice presi-
dent of legal affairs for Liberty Counsel, 
said he does not agree that the term “con-version therapy” accurately conveys the 
form of therapy which has been banned. 
Instead, he describes this as a political 
term to describe the opinions of opponents 
of the ban who do not think they should 
afﬁ  rm children who are experiencing at-
traction to the same sex or identify as a dif-
ferent gender identity.
“The vast majority of young people 
who either identify as transgender or who 
indicate that they’re experiencing same-
sex attractions will literally grow out of 
that,” Gannam said. 
There is no evidence to support Gan-
nam’s claims, according to a 2007 Ameri-
can Psychological Association report. 
Gannam said there are misconceptions 
about conversion therapy, usually involv-
ing the idea of a counselor telling children Alachua County conversion 
therapy ban meets resistanceCourtesy of Richard Yost
Richard Yost, 66, participates in a PhD commencement ceremony in April where 
he escorted his most recent PhD graduate. The UF chemistry professor will be in-
ducted into the Florida Inventors Hall of Fame in T ampa on Sept. 20.
THE SHCC IS REQUIRED TO 
COMPLETE THESE DRILLS BY AN 
ACCREDITATION AGENCY
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer
While going into the inﬁ  rmary with a 101.7° 
fever, a summer B freshman experienced some-
thing scarier than a ﬂ  u diagnosis. 
“You’re not going to believe what just hap-
pened to me,” Ben Milrot wrote in his family 
group chat. 
At 10 a.m. Thursday, Milrot, an 18-year-old 
UF political science freshman, was waiting for 
his Tamiﬂ  u prescription when he was shufﬂ  ed 
into a closet, silenced and kept in the dark for an 
active shooter drill in the pharmacy. 
“I was sitting down waiting, and out of no-where there was a voice over the PA system 
saying, ‘Attention UF Health. This is an active 
shooter drill,’” Milrot said.
The pharmacy staff locked the doors, turned 
off the lights and took Milrot and one other sick 
student into a closet for 15 minutes while police 
ofﬁ  cers banged on the doors, Milrot said. 
“It was a drill, so I might as well act like it 
was real,” Milrot said. “I was so dizzy, and I was 
standing there trying to catch myself from falling 
every 30 seconds.”
This drill was conducted by the UF Student 
Health Care Center, which is required to do four 
drills a year by their accrediting agency, the Ac-
creditation Association for Ambulatory Health 
Care, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
One of those drills has to be a ﬁ  re drill and 
one of them has to be a code blue, indicating UF Infirmary includes students 
as part of active shooter drillsSEE HALL OF FAME,  PAGE 3
SEE SHOOTER DRILL,  PAGE 3 SEE CONVERSION,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasSocial Media StrategistHIGH  88° LOW  72°
UF School of Theatre 
and Dance presents: 
SWAMP Dance Fest 2019
Following a three-week dance 
intensive, Swamp Dance Fest 
will conclude with performanc-
es July 26 to 28 directed by fac-
ulty member, Trent Williams, Jr. 
This performance will showcase work from the summer's guest 
artists. Performances are open 
to the public and will take place 
in the G-6 Studio of the McGuire 
Pavilion July 26 to 27 at 7:30 
p.m. and July 28 at 2 p.m. 
Tickets are $14 for UF students, 
$16 for UF faculty and staff, $16 for seniors, and $20 for the gen-
eral public. Tickets can be pur-
chased either in person at the 
University Box Office, located at 
Gate 1 of the O'Connell Center 
or online at Ticketmaster.
Gay Movie Night 'Shank'
Friday night, the Pride 
Community Center, 3131 NW 
13th St., will host its free month-
ly movie night. This month the 
2009 drama "Shank." The mov-
ie follows a closeted gay gang 
member who becomes involved 
with a victim of his gang, which 
upsets the gang leader. The mov-
ie starts at 7:30 p.m. The event 
is free but the center requests 
a $2 donation from attendees 
to cover the cost of snacks.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 103
ROUTE 
DELIVERY
DRIVER 
NEEDED
(immediately) *
NON-STUDENT POSITION*See Classifieds  for full job description.
Email elight@alligator.org  for more info.WE’RE HIRING!WE’RE HIRING!
NON-STUDENT POSITION
 for full job description.
 for more info.
TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 With the money the Navy pro-
vided, Yost bought several thou-
sand pounds of stainless steel and a 
few hundred pounds of electronics. 
Then, he built the device with Enkre.
The device that took almost three 
years to make was swiftly patented, 
and within months, it was selling 
commercially, Yost said.
“It’s become the most used mass 
spectrometer in the world,” he said.
About 15 million babies are test-
ed for 100 diseases a year using the 
spectrometer, Yost said.
Enke, now retired, said he’s hap-
py for his former student, who he re-
members as a good experimentalist 
to work alongside.
Enke, 86, knew the device would 
change science when everyone told 
him and Yost their plans were im-
possible.
The “impossible” discovery led 
to very successful careers for him 
and Yost. They both received many 
awards for their invention, Enke 
said.
“It’s impressive to cover a wall 
with achievements, but in the end, 
it’s the experience that you keep,” 
he said.
A friend of Yost said he’s receiv-
ing so many awards now because 
he’s old.
“You’re over the hill going down 
the other side,” Yost said joking-
ly. “They want to give you all the 
awards before you die.”
The College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences Dean David Richardson said he’ll be attending Yost’s Hall of 
Fame induction ceremony.
When a faculty member is recog-
nized for a lifetime of hard work, it’s 
very important to the university to 
recognize their work, he said.
“Dr. Yost has been extraordinari-
ly productive his entire career, and I 
have no sense he’s slowing down,” 
Richardson said.
UF is a research university that 
produces tons of publications and 
books, but people forget invention is 
also an indicator of a strong research 
department, he said.
At UF, Yost is the head of analyti-
cal chemistry, teaches as a chemistry 
professor, works in laboratory medi-
cine and oversees the Southeast Cen-
ter for Integrated Metabolomics.
“Innovation, serendipity and per-
sistence are the three critical features 
of science,” he said.
In the past, Yost has served as 
a member of the university’s Board 
of Trustees and the Florida Board of 
Governors, which oversees the 12 
state universities in Florida, he said. 
The professor was also on the hiring 
committee for current UF President 
Kent Fuchs.
Yost said he would have contin-
ued a career in administration, but 
he enjoyed chemistry too much to 
leave it behind.
After working with over 120 grad-
uate students over his career, Yost 
advises ambitious research students 
to find a good mentor.
“Now’s the time to develop your 
skills to be an independent creative 
scientist,” he said. “Then maybe 
you’ll be lucky like me.”HALL OF FAME,  from pg. 1Courtesy of Alan Long
UF’s moon tree (pictured) was one of more than 100 seedlings — that 
orbited the moon as seeds — planted across the country in 1976.
they must stop their same-sex at-
traction point-blank. In actual coun-
seling rooms, counselors ask clients 
what their priorities are and what 
they want to change, Gannam said. 
“The counselors we represent 
have seen time and time again 
where people who want to change 
same-sex attractions or reduce or 
eliminate same-sex attraction has 
some success in varying levels, and 
there’s certainly no guarantee,” he 
said. “There’s no reliable evidence 
of harm from these practices.”
Gannam says it is an issue of the 
free speech of counselors to be able 
to counsel clients according to what 
the clients want.
“We just think these laws are based on no science, no facts, and 
they definitely violate the First 
Amendment rights of the counsel-
ors who are now prohibited from 
simply doing what their client 
asks,” Gannam said.
Before the implementation of 
this ban, the Alachua County Com-
mission listened to experts, did 
extensive research, listened to tes-
timonies and had multiple public 
hearings, said Mark Sexton, Ala-
chua County spokesperson. 
This research helped them reach 
the conclusion that an approach 
to try to change a human being’s 
sexuality is incredibly damaging to 
a young person, Sexton said. 
When it was first implemented 
in May, the ban extended to unin-
corporated areas within Alachua 
County, but a few weeks ago, the commissioners made it a county-
wide ordinance, Sexton said. 
While this ban applies to li-
censed therapists, it does not ex-
tend to counseling by religious 
institutions. The ban is limited to 
children under the age of 18 who 
are forced into this type of therapy 
with the specific intention of chang-
ing their sexuality, Sexton said. 
“The bottom line is that the sci-
entific community and every major 
psychological association and insti-
tution that deals with mental health 
agrees that, when homosexuality 
is treated as a disease, it’s over,” 
Sexton said. “It is not something 
to be ashamed of and certainly not 
something to be cured.”
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgCONVERSION,  from pg. 1THE MOON TREE IS AT THE 
CORNER OF MUSEUM ROAD 
AND MCCARTY DRIVE
By Meleah Lyden
Staff Writer
Its roots stem far away from 
Earth. 
And Alan Long, a UF emeritus 
professor from the school of forest 
resources and conservation, may 
be one of the only people to know 
about it. 
It’s UF’s moon tree. Every eight 
to 10 years, the tree’s story seems 
to be rediscovered, Long said.
UF’s moon tree is a sycamore 
and is currently over 70 feet tall, 
Long said. But the tree didn’t lit-
erally go to the moon. The seeds 
were brought in a capsule by as-
tronaut Stuart Roosa and orbited 
around the moon, according to 
NASA archives. 
The seed of UF’s moon tree was 
one among 400 to 500 brought 
to outer space in 1971 during the 
Apollo 14 mission. Following up 
celebrations of the 50th anniver-
sary of the moon landing, here’s 
a look into the special connection 
between UF’s campus and space 
exploration.
Rocket science meets plant 
science
It all started when Chief of the 
U.S. Forest Service Ed Cliff asked 
Roosa to bring seeds up to space. 
According to NASA archives, 
Stan Krugman of the Forest Service 
was put in charge of the project. 
Krugman chose from five different 
types of trees: Loblolly Pine, Syca-
more, Sweetgum, Redwood and 
Douglas Fir. 
When the seeds returned to Earth, Krugman sent them to For-
est Service research stations in 
Gulfport, Mississippi, and Placer-
ville, California, to see if the seeds 
would sprout. After a few years, 
around 420 to 450 seedlings grew, 
according to NASA archives. 
In 1976, more than 100 seed-
lings were planted throughout the 
United States as part of the nation’s 
bicentennial celebration. One hap-
pened to be planted at UF. 
However, according to NASA 
archives, UF was supposed to have 
three moon trees — two loblolly 
pines and one sycamore. Unfor-
tunately, only the sycamore stood 
strong, as the two loblolly pines 
died early on.
More space on campus?
The moon tree’s location was 
kept secret at UF to prevent people 
from damaging it, according to 
NASA and Alligator archives. 
The campus planning tree as-
sembly committee decided where 
forestry professors would plant the 
seedlings.
Long came to UF in 1986, 10 
years after the tree was planted. 
He didn’t find out about the tree 
until four or five years later when 
a professor he was teaching a tree 
identification class with mentioned 
it to him. By that time, the tree was 
big enough so it couldn’t be hurt, 
he said. 
The tree, located at the corner 
of Museum Road and McCarty 
Drive, doesn’t look any different 
than a normal tree, he said. There 
hasn’t been any evidence proving 
something happened to the seeds 
to make them different than other 
trees.
The moon tree is, however, a 
great example of a sycamore tree, 
he said. It’s good to have for tree identification quizzes. 
“I told [my students] about it, 
so there’s a lot of students over 
the last 25 to 30 years that’ll learn 
about its history,” Long said. 
Long doesn’t know if the pro-
fessors who took over his class 
mention the moon tree. 
Long hopes the story doesn’t 
get lost in history, he said. When-
ever he walks by the tree, he re-
members how special it is, and 
he’s enjoyed keeping track of the 
tree throughout the years. 
“I can’t say it was awe-inspir-
ing, but it’s cool to see a tree that’s 
gone to the moon and back,” Long 
said. 
However, not everyone knew 
about the tree like Long. 
Allison Vitt, spokesperson for 
UF’s Office of Sustainability, didn’t 
know about the moon tree until 
about two weeks ago when she 
saw it in a Twitter post. Vitt has 
been at UF since 2003.
Vitt said she can’t imagine how 
many times she’s probably passed 
by the tree since she’s been here.
“It makes me all the more curi-
ous about other untold stories and 
unique features hiding in plain 
sight throughout the university’s 
landscape and buildings,” she said. 
Vitt thinks people share a fasci-
nation with space travel since few 
ever get to experience it. And here 
at UF, there’s a little piece for all 
who come. 
“The moon tree is essentially 
a living monument right here on 
campus that connects us with the 
wonder and mystery of space,” she 
said. 
@MeleahLyden
mlyden@alligator.orgIts location is out of this world: The story of UF’s moon tree 
a  person needing resuscitation. The SHCC can then 
choose two other drills, one being the active shoot-
er drill, Orlando said.
“This was the third year in a row the center 
chose an active shooter drill,” Orlando said. 
The staff in the SHCC are trained for the drills, 
Orlando said.  
Milrot said drills like this are necessary, but he couldn’t understand why it was done in a phar-
macy setting rather than a classroom setting. 
“It taught me a little how to act in a situation 
like this, but I was also not thinking straight be-
cause I was so sick,” Milrot said. “Then after the 
drill, we were let out and everyone acted like noth-
ing ever happened.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSHOOTER DRILL,  from pg. 14  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
ITALIAN BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICManuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm.
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for 
lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thom-
as’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your or-
der will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, 
wholesale prices available.FORMER SENATORS ASHLEY 
GRABOWSKI, BEN LIMA AND 
JONATHAN GANT ATTEMPTED 
TO APPEAL THEIR RESIGNATION
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer 
Three Inspire senators lost their Senate 
seats due to resignation by non-attendance in 
the past month, and those decisions were up-
held on July 17 by the Rules and Ethics Com-
mittee.
The committee denied the appeals because 
it felt the reasons the senators gave for being 
absent were not valid. 
It started when former senators Ashley 
Grabowski and Ben Lima lost their seats after 
being declared constructively absent by Senate 
President Libby Shaw. “Constructively absent” 
isn’t deﬁ  ned in SG governing documents.
Most recently, Jonathan Gant said he (In-
spire, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) lost 
his seat because a family emergency caused 
him to miss a Senate meeting, putting him over 
the limit of two unexcused absences per sum-
mer semester. Gant received his ﬁ  rst absence when he 
was unable to attend a special meeting on May 
24, which was announced May 23, because he 
had to drive back to Orlando to take care of his 
family dog.
Gant attempted to appeal his resignation 
by non-attendance before the Rules and Ethics 
Committee, but his reason for absence was not 
accepted.
At last Tuesday’s Senate meeting, several 
people spoke in support of Gant. Inspire Party 
members tried to remove Gant’s name from 
the list of failed absence appeals the Senate 
was voting to approve.
A majority of the senators present voted to 
uphold the Rules and Ethics Committee’s origi-
nal decision. 
On Wednesday afternoon, former senators 
Grabowski and Lima had their appeal hearings 
for their resignations by non-attendance before 
the Rules and Ethics Committee.
The two had about 26-hours notice to pre-
pare. They put together an 11-page packet cit-
ing SG governing documents and a transcript 
from one of the Senate meetings they hoped 
would prove their removal from a previous 
Senate meeting illegitimate. The hearings were 
held in a SG conference room. The six pres-
ent members of the committee — Abby Morris, Gabi Zlatanoff, Nandini Goel, Walker Bean, 
Annika Katare and Sean Heera — sat at one 
end of the conference table, while Grabowski 
and Lima sat at the other during their respec-
tive meetings.
The Alligator reached out to members of 
the committee and Senate Majority Leader 
Branden Pearson, but none could be reached 
for comment.
Three members of the public and two sena-
tors attended to show support for the two for-
mer senators.
Members of the public were not allowed to 
speak at any point during the proceedings. 
Grabowski and Lima were allowed one 
minute to present their arguments, three min-
utes of question and answer from the commit-
tee and one minute to offer closing remarks.
“It was simply not enough time to present 
our case,” Lima said. “It’s a very important and 
very consequential hearing when you’re talk-
ing about the removal of an elected ofﬁ  cial.” 
During their appeals, Grabowski and Lima 
argued Shaw declaring them constructively ab-
sent and ignoring their votes for the remainder 
of the meeting was a form of suspending them.
Per the 300 codes, senators have a right to 
present their case to the student body president 
and the Dean of Students before being actively suspended. This procedure was not followed 
during the meeting.
The committee concluded it was up to the 
discretion of the senate president to remove 
the senators for being disruptive. SG governing 
documents state only the Sergeant-at-Arms can 
remove a Senator once they have been given 
two warnings.
The committee also stated Grabowski and 
Lima had a history of being disruptive, which 
sometimes prevented the Senate from passing 
legislation.
“Their disruptive nature prevents us from 
actually doing our jobs,” Zlatanoff said during 
the hearing. “I think, because of that, Senate 
President Libby Shaw was well within her au-
thority to issue those warnings, and because of 
those warnings, they were removed.”
Both of their appeals were unanimously re-
jected by the Rules and Ethics Committee. 
Grabowski said she and Lima intend to con-
tinue pursuing the appeals process, including 
going to the Dean of Students.
“Honestly, I just want to get back to work-
ing on things,” Grabowski said.
@charlie_daffron 
cdaffron@alligator.orgSG committee denies appeals of 3 former senators
By Monica Exantus
Contributing Writer
After working as UF’s direc-
tor of security for eight months, 
Joseph Souza was appointed the 
director of UF Business Affairs’ 
newest department.
The Physical Security depart-
ment was created to develop 
policies and procedures to keep 
the campus safe and secure, said 
Curtis Reynolds, vice president for 
UF Business Affairs. It oversees 
installation and maintenance of 
the campus access control security 
systems, surveillance systems and 
manual key systems.
The department will implement 
new security initiatives in the Fall semester, he said. Souza is re-
sponsible for policy development 
and the department workforce 
management.
A veteran of the U.S. Air Force, 
Souza has 28 years of experience 
in security and was assistant di-
rector of the security department 
at the University of Central Flori-
da, Reynolds said.
Souza holds three professional 
certiﬁ  cations: Certiﬁ  ed Protection 
Professional, Physical Security 
Professional from the American 
Society of Industrial Security In-
ternational and Certiﬁ  ed Business 
Continuity Planner from the Di-
saster Recovery Institute Interna-
tional.
“His career has been focused mostly around physical security, 
which includes technologies such 
as security cameras, access con-
trols, alarms and panic buttons 
and monitoring, guard services 
and business resiliency,” Reynolds 
said.
Souza said the department will 
initially focus on growing and 
strengthening the team, creating 
policies and procedures and com-
municating those across campus.  
“We will train all (consumers) 
the security systems and changes 
in policies as they are created,” he 
said. “This will get the university 
operating in a consistent manner 
with regard to physical security 
technology.”
The department will also stan-dardize security in existing build-
ings and create standards for se-
curity in new buildings as they 
are constructed. Souza said they’ll 
focus on improving perimeter ac-
cess controls and installing more 
cameras across campus. 
The department’s purpose is to 
make campus safer for students, 
staff, faculty and people that visit 
it each day, Souza said. The physi-
cal security department will work 
with other departments and col-
leges to prioritize the security 
needs across campus.
“To be successful, we need to 
equip end-users and our UF police 
with the proper technology and 
training,” Souza said.UF Business Aﬀ  airs welcomes new director of security 
Souza
TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
43,200 OF THE TREES 
IN FLORIDA ARE 
SABAL-PALMS, A 
SPECIES PUT AT RISK 
BY THE DISEASE
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
A bacterial disease that 
causes palm trees to die has 
made its way to Alachua 
County.
Lethal Bronzing Disease 
was discovered in Florida 
in 2006 in Hillsborough 
County, according to a UF 
Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences publica-
tion on Lethal Bronzing 
Disease. The symptoms of 
the disease include the fruit 
of the tree dropping pre-
maturely and the fronds of 
the palm wilting and losing 
color, according to the pub-
lication.
“We need to have more 
information,” said Michael 
Andreu, a UF Associate 
Professor in Forest Sys-
tems. “The problem is the 
symptoms look like other 
diseases as well, so you can’t just rely on the symp-
toms alone to diagnose the 
disease.”
The disease is most 
common in central Florida 
but has spread farther north 
and south. Andreu said in-
sects are suspected to be re-
sponsible for the spreading, 
as they carry the bacteria 
and transfer it when they 
feed off of the tree sap.
Andreu said the disease 
is particularly problematic 
for the sabal palm. If sabal 
palms were to go extinct, 
there are no known spe-
cies that can replace them. 
These palms are 43,200 of 
the total 7.2 million trees in 
Florida.
The disease can have 
ecological consequences 
because the loss of them 
will affect animals that rely 
on the palm trees for food 
and shelter, and in turn, 
animals that rely on those 
animals.
Preventative action 
includes removing trees  
identiﬁ  ed as infected and 
exercising caution when 
transporting and replanting 
trees from southern parts of the state to more northern 
areas, Andreu said.
“Often what happens is 
that these kinds of prob-
lems sort of fester and 
fester, and all of a sudden 
they get momentum, and 
they start killing a lot of 
trees,” Andreu said. “And 
then people care, govern-
ments care, funding starts 
to come in because it’s a 
problem, but it’s too late at 
that point. We need to be 
on this, it’s not too late nec-
essarily now.”
Whitey Markle, Chair 
of the Sierra Club Group 
in Gainesville  — an orga-
nization of citizen activists 
seeking to protect the envi-
ronment — said the group 
is concerned about the dis-
ease and it’s effects but the 
volunteers are not trained 
to deal with the process of 
removing it.
“Of course we’re con-
cerned about it,” Markle 
said. “We don’t physically 
do that but we support ev-
ery effort.”
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgDisease that kills palm trees spreads to Alachua County
UPD SAID THE MAN BROKE 
INTO THE REITZ UNION
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A burglar’s sweet tooth got him 
into a sour situation in the Reitz Union basement.
A Gainesville man was charged 
by University Police on Saturday 
morning in connection to a bur-
glary of the Reitz Union basement.
Algera Cornelius Lavan, 62, 
used a stolen key to enter the Re-
itz Union basement on Thursday shortly after 7 p.m., according to 
a police report. Video surveillance 
from the basement and the load-
ing dock captured the incident.
Approximately $70 of Aramark 
baked goods were stolen from the 
bakery area, according to the re-
port. At the time of the incident, Lavan was neither employed by 
UF nor Aramark.
Lavan was charged with bur-
glary of an occupied structure, a 
felony, and petit theft, a misde-
meanor. He was released on his 
own recognizance on Sunday but 
has been banned from all univer-
sity properties. 
Contact could not be made 
with Lavan as no contact infor-mation was listed in the police re-
port. It is unclear whether he has 
an attorney. 
According to court records, La-
van has only been charged with 
trafﬁ  c citations prior to this inci-
dent. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan charged in baked goods burglaryCourtesy of IFAS
This palm (top) is from a tree infected with Lethal Bronzing Disease. Symptoms of the 
disease include fruit dropping prematurely and fronds wilting and losing color. The 
graphic (bottom) shows how Lethal Bronzing Disease has spread across the state of 
Florida from 2008 to 2018. The disease recently reached Alachua County.
6  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
People gathered at High Dive on Saturday 
during the Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally 
presented by Glory Days. The event raised money 
through tips to benefit the UF Mobile Outreach 
Clinic, which is dedicated to providing medical 
aid to underprivileged communities. The rally 
featured a variety of food trucks as well as live 
music inside the bar. At the end of the night, the 
food truck with the most tips won a $100 Publix 
gift card — this rally’s prize was taken home by 
Monsta Lobsta, a truck specializing in lobster rolls.
Brandon Grabhorn, 24, talks to a group of customers outside of his food truck Saturday night during the 
rally. Grabhorn graduated from UF with a degree in business management and is the owner of B’z Gelati. 
The company’s specialty dessert is gelati, a mix of ice cream with Italian ice. Grabhorn has been traveling 
around the state selling frozen treats since January. 
UF medical school students Jourdan Mckinnis, 23, and Sam Armington, 23, pick up their meal from Damita 
Andreaus at Monsta Lobsta. Mckinnis and Armington said they came to support the event because the 
money raised will go to the UF Mobile Outreach Clinic.
Kevin Mora, 22, speaks 
with Brandon Grabhorn. 
Mora, a UF history senior, 
said he first tried the gelati 
from B’z at a different 
event but came to the food 
truck rally because he saw 
on Facebook that B’z would 
be there. “I love what he’s 
doing and I love to support 
him, ” Mora said of Grabhorn 
and his business.Locals attend food truck rally for charity
Nick Ruggiero, 35, shares french fries and chicken tenders with his 3-year-old daughter Alissandrea. Ruggiero said he and his family like to visit the local food truck rallies 
because they are fun things to do. “Last time we came, [Alissandrea] was still in a stroller, ” Ruggiero said.
Photo Story by Sam 
ThomasEditorialTUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
ColumnThe truth might surprise you 
The familiar saying — yes, the cliche one 
about sticks and stones — brings back 
childhood memories of teasing and 
shoving in the elementary school play-
ground. While not everyone has been 
bullied, we’ve all encountered it at some point 
throughout our K-12 school years.
Bullying has evolved over time. Stealing 
lunch money has no place in today’s world of 
Venmo and Cash App. As we grow and ma-
ture into adults during our time in college, is 
bullying no longer a part of our lives?
Instead of being bullied in the playground, we’re be-
ing bullied on the internet. Social media like Twitter and 
Instagram are the new sandboxes and monkey bars. 
On a college level, bullying can take form in cyber-
bullying and slut-shaming. Sometimes, we don’t realize 
we’re the bullies ourselves. Labeling groups of people 
to be promiscuous or unworthy based solely on what 
organizations they choose to take part in brings negativ-
ity into an otherwise safe space. 
Bullying can also take form in sexual harassment 
among college students. The National Sexual Violence 
Resource Center says one in ﬁ  ve women will face sex-ual harassment while in college. And although less dis-
cussed, one in 16 men will face sexual harassment as 
well.
Hazing, whether it be verbal and/or physical, is a 
major form of bullying in college. Although the exact 
locations of hazing are typically kept secret, 
rumors spread. Hazing has proven to be an 
extremely dangerous practice, with multiple 
students on college campuses dying from it. 
No matter how hilarious it may seem to some, 
losing the lives of students over the sake of 
“brotherhood/sisterhood” is never funny.
To help stop the cycle of bullying in col-
lege campuses, students need to remember 
how judgment feels when it’s placed on them-
selves. Everyone’s going through something, 
and bullying can only make it worse. We’re all 
here to learn, better ourselves and have fun in the pro-
cess. College should be a place where people feel free to 
experiment with their personality and ﬁ  gure themselves 
out, not a place where we all morph into the same type 
of person because we’re afraid of being different. 
So keep on keeping on, and remember what side of a 
statistic you want to be on.
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication 
major. Her columns appear on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The internet’s resident troll has struck again, this time in 
our very own Turlington Plaza. If you’re lucky, you’ve 
never heard of him. If you have, you probably wish 
you had not. Instagram user Patrick Wallace, better 
known as Supreme Patty, posted a video on Saturday 
of him smoking of a bong in front of Marston Library as a 
UPD patrol car rolls in the background. Although the video 
may have you believe the 20-year-old Daytona Beach, Florida, 
native was smoking weed, UF Public Safety tweeted, “It was 
oregano...” 
Wow. Did we get punk’d? Oregano or marijuana — it 
makes no difference when it comes to where these types of 
videos land on the annoyance spectrum.
Throwing popcorn in an empty theater, spilling wine all 
over a restaurant booth, getting tattooed in a Dollar Tree, 
Supreme Patty’s video content ﬁ  ts into the genre of “making 
working people’s day on the job a lot more difﬁ  cult.” But he 
is not the exclusive contributor to this subgroup of troll videos 
(think: Jake Paul). There are plenty of people posting videos 
of themselves jumping on counters at McDonald’s, licking ice 
cream and returning it to the shelves and other plain debauch-
ery that honestly has us believing the human race is reverting 
backwards.  
Whether you call it clout-catching, trolling or pranking, 
these types of videos reveal some people will do almost any-
thing to get internet-famous. The increase in social media use 
may be part of the rise of these troll videos. With more content 
available, the more awful the video has to be to break the 
mainstream and make it to the popular page. Jumping into the 
Walmart bouncy ball container won’t cut it anymore. Now, 
it seems for troll videos to make it big with likes and shares, 
the additional element of the public must be present in the 
insane act. The problem with videos like Supreme Patty’s or 
Jake Paul’s is they rely on the reactions of those who work in 
or use the area. 
The shock value comes from these crazy actions being 
done in places where people are going about their days, like 
restaurants, grocery stores, movie theaters or other public ar-
eas. When in public, the stunt becomes more risky and the 
possibility of a random person’s reaction in the background 
adds to the video’s appeal. An online audience is one thing. 
But subjecting passersby to a stunt gives the performer an 
added layer of spectacle, even though what they are doing is 
disturbing the peace.
Annoying random people is not the only criteria for these 
videos. There is also the threat of getting in trouble and still 
managing to keep one’s cool. Usually, there is a mask of calm 
on the faces of these pranksters. They never seem afraid to 
get caught. If anything, they seem pumped up to cause some 
mayhem and excited to get a reaction from the subject of their 
videos. 
And it’s not to say all crazy videos of people doing stupid 
stunts are harmful. You want to jump off a roof and clip the 
edge of the pool? Go ahead. Funnel a Whiteclaw even though 
it’s all foam? More power to you. As long as it’s not making a 
mess in a public place where someone who isn’t you will have 
to clean up, go crazy. 
Of course, watching a “Jackass” stunt releases some sort of 
endorphins that makes us feel happy for not feeling the same 
pain as Steve-O or Johnny Knoxville. 
Daredevil type acts existed way before social media. But 
now the problem seems to be people are subjecting the inno-
cent to their craziness and workers to their mess. The Jackass-
esque prankster has evolved into something far worse.
 We hope this video trend ends as quickly as it started. 
Although the internet pranksters will have you believe public 
stupidity is funny enough to be liked or shared, we have faith 
the majority of the population is smart enough to see just how 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORLast week, the Florida legislature ap-
proved a bill for mandatory mental 
health classes in Florida public schools. 
The law mandates students take at least 
ﬁ  ve hours worth of courses each year 
from grades six through 12. 
Not only do I think this law is a great idea, 
but I think we can go even further. Students 
at public universities should also have to take 
mental health classes.
Half of all mental illness in the U.S. begins 
before age 14, and 75 percent before age 24. This demo-
graphic is at prime risk for mental illness, and they need 
to be ready for it. In addition, many would have no 
prior knowledge to prepare them for the mental health 
challenges they may face. There are already classes 
teaching students about their bodies, sex and physical 
health. But until now, students weren’t taught about 
mental health issues. Mental health also isn’t discussed 
as frequently in everyday life as physical health, so stu-
dents wouldn’t have a frame of reference either. 
As described in the mandate, these classes would 
cover topics like how to identify signs of a mental ill-
ness, how to seek help for yourself or someone else and 
what to say to someone who has a mental illness. All 
of this would give students a baseline perspective on 
mental illness and what to do if themselves or someone 
close to them is struggling with it.
So if these students are already taught all these things 
every year in middle and high school, why do we need it 
in college? Not all college students attend public schools 
where these classes must be taught. And even for those 
who did, these lessons are so important they’re worth 
repeating. The most important reason is high school 
and college have different challenges. While students in 
high school have to deal with increased workload and 
new relationships, college students have to deal with that plus living away from home for the ﬁ  rst 
time, managing their own time, feeding them-
selves and generally looking after themselves 
without their parents or guardians around. 
That can be a stressful experience for anyone, 
and while some can handle it better than oth-
ers, every student should be taught how to 
deal with these changes responsibly and how 
to seek help if they need it.
If this program were to be implemented at 
UF, I don’t think it would be an enormous 
burden. Rather than every grade level, this would just 
be one three credit course students must complete be-
fore graduation. We already have one required class for 
all students (The Good Life and its successor ‘Quest’ 
classes), so what’s one more? The mental health class 
could even count for a science prerequisite so students 
are not overburdened with graduation requirements. 
The college could also partner with UF’s Counseling 
and Wellness Center for the program, and as an added 
bonus, this would likely necessitate a funding increase 
for the severely underfunded center. In addition to re-
capping what was covered in the public school classes, 
the college class would go deeper into the science of 
mental illness, the mental health challenges associated 
with college and what to do to seek help as an adult. 
The Florida legislature should act now while it has 
momentum. As soon as possible, legislators should pass 
a law mandating at least three credits worth of mental 
health instruction in all Florida public universities and 
colleges. In doing so, we would have a healthier and 
happier state, and teach students at all stages of life 
how to take care of their mental health. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.Florida mental health classes are a good idea but can go further
Amanda
Martinez
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.orgBullying still exists in collegeColumnTUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
Hey lazy bones... recycle this newspaper 
when you’re done reading it! Thanks.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-141For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
"Whoever would overthrow the liberty of a 
nation must begin by subduing the freeness 
of speech." – Benjamin Franklin
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information1.  Autographed 
1.  Light ____5.  Apparent 
2.  Small explosive6.  Similar
3.  Previously 7.  Type of polecat
4.  Although DISENG
OSETCKARECL
AILEK
GADREEN
ILERAERETERFR
BEATLIANSWERS: 1A-Signed  5A-Clear  6A-Alike  7A-Ferret
1D-Socket  2D-Grenade  3D-Earlier  4D-Albeit  B-Colgate7-23-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ was the first toothpaste 
sold in a collapsible tube (1896). 
BONUSTUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Now Hiring Substitute Teachers for Alachua 
County Public Schools
Minimum criteria for becoming a substitute 
teacher: 
• High School Diploma
• The ability to pass background, drug and 
fingerprint screenings 
• Must be 21 years or older
Please call 352-363-2013 or email
2074@kellyservices.com      7-23-19-5-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certified. 
Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    7-30-
19-7-14
Tutor/Respite care provider: tutor algebra 
and other topics at Santa Fe College level; 
an understanding of working with someone 
with special needs; must have patience and 
is willing to work with our son on developing 
independent skills. Pay is $15/hr / 10-15 hrs a 
week, 2 - 3 hrs daily at our house. Start week 
of August 19. annemiekecoron@gmail.com     
7-23-19-4-14AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
*Tree Trimming, Stump
Grinding & Brush Removal*
Call 3 H Enterprise 352-414-8222 Free
estimates. Located in Gainesville. Quality, 
Reliable & Affordable Services call today!    
7-23-19-5-1515 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 Losing streaks
7 Payroll dept. IDs
11 “Jay Leno’s 
Garage” airer
15 “Rock the __”: 
hit song for The 
Clash
16 “All right, sure”
17 Like some 
company softball 
teams
18 Realm first led by 
Augustus
20 Fibber
21 “How sweet __!”
22 Carry with effort
23 Take forcibly 
(from)
25 ISP that includes 
Bing
26 Result named 
for expanding 
circles from a 
rock tossed into 
a pond
29 Litter box visitors
31 Biblical boat
32 Head across the 
Atlantic?
33 “I wonder ... ”
34 Mos. and mos.
36 Carton sealer
37 Did something a 
bit shocking
42 Price to pay
43 Put to good __
44 Tractor-trailer
45 “Eww!”
46 Nourished
48 “Can’t argue with 
that!”
52 Hobnobbed 
(with)
56 St. Patrick’s Day 
mo.
57 “My Fair Lady” 
lady
58 God with a bow
59 Nimble
60 “Check it out!”
61 Fixed things ... 
or, in four parts, 
what you’ve done 
when filling in 
18-, 26-, 37- and 
52-Across?
64 Youngest Brontë 
sibling
65 Rim
66 Rue
67 Garden planting 
areas
68 Watermelon bit
69 Goes over the 
posted limitDOWN
1 Keep to a tight 
budget
2 Taoism founder
3 Govt. 
moneymaker
4 CFOs’ degrees
5 Sautéing  
vessel
6 Complaint to 
Mom after a 
sister’s slap
7 Absorb
8 Swindle decoy
9 Neighbor of 
Den.
10 Barbecue rod
11 Staff symbol in 
viola music
12 Ordinance that 
sets quiet hours
13 Police who 
may enforce a 
12-Down
14 USN officer
19 Travel aids
24 Nats’ former 
stadium, briefly
26 He sheep
27 Make simpler
28 Tip of a wing tip
30 Gambler’s IOU
34 “Definitely!”
35 Deli bread
36 Deli order37 2016 “Star Wars” 
prequel
38 Light hair color
39 “My man!”
40 Web access 
programs
41 Frees (of)
42 Tough mutt
46 Tasseled hat
47 Mingo portrayer 
on “Daniel 
Boone”
48 American-born 
Jordanian queen49 Tennis official
50 Like jail cells
51 Steamy  
get-togethers
53 Triathlon rides
54 Flowerpot spot
55 Kennel club 
classification
59 Fragrant herb
60 Science class
62 Beverage  
suffix
63 __ Boys: auto 
parts chain
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, July 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Martial arts move
5 Lawrence with 
an eponymous 
college
10 Oppressive 
atmosphere
14 Dynamic opening
15 British Columbia 
neighbor
16 Court 
contemporary of 
Bjorn
17 That necessary 
morning cup of 
coffee?
20 Persevere, with 
“on”
21 Great Society 
era, with “the”
22 [There’s another 
doc]
23 “The X-Files” 
subjects
24 Prepare some 
fish for frying?
31 Nashville awards 
org.
33 Very
34 Baku native
35 Decided in court
38 Show set in 
Vegas
39 Discontinue
40 Theater area with 
no seats
41 Work with 
an Ethiopian 
princess
43 Lea feeder
44 Good nickname 
for Stephen 
King?
48 Cedar Rapids 
campus
49 __ canto
50 Truly enjoy 
something
54 Most beneficent
58 Part of the Hulk’s 
healthy diet?
60 Lot measure
61 See some 
sorority sisters, 
say
62 One of Chekhov’s 
“Three Sisters”
63 “__ Cassius 
has a lean and 
hungry look”
64 Belgian 
expressionist 
James
65 Oenology datumDOWN
1 Many have 
meters
2 Sub
3 Russian city
4 Ground material
5 Cognac cocktail
6 Month after 
Shevat
7 Cold and damp
8 Signs of solutions
9 Apt to use more 
corn?
10 Wee
11 Et __
12 Black Friday 
likelihood
13 Durability 
metaphor
18 German article
19 Epic film budget 
line
24 Model material
25 Dunkin’ Donuts 
option
26 Is charismatic
27 Omit, in 
speaking
28 “Not happening”
29 Expanded
30 Royal address
31 Food often 
served with a 
mallet32 Naturalist John
36 Drew out
37 Indicate
42 Settler?
45 Haydn’s 
includes 106 
symphonies
46 “General 
Hospital” Emmy 
winner Sofer
47 Member of 
an exclusive 
network50 Major success 
of the dot-com 
bubble
51 Oil acronym
52 Dice roll, say
53 Hammer part
54 Numbers game
55 Cosmo rival
56 Phantasy Star 
Online publisher
57 Bygone dynast
59 Mouse in Disney’s 
“Cinderella”
07/18/19
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Sophomore gymnast Trinity 
Thomas competed at the 
GK U.S. Classic on Saturday. 
She placed sixth on bars and 
seventh on beam. Dressel wins two gold medals
Former Gator Caeleb Dressel won a gold medal as part of the 4 x 100-meter 
freestyle team on Sunday at the FINA world championships, then followed 
it up with another gold medal on Monday in the 50-meter butterﬂ  y. His time 
of 22.35 seconds is the second-fastest in history.Seven points.
That’s how much 
the Gators football 
team is favored over 
the Miami Hurricanes 
in its season opener on Aug. 
24. If you’ve been keeping up 
with social media, though, 
you’d think Florida was fa-
vored by a million. Gator fans 
– and players, for that matter 
– have essentially guaranteed a Florida vic-
tory at Camping World Stadium in Orlan-
do, with linebacker Andrew Chatﬁ  eld even 
declaring that the Hurricanes were not a 
challenge.
But should they be so conﬁ  dent?
I don’t think so.
See, Florida has faced quite a few differ-
ent opponents to open the season over the 
last 10 years. One thing stands out, how-
ever: Only one of those has been from a 
Power Five conference.
It was Michigan in 2017, and UF got 
blown out 33-17.
The rest of Florida’s opponents in that 
time span – Charleston Southern, Eastern 
Michigan, New Mexico State and Bowl-
ing Green, just to name a few – have been 
mere potholes on the road to the competi-
tive giant of the SEC. In fact, the Gators 
have only lost a single opening game in the 
last 10 years, and it was against Michigan.
Florida is not only used to victory in its 
opening week, it’s used to putting in very 
little effort for it. The Gators are compla-
cent. 
Enter The U.
Miami ended its 2017 season with a 10-3 
record and an appearance (a very disap-
pointing one, but an appearance nonethe-
less) in a New Year’s Six Bowl against the 
Wisconsin Badgers. With their infectious 
swagger and culture change under coach 
Mark Richt, the Hurricanes’ sudden resur-gence had the media asking if 
the Miami of old had returned 
to wreak havoc on the college 
football landscape.
The next year, the Hurri-
canes went 7-6 in a season that 
included a four-game losing 
streak and a 35-3 bowl game 
drubbing by the Badgers once 
again.
The U’s return had been 
put on hold. Just a year after its success, 
many questioned whether Richt could tru-
ly lead the team to the promised land. The 
“Turnover Chain” went from an electrify-
ing show of power to the butt of a joke.
Everyone on this Miami team has some-
thing to prove. New head coach Manny 
Diaz needs to prove that he can bring the 
Hurricanes back from the depths that Richt 
left them in. The players need to prove that 
they can replicate their success from 2017. 
The program needs to prove that it is still 
relevant in the scope of college football.
And what better way to do that than to 
stun a program that ended its season last 
year as the No. 7 team in the nation?
It’s the perfect opportunity for Miami 
to show the world that it isn’t going to lie 
down, and it’s also the perfect opportunity 
for Florida to let its momentum and histori-
cally facile opening games get to its head. 
If the Gators aren’t careful, they could 
ﬁ  nd themselves shell-shocked by an oppo-
nent that has almost nothing to lose and al-
most everything to gain. Florida may have 
the superior talent, but to quote the great 
Mike Tyson, “Everybody has a plan until 
they get punched in the mouth.”
So whenever you think about send-
ing off that tweet to trash the Hurricanes 
or make an unﬂ  attering meme about Tate 
Martell, just remember:
Seven points.Don’t underestimate MiamiThe Extra Point
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Jaimie Hoover's walk-off single sent Florida to the Women's College World Series. 
AWARDS
There are great games. There are con-
tests that are riveting from start to finish 
with both teams battling for supremacy 
over the course of a fierce battle.
But then there are moments. Single 
instances that will be replayed through 
the minds of Gator fans sitting in the 
stands and watching anxiously from their 
television screens.
There were quite a few moments that 
could stand to be the defining one from 
UF’s athletic season, but our writers have 
narrowed it down to four: Jaimie Hoover’s 
walk-off single over Tennessee, Andrew 
Nembhard’s late 3-pointer over LSU, Brad 
Stewart’s pick six over LSU and Feleipe 
Franks shushing the crowd against South 
Carolina.
Jaimie Hoover: Sports seasons are 
defined by and remembered for singular 
plays and moments. It’s nearly impossible 
to remember every single throw, pitch, 
kick or hurdle, but a few will come to de-
fine Gator sports for years. One moment 
that will stick in my mind forever is Jaimie 
Hoover’s walk-off single against Tennes-
see to send Florida to the Women’s Col-
lege World Series. Hoover’s walk-off is my 
pick for the alligatorSports Moment of the 
Year.
The game was tied 1-1 in extras, with 
the winner advancing to the WCWS. 
Hoover, Florida’s powerful right-hand-
ed hitter, stood in the box with runners on second and third with two outs in the 
eighth.
Tennessee pitcher Ashley Rodgers 
stood in the circle at 103 pitches, dueling 
Florida’s Kelly Barnhill inning by inning. 
Rodgers flicked a drop ball down and in 
to Hoover, and Hoover cracked it over the 
shortstop to send Amanda Lorenz home 
for the winning run.
The intensity of the moment and what 
was on the line for Florida, combined 
with Hoover’s heroics and Lorenz’s out-
stretched arms as she galloped home, 
made Hoover’s walk-off unforgettable. – 
Dylan O’Shea
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.org 
Andrew Nembhard: Freshman Keyon-
tae Johnson drew three defenders as he 
drove to the basket. The 6-foot-5 forward 
passed the ball to Andrew Nembhard 
with four seconds to go before the crowd 
in Nashville erupted as Nembhard’s ball 
found the bottom of the net.
My pick for the Moment of the Year 
goes to the shot by the 19-year-old fresh-
man that ended LSU’s SEC Tournament 
run. 
The Gators entered the game as the un-
derdog with their hopes of an NCAA Tour-
nament appearance dwindling. In order Alligator Awards: University 
of Florida Moment of the Year
The Associated Press
Head Coach Dan Mullen, of Florida, speaks during the NCAA college football 
Southeastern Conference Media Days, Monday, July 15, 2019, in Hoover, Ala.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE  10
River Wells
twitter: riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
FOOTBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
In case you needed any more proof 
that expectations are higher for coach 
Dan Mullen’s UF football team this year, 
here you go:
At last week’s SEC Media Days, the 
Gators received 21 ﬁ  rst-place votes in 
the SEC East, 17 more than last year. 
They were also picked to ﬁ  nish second 
in the division, a position higher than 
they were predicted to ﬁ  nish in 2018. 
Georgia is once again the runaway 
favorite in the division, with 233 ﬁ  rst-
place votes. Alabama was picked to win 
the conference outright with 203 votes, 
154 more than runner-up Georgia. A sin-
gle person voted for Florida to win the 
SEC championship. 
Despite the fact that the team is com-
ing off a New Year’s Six bowl victory 
(as opposed to a 4-7 season in 2017), it 
actually received more votes to win the 
conference last year (two) than it did 
this year. 
That wasn’t the only area in which 
UF performed worse than last year at 
the Media Days. Seven Gators earned 
All-SEC Preseason honors, down from eight in 2018. That doesn’t tell the whole 
story, though.
Two Gators – senior defensive line-
man Jabari Zuniga and junior defensive 
back CJ Henderson – were selected to 
the Preseason All-SEC First Team. That 
matches last year’s total, when Martez 
Ivey and Cece Jefferson were selected.
Florida’s biggest improvement comes 
with the All-SEC Second Team. Four 
Gators – senior running back Lami-
cal Perine, senior linebacker David Re-
ese II, redshirt senior punter Tommy 
Townsend and junior athlete Kadarius 
Toney – were named to the team, twice 
as many as last year (Chauncey Gardner-
Johnson and CJ Henderson).
Just one Gator – sophomore kicker 
Evan McPherson – was selected to the 
All-SEC Third Team this year, down 
from four last year (Toney, Reese II, 
Marco Wilson and Jordan Scarlett). 
What the Gators lack in quantity they 
make up for in quality. More players in 
the ﬁ  rst two All-SEC teams is exactly 
what Florida needs if it is to continue 
trending upward under Mullen. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgSEC Media Days: Where 
things stand for the Gators
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Defensive back CJ Henderson was one of two Gators selected to the Preseason All-SEC 
First T eam. Henderson registered 38 tackles, three sacks and two interceptions last year. 
Too often are sporting events 
touted for their drama and 
quickly forgotten for lack 
thereof.
Lebron James’ heroic 
chase-down block on Andre Iguo-
dala in the final minutes of the 
NBA Finals three years ago is 
now enshrined in basketball lore, 
but does anyone remember Super 
Bowl XLVIII and a Russell Wilson-
led Seattle Seahawks team drudging over the 
Denver Broncos?
Obviously, theatrical moments in sports are 
treasured for what they give to their audience, 
an excitement and a feeling only the moment 
can provide. But it’s never a terrible thing to 
find enjoyment and acceptance in results that 
sometimes lack that magic.
Here’s to hoping Shane Lowry’s six-shot 
runaway victory at The 148th Open Champi-
onship this past week does not go down that 
infamous rabbit hole of forgotten triumphs.
Lowry is a world-class player and has been 
for over a decade, first arriving on the global 
stage as a 22-year-old amateur at the 2009 
Irish Open, where he stunned the golf world 
with a Cinderella-like win in his national open 
(Lowry is from Clara, Ireland). 
Prior to the start of the tournament last 
week at Royal Portrush Golf Club in North-
ern Ireland, Lowry was nothing more than an 
off-chance dark horse, a skilled veteran with 
several worldwide wins to his pedigree and in steady recent form.
It was a far cry from the pre-
tournament pomp and circum-
stance surrounding the likes of Ul-
stermen and longtime friends Rory 
McIlroy and Darren Clarke.
McIlroy played his way out of 
the championship on Thursday 
with an opening round 79 all but 
burying his hopes. Brooks Koepka 
– who has cemented himself as 
a contender in every major championship – 
never found his putting en route to a T-4 fin-
ish. Tommy Fleetwood, who started the final 
round four shots behind Lowry, never posed 
a true threat Sunday in the howling wind and 
rain off Ulster’s Causeway Coast.
Yet, as is true in every great underdog sto-
ry, once the biggest names succumbed to the 
natural brute and beauty of Royal Portrush, 
the crowds rallied around their native son and 
helped produce a career-defining moment.
Sure, golf’s oldest championship doesn’t 
resonate with the masses as much as a Jim 
Nantz “Hello friends” on Masters Sunday, but 
take it for what it is – a chance to showcase 
the world’s best on the game’s most storied 
and hallowed links.
Appreciate it for what it was – a proud 
countryman sporting the Irish tricolor above 
the heel of his shoes, running away with golf’s 
oldest trophy and the weight of a proud nation 
on his shoulders.Appreciate The Open for what it wasJack in the Box
The Associated Press
Ireland’s Shane Lowry reacts after making a birdie on the 15th green 
during the final round of the British Open Golf Championships at Royal 
Portrush in Northern Ireland, Sunday, July 21, 2019.
Jack Braverman
twitter: jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Craft Pints$6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Sam Adams Drafts
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue2pm - closeROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSto earn a March Madness berth, 
Florida could not afford to lose to 
the Tigers.
LSU and its freshman for-
ward Naz Reid gave the Gators 
everything they could handle. It 
seemed scripted when Reid hit 
two three-pointers in the last 56 
seconds of regulation. The score 
was tied at 73. Gator ball. Three 
seconds left.
When Johnson passed the ball 
to Nembhard – who sunk the 
biggest shot of his young career 
– Gainesville and all of college 
basketball took notice.
The Gators won the game 76-
73 and earned their spot in the 
NCAA Tournament.
Nembhard finished the game 
with a career-high 20 points to 
send his team to the biggest stage 
that college basketball has to of-
fer. Nembhard's heroic shot was 
the alligatorSports Moment of 
the Year, without a doubt. – Jo-
seph Salvador
JSalvador_14
jsalvador@alligator.org
Brad Stewart: The moment 
that continues to replay in my 
brain from the last year of UF ath-
letics took place at Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium on Oct. 6. A sold-out 
crowd of 90,000 people watched 
anxiously as LSU looked to re-
gain the lead against the Gators. 
Down 20-19 with just over two 
minutes to play, starting quarter-
back Joe Burrow and the Tigers 
faced a third-and-4 from their 
own 18-yard line. A pass from 
Burrow was late to receiver Ste-phen Sullivan and UF safety Brad 
Stewart took advantage. What 
happened next sparked one of 
the loudest moments I’ve ever 
witnessed in The Swamp.
Stewart, the New Orleans 
native, cut in front of the pass, 
streaked down the sideline and 
dove into the endzone to secure 
Florida’s biggest win in Dan 
Mullen’s first year as head coach.
For anyone that was lucky 
enough to witness the moment 
firsthand, I’m sure you’d agree 
that it was not only the best mo-
ment in UF athletics this past 
season, but one of the best mo-
ments in college football as a 
whole from 2018.
That’s the reason why I 
believe it’s the alligatorSports 
Moment of the Year. – Evan 
Lepak 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
Feleipe Franks: Taunting has 
always played a major role in 
football despite the rules put in 
place to prevent it.
Whether it’s ball carriers 
waving at defenders as they cross 
the goal line or players flexing in 
the face of their opponents after 
a big play, taunting makes the 
game more exciting.
What you don’t usually see, 
however, is a player provoking 
his own fans. But that’s exactly 
what quarterback Feleipe Franks 
did in a 35-31 victory over South 
Carolina at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium on Nov. 10.
Florida came into the contest 
on a two-game losing streak, fall-
ing to then-No. 7 Georgia and 
an unranked Missouri team by 19 and 21 points, respectively. 
Franks was benched for quar-
terback Kyle Trask in the loss 
to Missouri, and Trask threw for 
126 yards and a touchdown in 
less than two quarters with the 
game out of reach. 
Trask’s performance was 
good enough for head coach Dan 
Mullen to consider a quarterback 
change, but that was put to rest 
when Trask broke his foot in 
practice.Franks remained the starter for 
the bout against the Gamecocks, 
and he let every Gators fan 
know that he heard the noise 
surrounding his recent play.
With the Gators down 14-7 in 
the second quarter, Franks took 
a snap from South Carolina’s 
10-yard line and stumbled his 
way into the end zone. After his 
touchdown, Franks ran toward 
the fans and put his finger to his 
facemask, shushing the crowd in 
The Swamp.
That wasn’t the only time 
he performed the gesture. He signaled for fans to quiet down 
again after his one-yard rushing 
touchdown that put Florida up 
35-31 in the fourth quarter.
Franks silencing the crowd 
was a turning point in the 2018 
season. UF went on to win its 
next three games, including the 
Peach Bowl against Michigan. 
Let’s be frank, this deserves to 
be the alligatorSports Moment of 
the Year. – Bryan Matamoros
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 10Nembhard's shot gave UF a 76 -73 win 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
In addition to throwing for 161 yards and a touchdown, Feleipe Franks rushed for 36 yards and two 
touchdowns against South Carolina. He infamously shushed the home crowd after his rushing touchdowns. 
