We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Petty marker to come to Gainesville park
The marker will be at T om Petty Park, 400 NE 16th Ave, pg 3
Meet the woman behind the viral toad
Gainesville native Savannah Mikell created an Instagram ac-
count for T oby the T oad, pg 4 GATORS WIN 10 MEDALS AT USA 
SWIMMING CHAMPIONSHIPS
Twenty-three Gators qualiﬁ  ed for the 2020 
U.S. Olympic T eam, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 107
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
By MATT SEDENSKY and 
ASTRID GAL V AN
The Associated Press
Anguished families planned 
funerals in two U.S. cities, politi-
cians pointed ﬁ  ngers and a nation 
numbed by gun violence wondered 
what might come next Monday as 
the death toll from two weekend 
mass shootings rose to 31.
The attacks 1,300 miles apart — 
at a packed shopping center in El 
Paso, Texas , and a popular night-
life stretch in Dayton, Ohio — also 
injured dozens more. They became 
the newest entries on an ever-grow-
ing list of mass shooting sites and 
spurred discussion on where to lay 
the blame. President Donald Trump 
cited mental illness and video games 
but steered away from talk of curb-
ing gun sales.
For all the back-to-back horror of 
innocent people slain amid every-
day life, decades of an unmistakably 
American problem of gun violence 
ensured it wasn’t entirely shocking. 
Even as the familiar post-shooting rituals played out in both cities, oth-
ers clung to life in hospitals, with 
two new fatalities recorded among 
those injured at the shooting at the 
Walmart in El Paso.
As in a litany of other shooting 
sites before, the public juggled sto-
ries of the goodness seen in lives cut 
short with inklings of the demented 
motives of the shooters, and on-
scene heroics with troubling ide-
ologies that may have sparked the 
bloodshed.
Equally familiar, Washington 
reacted along party lines, with 
Trump’s vague suggestion of open-
ness to new gun laws met with 
skepticism by an opposition that has 
heard similar talk before.
“Hate has no place in America,” 
the president declared in a 10-min-
ute speech from the White House 
Diplomatic Reception Room, con-
demning racism and rehashing na-
tional conversations on treatment 
for mental health, depiction of vio-
lence in the media, and discourse on 
the internet.As death count rises in 2 US shootings, a familiar aftermath
SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 3
IN SOME DEPARTMENTS, 
JOURNALISTS CANNOT DIRECTL Y 
SPEAK TO OFFICIALS WITHOUT A 
PUBLIC RELATIONS GATEKEEPER
By T ori Whidden 
Staff Writer 
Journalism students are taught to contact 
sources, interview them and write the story. 
However, professors may forget to mention the 
gatekeeper who could be in the way of news. 
According to the Society of Professional 
Journalists, journalists today are often directed 
to a public relations manager or are required 
to ﬁ  ll out media request forms before speaking 
with desired sources. 
These practices have been implemented at 
UF as of three months ago in response to the 
number of student journalists reaching out. 
Frank LoMonte, the director at the Brechner 
Center for Freedom of Information, submitted 
a 93-page research paper to the University of 
Kansas this year discussing the issue.   
Government agencies are increasingly put-
ting a public relations ofﬁ  ce in place as a gate-
keeper who prevents journalists from getting access to employees without ﬁ  ltering, LoMonte 
said. 
“Legally, there is no way that a govern-
ment agency, including a state university, can 
enforce a mandatory policy of screening inter-
views,” LoMonte said. 
LoMonte said he discovered many agencies 
don’t have a written policy about employees 
speaking with the media, but it becomes word-
of-mouth among the employees. 
“When the word-of-mouth passes that the 
boss doesn’t like to see employees’ names in 
the newspaper, that becomes just as good as 
having a policy because everybody believes 
the policy exists,” LoMonte said. 
UF Health Shands Hospital has always had 
a communications person to sort and monitor 
the emails, said UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando. 
“The reason down there is because they 
have a lot of doctors, and doctors are busy tak-
ing care of patients,” Orlando said.
UF’s Business Affairs also makes journalists 
ﬁ  ll out a media request form, which is sent to 
AnaLee Rodriguez, the Business Affairs com-
munications manager. The Alligator reached ‘News doesn’t always wait 24 
hours’: Media practices at UFAP Photo/John Minchillo
Mourners visit a makeshift memorial outside Ned Peppers bar following a vigil at the scene of 
a mass shooting, Sunday in Dayton, Ohio. A masked gunman in body armor opened fire early 
Sunday in the popular entertainment district, killing several people, including his sister, and 
wounding dozens before he was quickly slain by police, officials said. 
THE CITY ATTORNEY 
DETERMINED THAT 
GAINESVILLE DID NOT HAVE 
GROUNDS TO PROCEED IN THE 
LAWSUIT
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
The city of Gainesville decided at a City 
Commission meeting on Thursday that it 
will not be joining the lawsuit against the 
Florida law that bans sanctuary cities.
SB 168 was signed into law by Gov. 
Ron DeSantis on June 14. The law went 
into effect on July 1. 
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos 
said the city attorneys reviewed the law-
suit and concluded the city could not 
make the same arguments because the bill 
does not interfere with Gainesville Police 
policies.
“It does not change the way our depart-
ment does business,” said Jorge Campos, 
spokesperson for GPD. “It does not cause 
us to change our current policy and how 
we interact with people of undocumented 
status.” 
GPD policy states the police depart-ment is not required to enforce federal 
immigration laws because the policy was 
revised on June 17 and there are no pend-
ing changes to it, Campos said.
The commission approved a resolution 
with a policy stating any city employee 
must notify the city commission if asked 
to help with immigration enforcement op-
erations, Hayes-Santos said.
“At that point if we did get the request, 
we would probably have standing to ﬁ  le a 
lawsuit against the Senate bill, and I think 
the city commission would,” Hayes-San-
tos said.
Commissioner David Arreola said he 
was disappointed by the commission’s de-
cision not to join the lawsuit.
“I’m very disappointed that my col-
leagues did not put their money where 
their mouth is,” Arreola said. “They all 
can say that they are concerned about im-
migrant safety but not joining this lawsuit 
is the exact opposite.”
Arreola said many immigrant advo-
cates who have fought for the immigration 
community are disappointed by the deci-
sion.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.orgGainesville City Commission not 
joining sanctuary city lawsuit
SEE PR, PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasHIGH  87° LOW  74°
Social Media Strategist
 Student Services relocates
 Student services for Admissions, 
Registrar, Student Financial 
Affairs and the Bursar will be 
relocated from Criser/Peabody 
Halls to 100 Smathers Library, 
1508 Union Road, from Aug. 
12 to Aug. 30. It will be open 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through 
Friday. UF said this location has 
been designed for students’ con-
venience during Fall peak time.
The Alligator is hiring
 The Independent Florida 
Alligator is currently accepting 
applications for editors, writers, 
photographers, copy editors, 
a videographer and a graphic 
designer. Any UF or Santa Fe 
student is welcome to apply. 
Applications are due by 11:59 
p.m. Aug. 8. You can access them through ifla.news/FallApps.
 Drunken Romeo and Juliet
The High Dive, 210 SW 2nd 
Ave., is presenting a tipsy ad-
aptation of the most famous 
love story. The star-crossed 
lovers will face their fates while 
simultaneously chugging alco-
hol to turn the tragic play into 
a comedy. The doors open at 8 
p.m. and the show begins at 9 
p.m. tonight, Wednesday, Aug. 
14 and Aug. 15. Tickets are $8 
if purchased in advance either 
online at Hear Again Records 
or at the High Dive box office. 
You can buy tickets for $10 at 
the door as well. The event is 
for those 18 and older and if 
you are younger than 21 you 
will be charged $3 at the door.National Frozen Custard Day
Sweetberries Eatery and Frozen 
Custard, 505 NW 13th St., will 
offer its frozen custard for $2 
per scoop instead of the typi-
cal $3.20 and an additional fla-
vor on Thursday to celebrate 
National Frozen Custard Day. 
The Mount retreat 
The Mount is a nonprofit re-
treat from Aug. 9 to 11 for new 
Christian UF and Santa Fe stu-
dents to connect to  their com-
munity before Fall classes begin. 
During the retreat, attendees 
will be placed in a small group of 
cabins with two older students 
who will mentor them through-
out the weekend and help them 
get involved with other groups, 
local churches and campus min-
istries. Registration is open unitl 
Aug. 8 and scholarships are 
available for students on a need 
basis. Students can register at 
themountretreat.com/register.
Little Sparks at Cade Museum
The Cade Museum teaches 
children 4 and younger about 
STEAM - science, technology, 
engineering, art and math - 
Thursday and Saturday morn-
ing from 10 to 11:30 for free.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 107
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position for the fall semester:
Current opening:
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING 
EDITORThe application for this position is available at the Alligator 
ofﬁ  ce, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, 
August 6th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time 
to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
August 6th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held via video 
conference on Friday, August 9th at 11 a.m. Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference 
will be given to those who have experience with The 
Independent Florida Alligator.Paid position and 
unpaid member of the 
Board of Directors
Campus Communications, Inc. is 
an Equal Opportunity EmployerTUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Courtesy to The Alligator
The marker honoring Petty  will be at T om Petty Park, 400 NE 16th Ave. 
THE SIGN WILL BE 
ERECTED ON THE LATE 
SINGER’S BIRTHDATE
By Lily Girton
Avenue Staff Writer
This fall, Gainesville-born mu-
sician Tom Petty will have his 
legacy set in stone. 
A historical marker honoring 
the late Gainesville native and fa-
mous musician Tom Petty will be 
placed in Tom Petty Park, located 
at 400 NE 16th Ave., on Oct. 20, 
the singer’s birthday. The park is 
close to the home Petty grew up 
in as a child.
The two-sided sign will consist 
of 1,235 characters per side — the 
maximum allowable characters. 
The front of the marker will brief-
ly describe the musician’s early life in Gainesville and the back 
will outline the rest of his life and 
musical legacy. The information 
displayed was written by Melanie 
Barr, a Gainesville resident and 
Duckpond Neighborhood Historic 
Preservation consultant.
Barr wanted the marker to 
bring recognition to the name be-
hind Tom Petty Park and teach 
Gainesville residents about the 
contributions Petty made to mu-
sic, which stemmed from his ear-
ly career in Gainesville.
“People know the name Tom 
Petty Park,” Barr said, “but, years 
later, will people still know who 
Tom Petty is and why he’s so im-
portant?”
Petty grew up in a small 
Gainesville home, but he moved 
to Los Angeles after gaining 
wealth and fame. Despite the 
cross-country move, Petty never forgot his roots and frequent-
ly referenced his hometown 
in many of his songs, such as 
“Gainesville.”
“Tom Petty had a signiﬁ  cant 
impact on the city of Gainesville,” 
said 19-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent Jason West. “He’ll always be 
looked at by Gainesville residents 
with a lot of respect because of all 
of his contributions to the com-
munity.”
According to Barr, the marker 
will cost about $2,300, which has 
been funded by the Gainesville 
Music History Foundation Inc. 
“I’m glad the marker is being 
placed,” said City Commissioner 
David Arreola. “I listen to Tom 
Petty almost every morning. I’m 
a huge fan.”
@lilygirton
lgirton@alligator.orgTom Petty historical marker to 
be placed in Gainesville park
A racist screed authorities were 
working to conﬁ  rm was left by the 
alleged perpetrator in the Texas 
shooting, 21-year-old Patrick Cru-
sius, mirrored some of Trump’s 
anti-immigrant rhetoric. Some, like 
Ernesto Carrillo, whose brother-in-
law Ivan Manzano was killed in the 
Walmart attack, said the president 
shares blame for inﬂ  ammatory lan-
guage Carrillo called a “campaign of 
terror.”
“His work as a generator of hate 
ended in this,” said Carrillo, who 
crossed the border from Ciudad 
Juárez on Monday for a meeting in El Paso with Mexico’s foreign minister. 
“Thanks to him, this is all happen-
ing.”
Trump, in turn, tweeted that the 
media “contributed greatly to the an-
ger and rage that has built up.”
Trump suggested a bill to expand 
gun background checks could be 
combined with his long-sought effort 
to toughen the nation’s immigration 
system, but gave no rationale for 
the pairing. Studies have repeatedly 
shown immigrants have a lower level 
of criminality than those born in the 
U.S., both shooting suspects were cit-
izens, and federal ofﬁ  cials are inves-
tigating anti-immigrant bias as a po-
tential motive in the Texas massacre.Death count is up to 31
out to Business Affairs, but the 
ofﬁ  ce could not be reached for 
comment.
UF instituted this because of-
ﬁ  cials were getting a lot of calls 
from student reporters, Orlando 
said. 
“They’re getting kind of inun-
dated with them,” Orlando said.
Orlando said in some cases 
where there are working report-
ers who are on deadline, they 
may need to step around the me-
dia request form and forego that 
process.
“They understood that,” Or-lando said. 
As a professor at UF, LoMonte 
said he never felt restricted in 
talking to media.
“It’s a bad idea to set up a 
public relations ofﬁ  cer as the sole 
gatekeeper over who can speak 
to the media,” LoMonte said. 
“Forgetting about whether it’s le-
gal or not, it’s just a bad manage-
ment practice.”
He said the lack of public rela-
tions professionals and the abun-
dance of emails will result in de-
lays and describes this process as 
a “self-defeating policy.”
“News doesn’t always wait 24 
hours,” LoMonte said. In any organization, the last 
thing you want to do is send a 
message to journalists that they 
can’t get timely access to your 
employees, LoMonte said. He 
said settling for taking a pre-
pared statement from somebody 
in a public relations ofﬁ  ce is not 
a good substitute for actually 
speaking to the person with ﬁ  rst-
hand knowledge.
“Journalists will just go else-
where,” he said. “They’ll talk to 
people at a different institution.”
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgPR,  from pg. 1 SHOOTING,  from pg. 1LoMonte: “Journalists will go elsewhere”4  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, waffles, 
savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/
gluten free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 1 1-7 , 
sun brunch 10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 1 1am - 9pm.
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 151 1 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 1 1-
2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s 
english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will 
be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available 
Open everyday 5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available.THE TOAD’S INSTAGRAM 
ACCOUNT HAS OVER 
13,000 FOLLOWERS
By Yanet Centeno
Contributing Writer
If Toby could meet any celebrity, 
it would be Kermit the Frog. Am-
phibian representation matters, you 
know.
Toby the Toad and Savannah 
Mikell, the Gainesville native who 
found him on her porch, haven’t 
met Kermit yet, but they did make 
their debut on live television on July 
31.
An anchor from Jacksonville’s 
WJXT Channel 4 News invited them 
to come on air after Toby’s Insta-gram page (@yaboi_toby_toad) 
scored over 13,000 followers within 
two weeks.
“I was so excited when the news 
anchor texted me that I cried,” 
Mikell said.
Mikell, a 23-year-old psychology 
junior at Saint Leo University, said 
the popularity started with a comical 
picture she took of Toby on a minia-
ture couch in her dollhouse.
“He hangs out on my porch all 
the time, and I thought it’d be funny 
to take a picture of him sitting on the 
couch,” she said. “It got so many 
likes and shares [on Facebook] that 
I kept it going.” 
Three weeks after starting To-
by’s Instagram account, Mikell has 
uploaded 32 pictures of Toby with 
various props barbecuing, playing the guitar and driving a toy car.
Mikell said most of the props in 
the photographs are from a doll-
house her aunt made for her when 
she was 6. Mikell built the gardening 
props herself.
Toby, a Fowler’s Toad, lives 
alongside other toads on Mikell’s 
porch and tends to hide behind a 
framed painting Mikell made that 
says, “Ode an die Freude” (Ode to 
Joy). He enjoys eating little bugs, 
Mikell said.
“His favorite meal is a tasty 
moth,” she said.
Although people have accused 
her of torturing Toby and forcing 
him to live in the dollhouse, Mikell 
said Toby comes and goes as he 
pleases. Sometimes Mikell won’t 
see him for two or three days, but he usually makes an appearance on 
rainy days. When Toby comes back 
Mikell spots him immediately.
Mikell said she can distinguish 
Toby because he is vibrantly col-
ored and smaller than the rest of 
the toads lounging on her porch. 
Mikell’s grandmother, Doris Mikell, 
taught her how to identify the sex 
of toads.
There are no plans for Toby the 
Toad besides continuing to run his 
social media account, Mikell said. 
“If the hype died down tomor-
row, I’d be satisﬁ  ed knowing Toby 
has made thousands and thousands 
of people smile,” she said. 
Mikell’s mother, Gerie Grifﬁ  n 
Forde, said she’s amazed how well-
behaved and indulgent Toby is when 
her daughter puts him in the poses for photos. Forde is not shocked her 
daughter is posing a toad.
“Savannah has always loved kit-
ties, horses, dogs, butterﬂ  ies, lizards 
and all kinds of interesting bugs,” 
she said. 
Forde does not help her daugh-
ter with the props but said Mikell is 
constantly on the lookout for new 
ideas for Toby’s photos.
Shannah Parkin, a 23-year-old  
UF dance and psychology senior, 
said she attended elementary school 
with Mikell and has always known 
Mikell as a person who loves ani-
mals and plants.
“I really enjoy Toby the Toad be-
cause you can really relate to him,” 
she said. “Just the fact that he is liv-
ing life with us is comical and hum-
bling.”Meet the Gainesville woman behind the internet-famous toad 
Courtesy of Savannah Mikell
T oby the T oad is posed with props from Mikell’s dollhouse, which was made by her aunt when 
she was 6. The photo was posted on Instagram on July 17 with the caption “who comin ?”
Courtesy of Savannah Mikell
T oby the T oad lays in bed. This photo was published on the Instagram 
account @yaboi_toby_toad on July 13 with the caption “he snooz. ”
TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
As the Summer semester comes to a close, UF has 
decided on a speaker to see off the graduates — and he 
is very close to home.
The university announced Monday the speaker at 
this semester’s commencement will be UF Department 
of Journalism chair Ted Spiker. Spiker will not be paid 
for the event.
UF Summer commencement will be held Aug. 9 and 
10 with about 1,300 students expected to graduate, said 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
The ceremonies will be held at the O’Connell Cen-
ter.
Spiker said he has never spoken at a commence-
ment ceremony before and was honored when UF ap-
proached him to speak at the event. 
He will speak at both ceremonies, the doctoral cer-
emony Friday at 4 p.m. and the bachelor’s, master’s 
and specialist’s ceremony on Saturday at 10 a.m. Spik-
er said he wrote a different speech for each ceremony.
“My goal is to pass along a few lessons and hope-
fully a few laughs too,” Spiker said. “Commencement 
is such an important and fun day, and I just want to try 
to capture a little bit of both of those things.”  
After four years at UF, Aleksi Turkki’s college jour-
ney is coming to an end. 
The 22-year-old will ﬁ  nish up the last of his course-
work on Friday and will graduate with a bachelor’s in 
marketing on Saturday.
Turkki’s family will drive up from West Palm Beach 
to watch him graduate; however, Turkki said he hadn’t 
heard who the commencement speaker is yet. 
As he prepares to part, he said the thing he’ll miss 
most about UF is meeting new people at all the events 
around campus. 
“I love that spirit of being involved in such an awe-
some community,” he said. 
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgUF prof to address 
Summer graduates
ABOUT 1,300 STUDENTS ARE 
EXPECTED TO WALK 
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD OFFICER SAID SHE WAS 
ATTEMPTING TO STOP HIM 
FROM RECKLESS DRIVING
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was charged Sat-
urday afternoon after a Gainesville po-
lice ofﬁ  cer attempted to stop him from 
driving recklessly by throwing her 
ﬂ  ashlight at his vehicle.
GPD ofﬁ  cers were called to an un-
authorized block party early Saturday 
morning near 1300 SE 17th Terrace to 
disperse the crowd. While they direct-
ed trafﬁ  c on foot, one ofﬁ  cer noticed 
a car speeding toward her, according 
to a police report. The ofﬁ  cer estimated 
the car was traveling at 60 mph around 
pedestrians and marked patrol cars.The ofﬁ  cer yelled at the driver, who 
was later identiﬁ  ed as 22-year-old Eric 
Rim, to stop the vehicle and used her 
strobe function on her ﬂ  ashlight to get 
his attention. She swung the ﬂ  ashlight 
at the car as it passed, hitting the rear 
driver’s side door before falling to the 
ground, according to the report. 
Rim stopped his car about 100 yards 
away and began shouting out his win-
dow at the ofﬁ  cer, according to the re-
port. He then ﬂ  ed the scene.
Rim drove to his house about a 
block away. Rim arrived appearing in-
toxicated, according to a police report, 
and was upset about the damage the 
ﬂ  ashlight did to his car. He retrieved 
a black handgun and said he was go-
ing to shoot the ofﬁ  cer who threw the 
ﬂ  ashlight. 
When a woman who was at Rim’s 
house tried to calm him down, Rim grabbed her by the neck and began 
choking her, according to the report. 
He then told the woman he would 
shoot her and dispose of her body.
Later Saturday night, the woman 
called the police to report the incident. 
Approximately 20 minutes later, Rim 
called the police to report the ﬂ  ash-
light incident from earlier that day. 
Rim went to the police station and was 
taken into custody. 
Rim was charged with eluding a 
police ofﬁ  cer and domestic aggravated 
assault, both felonies, in addition to 
simple domestic battery and reckless 
driving, both misdemeanors. 
He remains in jail in lieu of a 
$95,000 bond. It is unclear whether he 
has an attorney.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgMan charged after oﬃ   cer throws object at car
THE MAN’S FIANCÉE HAD 
PREVIOUSL Y BEEN ARRESTED 
AS WELL, AUTHORITIES SAY
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
An Ocala couple is accused of using 
an online marketplace to lure a man out 
of his home in order to burglarize it, ac-
cording to Gainesville Police.
Chase Mariah Gibiser, 30, entered a 
Gainesville home on Southwest Archer 
Road on June 19, according to a police 
report. Gibiser’s ﬁ  ance, Jamy Martin, 
contacted the man using an online mar-
ketplace to buy a cellphone. Martin had 
bought items from this seller before, ac-cording to the report.
Martin suggested they meet in a gro-
cery store parking lot rather than the 
man’s apartment as they had previously. 
The man told police he found this odd, 
but agreed anyway, according to the re-
port.
Once they arrived at the meeting 
spot, Martin began stalling. She suggest-
ed they go out for drinks, but the man 
declined and said he was going to the 
gym. Martin said she would contact him 
about the phone later and asked him to 
text her when he left the gym.
The man told police he texted Martin 
when he was leaving and returned to his 
home to ﬁ  nd it had been burglarized. A 
windowpane was broken, but no items were known to be missing. Gibiser’s ﬁ  n-
gerprints were found on the windowsill. 
After searching Gibiser’s Facebook 
page, police found several photos of he 
and Martin together. The page listed 
Martin as Gibiser’s ﬁ  ance, according to 
the report. He was arrested Monday and 
charged with burglary of a dwelling, a 
felony. 
He remains in jail in lieu of a $100,000 
bond. It is unclear whether he has an at-
torney. 
Martin was arrested in late July, re-
leased on bail and awaits a court date 
in late August. She could not be reached 
for comment.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.org Ocala man charged with June home burglaryTUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   6 
Brian Hunt, 44, and his 6-year-old son, Bennett Hunt, walk along a row of 
vendors. Hunt said he and his son came because his wife works for Sun Country 
Sports Center, a local fitness facility that had a booth at the bash.
Jules Andrade, 8, fences with his 12-year-old sister, Justine Andrade. The two 
siblings got a free fencing demonstration from Brian Harper, owner of Florida 
Fencing Academy. Harper, 69, said he loves to teach fencing because it is like a 
physical chess match. “It’s not just fighting, ” Harper said. “It’s a mental challenge of 
the highest degree. ”
Gainesville’s goodbye to summer
Celebration Pointe was lined with booths and vendors on Saturday as part of a Back 
to School Bash co-sponsored by Fun 4 Gator Kids, an organization that posts lists 
of local children’s activities, and the shopping center. The event was created to give 
children an afternoon of fun activities and a chance to interact with local businesses 
before Alachua County Schools begin classes on Aug. 12. The event featured fencing 
and archery demonstrations, charity drives, food and refreshments from vendors 
and a bounce house.Photo Story by Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
THE CLUB AIMS TO BE THE FIRST ON 
CAMPUS TO FOCUS ON NATIONAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
Alexa Spicer
Contributing Writer 
Fiona Gain was a club hopper.
A UF environmental club hopper.
The 21-year-old UF environmental sci-
ence senior wanted to find a club that 
advocated for wide-scale environmental 
policies, but after 10 clubs, she found they 
focused on sustainability at a local scale. 
So Gain decided to take matters into her 
own hands.
In Fall, she’ll debut a UF chapter of Citi-
zens’ Climate Lobby, an organization fo-
cused on policy dealing with the reduction 
of carbon emissions. 
“As I realized I was getting to my final 
year at UF, I wanted to spend my final year 
trying to fill this gap in UF organizations 
that I had struggled with my entire time in 
college,” Gain said.
Although she believes UF’s Office of 
Sustainability motivates students to lead 
more environmentally conscious lives, 
Gain said she has yet to see much action 
that would lead to UF’s promise to be car-
bon neutral by 2025.
Matthew Williams, director of the Office 
of Sustainability, said it is possible for UF 
to reach its target, but it probably does not 
have the money needed. UF launched the Neutral UF Coalition in 
April 2016 to reduce its carbon footprint. 
New practices include requiring all new 
construction to meet LEED standards.
Between 2005 and 2017, UF reduced its 
greenhouse gas emissions by 18 percent, 
which is on track with the first version of 
the Climate Action Plan in 2009. Williams 
said they are considering of using more so-
lar power on campus.
The Office of Sustainability has spoken 
with the Gainesville chapter for Citizens’ 
Climate Lobby through community and on-
campus events. Williams is excited to work 
with the new UF chapter.
“I think it’s a place where more student 
engagement in that particular organiza-
tion’s purpose is going to be really valu-
able,” Williams said.
Gain, president of the club, began or-
ganizing the chapter in March and is un-
dergoing certification to be officially asso-
ciated with the international organization. 
She will become a Citizens’ Climate Lobby 
Campus Leader after three months of train-
ing, which involve biweekly conference 
calls with other student leaders and pre-
sentations about climate lobbying.
“I’m learning how to make the dialogue 
about climate a nonpartisan issue and how 
to connect individuals to their civic power 
by using their voice to get local support for 
climate solutions,” she said.
Gain said she will be certified by fall. 
Students have expressed interest in joining, but Gain said the club is still re-
cruiting and forming the official executive 
board. Members will be trained to effec-
tively campaign for environmental policy 
and can attend state, regional and national 
conferences such as the Citizens’ Climate 
International Conference and Lobby Day in 
Washington, D.C.
The club will focus on national policy, 
Gain said. Tabling events will inform the 
public of research and policies such as the 
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend 
Act and the Regional Greenhouse Gas Ini-
tiative, a program Gain would like to see 
Florida join. 
Gain said she also wants to meet with 
local leaders like UF President Kent Fuchs 
and Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe to gain 
support. 
Bob Tancig, the 66-year-old co-leader 
of the Gainesville chapter for Citizens’ Cli-
mate Lobby, is excited to see the organiza-
tion expand to campus.
Tancig said the organization encourages 
anyone who’s worried about the effects cli-
mate change may have on their future to 
get involved. 
“What we are doing [as a society], is 
adding carbon emissions to our atmo-
sphere that will upset that stability and 
lead to all sorts of problems for us in the 
future,” Tancig said.
The Gainesville chapter does presenta-
tions for interested groups and tables at lo-
cal festivals and public events, Tancig said. It also shows educational documentaries 
and holds panel discussions afterwards on 
climate change, alternative energy sources 
and other topics.
He said chapter members regularly 
reach out to media and government offi-
cials such as Rep. Ted Yoho.
“We try to get the message out and to 
make people aware of what we are doing 
and to encourage them to join with us to 
have their voice,” Tancig said. New environmental sustainability club to begin at UF in Fall
Courtesy of Fiona Gain
Fiona Gain (pictured) started the UF 
chapter of Citizens’ Climate Lobby. 
EditorialTUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.In 24 hours, 31 people were killed in mass shootings in Day-
ton, Ohio, and El Paso, Texas. 
Wherever you see yourself on the ideological spectrum, 
it does not matter. Whatever we are doing is not working. 
Too many people have died in mass shootings in this coun-
try. All the retweets and “thoughts and prayers” will not stop 
the horror of this happening again, because it will happen again. 
We’ve tweeted, prayed, used all the hashtags and it happened. 
Again. 
Let’s stop kidding ourselves that whatever we are currently 
doing is going to stop mass shootings from happening in the 
future. The Dayton shooter was neutralized by police in 30 sec-
onds but still shot 14 people, so “the good guy with a gun” ar-
gument is not a solution. The shooter used a high-capacity riﬂ  e 
with a 100-round magazine. 
For those who say laws won’t make a difference: Both the 
El Paso and Dayton shooters used legally purchased ﬁ  rearms, 
according to the Sacramento Bee. The hypothetical “they’ll just 
buy their guns illegally” argument could be true, but in these re-
cent cases, the gunmen obeyed the law and still managed to kill. 
Without laws restricting guns, we are making it easier for them 
to carry out attacks. We should be putting up as many safe-
guards as possible as a society to keep high-intensity weapons 
out of the hands of killers. Background checks, red-ﬂ  ag laws 
and permit-to-purchase licensing laws are ideas our lawmakers 
need to start implementing. Some states have. But as seen in 
California, as long as restrictions do not span across state lines, 
a potential shooter can simply purchase a gun in a state with 
less restrictions.
In Florida, Ban Assault Weapons NOW collected more than 
103,000 signatures for a proposed ban on assault weapons. At-
torney General Ashley Moody asked the Supreme Court to block 
the initiative last week. Moody’s concern is with the wording of 
the proposed amendment. We hope to see the amendment on 
the 2020 ballot. Maybe then we can do something besides tweet 
and pray about it. 
Gun violence needs to be addressed on the business and cul-
ture side as well. A New York Times interactive feature visu-
alized how gunmakers adapt to laws attempting to put safety 
limitations on assault weapons. Gunmakers and owners modify 
guns in ways that keep illegal guns indistinguishable from legal 
weapons. Businesses need to stop selling modiﬁ  cation kits and 
other parts that make illegal and legal guns indistinguishable. 
Dick’s Sporting Goods stopped selling assault-style weapons 
after the Parkland shooting. L.L. Bean, Kroger and Walmart also 
raised the age restriction for buying guns and ammunition to 
21 around the same time, according to CNN. Walmart also re-
moved items from its website that look like assault-style riﬂ  es-
even nonlethal airsoft guns. 
Demand public ofﬁ  cials make a change. If any sensible gun 
laws are going to pass, we have to call on our senators and local 
ofﬁ  cials to act. If serious about this issue, ofﬁ  cials should make 
laws to promote safety. If time and time again they do not try 
to make changes for us, the one who voted them into ofﬁ  ce, we 
should no longer vote for them. Why should we keep those in 
ofﬁ  ce who do not see mass shootings as a public safety issue as 
serious as any other illness outbreak or natural disaster? These 
occurrences should not be seen as random. This problem needs 
to be looked at like any other detrimental public safety issue. 
The mass shooting epidemic in America has to be dealt with 
from all sides by all sides. Regardless if we can’t come together 
and agree on the cause, we must admit there is a problem. 
If you believe mental illness is the cause of the problem, 
ﬁ  ght for better resources and programs so people can warn au-
thorities before it happens. Ask representatives for legislation 
that implements better mental health resources throughout the 
country. 
If you think access to guns is the root of the problem, ﬁ  ght 
for lawmakers to limit access to guns and start stricter back-
ground checks, permit-to-purchase licensing law and other leg-
islation to make it harder for killers to get their hands on guns. 
Whichever way you see it, do something. We don’t have 
to agree on how gun violence manifests. But we have to do 
something. Now. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITORThe Alachua County School Board voted 
unanimously to increase the school bud-
get and raise property taxes on Thurs-
day. This would bring the county’s total 
education budget to $423 million.
This is a good move, and I applaud the coun-
ty for providing more funding to education. But 
there’s a better way to fund our schools with this 
issue extending far beyond Alachua County.
In Alachua and just about all other counties 
in the nation, public schools are funded by prop-
erty taxes (a tax charged by local governments 
based on owned property and the land it stands on). Local 
homeowners are the ones with a stake in having good local 
schools, so it makes sense they should be the ones to pay. 
But it doesn’t take long before you run into inequality issues, 
which play out all across the nation. 
As NPR explained, there are large disparities in property 
values across the nation, with poorer areas having lower 
property values and richer areas having higher property val-
ues. As a result, wealthy school districts have better schools 
due to having the money for better teachers, equipment, etc. 
while poorer districts have less money to work with and lag 
behind. The result is an unequal system where your educa-
tional outcomes are just as dependent on where you live as it 
is on your own work.
Thankfully, I’m not the only one who has realized this in-
equality. Various solutions to this inequality issue have been 
offered in different parts of the U.S. 
In Wyoming, the state government takes money from 
wealthy districts and redistributes it to poorer districts. As 
a result, Wyoming is now among the top-ﬁ  ve states in the 
nation for per-student spending. The Wyoming model isn’t 
perfect — much of that money comes from the state’s oil 
and natural resources boom that is difﬁ  cult for other states to 
replicate. And despite this greater spending, Wyoming ranks 
around the middle in academic achievement. Still, Wyoming 
does show states and districts don’t have to be constrained 
by local property taxes.
Another idea used across the nation is using lottery money to fund schools. This money alone isn’t enough, 
as it’s only meant to supplement property tax 
money, leaving us still with inequality. And that 
assumes schools actually see more funding from 
lotteries. 
States like North Carolina actually spend less 
on education despite having a lottery in place to 
fund it. As state legislatures move more money 
away from education, they leave those schools in 
about the same or worse position as they were 
before.
Lastly, a bill proposed by the Pennsylvania 
state legislature in 2013 would fund schools with a dedicated 
income and sales tax. But this, too, has its problems. 
Revenue from sales and income taxes can ﬂ  uctuate based 
on the economy. During tough economic times, schools 
may be struggling to make ends meet. The Pennsylvania bill 
would also tax essential items like food and personal hygiene 
items, meaning more equal school funding would come at 
the cost of making life harder for poor families. The bill ulti-
mately failed to pass, and while it was later reintroduced in 
2015, it failed then, too.
Property taxes funding schools is an old idea in America, 
but we can see this leads to inequality and students who 
need the most help getting the short end of the stick. Other 
taxes like income and sales taxes also have their problems. 
The best solution may be the simplest: redistributing more 
money from the state, federal government or other districts 
to poorer districts in order to make up the difference. With 
more funding, it is hoped the schools in poorer districts can 
afford better teachers, better facilities and better educational 
material. 
It isn’t a perfect solution, but school funding is a compli-
cated issue, and a perfect solution probably doesn’t exist. We 
just need to do what we can to ﬁ  x our current broken model 
and ensure every student has equal access to a high-quality 
education.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.Property taxes fund schools, but increase educational inequalityColumn
Jason
Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgWhat do juggling, tightropes and 
acrobatics have in common? They 
all take place on college campuses.
College life is similar to the circus. 
The popcorn and peanuts are the 
temptations you face. The lions and the 
bears are classes and extracurriculars. 
The heat and the music represent the 
pressures we feel from our inner critics. You may 
think you have everything under control, but are 
you, the ringleader, thinking about the outcome?
Joining clubs and organizations always seems like the per-
fect addition for your resume, but over time, the single line 
of text is just not worth the time and effort. Our classmates 
tackle dozens of responsibilities with ease, and we can’t help 
but feel as though we aren’t doing enough. And because we 
aren’t doing enough, we can never be enough. Graduates 
may commonly refer to college as “the good years,” but sat-
isfaction is not guaranteed. 
So how much is too much? The only person who can an-
swer that question is yourself. 
Classes should be prioritized. If you’re leaving your fam-
ily for years at a time for a piece of paper, you might as well 
make sure that goal is achieved. Extracurriculars should add 
to your life, not take away from it.
Pursuing a club pertaining to your career and another that 
fulﬁ  lls your personal interests will create a smooth balance 
between academics and fun. Participating in two extracur-
riculars outside of coursework allows you to learn things out-side a classroom setting while not overwhelming 
yourself. 
The perfectionist attitude we carry with us 
can help us produce high quality work, but at 
what cost to our mental health? Taking on too 
many projects at once can cause stress overload, 
which is why the school and life balance is so 
crucial, according to Johns Hopkins University. 
“Perfectionism refers to a set of self-defeating 
thoughts and behaviors aimed at reaching unreal-
istically high goals,” according to Johns Hopkins’ 
website. “It is based on perceived standards of 
excellence and often fueled by the need for oth-
ers’ approval.”
When talking to classmates, it’s hard not to 
compare yourself to them. How many credits are they taking? 
How many clubs/organizations do they take part in? How 
many internships have they done? We have to remember to 
do things for the betterment of ourselves, not to model our 
success out of other people’s molds. 
Just because we have the time doesn’t mean we have the 
mental energy for new tasks. We don’t have to say “yes” to 
every opportunity we come across. Say “yes” to what you 
truly want to do, something you really enjoy or could see 
yourself beneﬁ  ting from in the future.
As Britney Spears sings in her song “Circus,” “I’m like a 
ringleader, I call the shots.” We all just need to be our own 
ringleader and call the shots.
It’s almost like the song was written for us in our pre-
teens to guide us through young adulthood.
Britney knew. She always knew.
Amanda Martinez is a senior telecommunication major. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.The circus that is college lifeColumn
Amanda
Martinez
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10
COMMUNITY GARAGE SALES (+30 
households) throughout Suburban Heights 
neighborhood on Saturday, 8/10. Enter from 
NW43rd St between NW13th and 19th ave. 
We have everything at our annual sale!     
8-8-19-2-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Help the environment - please recycle this 
paper when you’re done reading it.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now hiring coaches for Rec and Team
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone and more. Awesome
kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. Apply now 
suncountrysports.com/jobs
9-4-19-14-14
★★★★★Five Star Pizza on Tower Road is 
now hiring delivery drivers, pizza makers and 
phone personnel. Day shift and nightshift 
available, full time and part time positions. 
Please apply in person at 600 NW 75th St     
8-8-19-5-14
Oak Hall School (Gainesville) is excited 
to announce counselor openings for em-
ployment in our extended care programs. 
Interested applicants need to have availabil -
ity most weekdays from 2:30-6:00. Oak Hall 
believes in generational hiring seeking those 
with a love of children who can enrich our 
program with creativity and enthusiasm. Visit 
www.oakhall.org to complete an application. 
8-8-19-3-14
BARTENDERS, WAIT STAFF, SECURITY
Monday-Thursday from 1pm-4pm
The Silver Q 225 W. University Ave.
or email jobs@SilverQbilliards.com
8-6-2-14
Baby Sitter wanted to help drive my kids to 
and from activities. Car needed. youngest 
is 10 and oldest is 16. Primarily after 2 PM 
up to 7 PM. $15/hr. Email rosenson@ufl.edu      
8-19-19-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Seeking adult volunteers
FOR CLINICAL TRIALS:
ADHD, Autism, Migraine.
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com (352) 333-0094      
8-28-19-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Location, Location, 1bed 1 bath condo, 
ground floor, 2 miles to UF on bus route, 
walk to shopping, restaurants, etc. Must see. 
$75,000. Call or text for more info. 352-301-
2403. By appointment only.     8-12-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY6 Furnishingswww.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip 
arrangements or show off your bus and 
shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk driversFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/06/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/06/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, August 6, 2019
ACROSS
1 Cuba, por 
ejemplo
5 Uncanny
10 Hard-to-describe 
sensation
14 Évian evening
15 Levels of society
16 A party to
17 Facial feature 
with a bridge
18 MI5 headquarters 
named for a 
London river
20 From Canada’s 
capital
22 Genre that 
represents things 
as they are
23 TV show intro 
tune
26 Asian kebab
27 “Who wants my 
jellyfish? / I’m not 
sellyfish!” poet
28 Seeker of “the 
way”
31 Door hardware
33 Amount defined 
by a small sewing 
gadget
37 Play a part (in)
38 Boardroom VIP
40 The Beatles’ “__ 
Mine”
41 Santa __ winds
42 Boss Tweed’s 
caricaturist
46 Splash sound
47 On the same 
wavelength
48 Meticulous to a 
fault
50 Humana rival
53 Pushed-in bulletin 
board hardware
57 Stars and __
60 Dragster, e.g.
61 Bouquet garni 
bunch
64 Maggie 
Simpson’s sister
65 Avatar of Vishnu
66 Chef’s array
67 Browse (through)
68 What “lama” has, 
as opposed to 
“llama”
69 Implant (in)
70 Type of prof.
DOWN
1 Childish 
comeback2 Truth, to 
Shakespeare
3 Hears out
4 Tourist’s guide
5 Prefix with 
centric
6 Historic time 
span
7 Los Angeles 
NFLer
8 Old Roman road
9 Let up
10 Break, as laws
11 Aleut relative
12 __ nova: 
Brazilian dance
13 Foe
15 Hidden loot
19 Red tape, e.g.
21 Director Craven
24 Utmost degree
25 Moo goo __ pan
29 Fail to include
30 “Big Blue”
31 Bowler or derby
32 Otto’s “Oh!”
33 Theater award 
named after 
Antoinette Perry
34 Misconceptions
35 Game with Wild 
Draw Four cards
36 Drink like a cat
38 Savory finger 
food39 Wits’ end?
43 Least possible
44 Tiny army 
crawler
45 It might be 
elementary: 
Abbr.
46 Kneecap
48 Stockpile
49 “Will & Grace” 
network
50 The Jetsons’ dog
51 Wharton’s “__ 
Frome”52 “I’m almost 
afraid to tell you” 
response
54 Encouraged
55 Barcelona 
abodes
56 Cheez Whiz 
maker
58 In __: existing
59 Inbox annoyance
62 Spice mix for ribs
63 Limited-life 
sculpture 
material
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/02/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/02/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, August 2, 2019
ACROSS
1 Center of the 
Milky Way?
8 Calder creation
15 First state, in a 
way
16 Journey’s end
17 Cricket
19 Once, in olden 
days
20 2000 Bell Atlantic 
acquisition
21 Slashed pronoun
22 Suspect
25 Cricket
33 Seed-to-be
34 LAX calculation
35 Energy source
36 They might help 
you change your 
position
39 Prepare for 
coating, as 
aluminum
41 Within: Pref.
42 Land of Freud: 
Abbr.
44 Scrooge
45 Cricket
49 Beat by a hair
50 Wheat species 
that’s also a 
British past tense
54 Article in Bonn
55 Fraternity activity
59 [Crickets]
63 Like answers 
that lower test 
scores
64 Pre-owned item
65 Top-rated TV 
show of 1984-’85
66 WWII vessels
DOWN
1 Source of tweets 
... or growls
2 Defunct fruit 
coating
3 Barrels into
4 Help the bad 
guys
5 Big mouth
6 Political refugee
7 Barista’s output
8 Understood
9 Start to cycle?
10 Many a Middle-
earth combatant11 Eco-friendly 
carrier
12 Composer 
Charles
13 Plastering strip
14 Other than this
18 1946 Literature 
Nobelist
22 __ bargain
23 Sports gp. that 
originally had 
“Lawn” in its 
name
24 Nasty
25 Knocked the 
socks off
26 Grand Prince  
of Moscow, 
1328-’40
27 Litters’ littlest
28 John of music
29 “Barbarella” 
director Roger
30 Formal 
identification
31 Deceive
32 Board at one’s 
fingertips
37 How “The 
Banana Boat 
Song” begins
38 Fills in40 Drop
43 Soft leather
46 Takes the stage
47 Becomes harder 
to afford
48 Legal scholar
50 Came out with
51 Inconsequential
52 Early 
banishment site
53 Pre-Euro 
currency55 Start from 
scratch
56 Donald, to Huey, 
Dewey and 
Louie
57 “Get lost!”
58 “... nor shall ever 
see that face of 
__ again”: Lear
60 Excluding
61 Shout
62 Syr. neighbor
08/01/1921 Entertainment 24 Pets
1.  Buffalo ____
1.  Spout5.  Delineated 
2.  Foster movie6.  Exposed
3.  Back7.  Be present at
4.  FrankLINCEK
ZELNOZNEZDO
RDAIE
OCTACTN
NEESRDOTEDATN
DANDCIANSWERS: 1A-Nickel  5A-Zoned  6A-Aired  7A-Attend
1D-Nozzle  2D-Contact  3D-Endorse  4D-Candid  B-Citizen Kane8-6-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The first working draft screenplay of 
this movie had the title “American.” BONUS
SOLUTION BELOWSOLUTION BELOW
SOLUTION BELOW
PUZZLE
ANSWERSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
UCF AD Danny White told 
Orlando radio station 740 The 
Game that he'd consider a two-
for-one series with the Florida 
football team. Gators ranked No. 8 in Coaches Poll
The Florida football team was voted the No. 8 team in the country in the 
preseason edition of the USA T oday Coaches Poll. It's UF's ﬁ  rst appearance 
in the preseason top 10 since 2013.AWARDS
Freshmen have every-
thing to prove.
Perhaps they were at the 
top of their game in high 
school. Perhaps they’re 
trying to stand out amid a 
sea of better recruits. Per-
haps they’ve walked on to 
the team and are starting 
from the base. Regardless 
of how they begin, though, 
they all seek to show the 
world that they can hang 
with the veterans and con-
tribute to their team.
Some freshmen, howev-
er, hit heights that others 
do not. They stand out not 
only at their class level, 
but among every athlete in 
their respective sport.
UF had a few of these 
freshmen last year, but 
our writers have narrowed 
down the ﬁ  eld for the al-
ligatorSports Freshman of 
the Year to four: Andrew 
Nembhard, Trinity Thom-
as, Evan McPherson and 
Sam Rifﬁ  ce.
Andrew Nembhard
The UF men’s basket-
ball team leaned heavily 
on its core of freshmen throughout the 2018-19 
campaign. Guard Noah 
Locke and forward Keyon-
tae Johnson played valu-
able minutes for coach 
Mike White, but neither 
had as much of an impact 
as guard Andrew Nemb-
hard in his ﬁ  rst season at 
Florida.
Nembhard was the only 
Gator to start every game, 
playing a team-high 32.9 
minutes per game and av-
eraging eight points, 5.4 
assists and 2.9 rebounds. 
His 194 assists were the 
fourth-most in a season in 
program history and sec-
ond-most by a freshman.
The newcomer’s big-
gest moment of the season 
came in the SEC Tourna-
ment quarterﬁ  nals. With 
the game tied 73-73, 
Nembhard converted a 
three-pointer with a sec-
ond remaining to defeat 
top-seeded LSU and secure 
a trip to the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
Nembhard’s durability, 
consistency and big-play 
ability earned him a spot 
on the 2019 SEC All-Fresh-
man Team and should also earn him alligatorSports 
Freshman of the Year. – 
Bryan Matamoros
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
Trinity Thomas
Most freshmen arrive 
on campus with hopes of 
earning a starting roster 
spot. Highly touted re-
cruits try to make an in-
stant impact and become 
a leader on their respec-
tive teams. Trinity Thomas 
sought to dominate.
The ﬁ  rst-year Pennsyl-
vania native had long been 
one of the most elite junior 
gymnasts in the country, 
having been a member 
of U.S. Senior National 
Teams from 2016 to 2019. 
She had won hardware on 
four different continents 
while representing USA 
Gymnastics on an interna-
tional stage.
With an elite pedigree 
and national team experi-
ence, Thomas entered the 
NCAA ranks levels above 
her peers. It showed.Alligator Awards: UF Freshman of the Year
Alligator File Photo
Trinity Thomas won six SEC Freshman of the Week awards and three SEC Gymnast 
of the Week awards during her freshman campaign at UF.  
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Kicker Evan McPherson was a major contributor to the Gators' offense last 
season, netting a team-high 101 points and only missing two field goals.
Gators coach Dan Mul-
len always makes a big 
point to emphasize spe-
cial teams. They eat ﬁ  rst 
at meals, and Mullen has 
also been known to hand scholar-
ships to walk-on contributors on 
special teams.
To some, this may come 
across as a bit of a gimmick. It 
might seem like a coach’s effort 
to draw more recruits by giving privileges to 
a part of the team that many deem the least 
important in football.
In truth, special teams is incredibly im-
portant, and I believe that much of the 
Gators’ success under Mullen last year was 
because of it.
UF kicker Evan McPherson stands out not 
only among special teams, but among the 
entire program. He went 17 for 19 (which 
included a miss in the Kentucky game that 
appeared to be a rare missed call by the ref-
erees) and went a perfect 50 for 50 on extra 
points. McPherson led the entire team with 
101 points, and the stability at kicker has 
been a blessing for Mullen’s team. 
Punter Tommy Townsend did his part 
as well, averaging 45.4 yards per punt and 
14 punts over 50 yards last year. His efforts 
were enough to net him a Second Team All-
SEC nod and a semiﬁ  nal spot for the Ray 
Guy Award, given to the nation’s best col-
legiate punter. Without the efforts of McPher-
son and Townsend – along with 
UF’s kicking teams that allowed 
just under 20 yards per return – 
Florida’s 10-3 record may have 
looked a bit different, and you 
can thank Mullen’s insistence 
on the third side of the ball for 
that. 
The 2010 San Diego Chargers 
are a great example of why spe-
cial teams are important. The Chargers had 
the No. 1 offense and the No. 1 defense in 
the NFL that year, but with a special teams 
unit that allowed four blocked punts (and 
one deﬂ  ection), three kick return touch-
downs and one punt return touchdown, the 
team only ﬁ  nished 9-7 and missed out on 
the playoffs.
The stability at special teams – a few 
years after Jim McElwain’s Gators brought 
in a walk-on dental student to kick – can-
not be understated, and the emphasis on 
it under Mullen’s regime could bolster his 
Florida teams for the foreseeable future.
So here’s to special teams. Here’s to 
the kickers and punters who may get over-
looked, the gunners on the kick team who 
stiﬂ  e would-be touchdowns in their tracks, 
and to Dan Mullen, who is bringing aware-
ness to an aspect of the game that can make 
or break a football team.An ode to UF's special teamsExtra Point
River Wells
twitter: riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgSEE AWARDS,  PAGE 12TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
While the rest of baseball 
slept through Wednes-
day’s trade deadline, 
Astros GM Jeff Luh-
now was busy locking 
up his team’s second champion-
ship in three years.
Houston, a team that began 
deadline day with the third-best 
team ERA in baseball, added the 
best pitcher on the market in Zack 
Greinke from Arizona as well as 
the struggling former All-Star Aaron Sanchez 
from Toronto. Greinke is a six-time All-Star 
with a 2.90 ERA this season. Sanchez is a rec-
lamation project of sorts, the kind of which 
Houston specializes in. In his ﬁ  rst start with 
the team on Saturday, he threw the ﬁ  rst six 
innings of a combined no-hitter.
It’s an excessive amount of talent for a ro-
tation that already sported Justin Verlander 
(2.68 ERA), Gerrit Cole (2.87) and Wade Mi-
ley (3.05) before the deadline.
That rotation complements a lineup that 
is second in the American League in average 
and third in home runs. George Springer. Jose 
Altuve. Carlos Correa. Alex Bregman. It’s a 
lineup that – paired with the rotation – makes 
the Astros a daunting task for any team in the 
playoffs.
The success of the team’s trade deadline 
made it the favorite in the AL. That’s not what 
won it the World Series in July, however.
Houston’s main competitor in the Ameri-
can League – the Yankees – have the No. 17 rotation in baseball by ERA. It’s 
the team’s one glaring weakness.
Inexplicably, and much to the 
chagrin of its fan base, New York 
stood pat at the trade deadline. By 
not improving their rotation, the 
Yankees all but handed the pen-
nant to Houston.
It was a similar story in the 
National League. The runaway fa-
vorite – the Dodgers – completely 
failed to address their bullpen, 
the team’s Achilles Heel. At the time of print-
ing, the Dodgers have 19 blown saves, tied 
for the seventh-most in baseball.
Los Angeles is a team on its way to a sev-
enth-straight division title. This season may 
have been its best opportunity to win its ﬁ  rst 
championship since 1988. Instead, the Dodg-
ers balked at the asking price for Pirates clos-
er Felipe Vazquez and failed to add any top 
talent.
The Dodgers have the pieces to give Hous-
ton a run for its money, but a lineup as deep 
as the Astros’ should carve LA’s bullpen 
apart.
Houston was the story of the trade dead-
line. A great lineup is now paired with the 
best rotation in baseball, which would’ve 
made Houston the team to beat no matter 
what else occurred on Wednesday. It was the 
inaction of their competition, however, that 
won the Astros the World Series in July.The Houston Astros won the 
World Series in JulySam’s Strike Zone
The Associated Press
The Houston Astros added All-Star pitchers Zack Greinke and Aaron Sanchez at 
the trade deadline, adding to an already impressive third-best team ERA in MLB.
SWIMMING
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
Florida was not short of represen-
tation at the 2019 Phillips 66 National 
Championships in Stanford, Califor-
nia, this week. The ﬁ  ve-day event had 
26 current Gators competing, along 
with six UF alumni. In UF current and 
former athletes collected 10 medals in 
total from Wednesday to Sunday.
Nationals serve as a way for in-
dividual swimmers to qualify for the 
2020 U.S. Olympic Team Trials in 
June by meeting speciﬁ  c times in each 
event. Twenty-three Gators qualiﬁ  ed 
for the Olympic trials in a total of 59 
trial cuts.
Among the alumni who competed 
in Nationals was 12-time Olympic 
medalist Ryan Lochte.
This was Lochte’s ﬁ  rst time com-
peting after serving a 14-month sus-
pension handed down by the U.S. An-
ti-Doping Agency. Lochte was banned 
last year for receiving an intravenous 
infusion, which is against anti-doping 
rules. 
Lochte came away with one win in 
the 200-meter individual medley on 
Sunday with a time of 1:57.76. The 
35-year-old swimmer qualiﬁ  ed for the 
100 ﬂ  y, 100 back, 200 free and 200 IM 
in the 2020 Olympic trials.
Sophomore Robert Finke led the 
Gators with four medals, winning 
gold in the men’s 400 IM, 800 free and 
1,500 free. He also came away with 
the bronze for the 400 free and a ca-
reer best 7:47.58 in the 800 free.
Fellow sophomore Kieran Smith won silver in the 200 free. Junior 
Clark Beach took home the bronze in 
both the 200 back and 400 free.
A team made of four Gators – ju-
nior Nikki Miller, senior Bella Garo-
falo, senior Savanna Faulconer and 
senior Kelly Fertel – won the bronze 
in the women’s 4x200 free relay on 
Friday.
Sophomore Vanessa Pearl won her 
ﬁ  rst medal, taking home silver in the 
200 IM.
“I’m so incredibly proud of this 
group of women,” women’s coach Jeff 
Poppell said in a release. “We were 
probably close to 90 percent career-
best times this week and had an abso-
lute blast in the process. We had sev-
eral athletes take themselves to entire 
new levels which will bode well for us 
as a team heading into the fall and our 
next collegiate season.”
Men’s head coach Anthony Nesty 
reﬂ  ected on the experience the young 
Gators had in Stanford.
“This year’s trip to nationals was 
very beneﬁ  cial to our group of men,” 
Nesty said in a release. “We improved 
on a lot of times and meet a lot of 
Olympic time standards. It was a great 
way to end our summer. Now we will 
have some time off before preparing 
for this next upcoming season. Over-
all, it was a great trip and a great ex-
perience for the Gators.”
 jsalvador@alligator.org
@JSalvador_14Gators win 10 medals at Phillips 
66 National Championships
The Associated Press
Ryan Lochte competes in the Men’s 200-meter individual medley time trial at the U.S national 
swimming championships in Stanford, California, Wednesday, July 31, 2019.
Sam Campisano
twitter: scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Craft Pints$6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Sam Adams Drafts
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue2pm - closeROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSThomas was brilliant all year, the only 
freshman to rank among the nation’s top 
20 in every event: ﬁ  fth in all-around, tied 
for second in ﬂ  oor, fourth in uneven bars, 
14th on balance beam and 17th on vault.
Throughout the course of the season, 
Thomas earned SEC Freshman of the Week 
six times and SEC Gymnast of the Week 
three times, becoming the ﬁ  rst gymnast in 
conference history to earn a weekly honor 
after each competition.
At season’s end, Thomas was a ﬁ  ve-
time All-American, the 2019 SEC vault 
champion and the 2019 SEC Freshman of 
the Year. Though her team massively un-
derperformed in the postseason, Thomas’ 
ﬁ  rst year in orange and blue goes down as 
arguably one of the best ever.
Not since Gator-great Bridget Sloan 
(2013-16) has Florida seen such a torrential 
ﬁ  rst-year campaign, which is why Thomas 
needs to be alligatorSports Freshman of the 
Year. – Jack Braverman
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.org
Evan McPherson
Sometimes the ones most overlooked 
are the ones that can make the biggest 
impact on the ﬁ  eld. Last season, Florida 
kicker Evan McPherson shined as a fresh-
man, hitting 17 of his 19 attempted ﬁ  eld 
goals – arguably 18 of 19 if you include an 
erroneous call at Kentucky – and going a 
perfect 50 for 50 on extra points. His 85.9 
ﬁ  eld goal percentage led the way for fresh-
man kickers, and he was a key factor in 
UF’s victories over Mississippi State (two 
ﬁ  eld goals in a 13-6 win) and Vanderbilt 
(three ﬁ  eld goals in a 37-27 win).
 McPherson also showcased his strong 
leg on kickoffs during his ﬁ  rst college sea-
son. The freshman averaged 64.1 yards a 
kick and had a 55 percent touchback per-
centage. His efforts earned him two SEC 
Freshman of the Week awards and landed 
him on the semiﬁ  nalist list of the Lou Gar-
za award (the nation’s top placekicker). 
The No. 1-rated kicker from the 2018 
class proved his value early, contributing 
greatly to UF’s 2018 turnaround season. Because of that, I believe he deserves to be 
the alligatorSports Freshman of the Year. – 
Evan Lepak
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
Sam Rifﬁ  ce
It’s always difﬁ  cult to pick the best fresh-
man among the plethora of Gators sports. 
There’s so much talent, so many great stats 
and tons of great players to rake through 
to choose a deserving winner. While there 
are many qualiﬁ  ed freshman for alligator-
Sports Freshman of the Year, the deﬁ  nite choice is tennis star Sam Rifﬁ  ce.
Rifﬁ  ce had a historically impactful sea-
son on the court. He went 26-11 in over-
all singles and went 10-0 in SEC singles. 
In doubles he went 20-6 with a 6-3 SEC 
doubles record. 
If his standout stats don’t make you be-
lieve he should be freshman of the year, 
his accolades should.
Even as a freshman, Rifﬁ  ce was elect-
ed as a team captain among his peers. 
The leader of the Florida tennis team also 
picked up an SEC Freshman of the Year 
nod, was named to the 2019 SEC All-Fresh-
man team and 2019 Second-Team All-SEC, 
was the 2019 ITA Freshman of the Year and was a two-time SEC Freshman of the 
Week. 
Rifﬁ  ce’s skill and polish was on full dis-
play in the 2019 NCAA Singles Champion-
ships. He took down No. 2 ranked JJ Wolf 
of Ohio State in the round of 16. His Elite 
8 ﬁ  nish was the best for a freshman this 
year. 
Rifﬁ  ce’s stats, accolades and standing 
among his peers are why he is the alliga-
torSports Freshman of the Year. – Dylan 
O’Shea
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 10
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Point guard Andrew Nembhard capped off a strong freshman season with a game-winning 3-point shot against the LSU 
Tigers in the SEC tournament. He averaged eight points, 5.4 assists and 2.9 rebounds last season.