We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Patticakes at Bo Diddley Plaza shutting down
The cupcake and coffee shop’s downtown location will close af-
ter opening in September 2016, pg 3
Locals protest immigration detention centers
Over 100 protesters voiced their displeasure with the conditions 
of ICE detention centers at Gainesville City Hall on Saturday, pg 6FRANKS SIGNS WITH RED SOX
The UF quarterback recieved a $40,000 signing 
bonus but is expected to remain at Florida
ma, pg 11
TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 101
“I THINK WE’VE MADE BIGGER 
GAINS IN A LOT OF WAYS THIS 
OFFSEASON THAN WE DID LAST 
YEAR.” - DAN MULLEN
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
UF coach Dan Mullen set expec-
tations high for his 2019 squad.
“I don’t know if there’s anybody 
out there that has higher expecta-
tions for the team as a program 
than I do,” Mullen said. “Instead 
of shying away from them, em-
brace those expectations, and try 
to live up to them and surpass the 
expectations out there for us as a 
team and for us as a program.”
The coach, along with quar-
terback Feleipe Franks, running 
back Lamical Perine and defensive 
end Jabari Zuniga all appeared in Hoover, Alabama, on Monday af-
ternoon to talk about the upcom-
ing season at SEC Media Days.
The Gators are coming off a 
huge year in 2018, winning 10 
games and their ﬁ  rst New Year’s 
Six Bowl victory since the 2009-10 
season.
With all of the success UF saw 
in Mullen’s ﬁ  rst year, Florida will 
look to live up to its expectations 
for the 2019-20 season.
This season, Florida will get 
the unique opportunity to open its 
year during “Week 0” in Orlando 
against the Miami Hurricanes to 
help celebrate the 150th season of 
college football.
“I think it’s huge. I mean, 
there’s a lot that goes into that 
game,” Mullen said. “We’re the 
opening game of the 150th year of 
AN EMERGENCY 
RESTRICTION ORDER 
WAS PUT ON HER LICENSE 
AFTER THE DIAGNOSIS  
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
A UF Health Shands Hospital 
registered nurse is no longer prac-
ticing after testing positive for fen-
tanyl.The nurse, Emily Sosnowski, 
had an emergency restriction order 
put on her license by the Florida 
Department of Health, and she was 
also diagnosed with opiate use dis-
order, according to public record. 
UF Health Shands issued a state-
ment acknowledging Sosnowski’s 
employment with them for eight 
weeks. 
“We followed our policies and 
swiftly addressed concerns we 
identiﬁ  ed, terminating her employ-ment,” the statement said. “We hold 
our staff to the highest standards of 
professional and ethical behavior.”
On Sept. 17 supervisors at 
Shands notiﬁ  ed the management 
team that Sosnowski appeared im-
paired at work, according to the 
order.
Sosnowski’s supervisor said she 
took long breaks, had unscheduled 
absences or excessive tardiness, dis-
appeared from the job and slept on 
the job, according to the order. “Sosnowski’s co-workers repeat-
edly complained about her job per-
formance,” the order said.
The supervisor also observed the 
nurse as having slurred speech, red 
glassy eyes, decreasing attention to 
personal appearance and hygiene, 
a lack of motor coordination and 
ﬂ  ushed color, according to the or-
der.
After the supervisor discovered 
Sosnowski had multiple syringes 
and a tampered vial of fentanyl with her, she had to take a drug test 
based on her “suspicious behavior,” 
the order said. 
The drug screen conﬁ  rmed posi-
tive for fentanyl. According to her 
drug screening, her fentanyl levels 
were at 5940 pg/mL. The conﬁ  rma-
tion cutoff is 500 pg/mL. 
On May 9, Scott Teitelbaum, a 
physician specializing in addiction 
medicine, began an evaluation on 
Sosnowski because of the drug test THE UNION ACCUMULATED 
ALMOST 8,000 VOTES IN THE 
2018 GENERAL ELECTION
By T ori Whidden
Staff Writer
The Reitz Union will not be affected by new 
restrictions on early voting. 
Florida lawmakers are limiting early voting 
locations based on parking availability, which 
signiﬁ  cantly affects college campuses. How-
ever, the Reitz Union has an adequate number 
of parking spaces, said Kim A. Barton, Alachua 
County supervisor of elections. 
The Union was added as an early voting 
location in 2018 for the general election. The location was the third highest in the county 
voters with 7,899 voters. Ahead was the Mill-
hopper Library (12,901) and Tower Road Li-
brary (10,075), Barton said.
“Normally my ofﬁ  ce is up there, but the Re-
itz Union even beat us,” Barton said. 
She said the Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections works well with UF administration, 
and during the 2018 election, they had staff 
monitoring the parking spots. If they need ad-
ditional spots in the 2020 election, they will ad-
dress it when the time comes. 
“We’ve talked about it since this bill has 
been passed and we don’t see an issue,” Bar-
ton said. 
The union is popular because it’s conve-
nient for those who work and live near cam-pus, but also for the students and faculty who 
can walk there, she said.   
“Not everyone that’s coming to early vote 
needs to utilize the parking spaces,” Barton 
said. 
In July 2018, federal Judge Mark Walker 
announced the approval of college campuses 
being utilized as early voting sites. 
“The judge announced the early voting in-
junction that morning and I was working on 
my letter to President Fuchs that afternoon,” 
Barton said. 
Barton said the Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections was one of the ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  ces that 
reached out to the college in an agreement to 
have early voting at the Reitz. 
“We have such a wonderful working rela-tionship with the administration,” Barton said. 
“And we don’t think that having that this por-
tion of the bill passed is going to be a barrier to 
the youth to turn out to vote.”  
 Caroline Cooper, a 21-year-old UF English 
senior, is a registered voter in Florida. 
Although she votes in her hometown, 
Jacksonville, and is not planning on using the 
Union location, she thinks it’s an important op-
tion for students. 
She said she feels many students take this 
location for granted, including herself. 
“I think that having the Reitz Union as a 
location for early voting is essential and should 
be valued,” Cooper said. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.org
UF Health Shands nurse tests positive for fentanyl, ﬁ  red UF Reitz Union to remain open for early voting despite new restrictions The Associated Press
Quarterback Feleipe Franks (pictured), running back Lamical Perine and defensive end Jabari 
Zuniga  were the three UF athletes to appear at the SEC Media Days in Hoover, Alabama, on 
Monday alongside coach Dan Mullen. 
SEE SHANDS NURSE,  PAGE 3SEE MEDIA DAYS,  PAGE 11Mullen, Gators talk high expectations at SEC Media DaysT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy-
right 2017. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to lbreneman@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue Editor
Copy Desk ChiefMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy EditorsLindsey Breneman,
engagement@alligator.orgMark Stine, editor@alligator.org
Hannah Beatty, digital@alligator.org
Jackie De Freitas, opinions@alligator.org
Sam Campisano, scampisano@alligator.org
Steph Strickland, sstrickland@alligator.org
Mark Stine,  Lindsey Breneman, 
Christopher Day, cday@alligator.org
Tranelle Maner, avenue@alligator.orgJessica Curbelo, jcurbelo@alligator.org
Noura Al-Rajhi, Meagan DiPolo, 
Morgan Goldwich, Katherine Moore
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaCade Green, Tianrui (Kaiser) LiuPhotographers
Chris KingSam ThomasJosephine Fuller, jfuller@alligator.org
Kelly Hayes, khayes@alligator.org
River Wells, rwells@alligator.org
Kaylyn Ling, kling@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Hannah Beatty, Jackie De FreitasSocial Media StrategistHIGH  95° LOW  74°
'The New American Dream : 
How to Teach a Pig to Fly'
UF’s School of Theatre + 
Dance  will host performances 
of "Pig Academy" this week at 
the Nadine McGuire Theatre 
and Dance Pavilion and The 
Actors' Warehouse. This pro-
duction is an immersive the-
ater experience that requires 
audience participation and re-
location throughout the show.
The shows are scheduled at 
the McGuire Pavilion tonight 
through Thursday at 7:30 p.m. 
and at The Actors’ Warehouse 
Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. 
and Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets 
are $14 for UF students, $16 
for UF faculty and staff, $16 
for seniors and $20 for the gen-
eral public. Tickets can be pur-
chased either in person at the 
University Box Office, located at 
Gate 1 of the O’Connell Center, 
or online at Ticketmaster. 
Apollo 11 anniversary 
set for the UF Campus 
Teaching Observatory
The UF Department of 
Astronomy will have a free 
public session on Friday at the 
Campus Teaching Observatory 
to celebrate the 50th anniver-
sary of the Apollo 11 moon 
landing. The observatory opens 
from 9 p.m. to 11:30 p.m., but 
the event is weather depen-
dent. Jaydeep Mukherjee, direc-
tor of the Florida Space Grant 
Consortium, will give a talk en-
titled “The Moon: Past, Present, and the Future” at 9. The ob-
serving session starts at 9:30 
p.m. Jupiter, Saturn, the binary 
star Mizar, the Ring nebula and 
globular clusters may be vis-
ible. For more information visit: 
https://www.astro.ufl.edu/
outreach/Public_Nights.html
'Mamma Mia!' at Gainesville 
Community Playhouse
Gainesville Community 
Playhouse, 4039 NW 16th Blvd., 
is presenting ABBA's hit musi-
cal. The story follows a young 
woman, who on the eve of her 
wedding, brings three men from 
her mother’s past back to the 
Greek island they last visited 20 
years ago to discover the iden-
tity of her father. The produc-
tion is running for the next three 
weekends. Thursdays, Fridays 
and Saturdays the show begins 
at 8 p.m. and starts at 2 p.m. on 
Saturdays and Sundays. Tickets 
are $12 for students, $19 for se-
niors and $23 for adults. They're 
available at gcplayhouse.org.
Swing Dance Lessons
The Hippodrome Theatre, 25 SE 
2nd Place, will host swing danc-
ing lessons tonight taught by 
the Florida Swing Dancing Club. 
The classes will be held in the 
theater's lower level. Classes 
are every Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
and cost $5. Throughout the 
summer, the class will explore 
concepts that are fundamental 
to Lindy Hop, such as pulse, rhythm and connection. No pre-
vious experience or dance part-
ner is required for any of the 
lessons.
The Original Gainesville 
Food Truck Rally
The High Dive will celebrate 
its eighth anniversary with an 
expanded Food Truck Rally on 
Saturday at 5 p.m. The trucks 
will include Ahar Homemade 
Indian Food, APP's Food Truck, 
B'z Gelati, The Charcoal Grill, 
Cilantro Tacos, Coras Kitchen, 
Miller's Funnel Cakes, Monsta 
Lobsta, Papa Pineapples, Soup 
to Nuts, Taste Pho & Noodle 
House and Woodson's Wrap 
Shack. There will also be live 
music from Clout 9, Ben White 
and Hannah Joyce inside. The 
event is free to attend. Alcohol 
will be available in the beer gar-
den.
'Honey, I Shrunk the 
Kids' on the Big Screen
This summer, First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, 1220 SE 
Veitch St., is screening popu-
lar movies from the past on 
Wednesday nights. They are 
shown in the warehouse, so 
guests are invited to bring fold-
ing chairs to ensure a seat. Free 
popcorn will be available. This   
week "Honey I Shrunk the 
Kids" will start at 8 p.m.
The  Top and  
Atlantic Anniversary
The Top and The Atlantic will 
celebrate their anniversaries 
from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. Saturday.  
DJ Wax Atom will play at The 
Wooly, 20 N Main St., or at-
tendees can go outside to hear 
DJ Mike G on The Top's patio 
or DJ Jimbo next door at The 
Atlantic. The event is for those 
21 and older, and it is free  to 
enter. Boating attire is encour-
aged.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 101
ROUTE 
DELIVERY
DRIVER 
NEEDED
(immediately) *
NON-STUDENT POSITION*See Classifieds  for full job description.
Email elight@alligator.org  for more info.WE’RE HIRING!WE’RE HIRING!
NON-STUDENT POSITION
 for full job description.
 for more info.
TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Sosnowski because of the drug 
test results. 
Sosnowski told Teitelbaum 
she appeared impaired at work 
because she was not sleeping 
well as she takes care of her 
sick husband. She denied using 
fentanyl, suggesting her positive 
drug screen was from handling 
her husband’s fentanyl patches, 
according to the order.
Teitelbaum said the drug 
screen results were too high to 
be explained by the handling of 
fentanyl patches, according to 
the order. 
A PEth blood test also came 
back positive at 242 ng/mL of 
alcohol. A level of 20 ng/mL is 
considered evidence of of mod-
erate to heavy use.  
Sosnowski credited the high 
levels to the amount of wine she 
consumes daily.
“She said this is her coping 
mechanism since she spends the 
whole day taking care of sick pa-
tients and coming home to an ill 
husband,” the order said. Teitelbaum said her blood 
test contradicted the amount 
of alcohol she reportedly con-
sumed.
Sosnowski was then ques-
tioned about her opiate use, but 
she told Teitelbaum she was pre-
scribed Percocet on a couple of 
occasions for very short periods 
of time, according to the order. 
Teitelbaum diagnosed Sos-
nowski with moderate to severe 
alcohol use disorder and moder-
ate to severe opiate use disorder, 
according to the order. 
“Ms. Sosnowski’s failure to 
engage in recommended treat-
ment indicates that her actions 
are likely to continue without 
restriction,” the order said. 
Sosnowski is unable to prac-
tice nursing with reasonable skill 
and safety to patients and was 
restricted from practicing as a 
nurse until the Intervention Proj-
ect for Nurses tells the Florida 
Department of Health she’s safe 
to do so again, according to the 
order. 
@tori_whidden
twhidden@alligator.orgSHANDS NURSE , from pg. 1Supervisor found syringesTHE COSMETIC STORE IS 
SCHEDULED TO OPEN 
IN FEBRUARY
By Rosmery Izaguirre
Staff Writer
Sephora is scheduled to 
open at the Butler Town Cen-
ter in February, said Mary 
Reichardt, marketing director 
at Butler Enterprises.
The new store will be lo-
cated on the southwest cor-
ner of Butler Town Center, 
behind Whole Foods and be-
side The Village Jeweler. The 
new 4,676-square-foot Sepho-
ra will feature the signature 
striped pattern, Reichardt said.
She said the new location 
will focus on experiential mar-
keting, the idea of enhancing 
the customer’s experience as 
they walk through the store 
and interact with the staff. 
The new store will feature 
the Sephora Virtual Artist, an 
app Sephora features in-store 
and is available for download 
on personal devices, Reich-
ardt said. The app uses facial 
recognition and virtual reality 
technology to allow customers 
to view different products on 
themselves without having to 
put them on. 
“People are still looking to 
experience a product and form 
a relationship with people,” Reichardt said. “I think it is 
going to be completely perfect 
for the town center.”
Sephora employees at the 
Oaks Mall location declined 
to comment on whether the 
store will remain open.
Sephora is opening 35 new 
locations across the United 
States in 2019, according to 
the Sephora public relations 
team. 
The new locations will of-
fer 13,300 products from more 
than 200 brands that range 
from cosmetics and skin care 
to hair and fragrance.
@rgizaguirre
rizaguirre@alligator.org 
THE THREE PROJECTS 
WILL BE COMPLETED IN 
AUGUST AND WILL COST 
ABOUT $3.6 MILLION
By Charlie Daffron
Staff Writer
The UF Levin College 
of Law is renovating its fa-
cilities to make the space a 
more student-centric envi-
ronment. 
There are currently three 
construction projects un-
derway, said Laura Rosen-
bury, the college’s dean. 
The total cost of the project 
is about $3.6 million.One of the projects in-
volves renovating the bath-
rooms on the third ﬂ  oor 
of the Spessard L. Holland 
Law Center. Rosenbury 
said they are being made 
“nicer and more acces-
sible” and will cost about 
$300,000.
The school is also reno-
vating and expanding its 
Experiential Learning Hub, 
which will cost about $1.5 
million. 
The most expensive 
project will be renovating 
a large part of the second 
ﬂ  oor of Bruton-Geer Hall, 
which will cost about $1.8 million. The goal of this 
renovation is to make it a 
place where students can 
study and see advisers, 
Rosenbury said.
She said the law col-
lege has been considering 
possible ways to renovate 
certain buildings for sev-
eral years, but funding 
was always a concern. The 
project was made possible 
with extra funding obtained 
from the Ofﬁ  ce of the Pro-
vost in January.
The early stages of the 
project began in late Febru-
ary and resumed after ﬁ  nals 
ended in May, Rosenbury said. Staff will be able to 
start moving back into the 
newly renovated buildings 
the ﬁ  rst week of August.
The renovations haven’t 
affected any classes this 
summer because none of 
the areas under construc-
tion were used as class-
rooms, she said. 
“We’re really excited 
about these renovations, 
and we predict that stu-
dents will also be excited 
once they see them com-
pleted,” Rosenbury said. 
Allen Connor, 31, a re-
cent UF law school gradu-
ate, thinks the renovations are a great idea since some 
of the facilities in the law 
school are outdated. How-
ever, he said the noise from 
the construction can make 
it difﬁ  cult to study for his 
bar exam at the end of the 
month.
“I understand the rea-
son for the timing, even if 
it is a little inconvenient,” 
Connor said. “But I am very 
thankful for the construc-
tion. It’s going to make my 
law school look much bet-
ter.”
@charlie_Daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgSephora to open in Butler Town Center 
UF Law College finishing renovations for Fall semester Courtesy of Sephora
Sephora operates over 25,000 stores in 32 countries worldwide, 
according to the Sephora website. A new location of the store is 
set to open near Whole Foods in Butler T own Center in February.
THE SHOP WILL CLOSE 
JUL Y 26
By Yanet Centeno
Contributing Writer
For Christina Stevens, 
there’s nothing like a good cup 
of café con leche.
It’s the 32-year-old respira-
tory therapist’s favorite drink 
on the Patticakes menu, and 
she doesn’t hesitate to order 
it whenever she frequently 
shows up at the shop in Bo 
Diddley Plaza. 
But, after being a customer 
for three years, Stevens is go-
ing to have to ﬁ  nd a new place 
to get her coffee.
Patticakes will be closing 
down on July 26.
“One thing I am going to 
miss about this place is meet-
ing my sister-in-law, who 
works at the courthouse, every 
week for coffee dates,” Stevens 
said.  
Stevens said Patticakes of-
fers them more room for pri-
vacy in contrast to other cof-
fee shops in the area and has a welcoming space and friendly 
customer service. 
Jan Patterson, the owner of 
Patticakes, said the coffee shop 
is not making enough revenue 
to sustain its downtown loca-
tion. 
The Haile Village Center lo-
cation, which opened in 2011, 
will remain open. Patterson 
said the shop is closer to her 
home and easier to manage. 
“Patticakes started off in 
Haile Plantation, but I ex-
panded to downtown because 
I wanted a place where neigh-
bors could gather and new 
people to meet,” she said. 
The Bo Diddley Plaza Pat-
ticakes opened in September 
2016 and began serving coffee, 
sandwiches and cupcakes to 
the downtown area. 
Alongside its standard cup-
cakes like red velvet and va-
nilla, the shop cycles through 
specialty ﬂ  avors each week, in-
cluding peanut butter and jelly 
and blueberry.
Patterson said the coffee 
shop — named by combining 
her last name with the word “cupcakes” — offers guests the 
perfect ambiance with indoor 
and outdoor seating and large 
tables spacious enough for an 
afternoon study group. 
Paying the bills while mak-
ing a good proﬁ  t, however, is 
a big challenge as a local busi-
ness owner, Patterson said.
The City of Gainesville has 
not approved any businesses 
to replace Patticakes, she said.
Gabriel Chavez, the general 
manager at Wyatt’s Coffee, 
said it’s incredibly sad to see 
a local business close down. 
He loves how Gainesville has a 
place for so many coffee shops.
Wyatt’s Coffee and the 
other downtown shops cater 
to a large percentage of the 
Gainesville students and young 
professionals, Chavez said. In 
the past, Wyatt’s Coffee was 
also closed before relocating 
from midtown to downtown 
in 2018. According to Alligator 
archives, the midtown location 
didn’t have enough space or 
visibility.
“Locations can be a hit or 
miss,” Chavez said.Patticakes at Bo Diddley to closeLevin College of Law 
Renovations: 
T otal: $3.6 million
Bathroom renovations 
on the third ﬂ  oor of the 
Spessard L. Holland Law 
Center:  $300,000
Experiential Learning 
Hub renovation and 
expansion:  $1.5 million 
Bruton-Geer Hall 
renovation:  $1.8 million 
Started:  late February 
2019
Anticipated completion: 
August 20194  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
ITALIAN BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICManuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch 
or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm.
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for 
lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thom-
as’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your or-
der will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru 
available Open everyday 5am -7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, 
wholesale prices available.THE RANKING IS DECIDED BY 
STANDARDIZED TEST SCORES 
By Ashley Lazarski
Staff Writer
Just like students, school dis-
trict administrators wait with 
bated breath as their grades are 
announced. 
The Alachua County Public 
Schools district’s grade increased 
from a B to an A. The Florida De-
partment of Education looks at 
students’ standardized test scores to evaluate the districts.
 Jennifer Wise, executive direc-
tor of K-12 curriculum for Alachua 
County Public Schools, found out 
about the grade change Thursday.  
To improve its school district 
in the past year, Wise said ad-
ministrators focused on support-
ing teachers so they could better 
support students. Though there 
has been a teacher shortage in the 
district, administration has been 
working to both retain and recruit 
new teachers, Wise said. 
“It’s a very complex system with a lot of moving parts, be-
tween teachers, parents and stu-
dents,” Wise said. “We are trying 
to keep everything aligned and 
cooking with gas so that more 
good things happen.”
Wise said it is important to fo-
cus on quality instruction to con-
tinue improving for next year. The 
more teachers and administrators 
who can differentiate and meet in-
dividual student needs, the better 
they will do. 
“Being an A is great,” she said, 
“but until every single student is reaching their full potential, there 
is still work to be done.”  
While the overall district grade 
is an A, individual schools receive 
grades as well. 
Howard W. Bishop Middle 
School’s individual grade, for ex-
ample, remained a B this year, 
Principal Michael Gamble said. 
Though a higher district grade 
reﬂ  ects well on all schools within 
it, there is a difference between 
this grade and the individual 
school grades. On a school level, a 
B grade means an administration has to take a look at these results 
and examine both its wins and its 
losses, Gamble said. 
“We need to keep doing bet-
ter with our lowest-quartile stu-
dents,” Gamble said. “We have 
had some individual wins with 
students that did better, especially 
as far as reducing the achievement 
gap between African-American 
students and white students, but 
we can always keep improving.”
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgAlachua County Public Schools district grade improves from a B to an ABy Larry Neumeister and
Jim Mustian
Associated Press 
Two Jeffrey Epstein accusers 
urged a judge Monday to keep the 
wealthy ﬁ  nancier behind bars until 
he goes on trial on federal charges 
that he sexually abused underage 
girls.
The women stood just feet from 
where Epstein was seated in his blue 
jail outﬁ  t as they asked a federal 
judge to reject a request by Epstein’s 
lawyers that he remain under house 
arrest in his $77 million Manhattan 
mansion until trial on conspiracy 
and sex trafﬁ  cking charges.
Courtney Wild, an unnamed vic-
tim in the 2008 lawsuit against the 
Department of Justice for the secret 
plea deal that allowed Epstein to 
avoid similar charges, spoke for the 
ﬁ  rst time in court with a fellow ac-
cuser.
Wild said she was sexually 
abused by Epstein in Palm Beach, 
Florida, when she was 14.“He’s a scary person to have 
walking the streets,” she said.
Judge Richard M. Berman said 
he’ll rule Thursday whether Epstein 
can be freed on bail, but he noted 
at the outset of a two-hour hearing 
there was a presumption in sex traf-
ﬁ  cking cases involving juveniles that 
the defendant will remain locked up.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Alex 
Rossmiller said the government’s 
case is “getting stronger every single 
day” since Epstein was arrested July 
6 as he arrived at a New Jersey air-
port from Paris on his private plane.
During a raid at Epstein’s Man-
hattan mansion following his ar-
rest, Rossmiller said, investigators 
found “piles of cash,” “dozens of 
diamonds” and an expired passport 
with Epstein’s picture and a fake 
name in a locked safe.
“How many safes are there in so 
many other locations like these?” 
Rossmiller asked.
He called the well-connected Ep-
stein, 66, a ﬂ  ight risk and a danger to 
the community. 
Epstein’s lawyer, Martin Wein-berg, said his client has not com-
mitted crimes since pleading guilty 
to charges of soliciting a minor for 
prostitution in Florida in 2008 and 
that the federal government is reneg-
ing on a 12-year-old plea deal not to 
prosecute him.
Epstein had demonstrated that 
he “disciplined himself,” Weinberg 
said, by not engaging in any crimes 
since the Florida deal, in which he 
agreed to submit himself to sex of-
fender registration procedures in 
multiple states.
The “14-year gap is an elegant re-
buttal” to expectations that he would 
re-offend, Weinberg said. “It’s not 
like he’s an out-of-control rapist.”
Prior to Monday’s hearing, pros-
ecutors said in court papers that ad-
ditional women in multiple jurisdic-
tions had told the government they 
were abused as minors by Epstein 
since his arrest. 
Labor Secretary Alexander Acos-
ta resigned last week following re-
newed criticism over the 2008 plea 
deal with Epstein he oversaw as the 
U.S. attorney in Miami.Women urge jail until trial for Epstein as judge weighs bail
Seth Wenig / The Associated Press
Annie Farmer, left, and Courtney Wild, right, accusers of Jeffrey 
Epstein, stand outside the courthouse in New York, Monday, July 
15, 2019. Financier Jeffrey Epstein will remain behind bars for 
now as a federal judge mulls whether to grant bail on charges he 
sexually abused underage girls. 
TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
,
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
MAN ROBBED AFTER SHARING 
PICTURES OF MONEY
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was the third per-
son to be charged with crimes in connection 
to a June 25 Alachua shooting. 
Raynyoda Jackson, 41, was arrested Sat-
urday on felony charges, including one for 
armed robbery.
Jackson was at her home in High Springs, 
Florida, on June 25 with Thaddeus Surrency 
and Sarah Elizabeth Harris, a friend of the 
man who was shot, according to a police re-
port. 
The trio reportedly took “molly,” also 
known as ecstasy.  Harris told the pair her 
friend sent her pictures of a large sum of 
cash and asked to get a hotel room to “make 
love and chill,” according to the report.
After his arrest, Surrency told police Jack-
son and Harris planned to rob Harris’ friend after seeing the pictures. He said his only 
task was to drive the vehicle and that Jack-
son was the alleged shooter, not himself, 
contradictng what the victim told police. 
The police report maintained that Sur-
rency shot the man but said Jackson drove 
away from the scene without providing aid 
or calling for help. Surrency told police that 
he, Jackson and Harris parked the vehicle at 
Jackson’s house after the incident, where it 
was located by police hours later.
The handgun, which Surrency told police 
was used in the shooting, is registered under 
Jackson’s name, according to the report.
Jackson was charged with armed rob-
bery, aggravated battery, conspiracy to com-
mit a felony and accessory after the fact, 
all felonies. She remains in jail in lieu of a 
$500,000 bond. 
An arrest warrant for Harris has also been 
issued.
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgThird person charged for 
June Alachua shooting
POLICE SAID FIVE 
ROBBERIES HAVE 
BEEN REPORTED 
BUT EXPECT MORE
By Rachael Schirmer
Staff Writer
At least ﬁ  ve men who 
contacted a woman on an 
online dating site were sur-
prised by two Gainesville 
residents who robbed 
them.
Tavares Wilson, 31, and 
Leila Johnson, 24, were 
charged Thursday in con-
nection to the series of rob-
beries after an investigation 
by Gainesville Police De-
partment, Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and U.S. 
Marshals Service. 
Since January 2019, 
Wilson reportedly used an 
online dating website to 
lure at least ﬁ  ve men to 
an apartment complex in 
southwest Gainesville, un-
der the guise of sex with 
a woman in exchange for 
money. He then robbed 
them at knifepoint or gun-
point, according to the re-
port. 
A GPD undercover de-
tective contacted Wilson 
via the website and was 
provided a location of 3514 SW 30th Terrace. The de-
tective led law enforcement 
to the location, where they 
were met by Wilson and 
Johnson, his girlfriend, in a 
black Hyundai with a pink 
steering wheel cover, a ve-
hicle previously described 
in one of the ﬁ  ve robbery 
reports and registered to 
Johnson.
U.S. marshals ap-
proached Wilson, who had 
a warrant regarding an un-
related case, before he at-
tempted to ﬂ  ee the scene, 
according to the report. 
In his rush, he left the car 
door open, which exposed 
a black semi-automatic 
handgun. Law enforcement 
ofﬁ  cers also found powder 
cocaine, crystal meth and 
crack cocaine on him when 
they made the arrest. 
The account used to 
lure the men was registered 
to an email address that 
matched Wilson’s Face-
book account, according to 
the report. 
A photo posted to Wil-
son’s Facebook account 
showed him standing next 
to a black Hyundai with a 
pink steering wheel cover.
Wilson was charged 
with possession of a ﬁ  re-
arm by a convicted felon 
and possession of a con-trolled substance with in-
tent to sell, both felonies. 
Johnson was charged 
with conspiracy to com-
mit armed robbery, also a 
felony. Wilson and John-
son remain in jail in lieu 
of $157,000 and $35,000 
bonds, respectively.
While ﬁ  ve robberies 
have been reported, GPD 
suspects there are more 
that have not been report-
ed due to the nature of the 
dating website.
Orlando Police Depart-
ment established e-com-
merce exchange zones for 
people making online pur-
chases or meetings in 2017 
to prevent online robberies. 
The zones, located at the 
department headquarters, 
are monitored by video 
24 hours a day. Accord-
ing to Sgt. Lisa Scott, GPD 
spokesperson, there are 
no plans to provide an e-
commerce exchange zone 
in Gainesville. 
@rschirmerr
rschirmer@alligator.orgCouple charged for robbing
men through dating app
Wilson
 Johnson
Rachel Schirmer / Alligator Staff
Timeline 
of Events6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
Sarah Younger, 60, holds up her torch Friday night during a speech by a local activist protesting the use of immigration detention centers across the United States. 
Younger said she came to the protest because, like many others, she wants the camps to be closed down. She said she came to the event dressed as the Statue of 
Liberty “to remind us all of the land we love, the land of freedom. ”
Heysel Marte, 30, Milliana Rodriguez, 8, and her brother Noah 
Rodriguez, 7, listen to a speech during the vigil. Milliana, who goes 
by Millie, sang for the group of protestors, performing the song 
“One Day” by Matisyahu. Millie said she thinks about the children in 
detention centers when she sings. “I think they aren’t really happy, 
and I want them to be free someday, ” she said. 
Photo Story by Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Heysel Marte, 30, shields her candle during the vigil. “It’s immoral 
what they’re doing to the kids, ” Marte said. “These are children. ”
Nancy Parkinson, 70, sits on the front steps of City Hall and holds up a sign protesting 
immigration detention centers. Parkinson said she created her protest sign based on a popular 
anti-Vietnam War poster from when she was young. She also said she would be writing letters 
to government officials about the detention centers.
About 100 people gathered in front of Gainesville City Hall on 
Friday evening to protest the conditions in immigration detention 
centers. The protest, Lights for Liberty: A Vigil to End Human 
Detention Camps, was one of more than 500 around the world. 
It was organized by North Central Florida Indivisible and other 
local activist groups and featured several speakers who urged the 
crowd to help the undocumented community in Gainesville and call 
members of the U.S. Congress to demand the camps be closed down, 
including the center located in Homestead, Florida. The event also 
had local children recite poems that were left behind by children in 
Theresienstadt, a ghetto and concentration camp built by the Nazis 
during the Holocaust.Protesters urge: 
leave the light on 
for immigrantsEditorialTUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
LetterLast Wednesday, Gov. Ron DeSantis 
signed the order that will replace the stat-
ue of Confederate General Edmund Kirby 
Smith in the National Statuary Hall with 
that of educator Mary McLeod Bethune, 
an African American educator. This switch is 
for the better. 
The National Statuary Hall is a space set aside 
in the U.S. Capitol for each state to choose two 
statues to represent itself. Some big names are in-
cluded in the hall such as Samuel Adams for Mas-
sachusetts and Thomas Edison for Ohio. Florida’s 
statues are John Gorrie — a pioneer in early air conditioning 
— and Confederate States General Edmund Kirby Smith. 
Gorrie’s placement is fairly obvious. Anyone who has 
lived in Florida can conﬁ  rm most of the state is practically 
unlivable without air conditioning.
On the other hand, the case for Smith is a bit less clear. 
For now, let’s put aside the question of whether we should 
honor someone who fought for the Confederacy and wonder 
whether Smith actually contributed to Florida in some way. 
He was born in St. Augustine, but he was educated most-
ly outside of Florida. He fought outside of Florida, and he 
lived in Tennessee after the Civil War. 
Is it a reﬂ  ection of Florida’s role in the Civil War, and how 
Smith’s role in the Civil War changed Florida? Probably not. 
Florida was sparsely populated at the time of the Civil 
War, and while Florida joined the Confederacy, it only host-
ed two major battles within its borders. Neither battle really 
helped determine the course of the war. 
So, why use Edmund Kirby Smith? Based on when 
Smith’s statue was gifted to the collection, 1922, and what 
we know about the motivation for erecting other Confederate 
statues, we can make an inference. 
According to NPR, Confederate statues were mostly built 
in two big spurts: ﬁ  rst in the early 1900s (which is when 
Smith’s statue joined the National Statuary Collection) and 
again in the 1950s and 1960s. Notably, both periods overlap 
with periods of deep racial tension and hostility toward Afri-can Americans. In this case, the early 1900s saw 
the enactment of many Jim Crow laws, which 
disenfranchised black Americans. The 1920s in 
particular was a period when the Ku Klux Klan 
experienced a resurgence across the country. It 
seems reasonable to conclude that Smith’s statue 
was added to the collection not to honor a long-
dead Civil War general, but to serve as a remind-
er of white supremacy. Smith’s statue says that 
Florida is a land where white supremacy is pro-
tected and proudly displayed.  
Mary McLeod Bethune is a good replacement 
for Edmund Kirby Smith. In short, she actually contributed 
to Florida and made it a better place. Bethune was an African 
American educator who opened a boarding school to educate 
African American girls. Her school eventually evolved into 
Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach, Florida, a 
historically black university. 
Bethune also has national signiﬁ  cance. She was part of 
President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s unofﬁ  cial ‘black cabinet’ 
and became the highest-ranking African American woman 
in government at the time when Roosevelt appointed her di-
rector of Negro Affairs of the National Youth Administration 
in 1936.
You may think choosing statues is irrelevant. But when 
Florida decides which two statues it’s going to send to repre-
sent us in our nation’s capital, they aren’t just statues. 
These are symbols of what Florida is and what Floridians 
value. 
We need to remove the statue of Edmund Kirby Smith, 
who made little contribution to Florida and whose main 
function is as a symbol of oppression, and replace it with a 
statue of Mary McLeod Bethune, who positively contributed 
to Florida and represents both Florida’s black community 
and Florida’s enterprising spirit. 
It’s as simple as that.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.
I am an independent senator for District D., and not af-
ﬁ  liating with a party comes with its challenges. With-
out representation in the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee, independent senators will have a harder 
time than party-afﬁ  liated senators in obtaining the in-
formation they need to make informed decisions. 
However, being independent senators means we have 
more freedom when it comes to making decisions that reﬂ  ect 
our individual positions on an issue, rather than the position 
of a party. Unfortunately, with skipping debate becoming 
more common, those unique positions of ours do not get a 
chance to be heard except in how we vote. 
I ﬁ  nd it concerning most senators are willing to eliminate 
the deliberative functions of the Senate or simply refuse to 
use them. It implies most senators do not want to express 
their individual opinions. It is a shame to see the talented 
minds of both parties go unheard.
There are a few things that can be done to solve this 
problem. The Senate could require hearing things as a block 
be approved unanimously, so senators can vote however 
they please. The Senate could guarantee some debate before 
being allowed to vote on skipping the rest of the debate, so 
at least some discussion can be had or so a senator can give 
a dissenting opinion. Alternatively, the Senate could allow 
Senators time at the end of a vote to make a brief statement on why they voted how they did.
I believe the main problem is the lack of diversity of 
opinion in the Senate, at least among those who do voice 
their opinions. Things may be summarized as either “Impact” 
or “Inspire,” and these positions might not be representative 
of some students. The solution is therefore third parties, 
which would not be subject to these obstacles and have 
been experimented with in the past, but of which there are 
currently none in the Senate. 
Third parties could be made possible if our elections 
were conducted with ranked-choice voting. If their preferred 
candidate doesn’t win, their vote would be automatically 
transferred to their second, third and other most preferred 
candidates in the order they indicated. The election of third-
party candidates into the Student Senate would allow for the 
representation of students with different interests and ideas 
who are not always represented by the current two-party es-
tablishment. This would solve the lack of diversity of opinion 
in the Senate and could encourage Senators of all parties to 
voice their individual opinions, ideas and concerns in a way 
that does not currently happen and vote to protect the delib-
erative functions of the Senate.
Alfredo Ortiz is a UF philosophy sophomore. He is an 
independent senator for District D.We need the right statues to represent Florida’s values
Letter to the Editor: Reflections of an 
independent senator
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Get your hiking shoes on and perfect your “Naruto 
run” because, in another case of ‘the internet made 
me do it,’ it looks like we are raiding Area 51. 
In a totally sarcastic, not at all real bid to free the 
facility’s resident aliens, one million Facebook users 
have RSVP’d to raid the U.S. military base in the Nevada des-
ert on Sept. 20. If you’ve seen memes of attack plans or reac-
tions to what people will do with their newly freed alien friends, 
you can thank the public meme page “S--tposting because im 
in shambles” in collaboration with Twitch video game streamer, 
SmyleeKun. It’s just a Facebook event, but the Air Force is taking 
it seriously, which has us half-laughing and half-hoping no one 
actually books a ticket to Nevada to “see them aliens.”
As anyone would expect, the Air Force discourages anyone 
from trying to come into the area. But when Air Force spokesperson 
Laura McAndrews said, “The U.S. Air Force always stands ready 
to protect America and its assets,” we’re sure everyone planning 
to go started giving each other major side-eye. Her comment also 
had us thinking, “Hmm, that’s exactly what someone trying to 
keep us away from our aliens would say,” and wondering what 
would happen if someone does end up making it on base. 
Section 1382 of Title 18 forbids anyone from entering any 
military base without permission. If found guilty of trespassing, 
you may ﬁ  nd yourself with a $500 ﬁ  ne, six months imprisonment 
or both. According to IFL Science, a restricted area surrounds 
Area 51 with signs saying, “Use of deadly force authorized.”
If you think the Air Force will play along with the meme — 
don’t. In January, a man was fatally shot on sight after driving past 
the security gate at the National Nuclear Security Administration 
and refusing to obey security ofﬁ  cers and police. In 2012, a BBC 
team was held at gunpoint and forced to lie on the ground for 
three hours while the FBI arrested them for trespassing Area 51. 
If that is not enough to put the fear of the alien overlord in 
you, the Active Denial System exists, which is a non-lethal, direct-
energy weapon developed by the military. It’s the closest thing 
we have to laser vision as it hits base-raiders with an intense 
feeling of heat. Our bets are on this bad boy being the perfect 
tool for dispersing any meme-crazed individuals trying to storm 
Area 51.   
With the mystery of what would happen if people raided the 
alleged alien hostage facility out of the way, naturally the next 
question down the spiral of our consciousness is why? The only 
answer seems to be in the name of the meme group that created 
the event: s--tposting. 
Excuse our language, but s--tposting is a term that describes 
content used to derail a discussion or argument. The term has 
morphed into something else in recent years to encompass a type 
of internet activity characterized by posting a lot of memes or 
jokes “aggressively, ironically and trollishly poor quality,” as the 
Daily Dot’s Miles Klee describes it. 
Over 1 million people stand behind this meme. One. Million. 
People.
Yes, the meme is hilarious. We would love to share a dorm 
with an extraterrestrial and have them translate our EDM music 
and explain to us why astrology is real. But if this many people 
can rally behind one online joke, what else can we band together 
to do? 
If you are this passionate about alleged extraterrestrial aliens 
being held captive, wait until you hear about how there are 
currently human men, women and children in immigration 
detention centers being held against their will. Children have 
been separated from their parents for reasons out of their control. 
You think the extraterrestrial aliens in Area 51 need to be 
reunited with their planet? What about the immigrant children 
taken away from their families at the border.
If you actually plan on storming Area 51, at least rescue your 
own kind ﬁ  rst. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Jackie 
De Freitas
OPINIONS
EDITORHannah
Beatty
MANAGING
EDITORLindsey
Breneman
MANAGING
EDITORMark
Stine
EDITOR
Jason Zapulla
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-19-24-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
Time to sell your accordion? Your Pogs col-
lection? Looking to buy one? Check out the 
For Sale section for great results. 
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-24-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-24-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-24-12
Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-24-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    8-13-24-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-19-24-14
Did you know? The 1967 Outer Space Treaty 
forbids any nation from trying to own the Moon.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-24-1
4 bedroom, 4 bath condo each room with
walk-in closet for rent! $385.00 per room
includes cable, electric and internet. Washer 
and Dryer included in condo, common area
is furnished. Condo is located right next to
the pool, gym and volleyball court. Plenty of
parking available. Condo is located on the
main bus route to campus, 10 minute bus
ride. Call- 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031
7-18-19-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-19-24-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
How to Place a 
Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 
4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day 
it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections 
before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE 
AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits 
can be given after placing the ad. Corrections 
called in after the first day will not be further 
compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes 
must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for 
minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard 
at www.alligator.org/classifieds
See alligator.org for more information
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which South 
American country is home to Machu 
Picchu, a 15th-century Incan citadel?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which East Coast city’s nickname is 
“Charm City”? 
3. U.S. STATES: What is the only 
U.S. state whose name is one syllable?
4. HISTORY: Which English mon-
arch reigned from 1625 to 1649?
5. MUSIC: Which female singer had 
a No. 1 hit in the 1960s with the song 
“Downtown”?
6. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in 
our solar system is known as a morn-
ing and evening star?
7. BIBLE: How many plagues of 
Egypt were described in the book of 
Exodus? 
8. MOVIES: How many different 
actors played roles in “The Three 
Stooges” over the years?
9. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
20th-century novel “So Big”?
10. GAMES: What color is the 
Connecticut property in the game 
“Monopoly”?
Answers
1. Peru
2. Baltimore
3. Maine
4. Charles I
5. Petula Clark
6. Venus
7. 10
8. Six. Larry, Moe, Shemp, Curly, 
Joe and Curly Joe.
9. Edna Ferber
10. Light blue
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 15, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which South 
American country is home to Machu 
Picchu, a 15th-century Incan citadel?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which East Coast city’s nickname is 
“Charm City”? 
3. U.S. STATES: What is the only 
U.S. state whose name is one syllable?
4. HISTORY: Which English mon-
arch reigned from 1625 to 1649?
5. MUSIC: Which female singer had 
a No. 1 hit in the 1960s with the song 
“Downtown”?
6. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in 
our solar system is known as a morn-
ing and evening star?
7. BIBLE: How many plagues of 
Egypt were described in the book of 
Exodus? 
8. MOVIES: How many different 
actors played roles in “The Three 
Stooges” over the years?
9. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
20th-century novel “So Big”?
10. GAMES: What color is the 
Connecticut property in the game 
“Monopoly”?
Answers
1. Peru
2. Baltimore
3. Maine
4. Charles I
5. Petula Clark
6. Venus
7. 10
8. Six. Larry, Moe, Shemp, Curly, 
Joe and Curly Joe.
9. Edna Ferber
10. Light blue
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 15, 2019King Features Weekly ServiceTUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
No phone calls please.
Team Gymnastics Coaches
Compulsory/Optional/XCEL
FT/PT-great program/benefits
suncountrysports.com/jobs    7-23-19-10-14Lloyd Clarke Sports
Now hiring happy, athletic people for PT/FT. 
Regular consistent availability and 1 day on 
the weekend a must. Apply in person to 1504 
NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF.    7-18-19-4-14
SIMEDHealth is looking for Certified Medical 
Assistants (MA). Qualified candidates will 
have graduated from an accredited Medical 
Assisting program and be BLS/CPR certified. 
Apply at www.simedhealth.com today!    7-30-
19-7-14
Tutor/Respite care provider: tutor algebra 
and other topics at Santa Fe College level; 
an understanding of working with someone 
with special needs; must have patience and 
is willing to work with our son on developing 
independent skills. Pay is $15/hr / 10-15 hrs a 
week, 2 - 3 hrs daily at our house. Start week 
of August 19. annemiekecoron@gmail.com     
7-23-19-4-14
Administering and scoring two day batter-
ies of psychological and neuropsychological 
tests. May be perfect for someone recently 
graduated who wants experience before ap-
plying to grad school. Min. BA in Psychology, 
may train right person in exchange for 1 yr 
commitment to paid F/T position. e-mail let-
ter of interest and vita to info@cpancf.com.    
8-6-19-7-14
Looking for a responsible, mature, preferably 
a grad student or older, to start ASAP to be 
home with my teenage daughters at times 
when I am working. Responsibilities would 
be mainly helping with driving and some 
meal preparation with some light clean -
ing as well. I am a single mom living in the 
NW side of Gainesville. Once school starts, 
times needed would be at a minimum ap-
proximately 7-9 am and 3-6 /7 pm. You need 
to have a clean driving and criminal record 
as I will be doing a background check. More 
hours needed until school starts on August 
12. Live in potential if desired.    7-18-19-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that pro -
vides  a service? Place your ad in 
the  Services Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per 
day. Call us at 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Are you looking for LESBIAN
companionship or a place to earn extra
cash? Call Sapphic Companions.
904-562-9588.
8-8-19-14-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-
19-24-15
*Tree Trimming, Stump
Grinding & Brush Removal*
Call 3 H Enterprise 352-414-8222 Free
estimates. Located in Gainesville. Quality, 
Reliable & Affordable Services call today!    
7-23-19-5-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on 
training for FAA certification. Financial aid if 
qualified. Call AIM 888-242-2649.      1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-19-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    8-13-19-24-14
 Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Exit 374, I-75, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Managers / Cooks
Dancer / Waitress Auditions Sunday 10AM
8-30-26-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF! 
Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-
formation on a variety of subjects including, 
but not limited to, academic and business re-
search, health care, and transportation.  Pay 
ranges from $10.00- $10.50 per hour + per-
formance incentive + Paid Training. Search 
‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://
jobs.ufl.edu”                  8-13-19-13-14
Now Hiring Substitute Teachers for Alachua 
County Public Schools
Minimum criteria for becoming a substitute 
teacher: 
• High School Diploma
• The ability to pass background, drug and 
fingerprint screenings 
• Must be 21 years or older
Please call 352-363-2013 or email
2074@kellyservices.com      7-23-19-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
By Jennifer Lee and Victor Galson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, July 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Singer LuPone
6 Certain 
Jamaican, 
religiously
11 Dol. parts
14 Get-go
15 Predictable
16 Poke bowl fish
17 “La La Land” 
Oscar nominee
19 Gym exercise 
unit
20 Beat in a hot dog 
contest
21 Farm yield
22 Singer Styles 
and illusionist 
Houdini
25 Obsolescent 
coin-op 
communication 
device
28 Fateful March 
day
29 Not timely, as a 
birthday wish
30 African adventure
33 Jazz great 
Fitzgerald
34 What a 
bittersweet 
moment may 
evoke ... and a 
hint to each set of 
circled letters
39 “I don’t believe 
you!”
40 Rudely sarcastic
42 “Dirty” drink
46 Two of a kind
47 Secondhand 
rides
49 Bites (on)
51 Eye covers
52 Dr. Seuss’ real 
last name
54 Chocolate dog
55 Eerie stillness
60 Swelled head
61 NOW 
co-founders
62 Ski run bump
63 __ screen: 
medical test for 
poisons, etc.
64 Nonreactive, as 
gases
65 Uppity types
DOWN
1 Spanish “for”
2 “Pick a card, __ 
card”3 Homeland 
Security 
screening org.
4 Jazz ensemble 
instrument
5 PC 
troubleshooter
6 Trick
7 __ on the wrist
8 Befitting
9 Sun-lover’s hue
10 “Solve for x” subj.
11 Snack for Bugs
12 Dream partner
13 Drank daintily
18 Tie-breaking 
NHL periods
21 When doubled, a 
Latin dance
22 That dude’s
23 2018 Best 
Supporting Actor 
Oscar nominee 
Driver
24 Int.-lowering 
mortgage deal
26 Hollers
27 Like the nose on 
your face?
31 Ancient artifact
32 Menzel who 
voices Elsa in 
“Frozen”
33 Racket end?35 Legitimate target
36 Custard-filled 
pastry
37 Mass unit
38 Uno card
41 Nos. on wine 
labels
42 Short-in-front, 
long-in-back 
men’s hairstyle
43 Crumbly Italian 
cheese
44 Netflix competitor45 QB stats
48 Ritual Jewish meal
49 Long-running 
forensic series
50 Command posts
53 Stevie Wonder’s 
“__ She Lovely”
55 Sobriety 
checkpoint initials
56 Loooong time
57 Nonprofit aid gp.
58 Baby bear
59 Raised railroads
By Bruce Haight
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, July 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 Getaway spots
5 Prefix with phobia
10 2012 Best Picture
14 Subside
15 Place to start 
an IV
16 Accessories
17 Yeats’ birthplace
18 Dissect in class, 
in a way
19 “To share, or not 
to share?” food 
brand
20 Butters up, maybe
22 Long-haired cats
24 Prefix with -gon
25 Zip
26 Fill in
29 Wintergreen 
family herb
32 Once called
33 Assigning to, as 
blame, with “on”
35 Multitude
36 Hoppy brew, 
briefly
37 Search tools
38 Apple platform
39 Formal 
addressees
41 Factions in “West 
Side Story”
42 Word in family 
business names
43 Former CNN 
journalist David
45 Misunderstanding 
metaphor
46 Pick up
47 Bird seen in only 
one state
49 Letters near zero
51 Germane
54 Like some doubts 
and injuries
58 Polish for 
“dumplings”
59 Less experienced
60 Football’s 
“Boomer”
61 Inflation-indexed 
U.S. savings 
bond
62 __ Marino
63 W-2 info
64 Country spelled 
with the only 
nine letters used 
in this puzzle’s 
answersDOWN
1 Trickle
2 Last of three 
Catherines
3 Far East fruit
4 Ranking
5 Settling down
6 French fat
7 Anthem 
word with an 
apostrophe
8 Parks in 
American history
9 Corno Grande’s 
range
10 Early personal 
milestone
11 Word in 
medicine that 
sounds bad but 
is often good
12 Infatuated
13 Spanish medals 
or metals
21 Take potshots
23 Loud ringers
26 Biscotti flavoring
27 Jacques of 
PBS’ “Julia and 
Jacques Cooking 
at Home”
28 Does29 Goes back and 
forth
30 Long periods
31 So yesterday
34 1493 Lisbon 
arrival
40 Only Mexican 
state that 
borders Baja
42 Composer 
Rachmaninoff
44 They get carried 
away46 “Night Moves” 
singer
48 Scrubbed, as a 
launch
50 Cut back
51 Parrots
52 City on the  
Arno
53 Hold back
55 Supermodel 
Sastre
56 Loch of note
57 Silly look?
07/11/19Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
CB Jahari Rodgers commits to UF
The 2020 four-star cornerback recruit chose Florida over T exas and Arkan-
sas. Rodgers is 247Sports' No. 154 recruit and No. 10 cornerback for the 
2020 class.Former UF women's basketball 
guard Funda Nakkasoglu 
signed with Galatasaray S.K 
.of the Turkish Women's 
Basketball League last Friday.BASKETBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
First, coach Mike White and the 
Gators landed undergraduate transfer 
Anthony Duruji from Louisiana Tech. UF 
followed up by luring graduate transfer 
Virginia Tech forward Kerry Blackshear 
Jr. to Gainesville. 
It only took three weeks for Florida to 
continue the trend.
UF kept along with its busy offsea-
son by adding undergraduate transfer 
Tyree Appleby to the team on Sunday. 
The 6-foot-1 point guard, who played his 
last two seasons at Cleveland State, an-
nounced his intention to enroll at Florida 
on his Twitter account. Appleby chose 
UF over Texas A&M, and as an under-
graduate transfer, he’ll be eligible to play during the 2020-21 season. Appleby was 
able to join the team after redshirt fresh-
man Isaiah Stokes announced his inten-
tion to transfer.
Appleby was the centerpiece for 
Cleveland State last season. Averaging 
17.2 points, 5.6 assists and shooting 39 
percent from the 3-point line, Appleby 
is ranked 32nd on ESPN’s Top 50 sit-out 
Transfers. Despite his efforts, however, 
the Vikings had a disappointing season, 
finishing 10-21 and going just 5-13 in the 
Horizon League.
This will not be the first time White 
has coached an Appleby. When White 
served as head coach of the Louisi-
ana Tech Bulldogs from 2011-2015, he 
coached Appleby’s brother, Raheem, 
who averaged 13.2 points, 1.5 assists and 
shot 33.2 percent from 3-point range in his four years under White.
The Gators will look to Appleby to fill 
a roster facing numerous potential losses 
in 2020. Sophomore Andrew Nembhard 
has already declared for the NBA draft 
once before backing out to return, and 
he could potentially do it again once the 
2019-20 season is over. On top of that, 
freshman guard Scottie Lewis could pos-
sibly leave the team after a year (as could 
guard Tre Mann), and Blackshear Jr.’s 
eligibility will run out after this season. 
Appleby and Duruji will fill the inevitable 
voids by the time they are eligible to take 
the court. 
With the new addition, Florida bolsters 
an already impressive 2019 class that is 
ranked seventh in the nation and second 
in the SEC, according to 247Sports. UF’s 
active offseason looks to make it an im-UF lands another high-profile transfer
Screenshot by the Alligator
Undergraduate transfer Tyree Appleby 
averaged 17.2 points and 5.6 assists last year 
for the Cleveland State Vikings.
AWARDS
The 2018-19 collegiate athletic season 
saw both success and failure for the Uni-
versity of Florida, from the woes of the 
women’s basketball team to the electricity 
of the track and field programs. Through-
out the ups and downs, however, came 
specific games, matches and meets that 
showcased UF athletics at its best.
The nominees for the Alligator Game/
Match/Meet of the year are the NCAA In-
door Championships, men’s football vs. 
LSU, lacrosse vs. Stoney Brook, and men’s 
basketball vs. LSU.
NCAA Indoor Championships
 
My pick for Meet of the Year goes to 
the men’s track and field team for their 
performance at the NCAA Indoor Cham-
pionships. This was Florida’s sole national 
championship this year, and coupled with 
a legendary performance from SEC Male 
Athlete of the Year Grant Holloway, the 
choice is clear.
The junior left his mark on the event. 
He won the 60-meter hurdles title with a 
time of 7.35 seconds -- which broke the 
American record of 7.36 -- and won the 
60-meter dash with a time of 6.50 seconds, 
breaking his own school record of 6.51.
Sophomore Hakim Sani Brown and se-
nior Ryan Clark finished third and sixth in 
the 60-meter dash, respectively.
Over at the weight throw, redshirt se-
nior AJ McFarland finished fourth with 
73 feet, 10.25 inches, tied for the high-est finish in program history. The Gators 
also finished third in the 4x400 relay with 
Holloway, Clark and sophomores Chantz 
Sawyers and Benjamin Lobo Vedel add-
ing points to contribute to the school’s fifth 
men’s national title under coach Mike Hol-
loway.
SEC tournament buzzer beaters are in-
credible and defensive slug outs in football 
will leave you glued to the TV, but champi-
onship performances are the end goal.
 
 @JSalvador_14
@jsalvador@alligator.org
Football vs. LSU
 
The Dan Mullen era at Florida was a 
mere five games in when the coach led his 
No. 22 Gators out of the tunnel that scorch-
ing Saturday last October.
His team had been tested early, faltering 
in a disappointing bout to Kentucky before 
rebounding with consecutive road victories 
over Tennessee and Mississippi State. Yet, 
taking on LSU was a challenge far more 
daunting.
The No. 5 Tigers arrived in Gainesville 
with two top 10 wins to their pedigree, led 
by quarterback and then-Heisman hopeful 
Joe Burrow, who had yet to throw a pick 
all season.
SEC Nation was in town. Tim Tebow 
was in attendance to be inducted into the 
team’s Ring of Honor. The storied rivalry 
among these two foes was about to add an-
other chapter in front of a sold-
out Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Brad Stewart’s pick six to 
all but seal the win with 1:45 
remaining is now etched into 
memories of Gator fans forev-Alligator Awards: Game/Match/Meet of the Year
Chris King / Alligator Staff
UF football's win over then-No. 5 LSU in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium was its highest-ranked 
victory en route to a 10-2 season and New Year's Six bowl win.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 12TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
you know, kind of catapult for 
one of the teams. UF jumped 
from four wins in 2017 to 10 
in 2018 and, on Monday, Mul-
len was asked about the diffi-
culty of possibly getting up to 
11 or 12 wins in 2019.
“I think in year two, there’s 
a lot more comfort within the 
program. … Our guys knew 
what to expect coming into 
the offseason. It’s easier to 
attack the offseason. I think 
we’ve made bigger gains in a 
lot of ways this offseason than 
we did last year.”
The players had the oppor-
tunity to speak to the media as 
well, and Zuniga shared some 
of his eye-opening expecta-
tions for his senior season.
“First, I want to win the 
SEC East, win the SEC Cham-
pionship and then get to a 
bowl game. Obviously, get to 
the National Championship,” 
Zuniga said. ”We, as a team, have very high expectations. 
We feel like we can do some 
special things this year.”
For UF to win the SEC East 
and get back to the SEC Cham-
pionship for the first time in 
three years, they’ll have to 
beat Georgia, who has out-
scored the Gators 78-24 in the 
last two matchups.
As the 2019 season heads 
toward its opening next 
month, Florida wants to ride 
the momentum it gained from 
last season’s success.
“We are ready for this up-
coming season,” Franks said. 
“We have done everything the 
right way this summer, going 
into fall camp, to prepare us 
for next season. So I think it 
is all just preparation-based, 
and our team has done a great 
job.”
 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgMEDIA DAYS,  from pg. 1UF faces Miami Aug. 24 
Associated Press
Gators defensive end Jabari Zuniga had 11 tackles for loss and 6.5 sacks for the Gators last season. 
Zuniga was named to the Lott IMPACT Trophy Watch List in May.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Feleipe Franks was drafted by the Boston Red Sox with the 947th pick in the 
MLB Draft despite not having pitched since his junior year of high school.
FOOTBALL
Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
Florida quarterback 
Feleipe Franks is now a 
professional athlete. He’s 
not getting paid by a foot-
ball team, however.
The Boston Red Sox, 
who drafted Franks with 
the 947th pick in the 31st 
round of the 2019 Major 
League Baseball Draft, 
agreed to terms with 
Florida’s signal caller on 
Friday.
The deal, which in-
cluded a $40,000 signing 
bonus, will not be enough 
to pull Franks from the 
Gators football team. He 
is expected to remain at 
Florida and play out his 
eligibility as UF’s quarter-
back.
While drafting a foot-
ball player who hasn’t 
played baseball in years 
may seem outlandish, 
this is not the first time 
Boston has drafted a Flor-
ida quarterback. The Red 
Sox selected former UF 
quarterback Jeff Driskel 
with the 863rd pick in the 
29th round of the 2013 
MLB Draft.
Driskel never played 
an inning for any Boston 
affiliate, but, like Franks, 
he took advantage of a 
contract signing bonus.
Interestingly enough, 
Franks hasn’t ruled out playing for the Red Sox in 
the future. 
“My main focus is 
football [in] college, then 
hopefully a career in the 
NFL,” Franks said at 
SEC Media Days. “Then 
(baseball) is kind of like 
a backup plan, backup 
job.”
While he is focused on 
football now, his baseball 
future may be dependent 
on how he develops as a 
quarterback. 
Franks had a rough 
rookie year, but he im-
proved drastically during 
his sophomore season. 
In 2017, he registered 
nine touchdowns and 
eight interceptions with 
just 1,438 yards passing. 
Last season, he jumped 
to 24 touchdowns against 
just six picks, along with 
2,457 yards through the 
air. 
His 2017 passer rating 
improved from 113.3 to 
143.3 in 2018.
If the trend of im-
provement continues, it’s 
possible Franks is drafted 
by an NFL team down the 
road. If he plateaus or de-
clines, however, then it’s 
possible Franks picks up 
a fielder’s glove.
Franks hasn’t pitched 
since his junior year of 
high school, but he can 
still toss pro-level heat. 
He was able to register 94 miles per hour on the 
radar gun after he was 
drafted. 
If Franks eventually 
makes the switch from 
football to baseball, he 
wouldn’t be a Gators 
trailblazer for quarter-
backs who went back to 
the diamond. 
Former Florida quar-
terback Tim Tebow is 
now a member of the 
New York Mets triple-
A affiliate, the Syracuse 
Mets.
The 31-year-old out-
fielder switched to base-
ball after a short stint 
in the National Football 
League. Like Franks, 
Tebow hadn’t played 
baseball since high 
school.
Even with all of these 
factors to consider, 
Franks is focused on be-
ing the Gators’ starting 
quarterback. 
Florida is coming off 
of a 10-3 season and a 41-
15 drubbing of Michigan 
in the Chick-Fil-A Peach 
Bowl under coach Dan 
Mullen. Both Franks and 
the Gators are looking to 
make another leap and 
compete for a national 
championship.
Baseball will have to 
wait.
doshea@alligator.org
@dylanoshea24Feleipe Franks agrees to terms with Boston Red Sox12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Craft Pints$6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Sam Adams Drafts
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue2pm - closeROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSChris King / Alligator Staff
Grant Holloway broke the American 60-meter hurdle record at the NCAA Indoor Championships with 
A time of 7.35 seconds.
er, a sort of “Where were you when 
it happened?” moment that will be re-
lived for decades.
For all the brilliance and brute 
displayed among the two conference 
rivals, for the atmosphere created in 
the Swamp and for its importance 
in revitalizing Florida’s season, this 
game is my  pick for Game of the 
Year.
@jack_braverman
jbraverman@alligator.orgWomen’s lacrosse vs. Stony 
Brook
The Florida women’s lacrosse 
team began the 2018-19 campaign in 
unusual form, losing six out of its ﬁ  rst 
10 games.
It was the worst start to a season 
in program history, so the Gators 
needed a performance to prove they 
could still compete with elite teams 
like Maryland and North Carolina.
That performance came on the 
road against then-No. 17 Stony Brook 
when UF defeated the Seawolves 11-10 to avoid a fourth-consecutive 
loss.
Florida and Stony Brook went 
back and forth in the ﬁ  rst half, 
which led to a 4-4 tie heading into 
the break.
The Gators began the second 
half on a 4-1 run, but the Seawolves 
answered back with a 3-0 run to tie 
the game at 8.
With 1:22 remaining in the con-
test, Stony Brook found the back of 
the net to cut Florida’s lead to 11-
10. They would have forced over-time if not for senior goalkeeper 
Haley Hicklen.
Hicklen came up with her 15th -- 
and arguably most important -- save 
of the game with 22 seconds left to 
take down the Seawolves.
The victory sparked an 11-game 
winning streak that resulted in UF’s 
ninth-straight regular season con-
ference championship and sixth-
straight conference tournament 
championship.
Because of the position that the 
Gators were in before this game, 
and how they responded after it, 
this deserves to be the Game of the 
Year.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.org
Men’s basketball vs. LSU
Florida and LSU faced off three 
times during the men’s college bas-
ketball season and each game had a 
bit of everything: overtimes, come-
backs, last-possession ﬁ  nishes, etc.
The game that jumped out to 
me the most, though, occurred in 
the SEC Tournament when the two 
teams met in the quarterﬁ  nals.
The Gators entered the game 
clinging to hopes of making the 
NCAA Tournament, needing a win against the Tigers to secure a tour-
nament berth for the third-consecu-
tive year.
Florida trailed by double digits 
for most of the game, but toward 
the middle of the second half UF 
made a run, cutting LSU’s 13-point 
lead to one.
The game was a back-and-forth 
affair from then on.
With 13 seconds to play and the 
game knotted at 73, Florida had 
the ball and one last possession to 
avoid overtime and catapult them-
selves into the NCAAs.
Keyontae Johnson drove to the 
basket, collapsing LSU’s defense 
and allowing Andrew Nembhard 
open space at the top of the key. 
Johnson’s pass set up his teammate 
for the open three.
Swish.
Nembhard’s three gave the 
Gators the 76-73 victory, advancing 
them to the SEC Semiﬁ  nals and se-
curing a trip to the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
That moment on that stage was 
massive for the UF men’s basketball 
team and because of that, I believe 
it’s the Alligator Awards Game of 
the Year.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 10Lacrosse defeated Stony Brook 11-10
mediate contender for a deep postseason run after getting bounced 
out by the Michigan Wolverines in the second round of the NCAA 
Tournament in March of this year.
The Gators will begin their season on Nov. 5 when they take on 
the North Florida Ospreys in Gainesville. 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg. 10UF 's class is ranked No. 7