We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators lose fourth-straight SEC road series
Pitcher T ommy Mace and the UF baseball 
team lost two of three games to LSU last 
weekend, pg. 14How Garth Brooks aﬀ  ected students
Students had complaints of parking and noise this past week-
end, pg. 8
Middle Eastern fashion
UF students showed off colorful garments this weekend, pg. 3MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 84
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
The ﬁ  rst thing Alina Mitchell handed ﬁ  re-
ﬁ  ghters was a box of photos. 
Mitchell, 62, continued to hand them per-
sonal items as she stood trapped in her kitch-
en, surrounded by suspended tree branches 
and pieces of her collapsed roof. As her home became more unstable, ﬁ  re-
ﬁ  ghters ﬁ  nally told her, “Ma’am we need to get 
you out, not the boxes.” 
On Friday morning during a severe thun-
derstorm, a large oak tree crashed through 
Mitchell’s Alachua home, damaging it so se-
verely that her landlord plans to demolish her 
house. 
Thousands of Alachua County residents were affected by the 4-hour thunderstorm. 
About 34,000 Gainesville Regional Utilities 
customers lost power and multiple businesses 
were closed, along with some trafﬁ  c lights not 
working.
Just before 11 a.m., Mitchell heard a large 
crack from outside her window. It was a famil-
iar sound to her. The trees in the wooded area 
near her home are old and often fall, she said. 
She wasn’t expecting what happened next.
The large oak tree crashed through the mid-
dle of her house, caving in the roof and missing her by just a few feet. 
“I thought I was having a nightmare,” 
Mitchell said. “I thought, ‘What the h---? How 
am I alive here?’ I really didn’t think I could be 
alive with the roof falling in on me.”
She started calling out to her son, Mitch, 
who was on the other side of the house. The 
tree hadn’t landed on him. He left the house 
and called ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters. 
The next day, she stood in what was once 
her kitchen, with the sun beating down on her Alachua family’s home destroyed by Friday storm 
SEE HOME,  PAGE 8GoFundMe started to ind new home
Photo by Chris King / Alligator Staff
THIS WAS THE FIRST PERFORMANCE AT 
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM IN 25 YEARS
By Tranelle Maner
Alligator Staff Writer
Garth Brooks took off his black Stetson cowboy hat in 
awe after the crowd joined him in belting out his favorite 
song from his early 20s. 
Before he started the song, Brooks warned the crowd 
that he was going to play a lot of old cowboy songs and 
told them to prepare.Once the crowd ﬁ  nished singing all of the words to 
“Fishin’ in the Dark” by the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band with 
Brooks, he couldn’t hold back his excitement.
“Are you kidding me?” Brooks screamed to the crowd 
of about 75,000 in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium Saturday night.
The country star took the stage to a sold-out crowd Sat-
urday during the third stop of his national Stadium Tour. 
This was the ﬁ  rst performance at the stadium in 25 years. 
Lack of parking spots, heavy trafﬁ  c and crowded seating 
issues all arose throughout the night.
Brooks performed a mix of what he described as old 
hits and “cowboy stuff” to the crowd. 
Garth rocks The Swamp 
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM CREATED A PLAN 
TO HELP STUDENTS OF COLOR
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Parents of students in the Alachua County Public School 
system say the plan the district created to close the gap be-
tween white and black students’ performance isn’t going to 
work.
In August, the school district implemented an equity plan 
to close the county’s achievement gap by 2028. The achieve-
ment gap is the disparity of academic performance between 
white students and students of color. Alachua County has 
the largest achievement gap between white and black stu-
dents in the state, according to the equity plan. 
The school district developed the equity plan after ana-
lyzing data that showed the achievement gap. To close the 
gap, it created a plan with ﬁ  ve goals. The goals are to im-
prove student test scores, allow more students to take ad-
vanced courses, increase graduation rates, reduce disciplin-
ary action and hire a more diverse staff.
“The equity plan is based upon making sure every stu-
dent reaches their full potential or has equal opportunity to 
do so,” said Valerie Freeman, the school district’s educa-
tional equity and outreach director.
Parents say some of the goals are unrealistic, may leave 
some students with disabilities behind and restrict further-
ing students’ education. 
Freeman said that the school board has been trying to 
increase parent involvement when it comes to addressing 
concerns over the equity plan. She said the school board 
switched meeting times to create conversations among of-
ﬁ  cials and parents in the community, but there hasn’t been 
much response.
“There has been a lot of miscommunication and misin-
formation. We really want parents to speak to us about what 
they want to change,” Freeman said. “Sometimes, it’s hard 
for them to come out, so we have been trying our best to get 
some sort of dialogue started.” 
Local education activist Chanae Jackson wasn’t sur-
prised when she read stories about black students in Ala-
chua County Public Schools underperforming compared to 
white students, she said.
Jackson only saw a list of suggestions and no real solu-
tions when she said she saw the public school system’s plan Schools to narrow 
achievement gap 
SEE GARTH,  PAGE 8
SEE EDUCATION,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
TODAY
Hippodrome Jazz Series
When: 7-9:30 p.m. 
Where: Hippodrome State 
Theatre, at 25 SE Second Place
What: The Hippodrome State 
Theatre will partner with the 
UF School of Music to bring the 
Hippodrome Jazz Series. Today 
will feature UF Jazz faculty with 
Scott Wilson and Clyde Connor. 
Tickets can be purchased at the 
Hippodrome’s website. 
TUESDAY
Impact Day benefiting Working Food
When: 7 a.m.-11 p.m. 
Where: Lucky’s Market 
Gainesville, 1459 NW 23rd Ave. 
What: Shop at Lucky’s Market 
and 10 percent of the day’s sales 
will go to the Working Food Youth 
Gardens Program. Working Food 
aims to cultivate and sustain a lo-
cal food community in north cen-
tral Florida. 
WEDNESDAY
SGP Presents: RL Grime ft. Lost Kings
When: 6:30-10 p.m.
Where: Flavet Field
What: This will be Student 
Government Production’s last 
free concert of the year. The Lost 
Kings, an American DJ duo, will 
open for RL Grime. They gained 
recognition after their remix of 
“Latch” by Disclosure played on 
the radio. RL Grime, previously 
known as Clockwork, produces 
trap, grime and bass music. After 
some musical collaborations, RL 
Grime released his debut album, 
“Void,” in 2014. 
Plant Nite at First Magnitude 
Brewing Co. 
When: 7-9 p.m. 
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, at 1220 SE Veitch St. 
What: This week’s featured proj-
ect is succulents with wood and 
glass assortments. People can 
learn how to decorate a terrarium 
and decorate with succulents. 
Tickets are $45 a person and can 
be purchased on yaymaker.com. 
With the code Yay10, people can 
get $10 off tickets. All planting 
supplies including a solid con-
tainer, soil, plants, rocks, decora-
tive elements and a smock will be 
provided.
Understanding Racial Inequities in Alachua County Report
When: 4-6 p.m.
Where: Thelma A. Boltin, at 516 
NE Second Ave.
What: The “Friendship Seven” 
group that commissioned a re-
port on racial inequities will help 
the community understand what 
steps are being taken and how 
the community can help address 
the issues revealed in the report. 
Local Impacts of Mass 
Incarceration: A community 
round table 
When: 6:30-8 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Room 2355 
What: Community members will 
address how they see the work-
ings of mass incarceration at the 
local level and share their ideas 
for imagining a different future. 
The event is free and open to the 
public. Event parking is in the 
Reitz Union parking garage or ad-
jacent lots on Museum Road. 
THURSDAY
Swamp Records Showcase 2019
When: 6 p.m.- midnight
Where: Heartwood Soundstage, 
at 619 S. Main St. 
What: The showcase will be a 
way to showcase local artists to 
people. Some of the bands include 
Jet Black Alley Cat, Hardcastle, 
flipturn, The Forum, Driveaway, 
Glass House Point, Runner’s High 
and Laney. There will also be 
food trucks and vendors. Tickets 
are $10.50 and can be purchased 
at heartwoodsoundstage.com. 
GCM Food Fest
When: 5-9 p.m.
Where: Celebration Pointe, at the 
Northwest corner of Interstate 75 
and Archer Road. 
What: More than 40 Gainesville 
restaurants will serve food from 
one location. Admission to the 
festival is free, but meal and drink 
tickets will be sold for $2 each, 
and can be redeemed for a meal 
or drink. VIP tickets are $75 each 
and can be purchased on event-
brite.com. Perks include food 
offers from MidiCi, Backstreet 
Blues Chop House and Oyster 
Bar, parking, four drink tickets 
and five general admission meal 
or drink tickets, a dessert bar and 
more. Some participating restau-
rants include Maple Street Biscuit 
Company, Piesanos, Gator’s 
Dockside, Los Pollos, Pomodoro, 
Mi Apá Latin Café, Gator BTW, 
FogBoxx, Potato Hub, Charlie’s 
Snow Shack, Crafty Bastards, Decadent Dessert Bar and more. 
Refreshment zones include Bud, 
Corona and Coke zones. There 
will also be a kids zone with face 
painting, bounce houses, laser 
tag and more. Music will be pro-
vided by Latin DJ Elio Piedra. 
Day of Wellness
When: 11 a.m.-7 p.m. 
Where: McCarty Hall C
What: This will be a space for 
studying and relaxing on the 
week before final exams. There 
will be a study room, meditation 
room, art room and group study. 
Snacks and refreshments will be 
served throughout. A free dinner 
will be served at 6 p.m., and there 
will be an art activity at 2 p.m. 
FRIDAY
Beyond Dead Fish: How red tide 
affects all Floridians
When: 2:30-4 p.m.
Where: Pugh Hall
What: Last year’s red tide caused 
widespread fish kills, econom-
ic impacts and environmental 
damage. The Thompson Earth 
Systems Institute at the UF will 
host a free public panel to ad-
dress the economic, public health 
and environmental impacts of 
harmful algal blooms. No regis-
tration is required and people are 
encouraged to arrive at 2:30 p.m. 
for refreshments. There is free 
visitor parking in the Reitz Union 
parking garage. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  52°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 84MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
BOOK SALE
APRIL 27 –– MAY 1, 2019
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH OR CHECKS ONLY
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
352-379-4686 Ground Level
MONDAY — FRIDAY
8 AM to 5 PM
saturday
9 AM to 2 PMThanks UF Family and 
class of ‘19 for a great 
52nd year of business. 
Walk-ins Welcome
OPEN ALL SUMMER
CALL TODAY!
    Reitz Union
Barber Shop
Good Luck and do
BIG THINGS!
MORE THAN 100 
PEOPLE ATTENDED
By Nushrat Nur
Alligator Contributing Writer
U.S. Rep. Rashida Tlaib watched 
the ﬂ  ow of bright reds and deep 
blues as UF students strutted in 
garments from various Middle 
Eastern cultures on campus this 
weekend.
UF Students for Justice in Pal-
estine hosted the second annual 
Middle Eastern Fashion Show at 
the Health Professions, Nursing 
& Pharmacy Auditorium Sunday 
afternoon. More than 100 people 
came out to the event, which con-sisted of a fashion show, Middle 
Eastern cuisine and the congress-
woman speaker.
About 20 models were intro-
duced, along with the outﬁ  ts they 
wore and each piece’s cultural sig-
niﬁ  cance. Traditional garments, 
ranging from cotton to colorful 
silk and chiffon dresses came from 
places like Bangladesh, as well as 
Palestine, Saudi Arabia and Jor-
dan.
Six current and future executive 
board members of the organization 
spoke about the importance of in-
corporating cultural events into the 
activism and organizing often asso-
ciated with SJP’s work.
“The fashion show was meant to show the culture and human-
ity of the Palestinian people,” 
said Saja Hussein, a 19-year-old 
UF political science freshman and 
SJP treasurer-elect. “I think it’s 
also important to know the people 
you’re ﬁ  ghting for.”
The models, who are all UF 
students, walked onstage from be-
hind billowy white curtains as high 
tempo Arabic music played from a 
speaker offstage. Men’s and wom-
en’s fashion were shown as they 
walked across the stage. 
After the fashion show, Tlaib, 
a Michigan representative, spoke 
on her experiences growing up as 
a Palestinian. The representative 
was not paid, Hussein said. She said her recent election as 
a congresswoman was bigger than 
herself.
Tlaib recalled drawing inspira-
tion from Shirley Chisholm, the 
ﬁ  rst black woman elected to the 
U.S. Congress. She said she applied 
the do-it-yourself, unapologetic 
way that Chisholm carried herself 
in the government despite the so-
ciopolitical circumstances.
“It’s unbelievable the things 
they want to do with us,” Tlaib 
said, “But we have the truth with 
us.”
Bull’s Dabke, a dance team from 
the University of South Florida spe-
cializing in a Middle Eastern dance, 
then gave a short performance.At the end, the executive board 
invited everyone for kanafeh, a 
traditional Palestinian dessert, 
and homemade tea prepared by 
the mother of an executive board 
member.
Grace Cope, a 21-year-old UF 
visual arts and entomology and 
nematology senior who is Jewish, 
enjoyed the event’s cultural focus 
in the conversation of Palestinian 
activism.
“I think in activist spaces, things 
get hot a lot of the time, and there’s 
so much passion,” Cope said. “I 
think it’s important to balance it 
out with the softness of culture and 
connecting with people because 
people really make movements.”U.S. Rep. Rashida Tlaib speaks at second Middle Eastern Fashion Show
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
U.S. Rep. Rashida Tlaib cheers on a model Sunday at Students for 
Justice in Palestine’s second annual Middle Eastern Fashion Show. 
Tlaib is the U.S. Representative for Michigan’s 13th congressional 
district and is the ﬁ  rst Palestinian-American woman in Congress. 
Tlaib spoke to the attendants after the show and discussed her 
Palestinian heritage. “Every time I walk into the halls of Congress, I 
know that I’m bringing all of you with me, ” she said. 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Bulls Dabke performs a traditional Levantine dance at Students for Justice in Palestine’s second 
annual Middle Eastern Fashion Show on Sunday. The group traveled from the University of South 
Florida to take part in the event. More than 100 people attended the fashion show, watched the dance 
performance and ate traditional Palestinian food. 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
to ﬁ  x the problem. 
“I’m sick of the school board 
patting themselves on the back 
for doing absolutely nothing,” said 
Jackson, a mother of three in the 
school district.
After the school year ends, the 
school district will be able to gath-
er data to measure the progress of 
student achievement, amount of 
students in advanced courses and 
graduation rates, said Jennie Wise, 
the executive director of curricu-
lum for Alachua County.
Goal one of the equity plan 
measures student achievement by 
a student’s score on the Florida 
Standards Assessment, a test taken 
at the end of the year to evaluate 
if students are ready for the next 
grade. The scores come out in July.   
To move to the next grade 
level, a student must score a 3 or 
higher out of 5 on the FSA. The eq-
uity plan showed that 45 percent 
more white students have passing 
scores in reading and math than 
black students, according to 2018 
results.
School district ofﬁ  cials want to 
close the gap between black and 
white students by 3 percent each 
year.
The main concern parents have 
with using test scores as the indi-
cator of success is that scores don’t 
take a child’s individual learning 
style into account. 
Patricia High, who has one 
child in the third grade, said her 
son’s ADHD diagnosis isn’t con-
sidered when taking the FSA. High 
said she has reached out to the 
Florida Department of Education, 
the Alachua County School Board 
and the Bureau of Exceptional Stu-
dent Education for extra help, but 
she has not received a response.
“He’s just going to be another 
child left behind by the system,” High said.
The second goal focused on in-
creasing the participation of black 
students in advanced courses.
Wise said the scheduling pro-
cess for advanced course registra-
tion relies on grades, teacher rec-
ommendations and pre-Advanced 
Placement test score reports, which 
will all be collected and analyzed 
this summer to show how much 
improvement has been made.
Universal screening for gifted 
classes looks at test scores and 
classroom achievement and has 
been expanded to seven schools, 
Wise said. 
Although the school year is not 
over, Wise said increased gradu-
ation rates from last year are an 
estimate of what the school dis-
trict can expect concerning the dis-
trict’s third goal.
Compared to 2017, the gradu-
ation rate for black students in-
creased by 11 percent. According 
to a report sent by Jackie John-
son, the district spokesperson, the 
graduation gap between white and 
black students closed by 8.7 per-
cent in one year.
Schools like Hawthorne Middle 
and High School have seen dra-
matic increases in graduation rates 
among black students. Compared 
to the last school year, gradua-
tion rates rose from 64.7 percent 
in 2017 to 100 percent in 2018, ac-
cording to the graduation report.
Wise said that due to the 
school’s small senior class with 
only 31 students, the data may not 
be the most representative.
School staff meets regularly to 
go through each student’s report, 
which includes classes passed or 
failed, grades and test scores, to 
address their needs, Wise said. 
Schools also have graduation 
counselors that take students step 
by step through the process to 
make sure they meet all require-
ments, such as passing and taking certain classes.
“It’s a lot of people putting eyes 
on every single student by student 
and making sure that all of the 
gaps and missing pieces are put 
into place,” Wise said.
Jackson has a senior of her own 
attending F.W. Buchholz High 
School, located in East Gainesville. 
Jackson said she believes numbers 
are inﬂ  ated and that the school 
board is gaming the system by not 
actually preparing students to en-
ter the workforce. 
Jackson said her son has told 
her that teachers said all he had to 
do was show up to class to earn 
his diploma.
“Instead of preparing black stu-
dents and ensuring that they will 
be successful in the post-second-
ary setting, the school board is just 
letting these students graduate,” 
she said. 
The fourth goal of reducing dis-
ciplinary action has had the big-
gest effect on students, Wise said. 
The school district aims to re-
duce out-of-school suspensions 
for black students by 15 percent. 
In Fall 2018, there was a 34.6 per-
cent decrease of suspensions. The 
Alligator could not ask about the 
drop because Donna Kidwell, the 
manager of this goal, couldn’t be 
reached for comment after a re-
porter reached out about three 
times through email and seven 
times through phone calls.  
Schools are also reducing the 
number of days for suspension, 
according to the district’s equity 
plan. By eliminating or decreas-
ing the number of times students 
are written up for non-violent of-
fenses, like tardiness and mobile 
phone usage, the school district is 
able to lower these numbers and 
provide alternative intervention, 
like counseling, for students. 
The last goal in the equity plan 
is to hire 10 percent more teach-
ers of color each year until they are more representative of the 
county’s population. 
Kevin Purvis, the Assis-
tant Superintendent of Human 
Resources, said the district’s 
black employees include 11 
percent of teachers, 23 percent 
of assistant principals and 28 
percent of principals. 
Thirty-four percent of stu-
dents in the school district are 
black, according to the equity 
plan.
Since last year, there has 
been a decline in black appli-
cants for teaching positions, 
Purvis said. Differing factors 
include lack of incentives, an 
uncompetitive salary and the 
district’s location.
The school district has been 
trying to combat this through 
different tactics like establish-
ing ties with historically black 
colleges and universities as 
well as attending more job 
fairs to recruit applicants, Pur-
vis said. 
“Our approach was to get 
out and really target and recruit 
black and all qualiﬁ  ed teachers 
that we can get,” Purvis said.
Jennifer Wade, a mother 
of three, said there is a lack of 
accountability from the school 
board when teachers handle 
situations. 
On Dec. 11, a teacher at the 
Duval Early Learning Academy 
slammed Wade’s son into a 
table and hit him in the cafete-
ria, according to a Gainesville 
Police incident report.
Having the school board sim-
ply apologize and have her resign 
wasn’t enough, she said. After the 
incident, Wade said she spoke to 
Purvis about her frustrations with 
having ill-equipped teachers.
“I understand it starts from 
home, and I do what I can, but 
honestly, they need some new 
type of teachers and curriculum,” 
Wade said. “I haven’t seen any 
progress.”
A majority of the plan’s success is rooted in the implementation 
of a culturally responsive teach-
ing method, Valerie Freeman said. 
Tactics include teaching educators 
and staff on how to meet speciﬁ  c 
students’ needs when it comes to 
community and school culture.
“You can’t be colorblind in the 
classroom anymore. It matters,” 
Freeman said. “It’s important that 
we make these acknowledgments. 
If you see it, you acknowledge it, 
you get to understand it. That’s 
what a child needs.”
A breakdown of the plan
Goal one: Improve test scores  
The Florida Standards 
Assessment scores, which 
measures the achievement of black 
students, will be released in July.
Goal two: Increase achivement 
of black students in adcaned 
classes  
This won’t be determined 
until schedules are ﬁ  nalized this 
summer.
Goal three: Increase 
graduation rates 
Eleven percent more black 
students graduated in 2018.
Goal four: Reduce disciplinary 
action  
Data shows that the number 
of suspensions has gone down by 
34.6 percent as of Fall 2018.
 
Goal ﬁ  ve: Hire more diverse 
staff 
Data shows that there have 
been fewer applications for 
teaching positions. EDUCATION,  from pg. 1Graduation rate for black students up by 11 percent· CRIME ROUNDUP ·MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
HE HAS $75,000 BOND
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man put his wife in a chokehold 
because she wouldn’t have sex with 
him Thursday, deputies said. 
At about 11 a.m., a woman told a 
deputy that her husband, Jacob McMa-
hon, 23, of Gainesville, tried to hold 
her down and have sex with her, ac-
cording to an Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. After she refused, 
he told her he was going to get what he wanted.
She said she began crying and tried to get up, but Mc-
Mahon threw a mirror at her, the report said. When she 
tried pushing him away, McMahon hit and shoved her. She broke the bedroom window to get away, but he 
put her in a chokehold, the report said. McMahon also hit 
himself with a shoe and said he would send her to jail.
A witness told deputies that when she went inside, 
she saw McMahon standing over his wife while she was 
curled up in the corner of the room, the report said. 
His wife had a bruise and a red mark near her left eye, 
a nosebleed and blood on her lips and hands, the report 
said.
McMahon told the deputy she was high, and when he 
refused to have sex with her she “went crazy” and struck 
him repeatedly in the head, the report said. 
He was charged with domestic battery by strangula-
tion and false imprisonment, the report said. 
McMahon remains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $75,000 bond. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org Man accused of choking, throwing mirror at wife
HE HAS $170,000 BOND
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man didn’t stop stealing from 
his friend’s mother’s home in early 
April, deputies said. Then, he was 
arrested.
On April 2, a woman came home 
and found her living room TV on 
the ﬂ  oor next to the door and not 
on its stand, according to an Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest 
report. 
When she searched her home, 
she discovered her apartment keys, 
a ﬁ  replace remote, a pendant, a necklace, a ROKU 
TV remote and 
an acoustic guitar 
were stolen from 
her apartment in 
the Cricket Club 
II complex, at 505 
SW 72 St., the re-
port said. 
She believed Aubrey Mathis, 
26, of Newberry, stole the items, 
the report said. Her son used to be 
friends with Mathis, and he often 
stayed over. 
Two days later, Mathis returned 
to the apartment and stole the liv-
ing room TV and “juice” for elec-
tronic cigarettes, the report said.
Mathis was seen in video sur-veillance from Oaks Pawn South, 
at 2530 SW 34th St., selling the TV 
and one of the son’s guitars, the re-
port said.
On April 6, the woman woke up 
and saw Mathis in her kitchen, the 
report said. She asked him what he 
was doing, and he ran away. Mathis 
was arrested on April 8.
He was charged with unarmed 
burglary of an occupied dwelling, 
two counts of unarmed burglary 
of an unoccupied dwelling, two 
counts of dealing in stolen property 
and two counts of fraud, the report 
said.
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org Man allegedly steals from apartment three timesMcMahon
Mathis
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman covered in blood opened the front door when 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers knocked to check on a domestic 
disturbance Friday, police said. 
She told police it came from her girl-
friend’s period during sex, police said. 
Desiree Days, 23, of Gainesville, had 
blood on her shirt, arm and leg when she 
answered the door at about 3:20 a.m., 
according to a Gainesville Police arrest 
report. Ofﬁ  cers said the blood did not ap-
pear to be hers. 
Ofﬁ  cers asked Days to call her girl-
friend so they could check on her, but she 
refused. Police went inside and found a woman wrapped in 
a towel, the report said. An ofﬁ  cer saw blood ﬂ  owing down 
her hair line and multiple lumps and bruises on her face 
and head.
The girlfriend told the ofﬁ  cer her injuries came from 
“rough sex” with Days, the report said. 
Neighbors called 911 after hearing loud noises from the 
apartment, the report said. Two witness said they saw Days 
push, punch and drag the woman. One of them saw Days 
slam the woman’s head against an outside courtyard wall.
When an ofﬁ  cer checked the wall, the ofﬁ  cer found blood 
splattered and smeared, the report said.
While in handcuffs, Days shook herself free and tried to 
run away, the report said. Days appears to have a swollen 
eye in her mugshot.
Days was charged with battery and resisting an ofﬁ  cer 
without violence, the report said. She was released from the 
Alachua County Jail Saturday on her own recognizance.
When Days’ phone number listed on the arrest report 
was called, an unknown man answered and gave no in-
formation on Days or the crime. He or Days couldn’t be 
reached on further calls. 
@Lina_Ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org Woman accused of battery, 
said blood from period sex
Days
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsWe mourn along  
with Sri Lanka
Easter, a day of celebration for Christians all over the 
world, turned into a day of mourning after three 
churches in three Sri Lankan cities were torn apart by 
bombs, wreaking havoc on families and friends in wor-
ship. The bombings have killed at least 207 people and 
injured 450 people. Officials believe the attacks, which also 
included bombings at high-end hotels in Sri Lanka, were car-
ried out by suicide bombers in a coordinated act of terrorism. 
We cannot imagine the hurt and pain of the people di-
rectly affected by these acts. We can only offer our sincerest 
condolences and the promise that we stand against all forms 
of hate. This past weekend was supposed to be a time for 
celebration, but now it will go down in history as a day of 
sorrow. It is yet another day in recent history where a date 
will become a day of remembrance for a devastating act of 
violence. 
About a month ago, two mosques were attacked in New 
Zealand, killing 50 people. In October of 2018, a gunman 
opened fire in a Pittsburg Synagogue killing 11 people. In 
2017, a gunman killed 27 people at a Texas church. These 
were people practicing their respective faiths and looking 
for a place of solace and comfort. Instead, they were killed. 
These are egregious examples of intolerance and hate that 
will haunt those affected and their families for the rest of 
their lives. 
The world is full of hundreds of practicing religions, lan-
guages and nationalities. Clearly, we’re all different, but we 
can all be accepting of those differences. Acts of hate have 
no place in our society, yet we are continually devastated by 
unbelievable violence. Acceptance and love are not instantly 
adopted feelings and qualities. Sometimes they take an entire 
lifetime to teach. However, tragedies like these are reminders 
to be tolerant in our everyday lives and to accept and even 
appreciate those who are different from ourselves. 
On Friday, The Alligator published UF President Fuchs’ 
column. In it, he wrote about the importance of tolerance and 
acceptance regarding religion, and we would like to reiterate 
his sentiment. Throughout American history, really all histo-
ry, understanding the differences of others has not been eas-
ily achieved. Cultural movements spanning decades with the 
sole intent of equality are still ongoing. We are continually 
battling injustices in our society, and that is not going to end 
anytime soon. However, our greatest step toward stopping 
acts of violence like the ones from yesterday is practicing 
kindness in our everyday lives and promoting that kindness. 
We are not naive enough to think a few kind words will 
bring about world peace. However, they are the best tools 
we have in our everyday lives to battle hate. In the end, they 
are also what bring about the most comfort in times of trag-
edy. Along with practicing tolerance, we have to be willing to 
teach others about our beliefs and struggles. Understanding 
can only come from teachings or experiences because, with-
out it, people often misinterpret information our messages.  
Sri Lanka mourns and so do we. However, let it be a re-
minder to look at your neighbors, classmates, friends and 
most importantly, strangers and find a connection — some-
thing that will bring you together. We have to be open-mind-
ed in our conversations and interactions to heal and grow in 
these times of tragedy. When people think of eating disor-
ders, they often imagine a stick-
thin woman comparing herself to 
models or Barbie dolls. We often 
fail to realize people of all body 
types struggle with eating disorders, includ-
ing men. Parents worry about their daughters 
starving themselves but don’t think to check 
on their sons’ eating habits, despite the fact 
that one out of three people afflicted with an 
eating disorder is a man.
Eating disorders such as anorexia, bulimia and binge-
eating disorder affect people of all shapes and sizes de-
spite how the media portrays these diseases. In films, 
we are shown paper thin women struggling with eating 
disorders, and while this can be accurate, not everyone 
who struggles with these diseases looks like this. The 
next time your friend undergoes a major weight loss, 
stop and make sure the way they achieved their goal 
was safe for their body. Rapid weight loss brought on by 
starvation or vomiting is extremely dangerous for your 
body, regardless of a person’s size. Long-term effects of 
eating disorders can include but are not limited to osteo-
penia (the loss of bone calcium), osteoporosis (the loss 
of bone density), infertility and heart failure. Those who 
die from eating disorder complications typically die of 
heart disease. 
Most eating disorder clinics focus on women as their 
clientele, too often ignoring men who also need help. 
The language on most surveys, pamphlets and websites 
is often geared toward women, resulting in boys with 
eating disorders feeling misunderstood or left out of the 
discussion. Eating Disorder Hope, a website for eating 
disorder resources, even described anorexia as “ravag-
ing a woman’s body,” failing to acknowledge that eating 
disorders are just as dangerous to the men who are strug-gling with them. 
Due to the stigma surrounding receiving 
help for an eating disorder, there are likely 
more men and boys with eating disorders than 
the statistics show. The media portrays an-
orexia and bulimia as diseases afflicting only 
females, causing males with eating disorders 
may be to possibly be discouraged from getting 
help due to the fear of being labeled as “femi-
nine,” or “gay.” Not only are boys often dis-
couraged from receiving help, but it can also 
be difficult for them to actually get the help they need. 
The ways to diagnose an eating disorder are also 
aimed toward females, with one symptom of anorexia 
being “irregular menstrual cycles.” Most eating disorder 
treatments are done in group settings, like group therapy, 
which teen boys often do not want to partake in, accord-
ing to the National Center of Biotechnology Information. 
Terminology regarding eating disorders and the treat-
ments offered too often exclude boys and men in need 
of help. 
It is important to understand that eating disorders 
don’t just look like the stereotypical skinny woman. They 
look like your roommate, your brother or your mom. Eat-
ing disorders can display themselves through extreme 
binge eating or through eating regular meals but leaving 
to purge. Check up on your friends, family and partners 
to ensure they are maintaining healthy eating habits. As 
humans, regardless of gender, we are constantly compar-
ing ourselves to others, and in our teenage years, this 
problem is exacerbated. We have to remember to check 
on all of our loved ones, not just those the media has told 
us to check on. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Eating disorders affect everyone, not just women
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
“How lucky I am 
to have some-
thing that 
makes saying 
goodbye so 
hard.”
I have seen this quote from 
“Winnie the Pooh” used ad 
nauseam by my peers as they 
lament over closing this chap-
ter of their lives with gradua-
tion just under two weeks away. To be 
honest, though, I don’t get it.
I remember hearing this same quote 
when I graduated from high school. It 
didn’t resonate with me then, either. 
By the time senior year rolled 
around, I had gotten everything I could 
get out of high school. I had made great 
friends, I passed my IB exams and I 
got accepted into my dream college. 
I did everything I thought created the 
“typical” high school experience such 
as going to some parties and sneaking 
out a few times (Sorry, mom and dad.)
By June 3, 2015, I didn’t ﬁ  nd it hard to 
say goodbye. I was ready to start a new 
chapter of my life.
Four years later, I ﬁ  nd myself in the 
same position. Don’t get me wrong: I 
loved my time at UF, but I can conﬁ  -
dently say I have outgrown Gainesville 
and I am ready to leave. I mean, isn’t 
that the point of college? Aren’t we sup-
posed to grow into better versions of 
ourselves? Isn’t our time here supposed 
to help springboard us into the next 
part of our lives?
When I came to college, I had pre-
conceived notions of what my college 
experience would be like. I couldn’t 
wait to join a sorority, I was dead set on 
going to law school and I was certain I 
would meet some dreamy frat boy who 
would fall in love with me over a game 
of beer pong. 
In reality, I dropped out of my soror-
ity my junior year, I nixed the whole 
law school plan when I started to study for the LSAT and I have deﬁ  -
nitely never fallen in love 
while standing on the sticky 
ﬂ  oor of a frat house.
Even though none of my 
original plans worked out, I 
am much happier with the 
path I did take. UF has served 
as a breeding ground for my 
intellectual development and 
personal growth. For that, I 
will always be thankful.
The skills I learned in my classes 
have helped me excel professionally 
and landed me my dream job in Wash-
ington D.C. I found my passion for poli-
tics and social justice, and The Alligator 
provided me with a space to share my 
voice. I met enough people to realize 
what I should, and should not, look for 
in friends, boyfriends and roommates. I 
shocked myself by training for and run-
ning a full marathon. I got to a point 
where I stopped caring about what 
other people thought of me and focused 
on what made me happy. I also learned 
some skills that probably won’t be ap-
plicable after May 4, like how to funnel 
a beer (Thanks, Caline.)
UF gave me some of the best years 
of my life and is the backdrop for many 
of my favorite memories. But, when I 
walk across the stage of the O’Connell 
Center in 10 days, I am not going to 
view it as a hard goodbye, but as an 
easy hello.
I will leave UF fully prepared to 
move 900 miles away to start my ca-
reer without fear of failure. The lessons 
I learned in and out of the classroom 
gave me the conﬁ  dence to succeed out-
side of the 352. I’m proud of the person 
I turned into on this campus and I’m 
ready to see what my next home has in 
store for me.
Abigail Miller is a journalism and 
political science senior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.A goodbye: Catch you all later, AlligatorsColumn
Now that this day is here, the 
day of my last Alligator col-
umn, it may be appropriate 
for me to reﬂ  ect on what I 
have been trying to do here 
for the past couple years.
I think all of us columnists can 
attest that however long we have 
been writing for The Alligator, it 
doesn’t seem that long. We whip 
out columns week after week in a frenzy, with 
our heads down and focused. When we ﬁ  nally 
pick up our heads and breathe, we notice how 
late it is and how much time has gone by. Is 
the day really over? Is it really that late?
It is funny to attempt to reﬂ  ect on all of 
the things I’ve written for this paper because 
each column was born in a different context 
and under a different circumstance. I feel like 
a father of 50 children trying to say something 
unique about each one, even though I’ve for-
gotten some of their names. I’ve tried to write 
about various topics like technology, culture, 
college, politics, movies and even religion. 
Truthfully, I have tried to keep a few key 
themes prominent in each of my columns, no 
matter the topic at hand. Along the way, I’ve 
also learned a few things.
The ﬁ  rst lesson that comes to mind is that 
serious topics are incredibly nuanced and de-
mand reﬂ  ection. We tend to settle for cliché 
opinions about dynamic and important topics, 
but the truth tends to be more interesting than 
that. Of course, just because an opinion is 
interesting doesn’t necessarily make it some-
thing people will always like to read. There 
are plenty of misguided people who have, nev-
ertheless, mastered the art of the "hot take."  
However, the more I have written for this 
paper, the more I’m convinced of the impor-
tance of reﬂ  ection. Malcolm Muggeridge, an 
English author, once said, “Only dead ﬁ  sh 
swim with the stream.” The opposite is also 
true. Only living ﬁ  sh will swim against the 
current. To settle for what pop culture, or 
even our professors, teach us about people’s 
motives and then to take those things at face 
value is to miss out on the richness of reﬂ  ec-
tion.What does it mean to reﬂ  ect? 
Well, that is not an easy question. 
I am tempted to lob abstract deﬁ  ni-
tions at you. Some questions, or at 
least the important ones, cannot be 
answered quickly or easily. Instead, 
they must be lived. They must ﬁ  rst 
be felt and experienced before they 
can be addressed. In a way, all of 
my columns could be interpreted as 
attempts to live out that one question of what 
it really means to live a reﬂ  ective life.
I like the thought that one can live out 
questions and living is a way of understand-
ing. Normally we think the big questions, like 
whether God exists or whether life has mean-
ing, should be reserved for philosophy classes 
and huge libraries. In other words, we sepa-
rate everyday life from big questions. These 
questions aren’t for plumbers or bankers or 
engineering majors, we think. They have to 
be rigorously studied and discussed, and they 
only apply to a certain type of person in a very 
limited context.
However, if my experience counts for any-
thing, I think this is wrong. I think the big 
questions cut down the center of every per-
son’s life and heart. In our everyday lives, es-
pecially in the most boring parts of the day, 
deep questions are asked and answered and 
asked again. Better still, deep questions are 
lived by all of us every single day. Life itself 
is a question we all try to answer. It is a book 
we all study and a painting we all try to under-
stand. This is perhaps the greatest lesson I’ve 
learned while writing for The Alligator.   
J. R. R. Tolkien once said about “The Lord 
of the Rings” that his “tale grew in the tell-
ing.” I’d like to think something similar has 
happened to us over these past few years and 
that you and I have grown together while 
thinking through things. It has been a wonder-
ful experience thinking alongside you, and it 
is something that will always remain a warm 
memory. I hope you have been as enriched as 
I have been. Thank you for reading.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column normally appears on Wednesdays.A few last thoughts and a ﬁ  nal goodbye ColumnOne week ago today, the world was 
rocked by the news that a symbol, 
a monument to creativity and a 
cathedral were all burning: Notre 
Dame Cathedral was on ﬁ  re.
If you’re wondering what the fuss is 
about regarding this medieval church, allow 
me to explain. Notre Dame Cathedral, for-
mally known as Notre-Dame de Paris, “Our 
Lady of Paris” in French. The cathedral is 
a Gothic style church on the Île de la Cité 
in Paris, France. Gothic refers to a style of 
architecture characterized by grand height, 
ﬂ  ying buttresses for support, pointed arches 
and a generally ornate and luxurious ap-
pearance. In fact, this appearance is part 
of what makes Notre Dame so signiﬁ  cant. 
Though far from the only example, Notre 
Dame is probably the most well-known ex-
ample of Gothic architecture in the world. 
Gothic architecture had its heyday from the 
mid-12th century until the 16th century, 
contributing to a ﬂ  ourishing of art even be-
fore the Renaissance. Gothic architecture 
still resonates today. Take a walk around UF’s Historic District and look at 
the University Auditorium to see 
it. With its arched windows and 
exterior buttresses, it is an ex-
ample of Gothic architecture on a 
much smaller scale.
In addition, Notre Dame is 
a symbol of both Paris and the 
whole nation of France. While 
other symbols like the Arc de Tri-
omphe and the Eiffel Tower reﬂ  ect France’s 
more recent history, Notre Dame is the 
most famous symbol of France’s medieval 
era. While the medieval era has often been 
derisively referred to as the “Dark Ages,” 
it was also when the nation of France as 
we know it today began to take shape. The 
same king who developed Notre Dame, 
Louis VII, also pushed for the centralization 
of France, which continued under Louis’s 
son King Philip II. As France moved from 
the feudal era to the Renaissance and even-
tually became the most powerful state on 
the European continent, Notre Dame stood 
on the banks of the Seine as a monument to both France’s past and its great 
hope for the future. Notre Dame’s 
13 million visitors a year is just 
one testament to its continuing 
relevance.
While Notre Dame’s ﬁ  re is 
a big loss, it’s not the ﬁ  rst time 
the historic cathedral suffered 
damage. Notre Dame was des-
ecrated during the French Revo-
lution, and before Victor Hugo published 
his novel “The Hunchback of Notre Dame,” 
the church had fallen into disrepair. Hugo’s 
novel, however, reignited public interest 
in Notre Dame, leading the French govern-
ment to order a major restoration of the ca-
thedral. Just like Victor Hugo led to the ﬁ  rst 
major restoration of Notre Dame, this ﬁ  re 
brought the Gothic structure into the pub-
lic consciousness, inspiring renewed inter-
est in the cathedral and helping to raise the 
funds for a new restoration. 
In fact, Notre Dame was already under-
going a renovation at the time of the ﬁ  re. 
However, this effort had only raised $6.8 million of the $169 million that was need-
ed. In the wake of the ﬁ  re, major compa-
nies like Disney have pledged millions of 
dollars for the restoration, and billionaires 
like François-Henri Pinault, a fashion mogul 
and husband of actress Salma Hayek, and 
Bernard Arnault, the richest man in France 
and CEO of the luxury goods company be-
hind brands like Louis Vuitton, have also 
donated to the reconstruction. Altogether, 
almost $800 million dollars was raised for 
Notre Dame’s restoration in just a few days. 
Perhaps there’s a silver lining to all this. 
People are now talking about Notre Dame. 
It’s all over the news, and everyone from 
regular folk to celebrities is showing their 
support, whether through words or through 
donations. While it’s unfortunate it takes a 
devastating ﬁ  re to get people talking about 
a historic church and a French symbol, we 
might as well appreciate it while we can.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. 
His column appears on Mondays.Notre Dame ﬁ  re brings both destruction and recognition to a national iconColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
through the gaping hole in her roof, 
wondering what to do next. 
“I’m homeless now,” Mitchell 
said. “I don’t have a home anymore.” 
Until Mitch and Mitchell find a 
new place, they are staying with 
Mitchell’s daughter, Sita, who is a 
25-year-old UF advertising senior. 
Sita said she’s been through a 
rough few months, helping care for 
her mother who was diagnosed with 
clear cell carcinoma, a rare form 
of cancer, in August and her older 
brother Mitch’s OCD and schizophre-
nia.
When she got the call that her 
childhood home had been destroyed, 
she said she first panicked.
“This is where I grew up. This 
is where I left my stuff. That’s my 
room,” Sita said. “This is my house. 
I always thought it was going to be 
here forever.” 
After reeling from the loss of her 
old home, she went into survival 
mode and tried to find ways to help.
Before the storm hit, the family 
was already going through financial 
struggles. About a month ago, Sita 
decided to create a GoFundMe page to raise funds for 
her mother’s cancer treatment and care. She said she 
never published it because she didn’t want to ask for 
money.
With the storm potentially costing her family thou-
sands of dollars to get back to their normal life, Sita 
decided to publish the page, asking contributors to help 
raise funds for a new home for her mother and brother.
The family’s goal is to raise $10,000, and the page 
had already received $2,293 in contributions in the first 
day of its publishing.
Sita said she only has a month to find her family a 
new home because she is planning to move to Chicago 
for an internship after graduation.
“Neighbors I’ve never met are coming and giving me 
money,” Mitchell said. “I’m beside myself.”
Standing in the remains of the kitchen, Mitchell and 
her daughter laughed looking back at the idea of her 
sending all her boxes out of the house with the firefight-
ers first. 
However, for Alina, saving all the baby photos of her 
kids was worth it. 
“I was like, ‘You’ve got to get my photo box first,’” 
Mitchell said. “It was just like what you see in a movie.” 
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgHOME,  from pg. 1‘I’m homeless now. I don’t have a home anymore’
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Sita Mitchell, 25, stands in the bedroom where her mother was sitting when the large 
tree crashed through the roof of her childhood home during a severe thunderstorm 
on Friday morning. “In my entire life living here, I’ve never seen a storm come and go 
so fast, ” Mitchell said. 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
The tree crashed through the middle of the house, damaging it 
beyond repair.
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Garth Brooks concertgoers were given 
parking priority while UF students struggled 
to find spots Saturday. 
On Thursday, UF Transportation and Park-
ing Services sent an email to UF students, 
staff and faculty about reserved concert park-
ing, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. It 
closed 16 on-campus reserved parking areas 
on Friday and Saturday. The concert noise 
and parking shortage caused problems for 
students before finals week. 
The Commuter Lot, Welcome Center Ga-
rage and other parking areas were reserved 
for $25 to $50, according to the notice. Alter-
native parking lots were not given.
Jenna Waterous, a 20-year-old UF market-
ing junior, usually parks at Garage 4 on New-
ell Drive to study on the weekends at Marston 
Science Library.
Waterous saw parking complaints on Face-
book while driving to campus but still came 
to study for her business statistics exam. She 
didn’t see any UF parking notices in advance.
She saw concertgoers parked in apart-
ments complexes, along sidewalks and in the 
grass. 
“They were just letting the fans park wher-
ever,” Waterous said. “I’m confused about 
what people on campus were supposed to 
do.”
An O’Connell Center employee directed 
her to park at the Commuter Lot, Waterous 
said, but other employees at the Commuter 
Lot said she could not park there either. 
Waterous said there were many empty 
spaces in both garages.
“I hope they get towed because they defi-
nitely didn’t have decals,” she said. “They 
were all wearing boots and hats and camo, 
and I was like, ‘I don’t need this on my cam-
pus.’”
Reserved parking lots were selected to 
minimize the event’s effect on students, said 
Scott Fox, UF Transportation and Parking Ser-
vices senior director, in an email. The Uni-
versity Athletic Association managed parking 
sales. 
“We heard from a handful of students ex-
pressing specific needs, so we made special 
parking accommodations for them on Satur-
day,” Fox said in an email. “That number was 
quite small.”
Shannon Moriarty spent two evenings lis-
tening to Garth Brooks’ music boom from the 
stadium in her Midtown apartment during his 
Friday soundcheck and Saturday concert. 
“I had a long day, a long week, and I 
just wanted to go home and relax,” said the 
20-year-old UF art history junior. “But all I 
could hear was Garth Brooks — he was ev-
erywhere.”
Moriarty created a meme that showed how 
loud the concert was. The meme included 
characters from the television show Sponge-
Bob SquarePants. Squidward was labeled 
as “Me in my apartment behind mid,” and 
SpongeBob was smiling as Garth Brooks. 
She hopes future concerts are planned with 
more noise and traffic notice for students. 
“We live here. We don’t just come here for 
Garth Brooks,” Moriarty said. 
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgBrooks UF concert 
disrupts  students
In the middle of his show, he and his 
wife, fellow country artist Trisha Yearwood, 
performed a rendition of Tom Petty’s hit “I 
Won’t Back Down.”
He said he was surprised by the crowd’s 
energy and participation when they sang 
along to every song.
“It don’t matter what I throw at ya, you’re 
gonna sing it like that, huh?” Brooks said. 
Chris Young, the winner of the country 
music competition show “Nashville Star,” 
opened for Brooks.
Brooks acknowledged the significance of 
his performance in the stadium.
“They say they haven’t had a concert here 
in over 20 years, well I’m gonna tell every-
one this is the place to come play right here,” 
Brooks said
Teresa Long Bell, 50, drove over an hour 
from Lecanto, Florida, to Gainesville to see 
Brooks. Bell said she enjoyed the few songs she heard from Young but was upset that 
parking issues caused her and her husband 
to be late to the show. 
“Getting to our parking lot was absolutely 
atrocious,” Bell said. “Traffic was horrible as 
there were no policemen helping divert traf-
fic further out.”
Emma Etzold, an 18-year-old UF health 
science freshman, said she is a huge Brooks 
fan and shares her love for the country star 
with her mom.
“My mom actually found out about it,” 
Etzold said. “She texted me — she sent me a 
screenshot — and was like ‘Do it!’”
Throughout the night, 18 individuals, 
none being UF students, were kicked out of 
the concert, according to a tweet from the 
University Police. Eleven were removed for 
disorderly conduct, four for intoxication, one 
for smoking, one for marijuana and one for 
battery.
People with field and stadium seats dealt 
with the difficulty of all trying to go through 
the same entrance.Gainesville resident Kathleen Jernigan, 
34, was disappointed in the lack of organiza-
tion, especially after going to the soundcheck 
the night before to see Brooks perform. 
Jernigan, who had seats on the field in 
front of Brooks, said that she was three or 
four rows from the front at the soundcheck 
on Friday night.
“I could pay $10 and get better than I’m 
getting now paying for these seats,” she said. 
Earlier that Friday, Brooks was unable 
to fly to Gainesville in time for an afternoon 
press conference due to a severe storm. The 
event was moved to Saturday afternoon.
At the conference, Brooks said he loves 
that the secluded Gainesville area builds an 
“us against the world” mentality in local resi-
dents.
“The kind of people that are coming here 
tonight. These are the kind of people I was 
raised around,” he said.
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.org    GARTH,  from pg. 1Some were disappointed in the organizationMONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
Decades ago, a half-built hotel was com-
pleted and used for government research. 
A successful hardware store is now home 
to a local music venue.
For The Alligator’s “Who is Gaines-
ville’s Project?,” a project about Gaines-
ville’s identity and relationship with UF, 
we looked into Gainesville’s architecture to 
understand years of tradition and change 
in the city.
Beyond the growth of city development 
and population, Gainesville is home to 
several buildings on the National Register 
of Historic Places, both on and off the UF 
campus. 
These buildings, including the Seagle 
Building, Baird Hardware Company and 
Tigert Hall, are establishments that have 
stood through Gainesville and UF’s growth 
and change. 
Seagle Building
West University Avenue is home to a 
building that sat half-built a century ago. 
The Seagle Building, at 408 W. Univer-
sity Ave., houses both retail shops and 
residential apartments. It’s been owned by 
different groups and individuals, but never 
by its namesake. 
The building was originally set to be 
named the Hotel Kelley. It was built dur-
ing the Florida Land Boom of the 1920s, 
a period of substantial growth in Florida 
real estate, said Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney, the 
curator of collections of the Matheson His-
tory Museum in Gainesville.
However, the Great Depression brought 
construction to a halt until 1936, Hof-Ma-
honey said.
“One of the really interesting things is 
how the Seagle building stood half built 
as a monument to failure for almost a de-
cade,” she said. 
Georgia Seagle, an entrepreneur, bought 
the building in the mid-1930s, Hof-Ma-
honey said. 
She gave it to UF on the condition that 
it be named after her late brother, John F. Seagle, Hof-Mahoney said. 
During her time in Gainesville, she 
rented out a house to students, now called 
Georgia Seagle Hall, Hof-Mahoney said. 
The Seagle Building served a lot of 
functions since 1936 including residential, 
commercial and research functions. Start-
ing in the early 1940s, UF’s electrical com-
munications lab conducted research from 
the top floors for the U.S. Department of 
Defense, Hof-Mahoney said.
The building also housed the Florida 
Museum of Natural History before it relo-
cated to its current location, Hof-Mahoney 
said. 
When David Holbrook purchased 
the penthouse of the Seagle Building, he 
learned about the role it served in World 
War II. 
“When I first bought the penthouse in 
the late ‘90s, older folks in Gainesville 
would approach me and say, ‘Hey I used 
to spot aircrafts from the balconies of the 
Seagle Building,’” he said. “I thought this 
story very incredulous at first, but it turned 
out to be true.”
The War Department developed prox-
imity fuses that were used against the Ka-
mikaze attacks during World War II, Hol-
brook said. 
The city of Gainesville condemned the 
building in the 1980s and the university 
returned the building to the city, said Hol-
brook, the current owner of the Seagle 
Building. A Kentucky developer purchased 
the building for $1,000 in 1981 and refur-
bished it. 
The first six floors were later purchased 
by a woman from Vero Beach, Florida, 
and subsequently by Holbrook’s family.
“Keeping the water where it’s supposed 
to be and making sure the pipes and roof 
are tight — that’s pretty much my job,” 
Holbrook said.
A portrait of the building’s namesake 
hangs in the penthouse of the Seagle 
Building, which is in the Department of 
Interior’s National Register of Historic 
Places.
“He is a very kind looking man,” he 
said. “John F. Seagle was a Gainesville 
resident with a very generous sister.”Baird Hardware Company Warehouse 
Heartwood Soundstage is home to mu-
sic and Gainesville concerts, but more than 
half a century ago, it was a home to tools 
and machinery. 
Baird Hardware, 619 S. Main St., opened 
in 1890 on courthouse square, Hof-Ma-
honey said. It was moved to a larger build-
ing in 1924. Eberle Baird, one of the two 
brothers who started the hardware compa-
ny and a member of a prominent local fam-
ily, died in 1930 and Cicero Addison Pound 
Sr. took over the hardware company. 
Pound Sr. brought the company to its 
most successful point, she said. In 1950, 
the company employed more than 100 peo-
ple, and it was completing retail sales, as 
well as wholesale distribution for a large 
portion of North Central Florida, bringing 
in about $4 million per year. 
Pound Sr. started working at the store 
when he was a teenager, sweeping floors 
for $1 per week, said Al Alsobrook, a for-
mer vice president of UF Government and 
Community Relations. Alsobrook’s wife is 
the granddaughter of Pound Sr.
Cicero Pound Jr., Alsobrook’s father-in-
law, took over after Pound Sr. died. Pound 
Jr. was one of the first aircraft carrier pi-
lots in the 1930s, Alsobrook said. He also 
laid out the grid for the search for Amelia 
Earhart. 
The Baird Hardware downtown store 
closed in 1967 after corporate stores like 
Walmart and Lowe’s Home Improvement 
came to Gainesville and took business, he 
said. 
“The appeal of a local hardware store 
went away when all the big boxes came 
in,” Alsobrook said. 
The Baird legacy remains in Gainesville 
in multiple ways. Some of the brick at Bo 
Diddley Plaza is from the hardware store’s 
original downtown location, Alsobrook 
said. The Baird Hardware Company is now on the U.S. National Register of Historic 
Places. 
Tigert Hall 
The administrative building located on 
13th Street was renamed its current name-
sake in 1960, after a president of UF who 
served from 1928 to 1947. 
John J. Tigert was invested in improv-
ing UF’s academics, athletics and stan-
dards, said Peggy McBride, the University 
Archivist. 
During his presidency, pre-law courses 
were implemented in the College of Arts 
and Sciences; the School of Architecture 
was separated from the College of Engi-
neering; he founded the Bureau of Econom-
ics and Business Research, which still ex-
ists today; and the university did research 
that benefited the state’s agriculture.
Tigert built UF’s first football stadium 
through a private loan that was backed by 
50 businessmen in Gainesville, McBride 
said. He is in the college football Hall of 
Fame for helping to create the SEC and es-
tablishing scholarships for college football 
players. 
“He was well liked within the commu-
nity because he was honest and straight-
forward, but kind,” McBride said. 
Prior to serving as UF’s president, Ti-
gert was the Commissioner of Education 
under Presidents Warren Harding and Cal-
vin Coolidge, McBride said. After his UF 
term, Tigert served on the Indian Higher 
Education Commission, setting up India’s 
higher education system. The reforms that 
he helped institute are still used today. 
“He really wanted this institution to be-
come a preeminent institution within the 
country,” McBride said.
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.org  Century structures: The names behind long-standing local buildings
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Seagle Building was built in the 1920s, but construction was resumed in 1936 after delays 
caused by the Great Depression. It never served as a hotel, despite being built for this purpose.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Tigert Hall was built to serve as an administration building. It was renamed to honor UF’s third 
president in 1960 and still serves administrative purposes today. 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
 Associated Press
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP) — 
More than 200 people were killed 
and hundreds more wounded 
in eight bomb blasts that rocked 
churches and luxury hotels in Sri 
Lanka on Easter Sunday — the dead-
liest violence the South Asian island 
country has seen since a bloody civil 
war ended a decade ago.
Defense Minister Ruwan Wijew-
ardena described the bombings as a 
terrorist attack by religious extrem-
ists, and police said 13 suspects 
were arrested, though there was no 
immediate claim of responsibility. 
Wijewardena said most of the blasts 
were believed to have been suicide 
attacks.
The explosions at three churches 
and three hotels — most of them in 
or around Colombo, the capital — 
collapsed ceilings and blew out win-
dows, killing worshippers and hotel 
guests in one scene after another of 
smoke, soot, blood, broken glass, screams and wailing alarms. Victims 
were carried out of blood-spattered 
pews.
“People were being dragged 
out,” said Bhanuka Harischandra, of 
Colombo, a 24-year-old founder of a 
tech marketing company who was 
going to the city’s Shangri-La Hotel 
for a meeting when it was bombed. 
“People didn’t know what was go-
ing on. It was panic mode.”
He added: “There was blood ev-
erywhere.”
Most of those killed were Sri 
Lankans. But the three hotels and 
one of the churches, St. Anthony’s 
Shrine, are frequented by foreign 
tourists, and Sri Lanka’s Foreign 
Ministry said the bodies of at least 
27 foreigners from a variety of coun-
tries were recovered. The U.S. said 
“several” American were among the 
dead, while Britain, China and Por-
tugal said they, too, lost citizens.
The Sri Lankan government im-
posed a nationwide curfew from 6 
p.m. to 6 a.m. and blocked Face-book and other social media, say-
ing it needed to curtail the spread of 
false information and ease tension 
in the country of about 21 million people.
Prime Minister Ranil Wick-
remesinghe said he feared the mas-
sacre could trigger instability in Sri Lanka, and he vowed to “vest all 
necessary powers with the defense 
forces” to take action against those 
responsible.Easter Sunday bomb blasts kill more than 200 in Sri Lanka
AP Photo/Chamila Karunarathne
A view of St. Sebastian’s Church damaged in the blast in Negombo, north of Colombo, Sri Lanka, 
Sunday, April 21, 2019. More than 200 were killed and hundreds more hospitalized with injuries from 
eight blasts that rocked churches and hotels in and just outside of Sri Lanka’s capital on Easter Sunday, 
ofﬁ  cials said, the worst violence to hit the South Asian country since its civil war ended a decade ago.
SG PROVIDES AT LEAST $10,000 
PER YEAR FOR INTERPRETERS
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
The lack of sign language interpreters 
in Gainesville meant a UF Pride Awareness 
Month event could not happen.
The Queer Deaf Experience, an event 
scheduled for Wednesday to discuss dating 
and discrimination in the queer deaf commu-
nity, was canceled Tuesday when no American 
Sign Language interpreters could attend, said 
Andrew McAuley, the executive director of UF 
Pride Student Union’s Pride Awareness Month. 
“It was important to raise awareness for 
the LGBTQ+ community and raise awareness for the lack of resources that deaf people have 
in America,” the 20-year-old UF microbiology 
and chemistry junior said. 
McAuley said he placed a request for event 
interpreters April 12.
The UF Disability Resource Center, which 
handles interpreter requests, must be notiﬁ  ed 
at least ﬁ  ve business days in advance, McAu-
ley said.
McAuley said he didn’t request earlier be-
cause he was instead focused on ﬁ  nding inter-
preters for the Pride Awareness Month drag 
show April 13. Interpreters could not attend 
that event either.  
Certiﬁ  ed interpreters could not be provided 
because of short notice and the limited number 
of interpreters in the area, said Gerry Altami-
rano, the director of the Disability Resource 
Center.“We’re not here to micromanage students’ 
programming,” Altamirano said. “We’re here 
to serve as access consultants.”
The Disability Resource Center contracts 
interpreters from the Center for Independent 
Living of North Central Florida, Altamirano 
said. He estimated there are about six to eight 
interpreters in the center.
If interpreters can’t be found through the 
Center, Altamirano said the center has also 
worked with a St. Augustine-based interpreter.
No representative from the Center for Inde-
pendent Living could be reached for comment 
for the next two weeks due to leadership on 
vacation, said Colette Gromoll, the organiza-
tion’s business manager.
UF SG provides at least $10,000 for inter-
preters for SG funded organizations, Altami-
rano said. One interpreter can cost $140 an hour dur-
ing 8-5 work hours and $160 on weekends and 
at night. Travel is also reimbursed. 
Altamirano said the drag show and the 
Queer Deaf Experience events were the ﬁ  rst 
times interpreters weren’t available since the 
Disability Resource Center started handling the 
requests for the 2018-19 school year. There 
have been 14 other requests this year, he said.
Altamirano said he will coordinate with the 
SG ofﬁ  ce to better educate organizations on ac-
cessibility.
“This speaks to the call for future ASL inter-
preters and students who may want to pursue 
that career to create access on campus and in 
our larger Gainesville community,” Altamirano 
said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.org Limited number of ASL interpreters leads to UF event cancellationBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsAcross from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1500/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100      4-24-19-5-2
4 LARGE BR / 1 BA, 1 BLK TO UF Campus 
Credit Union, School of Ed, Steps to bus. 
$410 / room or $1640 / mo. Patio, wood, car-
pet throughout. Kitchen & bath renovated. 
Pvt parking avail. Call or text 352-222-4141    
5-21-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Please recycle this newspaper.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
Time to sell your Fidget Spinner? Your 
Hoverboard? Looking to buy one? Check out 
the For Sale section for great results. 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy if running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
4/2 House For Rent In Historic Golfview 
Neighborhood. Available August 1st.
This house features a huge living room with 
pool table, patio with gas grill, washer/dryer, 
2 carports & is on a double lot adjacent to a 
2.5 acre wooded preserve. Located between 
the University Golf Course & Law School. 
Walk to campus. $2,200 a month.
Call John Ryan 954-258-5900.
4-22-19-5-2
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
★HIRING FOR JANITORIAL CLEANERS ★.
The positions: FT & PT include both heavy 
& light cleaning at a commercial business. 
MUST have transportation. APPLY NOW!! 
Call 352-258-1357                 4-24-19-6-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '19
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-16-19-4-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Every aluminum can you recycle saves the 
equivalent energy if running a 100 watt light 
bulb for three hours!
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Night Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time night shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
jbourne@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Lonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
Making America Goat Again
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-22-2-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Help the environment - recycle this paper 
when you’re done reading it.
1. In 2017, Houston’s George 
Springer became the third person to 
hit five home runs in a World Series. 
Name either of the first two to do it.
2. Which of the following four play-
ers hit the most home runs while in 
a Cincinnati Reds uniform: Adam 
Dunn, George Foster, Ken Griffey Jr. 
or Tony Perez?
3. Who was the last rookie running 
back before Jordan Howard in 2017 to 
represent the Chicago Bears in a Pro 
Bowl?
4. Which men’s basketball team was 
the last before Villanova in 2018 to 
win all six of its NCAA Tournament 
games by double digits?
5. In 2019, Washington’s Braden 
Holtby became the second-fastest 
goaltender to reach 250 victories (409 
games). Who was faster?
6. Through 2019, how many con-
secutive years has a Hendrick Motor -
sports driver won the pole for the 
Daytona 500?
7. How many times have Novak 
Djokovic, Roger Federer and Rafael 
Nadal combined to finish in the top 
three in the year-end ATP tennis rank-
ings?
Answers
1. Reggie Jackson (1977) and Chase 
Utley (2009).
2. Perez, with 287 homers, tops 
Dunn (270), Foster (244) and Griffey 
Jr. (210).
3. Gale Sayers, in 1965.
4. North Carolina, in 2009.
5. Ken Dryden did it in 381 games.
6. Five consecutive years.
7. Seven times.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 22, 2019King Features Weekly Service
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 River-end 
formation
6 Sprinted
9 “Dancing Queen” 
group
13 Disney mermaid
14 “A Doll’s House” 
heroine
15 Snow remover
16 *Last bit of 
decoration
18 “Dirty Jobs” host 
Mike
19 Casual tops
20 Pressure cooker 
sound
21 New Zealand 
fruits
22 Standing tall
24 Off the leash
25 Sentence part
27 Ones gathering 
for a will reading
28 Kimono-clad 
entertainer
29 Droop
30 Little devils
33 Pony up
34 *Coastal wetland 
often exposed at 
low tide
37 Corrida cry
38 Moving like sloths
40 Spanish river
41 Heart-shaped 
photo holder
43 Suddenly 
became attentive
45 Beat the goalie
46 Rural storage 
buildings
47 Serta alternative
48 Church ringers
49 Gives a hand
50 Religious 
subdivision
54 Like many ESPN 
broadcasts
55 Amount of TV 
watching limited 
by parents, 
and a hint to 
the last word of 
the answers to 
starred clues
57 “__-doke!”
58 Harbor structure
59 Slugger Judge
60 Party pooper
61 Pop-up 
annoyances
62 MixDOWN
1 Nutty
2 Only Great Lake 
that borders 
Pennsylvania
3 Ticket booth 
annoyance
4 Commercial 
lures
5 Every bit (of)
6 Awaken rudely
7 Fly ball 
trajectories
8 “Don’t think so”
9 Presupposed by 
experience
10 *Talks big
11 “Space Oddity” 
rocker David
12 Fills with wonder
14 “Hold the rocks”
17 Synonym-loaded 
reference
21 Zen garden fish
23 __ Emanuel, 
Obama’s first 
Chief of Staff
24 Attorney’s job
25 Gong sound
26 *Lone Ranger’s 
shout
27 “2001” computer
28 Rte.-finding aid29 Bay Area airport 
letters
31 Implored
32 Good to go
35 Guacamole, e.g.
36 Jack or hammer
39 State fish of 
South Dakota
42 Seer’s __ ball
44 How-__: DIY 
guides
45 Meal at 
Passover46 Fancy watch 
brand
47 Stable studs
48 Gooey mass
49 Etching fluid
51 County Kerry 
country
52 “Let’s do it!”
53 Take care of
55 Place for a 
massage
56 Arrest, as a  
perp
By Kyle Dolan
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, April 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 Minuet-like 
dances
10 Deaden, as a 
musical string
14 Bon Jovi genre
15 Bathymetry tool
16 Bamboozled
17 Memorable Ford
18 Toon that 
debuted in  
“Devil May 
Hare,” briefly
19 The Cyclones of 
the Big 12: Abbr.
20 Not ignorant of
21 Make smooth, 
perhaps
23 Sentry’s no-no
26 Sass
27 Coastal feature
28 Eighth of 24
29 Cosecant’s 
reciprocal
30 One of its ads 
involves Marco 
Polo playing 
Marco Polo
32 Prepared to leave 
the casino
34 Binge
36 Brand endorsed 
at prorodeo.com
39 City that gives its 
name to a dog 
breed
42 Dutch portraitist 
Frans
43 Bangalore wraps
45 Don Everly’s 
brother
47 Athena’s 
attendant
48 “I don’t give a 
darn what they 
do!”
49 Facebook action
50 Defensive denial
52 One way to 
stand
54 Intelligence org. 
formed under 
Truman
55 Backs up
56 Converted, in a 
way
59 Express line sign 
word
60 Lake Superior 
mining region
61 Root for a luau
62 Reunion 
entertainment 
group, maybeDOWN
1 Cured, in a way
2 Decorator’s 
accent, perhaps
3 Area 20 yards 
or less from the 
opponent’s goal 
line, in football
4 Japanese carrier
5 Count on a piano
6 Language __
7 “It’s not critical”
8 Reagan Airport, 
on tickets
9 Unlimited limit?
10 Forest females
11 Ringed worm
12 “The elixir of 
quietude”: E.B. 
White
13 Use a crowbar 
on
15 Send in a carton
20 Cunning types
22 Condescends
24 Spy novel pen 
name
25 Nouveau-
Mexique, par 
exemple
28 Craftsman 
offering
29 Six-winged 
being, in Isaiah31 __ railway
33 “Yeah, right!”
35 Pinlike?
36 Response to a 
knock
37 Lab notebook 
entries
38 Scattered
40 Doo-woppers 
with an 
eponymous 
’70s-’80s TV 
variety show41 Aquarius, for one
44 Unpredictable 
comedy style
46 Listed at sea
48 Red number
49 Whitewater VIP
51 Verne captain
53 Keller companion 
Sullivan
56 Lighter name
57 Yield from una 
mina
58 Chew the fat
4/19/1918 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 16 Health Services
PRESERVE WATER
TICK.TOCK.
Reduce your showertimeby 2 min.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Gator Al Horford 
registered a double-double 
with 14 points and 12 rebounds 
in the Boston Celtics' series-
clinching Game 4 win over the 
Indiana Pacers. Gators crash out of SEC Tournament
The No. 1-seed Florida men's tennis team is searching for answers after its 
elimination at the hands of No. 4-seed T ennessee. Read the story on pg. 16. BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team finally won an SEC road game 
on Thursday night.
The Gators hung 16 runs on No. 14 LSU in the series 
opener behind 20 hits. A late comeback brought the Tigers 
to a 16-9 defeat, but UF made a statement in arguably its 
biggest win of the season.
Unfortunately for Florida, that performance was not sus-
tainable. The Gators rolled over in their next two games, 
as they often have on the road, to drop a fourth-straight 
conference road series, dating back to 2018.
UF (26-16, 7-11 SEC) was outscored by 21 runs in the 
last two games. The series loss dropped Florida’s road re-
cord to 3-9.
Tommy Mace was UF’s best pitcher, earning his seventh 
win of the season after throwing seven innings and striking 
out nine batters while allowing four runs on 10 hits.
Florida held a 10-run lead when the bullpen took over.
Hunter Ruth and Kirby McMullen surpassed Mace’s 
earned run total in the two combined innings they threw, 
yielding five runs to LSU to make the score a bit more re-
spectable.
In total, the bullpen allowed 15 earned runs on 22 hits 
in 13.1 innings. Florida’s other two starters did not fare 
well against the Tigers, either.
Christian Scott took the mound on Friday night and al-
lowed five runs on six hits in 3.2 innings. He also walked 
three batters and struck only one out.
Jack Leftwich returned to the bump for the first time Pitchers struggle, Florida drops fourth-straight SEC road series 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Pitcher T ommy Mace struck out nine batters in seven innings against LSU in a 16-9 win on Thursday. It was the 
Gators' first SEC road win. Mace leads the team in wins (seven), innings pitched (63.2) and strikeouts (57).
 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
SOFTBALL LACROSSE
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The UF softball team was trying to 
avoid the sweep as it trailed 3-0 in the 
sixth inning on Saturday. Sophia Reyno-
so and Alex Voss stood on second and 
third with one out, presenting Florida’s 
best scoring opportunity of the day 
against Alabama. 
Hannah Adams stepped into the bat-
ter’s box and smacked a line-shot. Crim-
son Tide shortstop Claire Jenkins caught 
the ball and tossed it over to third base-
man Maddie Morgan, who received it 
just as Voss slid back into the bag. 
The play was extremely close. Third 
base umpire John Baca called Voss out, 
and the double play ended the inning. 
UF coach Tim Walton disagreed with 
the call, and he let Baca know. 
The hat was thrown. Dirt was kicked. 
An explicative or two was said. And Wal-ton was ejected. 
UF’s best scoring chance evaporated 
due to an umpire’s decision, but the team 
went 0 for 19 with runners in scoring po-
sition for the series, stranded 24 runners 
in total and scored only two runs. The 
Gators were swept at home for the first 
time since 2011, and the frustrations of 
the weekend compounded for Walton. 
The double-play call was just what 
brought those frustrations to life. 
“I think the key of the game is that we 
got no hits with runners in scoring posi-
tion today, not one single one,” Walton 
said after Friday’s doubleheader with Al-
abama. “I don’t know very many games 
we’ve ever won when we don’t get a hit 
with a runner in scoring position.”
Florida’s failure to capitalize on scor-
ing opportunities isn’t new. It’s an issue 
it has dealt with all season. 
The team was on an eight-game win By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida lacrosse team is streaking at the 
right time.
It started the 2019 season with six losses in 
nine games but has won seven straight ahead 
of the American Athletic Conference Tourna-
ment, which starts in the first week of May.
No. 18 UF remained undefeated in confer-
ence play after beating Connecticut 16-5 on 
Saturday at the George J. Sherman Family 
Sports Complex in Storrs, Connecticut.
Florida (10-6, 4-0 AAC) took down the Hus-
kies (2-14, 0-4 AAC) thanks to a few things:
Shannon Kavanagh’s versatility
Sophomore midfielder Shannon Kavanagh 
displayed her offensive and defensive abilities 
against UConn.
She recorded a career-high eight points, 
with five goals and three assists against the 
Huskies. The AAC Preseason Midfielder of the Year has notched a hat trick in 11 out of 16 
games this season.
She scored UF’s first goal of the game at the 
28:11 mark of the first half after Connecticut 
opened the scoring.
Kavanagh found the back of the net for a 
second time less than three minutes later to 
put the Gators up 2-1.
The sophomore added two consecutive 
goals at the tail end of a 4-0 run, giving Florida 
an 8-2 lead with 6:07 remaining in the first 
half.
Her final goal came near the midway point 
of the second half off a pass from junior mid-
fielder Brianna Harris.
She also collected three ground balls, 
caused two turnovers and controlled 13 draws. 
Kavanagh leads UF with 73 draw controls and 
has recorded at least one in 29 straight games, 
tying sophomore defender Sabrina Cristodero 
for most in program history.UF's offensive woes 
manifest against 'BamaKavanagh, second-half surge keeps 
Gators undefeated in conference play
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE LACROSSE,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
Marta Perez was in a difficult situation. 
Her approach shot on the decisive play-
off hole against Ole Miss landed short of the 
green and in the bunker. 
Her opponent, Macy Somoskey, pitched 
it out of the sand trap and landed within 
two feet of the hole. Perez’s answer was a 
botched attempt to land on the green. Perez 
double bogeyed while Somoskey sunk her 
putt to eliminate the Florida women’s golf 
team 3-2 in the quarterfinals of the SEC 
Women’s Golf Championship.
“This one stings for sure,” coach Emily 
Glaser said in a release. “In my opinion, 
based on stroke play and even how we 
played today, it’s hard to argue we aren’t 
one of the best teams here. But everyone 
who knows golf knows match play is a dif-
ferent animal, and we weren’t able to get it 
done today.” 
The Gators entered the first round of 
match play at the Greystone Golf & Country 
Club as the top seed after they finished 1 
under in the first three days of stroke play. 
They matched up against the No. 8 Reb-
els, with the winner advancing to the semi-
final round on Sunday. 
Elin Esborn was the first to fall for Flor-
ida, losing to Kennedy Swann on the 16th 
hole 3 and 2 after trailing for 15 of the 16 
holes. Clara Manzalini quickly answered back 
for the Gators, though, putting their first 
point on the board with her victory over 
Conner Beth Ball. The freshman from Italy 
needed just 15 holes to put the match away, 
defeating Ball 4 and 3 after winning three of the final six holes. 
Sierra Brooks also added a tally to the 
victory column for Florida, defeating El-
len Hutchinson-Key 5 and 3 after dominat-
ing from start to finish. Brooks didn’t trail 
Hutchinson-Key once, finishing the match in 15 holes by also winning three of her last 
six holes.
Addison Baggarly had the opportunity 
to claim the victory for Florida, but trailed 
early to Julia Johnson. She entered the back 
nine down two holes and played her way 
back into it by trailing by just one entering 
the final hole. She dropped the hole and the 
match, giving the Rebels their second point.
Perez and Somoskey had a back-and-
forth affair. Their scores were even 11 times 
throughout the 19 holes — two more times 
than all the other matches combined. 
Somoskey entered the playoff hole after 
leading for just one hole the entire match, 
compared to Perez’s six. She held a slight 
lead after carding a birdie on 14, but Perez 
bogeyed on the 17th to reopen the door for 
Ole Miss and Somoskey. Perez’s sand shot 
hurt the Gators’ chance of a first place fin-
ish, as her up-and-down effort following the 
blunder wasn’t enough to defeat Somoskey.
The Gators dropped the match to the 
eventual SEC women’s champions, as Ole 
Miss went on to defeat Georgia in the semi-
final round and beat No. 2 South Carolina in 
the final to claim the SEC Tournament title. 
“As hard as it is to see the good in to-
day’s outcome, we have to think big picture 
and allow this to motivate us for the rest of 
the season,” Glaser said.
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgFlorida stunned on playoff hole in quarterfinals
Alligator File Photo
Sierra Brooks won her match over Ole Miss’ Ellen Hutchinson-Key 5 and 3 at the SEC 
Women’s Golf Championship on Saturday. She never trailed in the match. 
TRACK AND FIELD
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
The LSU Alumni Gold Meet featured two 
of the three best 4x100-meter relay teams in 
the country: No. 1 LSU (38.41) and No. 3 
Florida (38.69). The Gators relay consists of 
juniors Grant Holloway and Raymond Ekev-
wo, sophomore Hakim Sani Brown and senior 
Ryan Clark. 
It was the most anticipated race of the 
meet. It seems that both relay teams prefer 
to be away from home, as UF corrected its 
handoff woes from Florida Relays nearly three 
weeks ago, while the Tigers had a slightly off 
day on Saturday in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  
LSU escaped the weekend still holding the nation’s best time. UF shrunk that gap, but 
did not completely close it, as Florida shaved 
off fourteen milliseconds of time to clock in at 
38.55 seconds. The Tigers finished their lap in 
38.82 seconds. 
LSU might still be the best 4x100 team on 
paper, but the momentum shifted this week-
end. That shift is crucial this time of year, as 
there is essentially no break from now until 
NCAAs.
The 4x100 is the only relay that requires 
large amounts of practice time to get handoffs 
totally down. The Gators hitting their handoff 
stride while LSU struggled is ideal for Flori-
da ahead of what should be a tight finish at 
NCAAs between the two schools and No. 2 
Houston. Holloway is the best overall track athlete 
in the country by a decent margin. On Sat-
urday, he went straight from the relay to the 
long jump and won the event on only his sec-
ond jump. His score of eight meters puts him 
easily in NCAAs, so he decided to forgo all 
of his jump attempts after and no one at the 
meet topped that jump. 
The men’s team currently sits at No. 3 
overall, while the women sit at No. 7. The 
men are a deeper team all around, and the 
women mostly rely on their jumpers and a 
slew of distance runners.
Senior Yanis David came in second in the 
long jump for the women at 6.40 meters, elect-
ing to not use her final three jumps, since she 
is already No. 4 in the country in that event.Her teammate, Kala Penn, sits a spot be-
hind her nationally. The only short-middle 
distance runner expected to take home any-
thing significant in June on the women’s side 
is senior Sharrika Barnett, whose 400-meter 
time of 50.96 is the fastest in the nation by 
almost a full second. 
Saturday only showed so much about 
where both the UF men’s and women’s teams 
stand, since most of the top performers be-
sides the 4x100 men’s team either did not 
compete in their best events at all or hung it 
up early, like Holloway and David. 
gmarsh@alligator.org
@GrahamMarshUFUF begins difficult stretch with solid outing at LSUMEN’S GOLF
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team en-
tered the final round of the Robert 
Kepler Intercollegiate in fourth place 
at 20 over.
None of the 15 teams finished 
with a score under par after the first 
day of the event, but that was not the 
case in the second.
Seven teams were below even 
par, including the Gators, who tied 
Rutgers for the best second-day 
score (7 under).However, UF’s strong perfor-
mance on Saturday did not make up 
for its poor showing in the opening 
round. Florida ended the tourna-
ment in third place with a score of 13 
over, eight strokes behind first-place 
Ohio State.
Florida had four starters place in 
the top 25, which led to its second-
best finish of the 2018-19 campaign.
“I’m very proud of all the guys,” 
coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. 
“For us to come up with one of our 
best rounds of the year when we 
needed it most — that’s so awe-some.”
Sophomore Chris Nido and senior 
Gordon Neale led the Gators with a 
3-under scores in the final round.
Nido posted four birdies on his 
last four holes, while Neale had only 
one bogey on the last day.
“For Chris (Nido) and Gordon 
(Neale) to step up like they did is so 
huge,” Deacon said. “Both shooting 
68 and Chris making four birdies to 
finish his round takes some serious 
guts.”
Redshirt junior Blake Dyer made 
his second start of the spring season and finished in a tie for 17th with a 
score of 4 over.
He failed to make a birdie on 
Friday but posted two on Saturday, 
which helped Dyer earn his best fin-
ish of the year.
Sophomore John Axelsen fin-
ished in the top 25, too.
Axelsen parred his first 12 holes 
in the final round before posting 
a birdie on the back nine. It was 
enough to tie for 21st at 5 over.
UF recorded three times as many 
birdies in the final round (18) than in 
the first (6). Freshman Aden Ye and Nido led the team with five and six 
birdies, respectively, on the second 
day of the tournament.
The Robert Kepler Intercollegiate 
was Florida’s last event of the regu-
lar season before it competes in the 
2019 SEC Championships.
“What a great way to head into 
our conference championships,” 
Deacon said. “We are all excited to 
keep the momentum of this huge 
round going.”
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgStrong final round leads Gators to third-place finish16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
since March 31 to start on Sat-
urday. His return didn’t last 
long. LSU shelled Leftwich for 
six runs in one inning pitched.
Tyler Dyson later came in 
for relief, his first appearance 
out of the bullpen all season. 
The junior, who began the 
season as the Friday starter, 
gave up 4 runs in 4.2 innings.
The Tigers outhit the Gators 
43-35 and outscored them 33-
19 in the series.
UF third baseman Cory Ac-
ton was solely responsible for 
the runs UF scored on Friday 
and Saturday. The freshman 
came into the weekend with 
no career home runs and left 
with three, hitting one in each 
game.
Left fielder Austin Lang-
worthy also hit well, finishing 
the series 6 for 12 with a home 
run.
Designated hitter Nelson Maldonado returned to the 
lineup for the series finale, 
replacing Jordan Butler, who 
pitched in relief on Sunday. 
Maldonado went 1 for 3, while 
Butler hit 3 for 9 in the first 
two games.
In Florida’s one-run out-
put on Saturday, LSU pitcher 
Cole Henry fanned 12 batters. 
Tigers’ center fielder Antoine 
Duplantis had the best week-
end of any hitter, going 9 for 
16 with seven RBIs.
The only positive to take 
from this series for Florida is 
that it proved it could win on 
the road in conference play -- 
albeit, just once. It took one 
of UF’s best offensive perfor-
mances just to outlast LSU 
once, and the Tigers soundly 
defeated the Gators in the next 
two games to take the series.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 14LSU outscored UF 33-19 streak heading into its series with Ala-
bama. However, the eight wins followed 
three straight losses, which culminated in 
a home defeat to Florida State on April 3. 
After that loss, FloridaGators.com 
writer Chris Harry asked the coach if he 
thought hitting would be an issue back in 
February, when the season began. 
Walton said he saw it as an issue dur-
ing fall softball in October and Novem-
ber. 
The Gators’ “power lineup” was a big 
focus heading into the 2019 campaign. 
Mid-lineup options Jordan Roberts, Jor-
dan Matthews, Danielle Romanello and 
Jaimie Hoover all showed promise in 
2018. 
Roberts and Hoover combined for 10 home runs as sophomores and looked 
poised to produce in a starting capacity 
as juniors. Matthews started 60 games as 
a freshman and hit the series-clinching 
home run in the 2018 NCAA Super Re-
gionals. Romanello had two clutch hits 
against Alabama last season to lift UF to 
a series victory.
These players are each in the top four 
on the team in strikeouts this season, 
with Roberts leading at 41. 
Against the Crimson Tide, Roberts 
and Matthews went a combined 0 for 8 
with runners in scoring position and 0 
for 12 overall. Hoover was 1 for 7 for the 
weekend. Romanello, who has 27 strike-
outs to just 16 hits for the year, didn’t see 
an at-bat. 
“For two or three of those players in 
particular that probably stranded over half of those runners, that’s been the MO 
for them all season long,” Walton said. 
“Unfortunately, I wish I could say that 
was uncharacteristic of us. It’s not.”
Walton hoped freshman Cheyenne 
Lindsey would contribute heavily to the 
offense this season and provide some 
diversity next to the power hitters. How-
ever, the five-star recruit is easing back 
from an ACL injury and has played in a 
limited capacity. Lindsey is batting just 
.184 with seven hits and 10 strikeouts. 
“We can’t hit. We can’t do anything. 
We can’t bunt,” Walton said on April 3. 
“If you can’t run, you can’t hit and run, 
you can’t steal and you can’t hit home 
runs, that’s a pretty short season.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 14Walton: "W e can't hit. W e can't do anything."
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Tim Walton was ejected on Saturday 
after arguing a force play at third base. 
Second-half dominance
Florida played a strong second half for the second-con-
secutive game.
The Gators scored seven goals and limited East Carolina 
to only two in the last 30 minutes of their 20-10 victory on 
April 13.
UF found the back of the net six times and held UConn 
to only one goal in the second half on Saturday.
Five different players scored for Florida in the last 30 
minutes: Harris (1), Kavanagh (1), freshman attacker Han-
nah Mardiney (2), senior midfielder Caroline Benitez (1) 
and freshman midfielder Maggie Corbo (1).
Mardiney had been held without a goal for three straight 
games before scoring against the Huskies, and Corbo re-
corded her first collegiate goal.
UConn’s lone goal came at the 25:20 mark when mid-
fielder Sydney Watson fired a shot past goalkeeper Haley 
Hicklen.
Connecticut failed to win a draw control in the last 
30 minutes, while Florida controlled eight. This gave the 
Gators more opportunities to score and earn four confer-
ence victories for the sixth-straight year.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgLACROSSE,  from pg 14Gators have won seven straight games
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Midfielder Shannon Kavanagh recorded a 
career-high eight points and 13 draw controls 
in Florida's 16-5 win over UConn on Saturday.
MEN'S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
There was still a feeling of shock around 
the Florida men’s tennis team, even an hour 
after its 4-3 loss to Tennessee.
Freshman Sam Riffice entered the press 
room visibly shaken, and it seemed like he 
hadn’t come to grips with the loss.
This was a team that was on a 15-match 
winning streak and hadn’t lost since Feb. 17 
to then-No. 10 Stanford. It was undefeated 
outdoors this season and at home over the 
last 13 months. It was undefeated against 
SEC opponents, a perfect 13-0.
The loss left two main questions the 
Gators need to answer after their defeat to 
the Volunteers on Saturday at home in the 
SEC Tournament Semifinals.How did the singles collapse happen?
This is a question Riffice and sophomore 
Andy Andrade will think about for the next 
couple of days.
Saturday’s match started in a similar way 
to some of Florida’s matches against other 
top teams: by losing the doubles point.
It brought Florida (21-3) to 16-8 in dou-
bles on the season, and it has yet to beat a 
team ranked in the top 13. It was also the 
Gators’ second time losing in doubles to Ten-
nessee (20-7). The Volunteers won the point 
on March 17 before Florida ultimately ended 
up winning the match 5-2.
It seemed like singles would go in a simi-
lar way on Saturday. UF won the first three 
matches to go ahead 3-1 and needed one 
more win to clinch. Tennessee made it 3-2 
with a two-set win on Court 3, but it still 
seemed like the Gators would get the win.Riffice and Andrade were both ahead. An-
drade was up 5-3 in the third set but lost four 
straight games to lose 7-5. Riffice was tied 
5-5 and was serving, but Tennessee’s Adam 
Walton broke serve and won the match 7-5. 
This was the first time since the Stanford 
match that Florida lost three singles contests.
It seemed that when the pressure ramped 
up, Florida couldn’t handle it and made un-
forced errors. Andrade’s shot in the match 
didn’t even make it over the net and Riffice 
double-faulted when ahead 4-3 to tie the 
match at 4.
What changes will the team make?
Coach Bryan Shelton was quick to say 
some changes will be made, despite it only 
being one loss.
“We might stretch some practices out a 
little longer at times,” Shelton said following the defeat. “We have kind of decreased the 
amount of time we have spent on the court, 
so we may up that in the next week.”
Shelton also said the team has to be ready 
for the heat that will hit Gainesville once the 
NCAAs start.
“We have to continue to get used to play-
ing in the heat,” he said. “When those north-
ern teams come down here, we want to be 
ready for them to deal with the humidity in 
the swamp.”
With two weeks until the NCAA Tour-
nament begins, Shelton is not changing the 
focus.
“Overall the message will still be the 
same,” he said. “We’ve got to get better, we 
have to be willing to go deeper.”
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida has some questions to answer after tourney loss