We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaper‘Florida Icon’ W. George Allen remembered
Allen was the ﬁ  rst black graduate of UF, pg 4
Police looking for rape suspect
The incident happened in September,  pg 4Kara leads team in scoring after 
rocky start to her career
Florida soccer forward Vanessa Kara tore her 
ACL three times then transferred, pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 36
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
Protesters called Donald 
Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle’s $50,000 visit to 
UF last month a waste of 
student funds. Now, they 
can add $10,000 to that bill.
Records show University 
Police spent $10,428 on se-
curity. Overtime and custo-
dial costs were an additional 
$1,500, said UF spokesper-
son Steve Orlando.
Public records show UPD 
billed ACCENT Speakers Bu-
reau $5,774 of the $10,428.
UPD spokesperson Maj. 
Brad Barber conﬁ  rmed the 
amount billed to ACCENT 
was for getting ofﬁ  cers for 
the event, but couldn’t an-
swer how many ofﬁ  cers 
were present.
Barber and Orlando con-
ﬁ  rmed additional security 
cameras were installed for 
the event. They did not dis-
close how many were in-
stalled or how much they 
cost.
A $19.06 per credit hour 
fee due at the start of the 
semester covers UF Stu-dent Government’s bud-
get, which funds ACCENT. 
Funds taken from this ac-
count were used to pay the 
speakers. 
ACCENT Chair Henry 
Fair did not respond to 
emails, texts and phone calls 
Wednesday and Thursday 
on whether ACCENT paid 
UPD using student fees.
On Oct. 10, Trump Jr. 
and Guilfoyle spoke to 
about 800 supporters and 
protesters at the University 
Auditorium. Protesters be-
lieved the event was a cam-
paign stop designed by UF 
Student Body President Mi-
chael Murphy, who denied 
these claims.
A national ﬁ  nancial con-
sultant for Trump Victory, the 
president’s reelection commit-
tee, contacted Murphy about 
bringing the pair to UF, emails 
showed. A resolution for Mur-
phy’s impeachment has since 
been ﬁ  led in SG Senate. 
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgTrump Jr., Guilfoyle 
visit cost UPD $10k
TRUMP JR., GUILFOYLE WERE PAID $50,000 
OF STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES
STUDENTS TRAVELED TO 
TALLAHASSEE TO SHARE PLAN
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly ﬁ  ve hours away from the Florida 
State Capitol, Logan Rubenstein’s phone ﬂ  ashed with news headlines. There was an-
other school shooting — this time, in Santa 
Clarita, California. 
Rubenstein, a 15-year-old sophomore at 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in 
Parkland, Florida, was brought back to Feb. 
14, 2018 — the day a mass shooting occurred at the school, killing 17 people. 
While on his way to Tallahassee to advo-
cate for ending gun violence on Thursday, Ru-
benstein, the deputy policy director for March 
for Our Lives Florida, said he was once again 
reminded of the urgency for a change in gun 
laws. “The sight of SWAT escorting kids out of 
school … it’s the same emotions, it’s the same 
thing my friends experienced on February 14, 
2018,” he said. “We need to keep ﬁ  ghting it.”
About 50 people from March for Our Lives 
groups from across the state traveled en masse March for Our Lives hand-delivers gun safety plan to governor’s oﬃ   ce 
VANJESS JAMS
A BREAKDOWN OF GRU’S 
INCREASING RATES 
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Staff Writer
After living in Gainesville for eight 
years, Danielle Chanzes shared her 
struggles with city commissioners dur-
ing public comment. 
She stepped up the lectern with her hand on her hip and took a deep breath.
The 26-year-old was frustrated and 
tired of turning her air conditioning off 
for months at a time just so she could 
afford to pay her utility bills.
Chanzes was at City Hall on Sept. 12 
for the ﬁ  rst reading of an ordinance to 
raise Gainesville Regional Utility rates 
by 2.3 percent. She wanted to make 
sure the Gainesville City Commission knew the struggles she and other resi-
dents faced before raising rates.
On Sept. 26, the commission made 
the decision to raise rates in a 4-3 vote, 
after more than 30 people voiced con-
cerns during public comment. The new 
rates went into effect Oct. 1. 
A month later, the Florida Municipal 
Electric Association released a report on City utility rates ranked highest in state
SEE MFOL,  PAGE 5SEE GRU,  PAGE 5FEATURE FRIDAYAllison Veliz /Alligator Staff
Jessica Nwokike, a singer in the Nigerian American R&B duo VanJess, performs Thursday night at the Reitz Union 
Rion Ballroom. VanJess, composed of sisters Jessica and Ivana Nwokike, said this was their ﬁ  rst time performing in 
Florida. The event, which was free for UF students, was put on by the Reitz Programming Board.By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff WriterT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  63° LOW  49°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Correction: In the original March 
for Our Lives article it was re-
ported protesters were oppos-
ing House Bill 7090 instead of 
House Bill 7093. This story has 
been updated online to reflect 
this change. 
Correction: The story on first-gen-
eration students has been up-
dated to reflect the correct spell-
ing of Julianna Panton, and that 
the program has 1,200 MFOS 
scholars this semester, accord-
ing to Leslie Pendleton. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING
First Magnitude beer launch 
for butterflies
When: Today, 5 to 8 p.m. 
Where: First Magnitude Brewing 
Co.
What: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History and First 
Magnitude Brewing Co. will host a 
fundraiser to help support butter-
fly conservation. First Magnitude 
will release a new Belgian witbier style brew called “Florida White,” 
highlighting the Florida White 
butterfly. The suggested donation 
of $10 includes $1 off all beers; 
$15 includes a signature glass and 
$1 off all beers. Merchandise will 
also be available for purchase. All 
proceeds will directly support im-
periled butterfly recovery efforts 
in Florida. For more information, 
visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/fl-white or call 352-
273-2022.
Fulbright Luncheon with Gary 
Monroe
When: Tuesday, 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Room G-320
What: The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee and the International 
Center are holding a free luncheon 
event as part of International 
Education Week. Gary Monroe's 
photographic work is featured 
in "The Last Resort" on Netflix. 
As a two-time Fulbright scholar, 
Monroe seeks to understand the 
migration of Haitians to Miami and the impact they make on 
South Florida's landscape. 
Lunch will be provided. Please 
RSVP by Nov. 10 by emailing 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com.
Transgender Day of 
Remembrance
When: Nov. 20, 7 to 9 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, S.E. 4th Street
What: The Alachua TranQuility 
Community Group and Pride 
Community Center have come 
together to host the annual 
Transgender Day of Remembrance. 
TDOR is a vigil held Nov. 20 to 
raise awareness of violence against 
transgender people and “mourn 
and honor the lives of those who 
might otherwise be forgotten.” If 
an organization wishes to table at 
this event, or for more information 
visit the website www.fltranq.
com/tdor.
How to be an Antiracist: A 
Conversation with Ibram X. 
Kendi
When: Nov. 21, 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: Ibram X. Kendi, formerly a 
UF assistant professor of African 
American history, will discuss his 
latest book How to be An Antiracist. 
The novel discusses how everyone, 
at times, is complicit in racism 
and debunks myths and taboos 
surrounding racial differences. 
The event is free and open to the 
public. No tickets are required. A 
book signing will follow the talk.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 36
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeChloe Greenberg, Lonnie Numa, Danny Khor, 
Manny Rea, Allessandra Inzinna, Rachel Kelsey, 
Samia Lagmis, Ashlyn JonesMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M002194  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
THE FIRST BLACK MAN TO 
GRADUATE FROM UF 
DIED NOV . 7 
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
It was 1954, and about 30 Flori-
da A&M University freshmen sat in 
a classroom during orientation. A 
student in the back row, W. George 
Allen, was the ﬁ  rst to stand up and 
introduce himself. 
Allen said he was the ﬁ  rst in 
his family to attend college. Work-
ing in medicine or law would give 
him satisfaction — but the way he 
pronounced “satisfaction” enticed 
a student in the front row to inter-
ject. 
The student turned and said, 
“‘Satis-ﬁ  -cation?’ Do you mean 
‘satis-fact-ion?’” 
The class broke out into laugh-
ter. Allen squinted. 
“What’s your name?” he asked. 
“Hayward J. Benson Jr.”
“I hate you.” 
Sixty-ﬁ  ve years later, Benson still laughs about the squabble 
that brought them together. They 
stayed friends until Allen died at 83 
on Nov. 7. 
“[That] was the kind of ﬁ  ghting 
spirit that he used throughout his 
life,” Benson, also 83, said. “He is 
one of the ones who came out of 
that segregated system and plotted 
strategies to get others out.” 
Allen graduated from UF’s 
Levin College of Law in 1962, mak-
ing him the university’s ﬁ  rst black 
graduate. He led the legal ﬁ  ght for 
Broward County and Hendry Coun-
ty integration and later established 
his own practice specializing in 
personal injury, insurance defense 
and wrongful death law, according 
to Levin Law archives. 
Allen was born on March 3, 
1936, in Sanford, Florida. He was 
raised in a house without electrici-
ty by his mother and stepfather and 
worked in crop ﬁ  elds as a child, he 
said in an interview with The His-
tory Makers, the nation’s largest 
African American oral history col-
lection. Growing up, Allen was told over 
and over again that he wouldn’t 
succeed.
When he went to Fort Holabird 
in Baltimore, Maryland, to become 
a special agent after graduating 
from Florida A&M, the instructor 
said nobody in the class would 
make it.
“[Allen] felt the eyes of every-
body in the class looking at him, 
and he said, ‘I don’t know why the 
hell you’re looking at me. I’m gon-
na graduate.’ And he did,” Benson 
said. 
When Allen went to law school, 
the professors told the class no-
body would graduate — but Al-
len did. He spent 50 years in the 
industry, he said in a speech at UF 
in 2015.
Allen turned down admissions 
offers from the University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley and Harvard to go 
to UF because he wanted to be in 
the South during the civil rights 
movement, according to Levin Law 
archives. 
Going to school in the South wasn’t easy. As the only black stu-
dent in UF’s law school, persever-
ing against racism was a constant 
struggle. He and his wife couldn’t 
live in married student housing 
because they were black, and he 
received constant death threats via 
telephone, he told Florida Trend in 
2013. He told the callers to go to 
hell. 
After graduation, Allen tack-
led cases for equal housing, ﬁ  rst-
degree murder and desegregation 
in education, among others. But to 
those who knew him, he was more 
than a tenacious lawyer — he was 
a respected leader and friend.  
Patricia West, now 67, ﬁ  rst 
met Allen when she was 8 years 
old. Her father was a member of 
the Elks Club with Allen, a group 
of black professional men that 
worked with social service agen-
cies to help the community. 
She remembers him as a snaz-
zy dresser, always in a suit with 
wire-rimmed glasses and a hat. He 
looked after West’s family after her 
father died and always made West laugh, she said. 
“He was a de-
termined kind of 
guy,” West said. 
“Whatever he set 
his mind to, he 
was gonna get it 
ﬁ  nished.” 
Benson, how-
ever, saw Allen as a close friend 
who made amazing hot sauce. The 
two loved ﬁ  shing and cast their 
lines out in Florida, South Amer-
ica, Central America and Alaska, 
he said. 
Allen would always eat a Snick-
ers bar when they ﬁ  shed. Benson 
bought him one when Allen was 
in the hospital, but Allen never got 
the chance to eat it. 
Benson still has some of Allen’s 
hot sauce in his kitchen. 
“He’s probably mixing some 
[hot sauce] up now,” Benson said. 
“I’m going to miss my ﬁ  shing bud-
dy.”
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.orgTHE INCIDENT LIKEL Y HAPPENED
 EARL Y MORNING SEPT. 24
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Police are looking for a man who they say raped someone at gunpoint 
in September.
The incident is believed to have happened between 1 a.m. and just 
before 3 a.m. Sept. 24 on the 100 block of Southeast 15th Street, accord-
ing to a Gainesville Police press release. The man is said to have used a 
handgun to threaten the victim.This isn’t the ﬁ  rst person wanted for sexual violence in recent weeks. 
Last month, GPD said they were looking for a different man accused of 
raping a woman in the Midtown area in August. Multiple occurrences 
of sexual battery were reported to University Police earlier this year, 
including a man wanted for raping a woman prior to the Homecoming 
game Oct. 5.
Anyone with information about the whereabouts of this man is en-
couraged to call 352-393-7670 or 352-372-STOP. 
Those in distress can call the Alachua County Victim Services and 
Rape Crisis Center at 352-264-6760.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org
Friends remember ‘Florida Icon’ W. George Allen’s life and legacyGainesville Police looking for man suspected of rape
Allen
Suspect
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
to Tallahassee to formally an-
nounce their Peace Plan for a 
Safer Florida, a six-step plan to 
prevent gun violence in Florida 
which was previously intro-
duced via social media. 
The Orlando, Parkland, Tam-
pa, Jacksonville, Tallahassee 
and Ocala branches of March 
for Our Lives attended the event, 
which included a press confer-
ence, demonstration and hand 
delivery of the plan to Gov. Ron 
DeSantis’ ofﬁ  ce. 
The plan pulls from the na-
tional group’s Peace Plan for a 
Safer America. Some bills in-
cluded a call for:
— Expanded background 
checks to include ammunition
— Revising prohibition on 
sale or transfer of ﬁ  rearms to 
persons convicted of domestic 
violence offenses 
— Requiring a background 
check to be run on all sales of 
ammunition
— Banning the sale of as-sault weapons and large-capaci-
ty magazines
Alexander Brailsford, a 
19-year-old UF political science 
freshman, said Florida’s leaders 
aren’t offering solutions for an 
end to gun violence. By going 
to Tallahassee, he hoped to give 
Florida’s politicians a push. 
“3,000 people are killed per 
year — that’s one every three 
hours,” he said. “Hopefully, 
we can work with the govern-
ment and with organizations 
and community-based groups 
to limit this gun violence.”
Groups from across the 
state, with the exception of 
Gainesville March for Our 
Lives, traveled to Tallahassee in 
buses funded by money raised 
through a GoFundMe created 
Nov. 4. The GoFundMe, cre-
ated by 13-year-old Zoe Weiss-
man, raised about $2,000 for 
transportation. 
Weissman, the March for 
Our Lives Florida fund devel-
oper, also runs the March for 
Our Lives chapter at her school, American Heritage School in 
Plantation, Florida. 
She said while she was 
always aware of the change 
March for Our Lives created, 
she thought she was too young 
and “didn’t have enough power 
to create change.”
“That all changed this sum-
mer after the wave of mass 
shootings that we had,” she 
said. “I decided I shouldn’t stay 
silent.”
Weissman said beyond 
wanting these laws passed, she 
wants DeSantis himself to push 
for these laws to be passed. Ad-
vocates understand that gun vi-
olence will be heavily discussed 
during the legislature, which 
starts in January.
“We can cut the rate of gun 
violence in half in 10 years, but 
all it takes is for our legislators 
to go out and step into their 
chambers and pass the laws,” 
she said. “And that’s what 
we’re here advocating for.”
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgMFOL,  from pg. 1‘I decided I shouldn’t stay silent’
Nov. 4, which ranked Gainesville as hav-
ing highest residential utility rates in Flor-
ida for Sept. 2019. Data shows residents 
paid about $154 per 1,200 kilowatt hours 
during that month.
Confusion about the city-owned utility 
provider remains in the forefront of city 
politics, as the public continually voices 
concern for highest municipal utility rates 
in the state. 
Michael Selvester, the GRU advisory 
board chair, said the biggest factor af-
fecting utility rates is the purchase of the 
Deerhaven Renewable Generation Station 
biomass plant for $750 million in 2017. 
After ﬁ  nancing, it will cost the city 
more than a billion dollars, he said. 
“I think ultimately it was the right idea 
because it still reaped the savings for the 
utility in the long run,” Selvester said.
The city signed a power-purchase 
agreement with the plant owners, which 
cost the city $70 million a year to buy 
power, Selvester said. The potential pay-
out over the life of the power purchase 
agreement was estimated to be more than 
$2 billion. 
“I know that’s not a satisfying answer 
for a lot of folks to say, ‘Well now you 
only have to pay a billion dollars instead 
of $2 billion,’” Selvester said. 
Selvester also said the relationship be-
tween Gainesville’s property taxes and the 
general fund transfer play a key role in 
determining utility rates. The general fund 
transfer is an annual payment from GRU 
to the city, which “represents a return on 
the city’s investment.” 
More than half of the property in 
Gainesville, between UF, churches, 
schools and other public buildings, is not 
subjected to property taxes. 
In 2019, about 30 percent of the city’s 
budget came from GRU and the general 
fund transfer, which provides money that 
is not collected through property taxes. 
“That’s one of the reasons why the 
general fund transfer from the utility is 
such an important source of revenue,” he 
said.
Not only is UF’s property not taxed, its 
main campus also doesn’t use GRU, but 
instead is supplied by Duke Energy. The 
potential beneﬁ  ts of GRU supplying utili-
ties to UF’s main campus is “something 
that’s not talked about enough.” 
“It would have a huge impact on the 
city,” Selvester said. “It would probably 
be the single most impactful and beneﬁ  -
cial thing that UF could do for the city of Gainesville right now.”  
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said 
the decision for UF to use Duke Energy 
was made decades ago. The Public Service 
Commission makes that decision.
As of 2018, UF’s 56,079 student popu-
lation makes Gainesville a hotspot for stu-
dent housing apartment complexes. Many 
of these complexes offer all-inclusive rent 
with a monthly pre-paid cap for utilities.
Erik Moore, a property manager at the 
Courtyards, said GRU does not offer any 
deals or tax breaks for the apartment com-
plex. 
“We pay the same kilowatt per hour 
that anybody else does,” he said. 
All 91 Courtyards apartment units each 
have a meter which measures the amount 
of electricity used per month, Moore said. 
Each resident has a $30 cap for electric-
ity. Other utility services such as water are 
paid for by the complex. 
The increase in utility rates subjects 
residents to paying only a couple dollars 
in overages, he said.  
“When you’re dividing that amongst 
four people, you’re not going to see it as 
big of a difference as you would in a resi-
dential community,” Moore said.
Some students that live in complexes 
like the Courtyards, will spend their entire 
time in Gainesville without ever seeing a 
bill — or rate increase — from GRU.
Maddie Stromak, a 19-year-old UF 
health science sophomore and Courtyards 
resident, has never experienced the effects 
of a high utility bill. When asked about 
GRU, she asked if it was a construction 
company. 
But, she wasn’t surprised to learn 
Gainesville has the highest residential util-
ity rate.  
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos said the decision to change utility 
rates starts with GRU staff ﬁ  rst evaluating 
the cost for utilities. The recommendation 
is usually passed to the Utility Advisory 
Board for review before going to the com-
mission for a vote. 
Hayes-Santos said addressing climate 
change plays a factor in rates. About 35 to 
40 percent of electricity produced by GRU 
is renewable, which is the highest percent-
age in the state, he said.
“We have to be making moves to more 
renewable energy,” he said. 
But residents like Chanzes still struggle 
to pay the high rates. 
“I hope that the community can come 
together to ﬁ  nd a solution and that GRU 
at least take responsibility for this because 
it’s just such a burden,” Chanzes said. 
lruiz@alligator.org 
adeluca@alligator.orgGRU,  from pg. 1
Alex DeLuca / Alligator Staff
Sen. Gary Farmer (D) said gun violence is a public health emergency and that legislators 
should treat it as such. “The time to act is now, ” he said. 
EditorialFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
Seven reasons why it’s not great to be a FL Gator
Although being ranked seventh among the top U.S. 
public colleges and universities is an achievement 
we can be proud of, it should not overshadow the 
dire issues at UF. 
#1: UF lacks diversity.
USC recently conducted a study on race equity in pub-
lic schools; UF received an F for representation equity, 
which validated many students’ feelings of a lack of rep-
resentation. Shaynah Boulay, a 19-year-old electrical engi-
neering sophomore and a member of Black Student Union 
and other minority organizations, says she “feels as if part 
of the masses’ voice isn’t being heard or represented, and 
the choices are made without regard for some groups.”  
Hosting Donald Trump Jr., a white nationalist rally, and 
the appearance of a swastika display and a noose on cam-
pus aren’t things that foster inclusion. 
#2: UF lacks funds for student assemblies.
Multicultural student organizations were hit with 
disheartening news this fall when they discovered that 
Student Government didn’t have enough money to fund 
student assemblies. This funding issue was an effect of a 
$66,000 lawsuit against UF by the Young Americans for 
Freedom (YAF). The resulting reallocation of funds left 
minority organizations like the Asian American Student 
Union, Black Student Union and Pride Student Union 
struggling to fund their first assemblies of the semester. 
#3: UF uses prison slave labor.
The 13th Amendment abolished slavery in the United 
States, but slavery is not illegal when an individual is in-
carcerated. Kevin Rashid Johnson, who is currently serv-
ing a life sentence in Virginia, states, “Anybody convicted 
of a crime after 1865 could be leased out by the state to 
private corporations who would extract their labor for 
little or no pay.” UF’s current contract with the Florida 
Department of Corrections (FDOC) uses prison labor to 
farm agriculture.
#4: UF does little for sexual assault cases.
This semester, there have been three publicized sexual 
assault cases that occurred on campus. Despite the fre-
quent occurrence of campus sexual assault, UF has not taken further action outside of their current protocol. Re-
cently, about 200 students protested for the installment of 
blue lights allowing quick contact with law enforcement 
on Fraternity Row. Members of SG initially resisted, say-
ing it was “a tremendous waste of student fees.” Only after 
weeks did UF agree to install four blue lights on Frat Row.
#5: UF SG is selfish and inconsiderate. 
Zachariah Chou previously wrote about SG’s waste-
ful allocations of student fees, such as $12,410 spent on 
ponchos. In October, SG paid Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle $50,000 in student fees to speak at UF. Many 
students called for the resignation of Student Body Presi-
dent Michael Murphy, citing his alleged misuse of student 
funds and his father’s ties to the Trump campaign as con-
flicts of interest.
#6: UF graduation is a display of racial inequality.
During the Spring 2018 commencement ceremony, 
black students were celebrating while they walked — 
only to be yanked off the stage by officials. In response 
to the resulting controversy, UF began holding individual 
ceremonies for students’ respective colleges in addition 
to a university-wide ceremony. Students then announced 
a boycott for the university-wide ceremony because “the 
new graduation format disguises UF’s racial tensions.” 
Only about one third of the graduating class showed up 
to the Spring 2019 university-wide commencement cer-
emony. 
#7: UF invests in fossil fuel companies.
UF funds fossil fuel emissions that contribute to climate 
change. As a top research institution, we are contradicting 
our very own mission of progress and responsibility by 
investing in such companies.
 As Gators, we should not recognize our achievements 
and ignore all of our failures. Sign petitions, participate in 
rallies — use your voice and let it be heard. Raise aware-
ness of these issues and create a sense of urgency. UF 
needs to step up and make changes so we can really brag 
about how great it is to be a Florida Gator. 
Stephanie Chang is a UF business sophomore.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The U.S. needs help, and 
not just with guns 
Usually, the editorial board likes to take it easy on 
Fridays and publish a series of “Darts and Laurels” 
in order to lighten the mood for the weekend and 
provide our opinions on different things happening 
in the news.
Today is different.
On Thursday, a 16-year-old boy walked into Saugus High 
School in Santa Clarita, California, and shot five people be-
fore shooting himself. 
The shooter’s name has yet to be released, but as of 
Thursday we know two people are dead — a 15-year-old 
boy and a 16-year-old girl — and several others are injured. 
Some are in critical condition, including the shooter. 
With at least 30 school shootings in the past year, it’s 
clear something needs to be altered regarding gun policy 
within the United States. 
To be clear, this concern is not simply for mass shoot-
ings. In fact, the U.S. doesn’t actually have the highest mass 
shooting rate per capita — it’s ranked only 66th — but it 
does have the highest rate of school shootings compared to 
any other country.
As of 2018, the U.S. has suffered from 288 school shoot-
ings since 2009. The country ranked in second place? It has 
only eight occurrences. 
Even though the ranking is selective, it still includes a 
range of countries in different stages of development, which 
is very embarrassing for the U.S. to say the least. Especially 
when we can’t even get a unanimous vote for background 
checks on the transfer of assault weapons between unli-
censed individuals.
According to Mississippi Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith, she and 
her colleagues still need time to think about no longer al-
lowing guns to be transferred to pretty much anyone. 
Would the bill have stopped what took place at Saugus 
High School? Maybe not. Would it be able to help prevent 
future events like Saugus? Most definitely.
Of course, a bill won’t stop the sale of guns in the un-
derground market, as 43 percent of criminals get their guns 
in such a way. However, it would at least stop a quarter 
of criminals who simply receive guns as gifts. It might not 
seem like much, but bills such as the Bipartisan Background 
Checks Act of 2019 enable the U.S. to actually begin to 
change. 
We need to stop ignoring the facts and start addressing 
the root of the problem. Even though we’re all constitution-
ally born with the right to own a gun, many of us shouldn’t 
be able to have one.
Gun control shouldn’t be a political issue, it’s a health 
crisis. Just look at the statistics for gun related deaths in the 
U.S. According to Pew Research. Sixty percent of deaths re-
lated to guns were by suicide, a number that has increased 
by 41 percent from previous years (2006 to 2017). Suicide 
itself is one of the leading causes of death in the U.S., yet 
some still argue against the value of taking care of one’s 
mental health. Clearly, this needs to change.
Right now, in a country so dedicated to conservative 
“family values,” it seems like some individuals within our 
government aren’t doing much to protect our families. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
The ﬁ  ght for 
gender equal-
ity is in-
grained in the 
United States’ 
history. Beginning in 
the mid-1800s with 
the battle for wom-
en’s suffrage, femi-
nism has been in the 
spotlight of politics. 
Unfortunately, in to-
day’s society, feminists’ efforts 
have become extreme. 
By deﬁ  nition, feminism is 
absolutely something I would 
believe in. I support many femi-
nist ideas from the 19th and 20th 
centuries, but the current wave 
of feminism in our country is un-
precedented; it centers around 
hypersensitivity and inclusivity. 
Feminist ideas have shifted 
from equality to superiority. A 
popular phrase used by femi-
nists is “the future is female.” 
This quote rejects a future of 
equality. If the end goal truly is 
equality, where is a man’s place 
in the future?
In essence, feminism is now 
trying to reverse the cycle by 
belittling men. How are parents 
supposed to raise an indepen-
dent son when so many envision 
a future where men are inferior?
My most signiﬁ  cant issue 
with modern-day feminism is 
the way feminists treat those 
who disagree with them. I am 
a proud female student work-
ing towards obtaining a college 
degree. I plan on following my 
dreams, whatever they may be. 
I believe all women and men 
should aspire to be anything 
they want to be. I do not, by 
any stretch, consider this belief 
to be radical. Yet, since I am 
politically conservative, I have 
been subject to hate by so-called 
“feminists.”
Feminists need to wake up 
and realize what empowers us 
as women is our diversity of 
thought. 
Whether you agree or dis-
agree with the movement’s 
position on an issue, you have 
to consider how unjust it is for 
people to be excluded based on 
differing opinions. I turn to the 
ﬁ  rst lady, Melania 
Trump, as a victim of 
feminist hatred. Not 
only is Mrs. Trump 
a gracious ﬁ  rst 
lady, she is an im-
migrant and speaks 
multiple languages. 
Mrs. Trump is also 
a victim of frequent 
vulgar attacks on so-
cial media; the media virtually 
never covers Mrs. Trump’s work 
or initiatives, such as “Be Best” 
which aims to better the future 
of children and their well-being, 
unless there is a protest against 
her. So, is it really fair that Mrs. 
Trump is penalized because of 
her individual values and deci-
sions?  
When I watch the Demo-
cratic debates, I am proud to 
see strong women on the stage 
vying for the presidential nomi-
nation despite disagreeing with 
many of their ideas. 
Some reactions to my last ar-
ticle are a great example of the 
faults with modern-day femi-
nists. Instead of starting an open 
discussion about my viewpoint, 
I was stereotyped on social me-
dia as a “sorority girl.” Critics 
are at liberty to respond in any 
way they deem necessary, but 
why not discuss my actual ar-
gument instead of attempting to 
demean me?
There should be no debate 
over whether it is justiﬁ  ed to 
discriminate on the basis of sex, 
it is simply unacceptable. All 
rights must be ensured for indi-
viduals of any gender. But this 
means that aggression towards 
conservative women must end 
as well. 
If feminists begin to ﬁ  ght on 
behalf of all women, then may-
be feminism could be something 
that I could get behind. 
Feminists should want all 
women to feel empowered and 
bold enough to make their opin-
ions heard — that is how female 
empowerment will be success-
ful. 
Carly Sloane Gettleman is a 
UF public relations juniorThe truth behind feminism today Column
Carly Sloane
Gettleman
opinions@alligator.orgAt the University of Florida, we have 
one statue of a UF president, Albert 
Murphree, who was our second presi-
dent. We have three statues of Heis-
man Trophy winners: Steve Spurrier, 
Danny Wuerffel and Tim Tebow. And we have 
many, many statues of alligators.
How many? I’d like to ask for your help in 
ﬁ  nding out — but ﬁ  rst I have news about a 
new one. 
In my inaugural year serving as president, 
my impression was that despite the abundance 
of gator statues everywhere on campus, even 
more were appearing without planning or pur-
pose. Thus, I issued a moratorium on any new 
alligator statues.   
Next month, in the spirit of the holidays, I 
will violate my own moratorium — temporarily. A UF College of the Arts alum, 
artist and blacksmith Leslie Tharp 
has been commissioned to create an 
elegant and whimsical gator sculp-
ture illuminated with lights. 
On Tuesday, Dec. 3 at 5 p.m., 
just outside University Auditorium, 
we will celebrate the end of the se-
mester with “The Lighting of the 
Gator.”  We will serve cookies and 
hot chocolate, and members of the 
University Chamber Singers will perform songs 
reﬂ  ecting the sounds of the season. Everyone 
in the campus community is invited to join in 
the celebration.   
Our intention with this new gator statue is 
to bring light to the dark of winter, and cheer 
to a time of stress as classes, exams, proj-ects and papers are ﬁ  nished and 
grades assigned.  After students 
leave campus for winter break, the 
holiday gator will be removed and 
put in storage until it is returned to 
light up the winter night again next 
December.  
In the spirit of memorializing all 
the gator statues already on cam-
pus, I am offering a prize to the ﬁ  rst 
currently-enrolled student docu-
menting the most statues. 
The winner will get an invitation to attend 
a UF football game with a guest in the presi-
dent’s suite — or a UF basketball game with a 
guest in the president’s court-side seats.
Here are the rules:
To enter, email a total count of alligator statues and photo of each statue to president@uﬂ  .edu no 
later than 11:59 p.m. EST Monday, Nov. 18.  
Only full-sized, full-body alligator statues 
qualify, including both lifelike gators and Al-
bert and Alberta (no Gator head plaques, for 
example).
Indicate in the email the location of each 
statue. 
All the statues must be on UF property in 
Alachua County, including indoor and out-
door spaces.
Each statue must have been in its current 
location since at least the start of the semester.
I look forward to joining the university 
community in celebrating the temporary 
addition of one more statue, our very ﬁ  rst 
lighted Gator, on Dec. 3. I wish everyone 
success and joy as we ﬁ  nish the race of the 
Fall semester.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His 
column appears monthly. Breaking my moratorium on more alligator statuesColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
As a society, we must stop making certain 
body shapes and sizes trendy. This isn’t 
a revolutionary or unpopular opinion, 
but it is something I constantly see and 
am affected by daily. I am imploring us, 
as human beings, to stop accepting unhealthy 
body ideals. Young women are constantly bom-
barded with images of thin bodies with perky 
breasts on social media and ad campaigns. These 
body types are by no means average — or even 
healthy — yet, women grow up desiring to look 
like supermodels. We must put an end to the fe-
tishization of certain body types. We shouldn’t 
only praise one breast size, as this is something no one has 
control over. Thigh gaps aren’t an indicator of health, and 
plenty of healthy people don’t have thigh gaps. We should 
begin to promote healthy bodies, not idealistic bodies. Re-
gardless of body shape, you should celebrate your body. 
Many modern lingerie stores promote these unrealistic 
ideals as well. Victoria’s Secret upholds a problematic pro-
totype for female body shapes: impossibly lean. These body 
shapes are achieved through a strict diet that includes the 
limitation of food intake and excessive exercise. Not only 
are the models all stick-thin, so-called “plus-size” models 
are excluded entirely. The director of the annual Victoria’s 
Secret Fashion Show was quoted saying he has no interest 
in including a wider range of sizes and shapes in the fashion 
show. The world’s leading lingerie supplier openly caters to 
women of an unrealistic ideal, which causes girls around 
the world to starve themselves to achieve supermodel-like proportions. With this inﬂ  uence, Victoria’s Se-
cret should do a better job to be more inclusive 
of realistic body sizes. 
Luckily, brands such as American Eagle’s Ae-
rie and Rihanna’s Savage X Fenty exist for peo-
ple of all shapes and sizes. Models for these two 
companies come in all shapes, sizes and abilities. 
Aerie’s website includes unedited pictures of 
women of all ages sporting their cute undies and 
bralettes, so you get a more realistic idea of what 
you may look like in the products. You can see 
stretch marks, rolls and scars on these natural 
models. Rihanna hosted a fashion show to pro-
mote her lingerie line and included models from all walks 
of life: big, small, cisgender and transgender. Between these 
two companies, everyone can feel represented. 
Representation does matter. Little girls need to grow up 
knowing that they are beautiful, regardless of the size of 
their tummy, the fact that they are wheelchair-bound or 
that they have stretch marks — they should feel conﬁ  dent 
from day one. Body shapes aren’t trendy, styles of clothes 
are. Our generation is having to reinvent beauty standards, 
since we have been force-fed from day one that you can 
only be beautiful if you are a size 0 with blond hair and 
blue eyes. Beauty is a size 16 with stretch marks. Beauty is 
the pregnant model who was in Rihanna’s fashion show. 
Beauty is natural hair. Beauty is you. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English juniorYour ideal body shape should be your ownColumn
Hannah 
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
Today in history — 1806: 1st US college magazine, 
Yale Literary Government , publishes 1st issue
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Today in history — 1904: King C. Gillette patents 
the Gillette razor blade.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Today in history — 1914: Italian socialist Benito 
Mussolini founds newspaper Il Populo d'Italia.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Today in history — 1920: League of Nations 
holds 1st convention in Geneva.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
Today in history — 1932: Walt Disney Art 
School created.
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church 
need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, 
windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews 
and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360 www.
pews1.com       11-15-1-10
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Live & Online Public Auction
Two Day Auction Event
Thurs, November 21st & Fri, November 22nd
Panelfold, Inc.
10700 NW 36th Avenue
Miami, FL 33167
140,000 sqft. facility comprised of a vast 
amount of Manufacturing Machinery and 
Equipment including but not limited to: as-
sorted hydraulic punch presses, die presses 
and dies, hydraulic press breaks, hydraulic 
sheers, welding machinery, lamination ma-
chinery line, glue application machinery, 
plywood and MDF boards, heat press ma-
chinery, assorted milling machines and drill 
presses, band saws, inventory, Clark fork-
lifts, Toyota forklifts, pacemaker plastic extru-
sion lines, bench lathes, warehouse handling 
equipment, scissor lift, racking, shelving, raw 
materials, supplies, office furniture, com-
puters/office equipment, 2012 Chevrolet 
Express van, intellectual property (trade-
marks, copyrights, patents, design rights, 
logos, licensing agreements, domain name, 
websites, testing reports, promotional aids) 
and much more.
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Inspections: By appointment only (5) days 
prior to the scheduled auction date.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#2019-024506-CA-44
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit to 
bid. 15%-18% BP.
(800) 840-BIDS
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      11-15-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      11-18-
19-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Today in history — 1492: Christopher Columbus 
notes 1st recorded reference to tobacco.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Today in history — 1777: Articles of Confederation, 
1st US constitution, approved by Congress.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Joe Deeney
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 River past the 
Museo Galileo
5 Wipe out
10 “Antiques 
Roadshow” airer
13 Half of rock’s ’60s 
“it” couple, per 
Time
14 “I’ve got this”
15 Chipotle serving, 
casually
16 Clothes line?
18 Approximately
19 County bordering 
London
20 Ingredient in 
arròs negre, a 
squid-and-rice 
dish
21 Pursuit
22 Solidified
24 Tag line?
26 Able-bodied
28 Green of “Casino 
Royale”
30 Iraq War danger: 
Abbr.
31 “The Wire” 
antihero __ Little
32 Think back to
34 Gym surface
37 Border line?
40 Vague ending
41 Bilingual Muppet
42 MD’s diagnostic 
tools
43 Big bird
44 Relative of Da 
and De
45 Leaning
46 Pick-up line?
50 Rte. with a Lake 
Michigan ferry 
crossing
52 Times New __
53 Health care 
provider: Abbr.
55 “Set Fire to the 
Rain” singer
58 Beyond 
regulation play, 
briefly
59 Defensive line?
61 WWII Axis 
general
62 Kansas Army fort
63 Slaughter on the 
diamond
64 Asian honorific
65 Neglected
66 Grant’s oppositeDOWN
1 Overexertion 
symptom
2 Frat letters
3 Ironic “This 
should come as 
no surprise ... ”
4 Ones stocking up
5 Lilly of drugs
6 Bullpen staff
7 Loads
8 Like the air 
around a 
campfire
9 “What’s THAT?”
10 Applesauce, e.g.
11 Low singers
12 “Waverley” 
novelist
15 Squash, for one
17 Big name in 
spatulas
21 Put down
23 Reset
25 Crankcase 
reservoirs
26 Kachina carver
27 Reddit Q&A 
sessions
29 When Prospero 
says, “We are 
such stuff as 
dreams are 
made on”33 Blew away
34 Ford carrier in 
the mid-’70s
35 Tibet’s place
36 Julia’s  
“Ocean’s 
Twelve” role
38 Guys who spin
39 Like some war 
correspondents
43 Poetry Muse
46 Court directives
47 Esteem48 Heart Eyes or OK 
Hand
49 “Yesterday,” 
today
51 Bit of body art
54 Stack
56 Safari sight
57 Online 
marketplace
59 Returns home?
60 Big Apple  
team, on  
crawl lines
By Joseph Ashear
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, November 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Co. with brown 
trucks
4 Fearsome 
Tolkien beasts
8 Run off at the 
mouth
14 New Deal prog.
15 Guthrie genre
16 Unprincipled
17 Rapper __-Z
18 Fireplace outlet
19 Accompany
20 Yellowfin tuna
21 Great quantity
22 Highest-ranking 
elected woman in 
U.S. history
23 McConaughey 
of “True 
Detective”
25 Nickname 
for Israel’s 
Netanyahu
26 Sported
27 Beach in a 1964 
hit song
31 Start of a Poitier 
film title
34 Author/aviator 
__ Morrow 
Lindbergh
36 Film crew 
member
37 V-formation flier
38 ’90s game disc
39 Pipe up
40 __ the finish
41 Snapchat’s ghost, 
e.g.
42 Shoes with 
swooshes
43 Color from a 
bottle
45 British WWII gun
47 Magician 
Weasley and 
anchorman 
Burgundy
48 Have
52 Like some 
wedding photos
55 Hook or Cook: 
Abbr.
56 Quid pro __
57 Maryland state 
bird, e.g.
58 Dos cubed
59 Lines at a 
checkout 
counter?
60 Money maker
61 Not nice at all62 Bother a great 
deal
63 Great times
64 Uruguay’s Punta 
del __
65 __ de deux
DOWN
1 Clear, as a 
printer
2 Czech Republic 
capital, to Czechs
3 “Don’t beat 
around the 
bush!”
4 A bit out in the 
ocean
5 Painter’s tool
6 ... in a board 
game
7 Present in a 
biased way
8 Reed instrument
9 Pond protozoan
10 ... in a ball game
11 Gusto
12 Back muscles, 
briefly
13 K-12 appropriate
24 ... on a game mat
25 ... on a game card
28 Actor Estrada
29 “Dibs!”30 Long-limbed 
beasts
31 “So ready for the 
weekend!”
32 Chaplin 
named for her 
grandmother
33 Relax in the hot 
tub
35 Yuletide libation
39 14 British pounds
41 Big name in 
advice44 __ training
46 Tails partner
49 Furnish with 
gear
50 Sporty Toyota 
until 2002
51 Laundry day 
casualties
52 Rooster topper
53 Seed covering
54 Jazz singer 
Simone
55 Show up
11/13/19
answers on page 9FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
Today in history — 1939: Nazis begin mass mur-
der of Warsaw Jews.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Today in history — 1946: House Committee on 
Un-American Activities (HUAC) interrogates 
astronomer Harlow Shapley
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgGet the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Lung Cancer? Asbestos exposure may be 
the cause. $30 billion set aside for asbestos 
victims.Call 1-619-485-4372 or email can-
cerFL@breakinginjurynews.com      11-15-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a 
common interest with or for your true love 
Today in history — 1969: Janis Joplin, accused of 
vulgar & indicent language in Tampa, Florida.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
 FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 
5:00 - 7:00 p.m. on 11/18 - 11/21.  Verbal 
on M&W, Math on T&R.   To register and 
learn the room location, go to the TC web-
site www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click 
on “Tutoring" then "Standardized Test Prep,” 
then "GRE Reviews."     11-18-19-3-20
Today in history — 1969: Wendy's Hamburgers, 
American fast food restaurant chains founded by Dave 
Thomas opens in Columbus, OhioStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
Bilingual student wanted for part-time work 
as Latin America inside sales rep for local 
software company. Local software company 
in Gainesville (around the corner from SFCC) 
looking for energetic University of Florida or 
SFCC student to help with sales and market-
ing efforts focusing on Latin America in this 
part-time independent contractor position. 
Must be fluent in English and Spanish. We 
offer flexible hours. Earn hourly pay plus 
commission. Email resume and 3 references 
to: GvilleSoftwareCo@gmail.com.    11-20-
7-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
How to MAKE EXTRA MONEY PLAYING
VIDEO GAMES explained.
Free E-book tells how at
www.vidgamerz.com
11-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Stickelers Answer
Each should play 32 
minutes. There are 48 
total minutes for any 
given game. Since 
only two forwards can 
play at any given time, 
and there are three 
forwards to split that 
time equally, each for-
ward would play 2/3 of 
48 or 32 minutes.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
answers answers  
1.  Type of stinger
1.  Field ____5.  Antic, prank
2.  Put off6.  Type of machine tool
3.  Unpredictable 7.  ____ in
4.  Bring to lightRTNHOE
CYHOKEPRACE
ELHAT
SLREEUP
ACIRERTNLCPIE
EIUVNLANSWERS: 1A-Hornet  5A-Caper  6A-Lathe  7A-Pencil
1D-Hockey  2D-Repulse  3D-Erratic  4D-Unveil  B-Ketchup11-15-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Heinz has been selling this since 1876.
BONUSPUZZLE SOLUTIONSFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators sophomore wins weekly SEC honors
Florida volleyball setter Marlie Monserez was named SEC Setter of the 
Week on Monday following her weekend performance, which saw her notch 
a career-high mark of 63 assists against Ole Miss and another 42 assists 
agaist Mississippi State. This is the third time she has won it this season.  Former Florida wide receiver 
Antonio Callaway is facing a 10-
game suspension after violating 
the NFL 's substance-abuse 
policy by taking a tainted CBD 
supplement, according to ESPN.
STAFF REPORT
Legend has it, Vandy is still trying to 
score a point.
The Commodores were blanked 
by the Gators on Saturday despite 
being led by the quarterback with 
the most quarterback-sounding name in 
the country: Deuce Wallace.
I mean, it’s perfect. Our only com-
plaint is that he plays for Vanderbilt 
instead of Mississippi State, which feels 
like the most natural ﬁ  t.
But Deuce put up nada, and Florida 
remains squarely in the New Year’s Six 
race ahead of a road matchup against 
Missouri, who UF never struggles with 
at all.
Since that game should be a snooze-
fest and the Tigers deﬁ  nitely won’t take 
Florida to triple overtime, we’ll focus on 
games with Playoff ImplicationsTM.
No. 10 Oklahoma travels to No. 13 
Baylor for what could be a preview of 
the Big 12 Championship. Both teams 
likely need a win to keep playoff hopes 
alive, and football writers Kyle Wood 
and Dylan Rudolph have their picks for 
that one.
Oklahoma will win because…
This is a Big 12 game, and the Soon-
ers have the offensive ﬁ  repower to keep 
them in it.
Hiding in the smoke behind the Joe 
Burrow and Tua Tagavailoa Heisman 
hype is Jalen Hurts. The former Crim-
son Tide quarterback has 39 total touch-
downs this season and averages just 
over 400 yards of offense per game.
He has produced at least four touch-
downs in eight games, and Oklahoma 
has only been held under 40 points once 
all season long. The Sooners should be 
able to expose Baylor’s defense, which 
holds opponents under 20 points per 
game but hasn’t played an offense like 
OU’s yet — or even a ranked opponent.
Hurts being able to beat you on the 
ground and in the air, with receiver 
Ceedee Lamb (13 receiving touchdowns) 
at his disposal, helps diversify the Soon-
ers’ offense.
Read the rest online at 
www.alligator.org/sportsPICKS:
Week 12
SITE: Faurot Field (cap. 62,621)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS / 850 AM
FEATURE
FOOTBALLBy Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
There were less than 15 minutes to play 
in the Players Development Academy (PDA) 
league’s  New Jersey Cup Semiﬁ  nal. Vanessa 
Kara — forward for the PDA Force — already 
had two goals. This was her shot at a third. 
After all, then-Rutgers head coach, Glenn 
Crooks, was in attendance to watch the high 
school sophomore compete, and that was her 
dream school. 
“I just remember it so clearly,” Vanessa 
said. “It was the best game I had, like, ever 
played at that point in my life,” she said. 
She had a breakaway. No way am I getting a 
hat trick in this type of game.
But in a matter of seconds, her dream shat-
tered, when a body part tore. 
“The goalkeeper just came out of her box 
and just completely took me out,” Vanessa 
said. 
Red card. Ejection. I felt the pop again. 
That pop was Vanessa’s right knee. After a 
left ACL tear her freshman year, the other knee 
had just suffered the same injury. It wasn’t just 
her leg that felt the pain — her recruiting mo-
mentum did, as well. 
“(Rutgers) gave me an offer but didn’t re-
ally give me any scholarship money.” Kara 
said. “And it wasn’t just them. A couple other 
schools I was talking to, even schools that were 
my backup schools, I had radio silence, like, no 
one would answer an email.”
Vanessa at the time had seen both ACLs tear 
and didn’t even have her New Jersey driver’s 
license yet. The Burlington, New Jersey, na-
tive and Moorestown Friends School product 
committed to Drexel University in Philadelphia 
her senior year in 2014. Four years later, she 
moved again. Kara transferred to Florida for the 
2019 season.
Her athletic career took off way before col-
lege or high school. It started at the Bridle Club, 
the neighborhood she grew up in. Vanessa and 
her brothers, Mike and Bobby, played pickup 
sports with the boys’ friends right behind the 
Kara’s house. They had an empty grass lot right 
behind their backyard. 
It was perfect for all the sports they played: 
football, baseball, soccer and ﬁ  eld hockey. 
Vanessa was typically the only girl and by far 
the youngest one out there. But she was still a 
top pick in the Bridle Club drafts, regardless.
“We’d have upwards of 20 guys out there 
playing with us that were two to four years 
older than Vanessa, and honestly, she was one 
of the best players,” Mike said. “We’d have 
two captains who’d draft teams, and Vanessa 
was always picked near the top. She was only nine years old playing with 12-year-old boys, 
and she was kind of ruling the game back then 
too.” 
Before soccer, another sport seemed to be 
her strength: touch football. 
“Her best thing was being kind of like a de-
fensive lineman rushing the quarterback,” Mike 
said. “She’d always come up with a sack.” 
And the guys from the neighborhood knew 
that Vanessa was not an ordinary athlete. She 
had a legitimate future beyond the Bridle Club 
grass lot. 
“When I still see those guys today, they’re 
like, ‘We knew your sister would do big things 
just based on the way she would dominate us 
as kids,’” Mike said. 
And that future was eventually found in 
soccer. The Force is a top club team in the state 
of New Jersey and plays in a top league in the 
PDA. 
The injuries may have caused coaches at 
bigger schools to ignore her emails, but the tal-
ent was still there. So what did she do? 
She became statistically the best forward 
that Drexel has ever had.  
She was the Dragons’ best single-season 
goal-scorer ever in her freshman season (11) 
and was the Colonial Athletic Association’s 
Rookie of the Year. But the success didn’t last. 
Injury struck again in her junior season. 
She tore her right ACL for the second time 
late into the 2017 campaign, right before the 
playoffs. Because it was a second tear, the re-
covery was longer. For two months, her leg 
barely moved.  
So, while she waited for the ACL to heal, the 
muscles in her leg withered away. The lack of 
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
On paper, Florida should win 
its SEC ﬁ  nale at Missouri tomor-
row.
The Gators are the No. 11 team 
in the nation, are 8-2 on the season 
and are coming off a 56-0 thrash-
ing of Vanderbilt. The Tigers, on 
the other hand, are 5-4 and are 
coming off three-straight losses, 
one of them to Vandy.
The game, however, will not be 
played on paper. It will be played 
at 11 a.m. CDT (noon EST) against 
a team ﬁ  ghting for its coach’s job 
in 40-something degree weather in 
front of a hostile Missouri crowd.
“I think they’ve blown out just 
about everybody that’s come in 
there,” UF coach Dan Mullen said. “Obviously a huge challenge.”
You never know what you’re 
going to get with Missouri.
The Tigers have an NFL Draft 
prospect at quarterback in Kelly 
Bryant, who missed last week’s 
27-0 loss to Georgia but is slated 
to play tomorrow. They have Nick 
Bolton, the SEC’s leading tackler, 
at linebacker. They also have the 
ﬁ  fth-best scoring defense in the 
conference and were the 22nd-
ranked team in the country less 
than a month ago.
Inexplicably, though, Missouri 
has lost to the bottom two teams 
in the SEC East (Kentucky and 
Vanderbilt), as well as Wyoming, 
putting coach Barry Odom ﬁ  rmly 
on the hot seat.
One thing is clear about Flori-
da’s opponent — they play better at home than they do away from 
it. The Tigers are undefeated (5-0) 
at Faurot Field.
“They get home, something 
clicks with them, and they blow 
teams out. So, we’ve got to be 
ready for that,” defensive back 
Marco Wilson said. “We know 
they’re going to be hyped up.”
Recent history is also not in 
Florida’s favor tomorrow.
The Gators are just 3-5 against 
Missouri all-time and have lost 
each of the last two years by a 
combined score of 83-33. UF was 
favored in both those games, just 
like it is Saturday.
“Bitter taste,” defensive line-
man Adam Shuler said about last 
year’s game. “That’s not really our 
motivation, just to get revenge. 
That’s not our whole key this week. It’s just the next big game.”
Still, Florida is ranked where 
it is for a reason. It’s a game the 
Gators should win, especially since 
they’ve gotten healthier over re-
cent weeks. But, as we’ve seen be-
fore, Missouri can’t be overlooked.
An upset loss would ofﬁ  cially 
bury UF’s slim hopes at a division 
title. A likely appearance in a New 
Year’s Six bowl would become 
a long-shot. For Missouri, a win 
would clinch bowl eligibility and 
give a lifeline to Odom. For both 
teams, the temperature will be low 
and the stakes will be high in front 
of a national CBS audience.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgBeating the odds: Kara overcomes injuries, transfer
Stakes are high as UF looks for redemptionSEE FEATURE,  PAGE 12Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Vanessa Kara leads UF with 10 goals. 
•   •   • •   •   •FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
Pain removal at once.
40% off. Opening Promotion
(352)283-3637  |  oneacu.comBack, Neck, Shoulders, Knees, etc.
Q Acupuncture & Herb ClinicMEN’S BASKETBALL
SOCCERBy Evan Lepak
Sports Writer 
For Florida, Thursday 
night’s game was sup-
posed to produce a get 
back-on-track type of per-
formance at the O’Connell 
Center.
 UF’s opponent how-
ever, thought differently.
The Towson Tigers 
hung with the 15th-ranked 
team in the country for 
the first half of play, out-
shooting and outrebound-
ing the Gators into a 30-30 
gridlock at half.
It stayed close for the 
remainder of the game 
until Florida ended the 
contest on a 6-0 run be-
hind some clutch free 
throws from sophomore 
Andrew Nembhard and 
freshman Scottie Lewis to 
help edge Towson 66-60.
Florida’s shooting woes 
that plagued them against 
the Seminoles during Sun-
day’s loss carried over 
into Thursday, as the 
team shot just 42 percent from the field (23 of 55) 
for the game. Despite the 
tough night offensively, 
UF coach Mike White 
credited Towson for being 
a big reason behind it.
“Towson’s really good,” 
he said. “They guard fan-
tastic, their bigs defend 
well, move well, rebound 
well. They really provide 
that physicality…We were 
fortunate. They played 
well enough to come in 
here and steal one.”
So far this season, the 
three-point line has been 
Florida’s nemesis. A team 
that started out incredibly 
hot from three in the pre-
season is now just 14 for 
59 from three-point land 
through the first three 
regular season games, in-
cluding a 7-of-22 output 
against the Tigers.
With an important 
road game against UCo-
nn this weekend and the 
Charleston Classic loom-
ing next week, the Gators 
will need for their shots to 
fall at a higher clip.“We’re just struggling 
to convert from three right 
now, but I thought we 
had some decent looks,” 
White said. “Tre Mann 
and Noah Locke are two 
of the best shooters I’ve 
ever coached, and they’ll 
get it going.”
Early on Thursday 
night, both teams came 
out with impressive de-
fensive energy. Towson 
(2-2) gave the Gators (2-
1) fits, swarming Florida 
inside and out and caus-
ing missed shots both in 
the paint and on the pe-
rimeter.
In the first half, UF 
shot under 40 percent and 
was outrebounded 17-15.
To open the second, 
Florida looked poised to 
take over the game. A 
Lewis (15 points, three 
rebounds) trey combined 
with a driving layup and 
free throw from Mann (six 
points, one assist) had UF 
up four with some evident 
momentum.
The Gators couldn’t shake the Tigers, though, 
and the game — which 
featured 19 lead changes 
— went back and forth 
until Towson guard Ju-
wan Gray sunk a three to 
tie the game at 60-60 with 
2:14 remaining.
Florida big man Kerry 
Blackshear Jr. broke that 
tie just over a minute later 
after a much-needed la-
yup for his team.
He earned his third-
straight double-double 
with 13 points and 13 re-
bounds against Towson.
“We understand that 
every game is going to be 
a challenge, and we got to 
be able to fight through 
those games,” he said. “I 
think this (game) was a 
big learning curve for us.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
When former goalie Kaylan Marckese left 
for the National Women’s Soccer League, 
coach Becky Burleigh faced a tough decision 
heading into the 2019-20 campaign.
Burleigh had to choose among freshman 
Francesca Faraci, junior Ashley Pietra and red-
shirt junior Susi Espinoza to replace Marckese, 
who set the program record for career shutouts 
(29) and complete matches played (74). 
The 25th-year UF coach ultimately went 
with Espinoza to fill the void in net, and the 
goalie showed that she belonged in the start-
ing lineup after an eight-save performance led the Gators to a 2-0 road victory over then-No. 
18 South Florida in the second fixture of the 
season.
Florida’s soccer team will need a similar 
outing from Espinoza in Friday night’s re-
match against the 17th-ranked Bulls at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium. The stakes are higher this 
time around, however, as UF must win to ad-
vance to the Second Round of the NCAA Tour-
nament and keep its national championship 
aspirations alive.
“That game feels like it was a year ago be-
cause it was so early in the season,” Burleigh 
said. “I know we have definitely developed as 
a team, just as I’m sure USF has, as well. We 
expect it to be a super competitive match as is every match we play with them.”
Despite falling 3-1 to top-seeded Arkansas 
in the SEC Tournament semifinals last Thurs-
day, the Gators earned one of the 33 at-large 
berths for the NCAA Tournament.
Florida’s inefficient offense was its downfall 
against the Razorbacks.
UF registered 20 shots — with nine of those 
hitting the target — but found the back of the 
net only once. Its lone goal didn’t come in the 
run of play either. It came on a penalty kick 
from forward Vanessa Kara in the 63rd minute 
after midfielder Sammie Betters was fouled in-
side the box.
After finishing the regular season on a six-
game scoring drought, Kara has recorded a goal in each of Florida’s two postseason matchups.
The Drexel transfer has a team-high 10 
goals in her first year at UF, which is four more 
than the team’s leading goalscorer (forward 
Madison Alexander) in 2018. 
Kara did not have the opportunity to com-
pete for the national title in her four seasons 
with the Dragons but she does now with the 
Gators.
“It’s been a goal of mine since I was a little 
kid growing up,” the senior forward said. “For 
us to have made it and get a bid is really excit-
ing.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators survive upset bid, defeat Towson in final minutes
Florida, USF meet again in Round 1 of NCAA TournamentSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Freshman Scottie Lewis notched 15 points and three rebounds in 
Thursday’s 66-60 win over the T owson Tigers. 
12  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2019
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$3 Wells
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
activity essentially eroded them. 
But it didn’t erode her support 
system. 
“When you have your younger 
sister so passionate about some-
thing, and something you care about 
and really love, her dreams have 
kind of become my dreams over the 
years,” Mike said. “I’d pitch in driv-
ing her to therapy, to her velocity 
training to get running again.” 
To get her surgically repaired 
ACL back to playing strength, 
she had to get her leg back to any 
strength at all. She didn’t know it 
at the time, but when that process 
was complete, her tenure at Drexel 
would also be. 
The recovery took 11 months. It 
was not until deep into the following season that she was healthy again, 
so Vanessa decided to not burn a 
year of eligibility on a senior cam-
paign that was almost over anyway. 
She medically redshirted and held 
on to the ﬁ  nal year that she could 
play college soccer. 
By the time Vanessa’s knee was 
in a good place, her mind was not. 
She didn’t approve of the direction 
of Drexel’s program under coach 
Ray Goon. After a season of sitting 
and watching, she felt that her ﬁ  -
nal season of playing would be best 
served in a new uniform. 
“(The Dragons) were kind of 
stuck in like an older way of viewing 
the game,” Vanessa said. “We never 
really worked on, like, possession or 
our attack.” 
Another bad sign to Vanessa 
was dominance. She didn’t play in 
games that year, but Vanessa prac-ticed when she got healthy. 
“It shouldn’t be my ﬁ  rst prac-
tice back, and I’m not being chal-
lenged,” Vanessa said. “It made me 
just worry about my development.” 
That sparked her to make a life 
and athletic career-altering decision 
in November  2018: Vanessa was 
going to leave the school she had 
played for and attended for four 
years. She didn’t know where she’d 
play next at the time, she just knew 
it wouldn’t be Drexel.
The recruiting process had be-
gun all over again. But this time, big 
schools offered scholarships. 
“I put my name in the NCAA por-
tal, and I was like, ‘I have no idea 
where I want to go now,’” Vanessa 
said. “I had no idea who was going 
to be interested in me, and then one 
of my coaches connected me with (coach) Becky (Burleigh).” 
Vanessa saw an established pro-
gram in Florida with a deep history. 
She saw a program that has had the 
same coach since it began in 1995 
and a program that’s produced 
World Cup champions like Abby 
Wambach and Melanie Booth. How-
ever, she wasn’t oblivious. 
2018 was an abysmal year for the 
Gators: seven wins, 21 tries. 
“I was nervous because I wanted 
to go somewhere and it be a top 
program so that my last year could 
be an amazing year,” Vanessa said. 
“Yeah, there was a risk that they 
could have the same repeat as last 
year, but I looked at is as a really 
good opportunity where I could add 
something.” 
So, the decision was made. For 
the ﬁ  rst time in her life, Vanessa 
would live somewhere other than 
the northeast. She drove to Florida 
in July with her parents, Paul and 
Grace. They took Vanessa’s 2012 Nissan 
Sentra and Grace’s Toyota Highland-
er for the drive to Gainesville from 
Burlington that takes over 13 hours. 
She moved into a house with ﬁ  ve 
of her new teammates: Susi Espino-
za, Kit Loferski, Parker Roberts, Alex 
Stubblebine and Haillie Lower. 
“They not only accepted me for 
who I am, but they loved who I 
am,” Vanessa said. “I’m a little awk-
ward… they mess with me about it, 
and they embrace me.” 
During the offseason, the NCAA 
doesn’t allow organized practice, so 
Burleigh can’t set anything up, but 
the players play pickup with each 
other. Just in those pickup matches, 
Vanessa found the challenge she 
wanted when she left Drexel. 
“It was a blast for me,” Vanessa 
said. “I was like ‘everybody is so 
good.’” 
Read the rest online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFEATURE,  from pg. 10Kara puts faith in portal
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
It wasn’t too long ago that Florida’s vol-
leyball team sat around then-3-year-old So-
phia Murrillo and ofﬁ  cially welcomed her 
into their family with her very own jersey.
Through the Friends of Jaclyn organiza-
tion, a foundation that focuses on raising 
awareness for children that battle pediatric 
cancer and bettering their lives with local 
high school and college sports teams, the 
Gators met Murrillo, a young child who en-
joys watching the Wizard of Oz and every-
thing that’s purple.  
And while Friday’s 7 p.m. home match-
up against the LSU Tigers might seem like 
any other match the Gators have played this 
season, it means something more. The game 
will mark Florida’s brain cancer awareness 
match in Murrillo’s honor.
“I think it would be hard to quantify the 
kind of impact Sophia and her family have 
had on us,” coach Mary Wise said. “When we initially met her, it was an opportunity 
to include them in the Gator volleyball fami-
ly, but I don’t think we could have predicted 
what it meant.
“They often say how blessed they are, 
but I think we are the ones reaping all of 
the beneﬁ  ts.”
Wise said Sophia’s grandparents, Mary 
and Howard, will text the team after, and 
sometimes before, every match, embracing 
the team with open arms.
“She always has a smile on her face,” 
setter Marlie Monserez said. “With the hand 
she’s been dealt, it has to be incredibly difﬁ  -
cult, but she has taught us all that it doesn’t 
matter your situation, tomorrow’s a new 
day and you can always have a good day.”
Bringing in some new Florida blood
Four high school student-athletes com-
mitted to UF’s volleyball team Wednesday 
afternoon in the nation’s ﬁ  rst NLI date of 
the year for Division I and II sports (outside 
of basketball and football).Birdie Hendrickson is a 2019 Under Ar-
mour First Team All-American 6-foot-2 set-
ter out of Rogersville, Missouri. She joins 
fellow signees Elli McKissock, a 5-foot-7 
libero from Windermere, Florida; Nnedi 
Okammor, a 6-foot-4 middle blocker of Car-
rollton, Texas; and Soﬁ  a Victoria, a 6-foot-1 
outside hitter out of Gurabo, Puerto Rico.
“The ’20 class checks all the boxes in 
each position: talent, athleticism, experi-
ence and, most of all, character,” Wise said 
in a release.
The head coach added that the new re-
cruits will join the team in January and this 
upcoming summer.   
“It’s been a while since we’ve had things 
to shake it up in the gym,” opposite attacker 
Holly Carlton said about the new signees. 
“It’s always good to get some extra compe-
tition and players who are excited to grow 
and learn.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators find inspiration in newest teammate
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Marlie Monserez (21) averages 10.25 assists/set. 
•   •   •