We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators revive oﬀ  ense in win over JU
Freshman Jacob Young reached base four times 
in UF’s 13-8 win over the Dolphins, pg. 14Always thank your bus driver
UF students show appreciation for RTS bus drivers, pg. 5
A documentary on MLK
More than 50 years after MLK’s death, the Harn will show a 
documentary on how his efforts led to today’s activism, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 70
Staff Report
Gainesville knew who was go-
ing to win the election.
With three mayoral opponents 
and a commissioner opponent 
who had never been elected to a 
government ofﬁ  ce, the chances of 
incumbent candidates Lauren Poe 
and Adrian Hayes-Santos losing 
was slim.
The landslide wins for mayor 
and District 4 City Commissioner 
mean nothing will change in local 
government leadership.
Poe beat Jenn Powell, Jen-
nifer Reid and Marlon Bruce for 
Gainesville Mayor by 61.82 per-
cent of the vote, according to the 
Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections ofﬁ  ce. 
Incumbent Hayes-Santos beat 
Robert Mounts by 73.68 percent of the votes for the District 4 City 
Commission seat, according to the 
elections ofﬁ  ce. Along with the of-
ﬁ  cial positions, the creation of the 
charter review commission passed 
with 62.96 percent. The  charter 
review will consist of 11 registered 
voters elected by the city commis-
sion. It will review the city charter 
and propose amendments every 
decade.
Of the 89,777 active registered 
voters, the regular election saw 
a 12.95 percent voter turnout, 
which includes the 2,869 people 
who voted early at polls. 
This was a decrease in voter 
turnout from last year’s local elec-
tion, which decided the city com-
mission At-large 1 and District 1 
seats and had a 13.53 percent 
turnout. The turnout this year was Mayor Lauren Poe 
dominates in race
MAYOR LAUREN POE AND COMMISSIONER 
ADRIAN-HAYES SANTOS WILL REMAIN IN OFFICE
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Khokhar was on his way to Friday 
prayer with his friends when a feeling of un-
easiness swept over him. 
A gunman had just opened ﬁ  re on two 
mosques in New Zealand, killing 50 and injur-
ing dozens.
He broke the silence in the car to express 
his anxiety. His friend responded, validating 
his feelings, but insisted it was safe to practice 
Islam in Gainesville. 
“He stated that, ‘You know, it’s justi-
ﬁ  ed for you to feel uneasy, but the people of 
Gainesville are good,’” Khokhar said. 
Khokhar, looking around at the crowd at 
the Christchurch memorial Monday night, felt 
his friend’s statement was afﬁ  rmed by the ap-
pearance of community members. 
“This gathering right here is just a reassur-
ance to me that no matter how we look on 
the outside, we all bleed red, and we’re all human,” the vice president of external affairs 
of UF Islam on Campus said.
Khokhar’s story was just one of several 
told at the ﬂ  ower memorial hosted by Islam 
on Campus. About 150 people gathered to 
remember the lives lost in the mosques of 
Christchurch, New Zealand. 
The event featured prayers, ﬁ  ve speakers 
and ﬂ  owers to honor the victims. 
Members of the Gainesville community 
who attended the event included students, 
community religious leaders, local residents 
and several members of Moms Demand Ac-
tion, an anti-gun violence organization. 
Sana Nimer, the Islam on Campus presi-
dent, stood tall on Turlington Plaza on a con-
crete table wearing a salmon-colored heads-
carf with a microphone in her hand. 
She started the vigil off with a speech 
about the victims of the tragedy, the youngest 
of whom was 3. Despite tearing up occasion-
ally in the speech, she spoke eloquently as she UF mourns loss of 50 victims in 
Christchurch mosque shootings
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 4Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Lauren Poe speaks to a crowd of reporters and about 100 supporters Tuesday at the Public and General 
restaurant, at 1000 NE 16th Ave. Poe beat three opponents to win his second term as mayor of Gainesville.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Three nearly empty large glass jars 
sit atop tables in a hidden room of Grace 
Marketplace, a Gainesville homeless 
shelter.
Inside these cylindrical containers lie 
tampons and sanitary napkins — but so 
few of them, they barely cover the bot-
tom.
Shortages of menstrual items, dia-
pers and basic hygienic products are 
common in shelters across Gainesville, 
said Jayne Moraski, the executive direc-
tor of Family Promise of Gainesville, a 
shelter and housing program for fami-
lies with children.
“It’s still something taboo for peo-
ple to talk about,” Moraski said. “It 
shouldn’t be.”
There were 641 documented home-
less people on the streets and in shelters 
in Alachua County in 2018, according to the North Central Florida Coalition for 
the Homeless and Hungry. 
In 2014, The Alachua County Co-
alition for the Homeless and Hungry 
opened Grace, which annually receives 
about $1.4 million split between the city 
of Gainesville and Alachua County.
Monica Love, 25, a homeless woman 
who has been in and out of Grace Mar-
ketplace over the past four years, recalls 
a time when she did not have access to 
menstrual products.
It was last month when she inter-
viewed for a job at Sonny’s BBQ.
Love said she felt uncomfortable, and 
it affected her conﬁ  dence at the time, a 
concern she believes other people typi-
cally don’t have.
“When you have all those things in 
order, you know just about nothing can 
go wrong,” she said. “People just don’t 
really think about it as well.”
At Grace Marketplace, Love said Menstrual products lacking 
in local homeless shelters
SEE HOMELESS,  PAGE 4About 150 people attended the vigilSEE VOTING,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
EmpowerME
When: 5:30-8 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union, Rion 
Ballroom West
What: EmpowerME “Building 
Up the Women Around You” 
is an event focused on talking 
about female empowerment 
from the male perspective and 
male empowerment through 
the female perspective. The 
goal is to encourage UF stu-
dents to embrace a movement 
that inspires them to empow-
er others. The hope from the 
event is to leave every man 
feeling responsible to build 
up at least one woman around 
him and to leave every woman 
with the confidence to empow-
er the men around her. 
DancerFest
When: 4-7 p.m.
Where: Flavet Field
What: The Dancer Relations 
Team at Dance Marathon UF 
will host a carnival-themed 
dancer pep rally. The event is 
an opportunity for people to 
get to know some of the danc-
ers and meet Miracle Children. 
There will be face painting and 
carnival games.
THURSDAY
Women’s History Month Talk 
with Sunny Nastase
When: 6:30-7:30 p.m.
Where: Room 202, Joseph Hernandez Hall
What: The College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences will cele-
brate Women’s History Month 
with a talk called “Smashing 
the Glass Ceiling: How Women 
and Men can Wield the 
Hammer” with Sunny Nastase. 
Nastase earned degrees from 
UF in anthropology and psy-
chology and will share her in-
sights on how men and women 
can join forces to break the 
glass ceiling. Sunny just tran-
sitioned from her position as 
president of healthcare at UPS 
to serve as lead strategist for 
GeneNews, which is changing 
the trajectory of early cancer 
detection and cure.
FRIDAY
Documentary Night
When: 6 p.m.
Where: First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, 1220 SE 
Veitch St.
What: The UF chapter of the 
Sustainable Ocean Alliance 
will host a free documentary 
night with a panel of experts 
including Chris Castro, the 
director of sustainability for 
the city of Orlando. National 
Geographic’s “Paris to 
Pittsburgh” will be shown. The 
event is in partnership with 
the Florida Climate Institute, 
the UF Office of Sustainability 
and the Surfrider Foundation.
Big Orange Festival 2019
When: 6:30-10:30 p.m.Where: Reitz Union, North 
Lawn
What: The festival will fea-
ture a concert by Noah Cyrus. 
Ocean Park Standoff will open. 
There will also be free food, 
such as glow-in-the-dark cot-
ton candy, activities, rides and 
music by DJ Magnum. The first 
300 students who arrive will 
get a free T-shirt. The event is 
free for UF students. Students 
must bring their Gator 1 Cards 
for free admission. No guests 
are allowed. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  73° LOW  45°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 70WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Incumbent Adrian Hayes-Santos shakes City Commissioner David Arreola’s hand Tuesday during 
Hayes-Santos and Lauren Poe’s watch party at the Public and General restaurant. Hayes-Santos beat 
Robert Mounts to become Gainesville city commissioner for District 4.
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Jenn Powell, a candidate in the Gainesville mayoral race, hugs Miguel 
Valdez Tuesday at Chopstix Cafe after conceding the race to Mayor 
Lauren Poe. “We knew it was all going to depend on voter turnout, ” 
she said. “Hopefully we educated people, and hopefully we have 
better voter turnout. ” Powell lost to Poe 2,138 votes to 7,158. 
larger than 2017’s election, which 
decided the commission At-large 2, 
District 2 and District 3 seats. Voter 
turnout then was 11.88 percent.
This wasn’t Poe’s first victory – 
but it will be his second and final 
term with the city commission. 
He watched the election in a 
joint watch party with Hayes-Santos 
and about 100 supporters, family, 
friends and city officials at Public 
and General, at 1000 NE 16th Ave.
After seeing the results, Hayes-
Santos and Poe embraced to cele-
brate their dual victory. Hayes-San-
tos gave his speech first and then 
Poe stood to give his final victory 
speech. 
“I’ve won, and I’ve lost. It al-
ways feels best to win,” Poe said. 
“I’ve been given a chance that not 
many other people get.”
Emily Monda-Poe, his wife, has 
been with him through all his cam-
paigns. 
“I’m over the moon,” Monda-Poe 
said. “We want to make Gainesville 
accessible to everyone. That’s a pas-
sion for both of us.”
Poe said because this is his last 
term on the commission, he is more 
driven to make progress in closing 
equity gaps and making Gainesville 
more affordable, which he’s been 
working toward since he joined the 
commission 10 years ago.
Alycin Hayes, Hayes-Santos’ 
mother, said she wasn’t worried 
about the election because she was 
confident in her son’s hard work.
“Ever since he was little, he was 
interested in local politics,” Hayes 
said. “I’m proud of him because 
that’s what he wants. He wants to make Gainesville a better place.”
Hayes-Santos said that he plans 
to continue his work that he began 
on the commission, such as moving 
toward expanding high-speed af-
fordable internet.
Powell spent election night at 
her favorite restaurant, Chopstix 
Cafe, at 3500 SW 13th St.
When Powell saw the results, 
she snuck away from her watch 
party of about 20 people to make a 
concession call to Poe.
Powell only received 18.47 per-
cent of the vote, which is 2,138 
votes, according to the elections 
office. This is her second loss in 
Gainesville local elections. In 2017, 
she ran against Helen Warren for 
the commission At-large 1 seat.
“I’m really proud of all the is-
sues we brought to the table,” she 
said. “We’re not stopping any time 
soon.”
Jason King, Powell’s campaign 
manager, was saddened at the re-
sult but said he knew they ran a 
good campaign. 
“We knocked on doors, we 
found out the main issues were af-
fordable housing and Gainesville 
Regional Utility rates, and we had 
a strong platform,” he said. “It just 
came down to low voter turnout.”
Powell said she will make sure 
Poe sticks to his campaign prom-
ises. She is not sure if she will run 
again. 
“We’re doing a call to action 
to make sure everyone goes to the 
Thursday meeting and doesn’t let 
them forget about what’s going on 
and what needs to be fixed in this 
city,” Powell said. 
Jennifer Reid was surrounded by 
family, friends, supporters and com-fort food at Adam’s Rib Co. Tuesday 
when the election results were an-
nounced.  
Reid and her family huddled 
around their cellphones as the re-
sults rolled in. All of her supporters 
were quiet in anticipation. 
She wasn’t fazed by the loss. She 
took a breath and turned to begin 
thanking her supporters one last 
time. 
Reid earned 1,804 votes, which 
was 15.58 percent of the vote, put-
ting her in third place, according to 
the elections office. 
The local restaurant was busy 
with more than 20 supporters 
spread out over five tables, includ-
ing Reid’s husband, father and sis-
ter. 
Reid’s sister, Heather Alberico, a 
28-year-old physical therapist, said 
Poe’s win was expected.
“I’m really proud of how far 
she was able to get,” Alberico said. 
“But, don’t forget about Jennifer 
Reid. She’ll be back.”
Reid isn’t sure if she will pursue 
local politics, but she said she is not 
done fighting for a safe and afford-
able community. 
Marlon Bruce came last in the 
mayoral race, earning 478 votes. 
Bruce spent the night follow-
ing the election with a group of his 
campaign staff. 
“The people of Gainesville are in 
need of more,” Bruce said. 
When Mounts saw he lost to 
Hayes-Santos for the District 4 City Commission seat, the first thing he 
said was, “Oh, s---.” 
On the second floor of The 
Swamp Restaurant, at 1642 W. 
University Ave., Mounts watched 
the election results on a TV screen 
above the food bar with burgers and 
wings. 
Mounts received 26.32 percent 
of the vote, which is 572 votes, ac-
cording to the elections office.
“It’s disappointing, no doubt 
about it,” Mounts said. “We walked 
the ground. I was at everybody’s 
doorway.”
Eunsook Park, Mounts’ wife, sat 
silently among the group of about 
22 people watching the results.
“Bob will still be Bob,” Park said. 
“He’s very capable, and he’s got a 
lot to contribute to the community. 
I’m sorry that he didn’t win.”
Although Mounts did not win, he 
will stay on the board of his neigh-
borhood association and remain as 
the chair of the College Park/Uni-
versity Heights Redevelopment ad-
visory board.
He said he is not planning on 
running in any more local races. 
“We still have to work together 
with the city commission to make 
Gainesville a better place,” he said.
Alligator staff writers Karina 
Elwood, Josephine Fuller, Tien Le 
and Alligator contributor Christina 
Mouttet contributed to this report. VOTING,  from pg. 1‘It always feels best to win’ Election Results
Mayor
Lauren Poe
61.82%
7,158
Jenn Powell 
18.47%
2,138
Jennifer Reid 
15.58%
1,804
Marlon Bruce
4.13%
478
District 4 
 City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos
73.68%
1,601
Robert Mounts 
26.32%
572
Charter Review
Yes 
62.96%
6,871
No
37.04%
4,0424   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019opened up about her life as a Mus-
lim woman.  
“Here, our reality is one that 
still has hate. You can flee immi-
nent threat and danger only to be 
killed by hate and terror,” she said. 
Nimer urged individuals to en-
gage in the Muslim community not 
just in times of tragedy and empha-
sized the importance of speaking 
out against hate.
“It wasn’t too long ago that I 
was standing right here in this very 
square with my Jewish brothers 
and sisters, as they mourned for 
the lives taken at the Tree of Life 
synagogue,” she said. “And just 
before that, it was a church.”
After Nimer’s speech, there was 
a moment of silence that lasted a 
couple of minutes for attendees to 
lay down the yellow, white and 
purple carnations and daisy poms 
on a prayer rug that sat in front of 
the table where speakers present-
ed.
After the moment of silence, a 
prayer was delivered followed by 
a speech from UF President Kent 
Fuchs, who addressed the UF com-
munity. 
“Each of you are here because 
you love your Muslim brothers and 
sisters,” Fuchs said. “I pray that 
this indeed will be a university where we love one another and 
that love spreads worldwide.”
Other speakers included UF 
journalism junior Nushrat Nur 
who read an article about her ex-
periences growing up in mosques, 
and Reuben Faloughi spoke rep-
resenting the Counseling & Well-
ness Center, urging students to use 
healing resources after this tragic 
event.
Amna Qureshi, a 22-year-old 
UF psychology senior, and Anum 
Keen, a 19-year-old UF biology 
sophomore, were both glad they 
attended the vigil. As Muslim stu-
dents, they enjoyed the community 
brought together by the event.
Qureshi said she usually feels 
safe in Gainesville, but it was nice 
to see that there were so many al-
lies at the event. 
“At first, I didn’t want to come 
because it’s just a lot of emotion,” 
Qureshi said. “But I’m really glad I 
did because they kind of, I guess, 
validated how I feel.”
Khokhar closed the memorial 
with a brief statement that em-
phasized the importance of love 
among all in this time of mourning. 
“Like an arrow, may we use this 
event to pull the hate backward to 
be launched forward progression 
of love,” he said.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgVIGIL,  from pg. 1 UF President Kent Fuchs gave a speech
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
An accomplice in a shooting that fol-
lowed the Richard Spencer rally at UF in 
2017 was sentenced to five years in prison 
Monday.
In August, Colton Fears, 30, of Pasade-
na, Texas, signed a deal to plead guilty to 
accessory to attempted first-degree murder 
and to leave his sentencing up to 8th Dis-
trict Circuit Court Judge James M. Colaw. 
At a pretrial conference Monday, Judge 
Colaw could have given Fears a maximum 
sentence of 15 years in state prison, ac-cording to court records. He ultimately de-
cided to sentence Fears to five years. Due 
to the plea deal, 515 days were taken off 
the sentence.
Fears was arrested for taking part in a 
shooting at a bus stop, where no one was 
injured, about an hour after the Spencer 
rally at the Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts in October 2017, according to Al-
ligator archives.
Tyler Tenbrink, 30, of Richmond, Texas; 
Fears; and his brother William Fears, 31, of 
Pasadena, Texas, pulled up to a bus stop at 
3315 SW Archer Road and began arguing 
with residents there. One of the men began yelling “Heil Hitler” and 
other slurs at the people 
at the bus stop. 
An argument started, 
and one of the people 
hit the three men’s rear 
window with a baton. 
They drove about 10 feet 
forward before stopping, 
and Tenbrink came out of the car with a 
handgun while Fears and his brother were 
yelling “I’m going to f------ kill you,” “Kill 
them” and “Shoot them.”
Tenbrink fired a single shot at a by-
stander and missed hitting the business behind them.
On Feb. 27, Tenbrink was sentenced 
to 15 years in prison, and he accepted the 
charges but is not admitting to them. He 
was charged with aggravated assault with 
a deadly weapon and possession of a fire-
arm while being a felon. 
Neither Fears’ attorney nor the state at-
torney could be immediately reached for 
comment.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgMan involved with Richard Spencer shooting sentenced to 5 years  
Fears
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Ibrahim Ragab, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, closes his eyes Monday during a moment of prayer at a 
memorial for the victims of the New Zealand mosque shootings. “I’m Muslim, and I wanted to empathize 
with my fellow Muslim brothers and sisters who have lost their lives in such a tragic way, ” he said. 
some people specifically ask for 
products while others wait until it 
is available for access.
Lotion, shampoo, nail clippers 
and soap are some items that the 
shelter tends to lack at times, she 
said.
Jon DeCarmine, the director 
of Grace Marketplace, declined to 
comment.
Access to hygienic products 
is one of the biggest concerns 
among those at Family Promise, 
which typically houses about four 
families at a time, Moraski said. 
About 80 percent are usually sin-
gle-mother families.
Moraski recalls how one moth-
er described the difficulty of hav-ing to wash her 6-month-old in a 
bus station sink. She was trying 
to balance living in her car and 
working full time.
She remembers how a man 
broke down in tears because of 
how long it had been since he had 
access to deodorant, she said.
Supplying products and reha-
bilitating those in need is how 
Moraski and about 600 volun-
teers help the homeless at Family 
Promise.
“We hope it’s a small way to 
bring back basic human dignity,” 
she said.
Although they supply prod-
ucts, they do not get enough to 
help the large amount of home-
less in the city, she said.
Menstrual products are missed 
the most at the shelter because it relies exclusively on donations, 
she said. Charities, banks and lo-
cal drives help out, but Family 
Promise typically only receives 
menstrual hygiene products about 
once every two months.
These products last either for a 
few months or about a week, she 
said. It depends on the amount 
given or demand of the products.
“It’s a part of life that folks 
who are housed and have stable 
incomes take for granted,” Mo-
raski said. “There’s just so much 
need.”
In the future, creating the con-
versation about feminine hygiene 
products wouldn’t make the issue 
go unnoticed, Moraski said. 
“This is one piece in a very 
large puzzle we’re trying to 
solve,” she said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgHOMELESS,  from pg. 1‘There’s just so much need’ Hygienic items to donate to 
homeless shelters in Gainesville
T ampons
Pads
Diapers
Lotion
Nail clippers
Soap
Deodorant
Where items can be donated
Grace Marketplace: 3055 NE 28th Drive, Gainesville, 
FL 32609
Family Promise of Gainesville: PO Box 5189, 
Gainesville, FL 32627WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
Maria Dominguez always thanks her bus 
driver.
The 19-year-old UF mathematics freshman 
wanted to give back to her bus driver on the 12 
route with a small gesture that she hoped would 
leave an impression. 
Instead of her usual quick “hello” while 
boarding and “thank you” while leaving, 
Dominguez introduced herself to her driver, 
Betsy, and handed her a pink carnation.
From 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday, students 
walking on Turlington Plaza could stop by a 
table to pick up one of 500 carnations and write 
a thank-you note for their Regional Transit Sys-
tem bus driver. The cost of materials came out 
to about $500.
The idea of RTS Driver Appreciation Day 
was to ensure RTS drivers know how much 
their efforts and hard work are appreciated, said 
Sana Nimer, the president of Islam on Campus, 
which assisted in putting on and funding the 
event.
The event was the ﬁ  rst of its kind at UF, 
Nimer said. It was also put on by the Wom-
en’s Student Association, the Asian American 
Student Union and the Hispanic Student Asso-
ciation, and it is expected to become annual, 
Nimer said.“All of these individuals help make our ex-
periences at UF so much greater,” the 21-year-
old UF biomedical engineering junior said. 
“They deserve the recognition for the work that 
they do.”
One goal was to get students to see their 
drivers as more approachable and allow stu-
dents an opportunity to introduce themselves to 
people they see almost daily, she said.
Dominguez gifted Betsy the pink carnation 
and a thank-you card as she stepped into the 
bus near the Reitz Union, much to Betsy’s sur-
prise. Even though she sees Betsy almost every 
day, she took the opportunity to introduce her-
self. Betsy returned the gift with a “thank you” 
and introduced herself to Dominguez.
“She was all smiles,” Dominguez said. 
Amanda Baret, a UF criminology and Afri-
can American studies junior, relies on the 126 
bus to get around campus. 
After speaking with her bus drivers, the 
21-year-old began to notice the effort they put 
in regularly, often with little acknowledgment, 
she said.
“I’ve always relied on the bus system and 
don’t know what I would do without it,” Baret 
said. “This was a nice way to show they’re ap-
preciated for all their hard work.”
mcarroll@alligator.org
@mikaylacarro11UF students give back to bus drivers
ABOUT 70 TO 100 PEOPLE ARE 
EXPECTED TO ATTEND 
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Almost 51 years ago, a pivotal civil 
rights leader was assassinated in Memphis, 
Tennessee. 
This Sunday, the Harn Museum of Art 
will present a documentary about how 
Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy has led to 
the Black Lives Matter movement. 
An hour-long documentary, “Once More 
at the River: From MLK to BLM,” which 
compares the Civil Rights Movement to 
the Black Lives Matter movement, will be 
shown from 3-4:45 p.m., said Roxane Co-
che, one of the ﬁ  lmmakers and a UF tele-
communication assistant professor.
Although the anniversary of the assas-
sination is April 4, the documentary was 
ﬁ  nished in 2018 to commemorate the 50th 
anniversary, Coche said.
University of Memphis undergradu-
ate students made the documentary as a 
class project, Coche said. It cost more than $30,000 to create.
It consists of interviews of more than 
20 Memphis-based activists who talk about 
their experiences since King’s assassina-
tion, Coche said. 
“Memphis is a good example of the 
work that has been done toward the bet-
terment of race relations but also the work 
that remains to be done,” Coche said.
About 70 to 100 people are expected to 
attend the free event, said Eric Segal, the 
museum’s director of education and cura-
tor of academic programs.
After the video, there will be a public 
conversation with University of Memphis 
student Caleb Suggs, who helped create the 
ﬁ  lm, Segal said.
The event will occur in conjunction with 
an exhibition of Civil Rights photographs 
called “I, Too, Am America,” also displayed 
in the Harn, Segal said.
“It is a ﬁ  lm that features voices of people 
who are affected by social injustice,” Segal 
said. “What’s going on in Memphis that 
is featured in this ﬁ  lm is very relevant to 
Gainesville.”
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org‘From MLK to BLM’ documentary 
to screen at UF this weekend  The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
There’s a special recipe involved in the making of the 
infamous Florida man stories. They usually involve an 
alligator, body of water, drugs or nudity and, if we’re 
really lucky, Taco Bell. The headlines for these stories 
are eye-catching, to say the least: “Naked Florida man 
baking cookies on George Foreman grill responsible for ﬁ  re,” 
or “Florida man makes beer run with gator in hand.” (All real 
headlines.) 
They shed Florida in some not-so-great light, but wow, do 
they make for some click-worthy content. The phenomenon 
is so common that “Florida Man” has garnered enough atten-
tion on the internet to become a meme, even gaining its own 
Twitter account, @_FloridaMan, dedicated to the collection of 
Florida man stories. Note, these stories aren’t exclusively men 
— there are a plethora of Florida women making headlines. 
Here in the Sunshine State, we’re used to being the punch 
line of a joke, often brushing it off as just another part of living 
in Florida. We can try to attribute some of the bizarre stories 
to the suffocating humidity or a few bad cases of sun poison-
ing, but in reality, Florida just has some strange people doing 
some strange things. However, out of the entire U.S., it can 
feel like Florida is the only place where crazy stuff goes down, 
but that’s not entirely true. 
One of the main reasons Florida can sometimes seem like 
the no man’s land of the South is because of its open public 
records laws, which compared to other states are very, well, 
open. Florida has the Florida Sunshine laws, which basically 
protects the public’s access to public records like documents, 
videos or audio concerning Florida’s government. For jour-
nalists, Florida is a never-ending ﬁ  eld day of outlandish sto-
ries simply because they have relatively easy access to police 
reports, which isn’t common across the U.S. Comparatively, 
Florida has some of the best policies concerning public access 
to government documents. 
In Florida, if a journalist gets a tip on an arrest, they can 
often email or call a police department, ask for the police re-
port and receive it fairly quickly. They can have a story written 
that same day by simply attributing a police report. In many 
other states, however, the process of accessing police reports 
isn’t simple, and it may take weeks to get those reports. In a 
fast-paced newsroom, odd stories like the ones that show up 
Florida may not be worth the wait. 
Ironically, the main reason behind the stories that highlight 
shameful aspects of Florida has come from something the state 
should be proud of: its transparency. However, back in April, 
our Sunshine Laws took a hit, with legislature passing a bill 
allowing for 12 exemptions to the laws. This comes in addition 
to the other 269 exemptions that have been passed since 1995. 
The laws were created not to make for newsworthy Florida 
man stories, but for a more important purpose: to provide for 
a transparent government. The Sunshine laws allow anyone 
to request access to government records that have not been 
exempted. 
It’s possible other states have stories just as weird as we 
do, but without the same transparency, those unconventional 
stories can slip through the cracks. Florida’s laws allow for the 
people to act as watchdogs to the government, but it also gives 
people access to those oddball arrest reports that have birthed 
the Florida man. Instead of being embarrassed by our Florida 
man stories, we can be thankful that we even have the chance 
to read them.The truth behind 
Florida man
Whatever happened to television 
shows like “Little House on the Prai-
rie” and “That’s So Raven”? Shows 
that are sweet and often have a 
happy ending. Nowadays, if some-
one turns on the television, networks are most 
likely playing some type of provocative show. 
For example, the ﬁ  rst episode of “Enemy of the 
State” involved at least four murders. All of this 
led me to think: Is television becoming too vio-
lent and sexual?
The phrase “sex sells” didn’t just pop up. It feels like 
producers, directors and executives are sitting in meet-
ings thinking about the next big thing they can do to beat 
out the competing shows. For example, the show “Grey’s 
Anatomy” is the perfect example of violence and sex. 
There’s not a character on the show that hasn’t experi-
enced some sort of violence or hasn’t had a sex scene. 
Yet, “Grey’s Anatomy” is not only a popular show, but 
it’s also a long-running show. This means the show is able 
to maintain a strong audience through many seasons. So, 
I’m going to answer the question. Yes, of course television 
is becoming too violent and sexual. But networks have a 
very good reason to do so.
Clearly, subscription services like Netﬂ  ix have trans-
formed the broadcast industry. In today’s world, people 
no longer need to wait for a show to premiere or tune in 
every night at the same time. Instead, everything is at our 
ﬁ  ngertips. If we want to watch the entire season of NBC’s 
“Good Girls,” we can and without commercials. However, 
what makes things complicated for the networks is cen-
sorship. Unlike broadcast television, Netﬂ  ix has leeway. 
Netﬂ  ix can have shows that include adult content like nu-
dity, violence and profane language. Networks like ABC 
need to follow the FCC censorship rules pertaining to in-
decent and obscene behavior and profane language. So, when you think about it, networks are in a lose-
lose situation. Some might even say it’s unfair. 
Networks have to obey the rules of the Federal 
Communications Commission, but subscription 
services have breathing room to explore and 
create.
In turn, network and cable companies are 
struggling. The prices for cable and satellite 
television have gone higher as more people stop 
buying it. So, networks are in a bad position. 
But they’re trying to ﬁ  ght back. Networks are trying to fol-
low the trend and create competitive shows. To compete, 
networks are making their shows more interesting by ad-
dressing topics not normally discussed on cable television. 
Even Disney Channel is entering the game by address-
ing sexuality. For the ﬁ  rst time ever, the cable network is 
tackling homosexuality as Cyrus, a character on the popu-
lar show “Andi Mack,” discovers he has feelings for his 
best friend’s boyfriend. Disney is a corporation known for 
sticking with traditional family values and content. So, the 
fact that a character is ﬁ  nally being created to represent 
sexuality is amazing. Even Disney is changing gears and 
stepping outside of the box. Therefore, you can’t expect 
other networks to not do the same.
As our society and the broadcast industry change, it 
is expected for cable networks to change with them. Net-
works are ﬁ  nding ways to work with the FCC rules, yet 
still, l give the general public what they want. Aside from 
children’s shows, if you’re one of those people thinking 
broadcast television is free from violence and sex, ask 
yourself: When is the last time I watched a show that 
didn’t have a hint of violence and sex? Take your time. 
I’ll wait.
Anede Siffort is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
normally appears on Fridays. Cable TV is becoming more graphic, and here’s why
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORAnede Siffort
opinions@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Any humanities student 
will tell you that they 
have been repeatedly 
asked something along 
these lines: “What do you 
plan on doing with your major?” 
Most of us have our rehearsed 
responses: “I’m not sure yet!” or 
“Maybe law school.” But after a 
while, you wear down and begin 
to secretly wonder, along with everyone else, 
what exactly you will do with a classics or 
philosophy degree. At least, this has been my 
experience.
Humanities students must constantly de-
fend themselves and their choice of major to 
the outside world. Consequently, they must, 
at some point, make a choice: Either English 
is worthwhile, or I’m wasting my time. Ei-
ther reading Sartre or Melville or about the 
French Revolution is valuable to study aca-
demically, or these are only good for private 
enjoyment. I know people who have regret-
ted choosing to study the humanities and 
people who felt compelled to major in what 
they loved. It is not, by any means, a simple 
choice.
I am of the latter camp, and I want to 
defend my choice and the choice of my hu-
manities brethren — but not in the way most 
professors or College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences advisors would. Defenses for studying 
the humanities tend to focus on the meal 
rather than the recipe: The humanities make 
you a great future employee, some say, or 
the humanities stretch your sense of self, 
thus strengthening your empathy.
These arguments assume there is tre-
mendous ethical power in writing papers 
on Homer or reading Nabokov, and doing 
either, or both, inevitably makes you a better 
person. But this is unclear to me. If this were 
the case, as the literary critic Stanley Fish has 
pointed out, humanities professors would be 
the kindest, most virtuous people on earth. 
It doesn’t take long, though, to discover that 
they are as virtuous as anyone else in the 
world.
The humanities may make you a better 
employee too, but that is not why I would recommend them to an incom-
ing freshman. Frankly, college is 
unnecessary, and sometimes can 
even set people back, for a person 
to become a potentially productive 
citizen and worker. Being an Eng-
lish major among swarms of busi-
ness majors is an intriguing way 
to distinguish yourself in the job 
market, but what you get out of 
reading Shakespeare or Dante is much more 
valuable than job skills to put on a resume.
I feel tugged in these two directions, al-
ways reminding people there is something 
special about the humanities but that it is 
not the only legitimate path to virtue or em-
ployment. The question must be asked, then, 
why did I remain an English major? Better 
still, why should someone pick up Nietzsche 
in their spare time? What do the humanities 
actually do?
I remained an English major because I 
love to read authors who wrestle with life. 
The humanities are a culmination of how 
people see the world; it is learning about the 
various self-portraits of our past and present. 
There is power in learning what deep think-
ers have said about deeply human questions. 
It changes you.
And yet, I think what I have been trying 
to communicate is that there is only so much 
power in the humanities. Too many philoso-
phers and poets and theorists have become 
intoxicated with their own work and thought 
it superior to the sciences or business.
Indeed, how you view life will certainly 
change, at least in some degree, if you learn 
the complexities of poetry. But is it reason-
able to think that Homer will stop you from 
disliking yourself or holding a grudge? Homer 
was a person, too, struggling through life like 
the rest of us. So were Milton and Plato and 
Austen. Perhaps we should learn to ask less 
of them and use what we have learned from 
the humanities to look at ourselves and our 
lives and see where improvement is needed. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays. What a humanities major wants you to knowColumnIt is hard for bad news to surprise me 
nowadays. Headline after headline sum-
marizing tragedies and horriﬁ  c events 
are nothing new. When I read about 
these bad things happening, I usually 
feel very removed from the situation. I un-
derstand their negative effects, and my heart 
aches for all of the hate in the world. How-
ever, something about it does not seem real 
without seeing it happen ﬁ  rsthand. My life 
continues, and nothing changes. Gun control 
laws are not tightened, the country’s faulty 
socioeconomic system prevails and the de-
pressing articles keep pouring in. I have al-
most reached the point of utter hopelessness.
When I read about the 50 people killed 
and the dozens wounded in the terrorist 
attack at a mosque in the city of Christ-
church, New Zealand, I realized that I need 
to change the way I think about and react 
to massacres like this one. Hopelessness is 
not going to prevent hate-ﬁ  lled attacks in the 
future. I need to take this attack and others 
just as personally as if it happened right in my hometown in order to stand 
strong in solidarity with the af-
ﬂ  icted people.
I am not Muslim, but I am hu-
man. An attack against innocent 
people anywhere should anger 
everyone to the point of some 
form of action, whether it be giv-
ing opinions directly to our gov-
ernment representatives or sim-
ply sharing an informative post 
on social media.
I reﬂ  ected on the times I’ve been truly 
scared by gun violence in an attempt to un-
derstand how I am directly affected by these 
hate crimes. Thankfully, I have never been 
put in the direct line of danger, and I do not 
have any close ties to shooting victims. Still, 
I have felt the paranoia and fear that my life 
could potentially be at the will of another at 
any time.
After hearing about the 2012 movie the-
ater shooting in Aurora, Colorado, I now 
sometimes feel unsafe in movie theaters. The lights go down to start the ﬁ  lm, 
and I cannot help but look around 
the theater with feelings of suspi-
cion and insecurity. It takes a few 
minutes of the movie plot devel-
oping to distract me from conjur-
ing up scary hypotheticals.
I was sitting in the waiting 
room of a medical clinic a few 
months after the Mercy Hospi-
tal shooting in Chicago this past 
November when a man pulled up in his car 
right outside, swerving in the parking lot. 
The woman at the front desk asked me if he 
was there to pick me up, and when I said no, 
she walked out of the room to ask everyone 
else in the clinic if they knew who he was. 
She came back looking uneasy, and I began 
plotting my escape should he barge in with 
a weapon. When the car eventually drove 
away, I let out a breath of air I didn’t even 
know I was holding in.
Living in fear is not going to solve any 
problems. Being constantly shaken is giv-ing the power to the perpetrators and is like 
letting them win in a way. However, feeling 
worried in positions like this can serve as 
a wake-up call. I am connected to the New 
Zealand mosque attacks, and if you have 
ever felt at risk in the slightest way, you 
should realize that you are connected too.
If you have found yourself numb to the 
news lately, try to change your mindset. It 
is not enough to only send thoughts and 
prayers, but it still is important to have the 
thoughts and prayers in the ﬁ  rst place.
We cannot be desensitized to this vio-
lence because it will continue to happen and 
only become more commonplace. We must 
pay active attention to the news to stay up-
dated on gun legislation, cultural conﬂ  ict 
and progress, or lack thereof. Let yourself 
feel empathetic and angry at the evil in the 
world, and use that energy to empower your-
self and others to do something about it.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Wednesdays. Why everyone should take the New Zealand mosque attacks personallyColumn
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Every year, basketball 
fans ﬁ  ll out a March 
Madness bracket in an 
attempt to predict the 
future and win an insur-
mountable amount of money. 
Around this time of year, I 
usually look at my sports-ob-
sessed friends who have the 
basketball knowledge to ﬁ  ll 
out those cool-looking, debate-starting 
brackets and think to myself, “Darn, I 
wish I cared or knew enough about bas-
ketball to ﬁ  ll out one of those.” Then, last 
year came the Kanye bracket; now my 
bracket-ﬁ  lling cravings are satisﬁ  ed with 
so many non-sports related brackets to 
choose from.
For whatever reason, the March Mad-
ness bracket has started to unofﬁ  cially 
spread into music, movies and even fast 
food. Last year, 610 Sports Radio co-host 
of “The Drive” Carrington Harrison cre-
ated a Kanye bracket that started off the 
whole trend where one artist’s songs are 
pinned against each other to see which 
one reigns supreme. When it comes to tra-
ditional March Madness, the winners and 
losers are clear: Your picks either win or 
lose. But in the case of musical brackets, 
picks are completely up for discussion, 
making it the perfect vessel to debate a 
band’s music. 
The Kanye bracket seemed to have 
gained the most popularity in the last year, 
but it wasn’t the only one created. Twit-
ter user Shaan Chanchani created another 
musical bracket up for discussion, which 
was that of non-stereotypical boy band 
Brockhampton. Because the group had 
over 70 songs, the bracket created a visual 
form for people to talk about the band’s 
top “bops” in an easy-to-follow format. 
Not only is there the enjoyment of ﬁ  ll-
ing it out yourself and listening to all the 
songs over again to refresh your memory, 
but also seeing where your picks compare 
to your friends', with critics also adding to 
the fun. For example, popular online mu-
sic critic Anthony Fantano, known for his YouTube channel “theneedle-
drop,” discussed his picks for 
the Brockhampton bracket on 
his secondary YouTube chan-
nel. With over 1,200 comments 
and 209,000 views, viewers are 
more than likely intrigued to see 
where their picks line up with 
someone like Fantano. As one 
might expect, the comment sec-
tion of the video is ﬁ  lled with testaments 
such as “the disrespect to Gummy, Rental 
and Johnny ” and “Gold vs junky is not a 
choice anyone wants to make .” 
Fans of any group love to talk about 
“bests” and “worsts.” Brackets centering 
around Marvel and Pixar create a means 
for fans to reminisce about their favor-
ite movies and their least favorites. The 
bracket format just gives them a way to 
talk about it in a way that used to be ex-
clusively for sports, creating a new spin on 
an old practice.  
Sadly, brackets as a form of engage-
ment seemed to see its peak just as it was 
getting started. I hoped to see another 
bracket from Chanchani this year, but, 
alas, we are stuck with the same ones as 
last year. Also, I would think that non-
sports related brackets would be a useful 
engagement tool for companies to connect 
with their customers. Companies like Mc-
Donald’s or IHOP could have pulled the 
“we are totally in the know of trends” 
card and made a bracket with their menu 
items. Hopefully, we will see a resurgence 
of these non-sports brackets, which are a 
great way to ﬁ  gure out your favorite Pixar 
movie, Marvel movie or fast food restau-
rant and debate on it with others. 
As for now, I’ll keep defending my last 
year’s Kanye and Pixar picks that have 
been dubbed “trash” by almost everyone 
who has seen it. March Madness is a time 
for debating and defending your picks, 
and I’m ready to throw down the gauntlet 
for my picks. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism ju-
nior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.March Madness isn't just for basketballColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
The man behind the yellow ﬂ  yers
Learn about Kevin Callahan, a local father and cross 
genre musician who advertises his music with ﬂ  yers 
at bus stops, pg 10Local indie band Poblano releases ‘Dad of the Year’
Read about this Gainesville band’s new album, pg 9EASTSIDE HIGH SCHOOL 
STUDENTS WERE 
SELECTED AS THE DISTRICT 
REPRESENTATIVE IN 
THESPIAN COMPETITION
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Every year, the crowd hushes, the 
house lights dim, thousands of stu-
dents settle into the red velvet seats of 
Carol Morsani Hall to watch their peers 
bring creations to life. As the lights 
come up, four students walk onstage 
and announce, “We proudly represent 
troupe…” and perform. The Florida 
State Thespian Competition has begun.   
This year, Eastside High School stu-
dents Carly Rubin, Camille Eyman, 
Graham Louis and James Donnelly will 
perform at the Straz Center for the Per-
forming Arts in Tampa after being se-
lected as the district representative for 
performance at the District 12 Thespian 
Competition.   
The Florida State Thespian Festival 
is a convention where high school stu-
dents from across the state come togeth-
er to compete with various performance 
and technical pieces from published 
plays and musicals, as well as panto-
mime. Students also have the opportu-
nity to participate in workshops and to 
learn from some of the most prominent 
theater artists in the business.  
“A huge part of State is competing, 
but another big part is that you can take 
workshops and learn from each other’s 
work,” Camille Eyman, a 17-year-old se-
nior, said. “It’s a cool environment to be 
in with people who love this as much as 
you do.”  
James Donnelly, a 16-year-old junior, 
loves this festival because of the amount 
of kids who come together every year to 
share their craft. 
“The coolest thing about State to me 
is that there were about 8,500 kids last 
year,” Donnelly said. “When you do 
theater, you’re maybe one of a hundred 
in your city. When you go to State, it’s 
incredible to see that many passionate 
people.”    
Graham Louis, a 16-year-old sopho-
more, said many theater students in 
local high schools are considered to be 
nerds, but at the state competition, they 
ﬁ  t right in.
The students have been training in 
theater performance since they were 
very young. Both Rubin and Eyman 
want to continue their training in musi-
cal theater at the collegiate level.  
These students have worked incred-
ibly hard to bring to life “Requiem” from the musical “Dear Evan Hansen.”
Along with being selected as the rep-
resentative, they also received the Crit-
ics’ Choice Award for Best Small Group 
Musical.    
According to the students, “Requi-
em” is a piece that revolves around how 
people deal with losing a loved one. 
James portrays a boy named Connor 
who, at the beginning of the show, com-
mits suicide. This piece portrays how 
his father (Louis), mother (Eyman) and 
sister (Rubin) all deal with grief in vary-
ing ways. 
A unique aspect of the piece is that 
James is present the entire time, playing 
the guitar as the other actors perform. 
“It’s generally about different stages 
of grief and where each of us is in our 
stage of grief and how we deal with 
death,” Eyman said. “Something I like 
about our piece is that we incorporate 
Connor. We wanted James to be pres-
ent.”  
The students said that they spent a 
long time contemplating not only how 
to stage the piece, but also how to con-
vey the story in a way that would incor-
porate James’ character and still make 
sense. 
They rehearsed the piece every day 
at lunch for weeks leading up to the Dis-
trict Festival. 
“We spent a long time with the 
blocking and how we wanted to use the 
blocking to convey the story and un-
dertones of what’s happening,” Eyman 
said. “At the beginning, Graham and I 
are in this pantomimed, slow-motion 
ﬁ  ght to convey what’s physically going 
on as Carly sings in the beginning.”  
The students said their performance 
at districts felt raw, fresh and emotional. 
Rubin said there were so many layers to 
the song because each character has a 
different outlook on the death. 
The students were overwhelmed 
with shock and excitement when they 
heard the announcer call out their 
troupe number, 6380, and the name of 
their piece. 
They said they ran to the stage and 
hugged each other after receiving the 
award. They felt like a true family. Ru-
bin even said she was trembling as she 
took the trophy because she was so ner-
vous while waiting to hear if they had 
won.  
The aspiring artists are excited to per-
form in the grand space that is Morsani 
Hall at the Straz Center because they 
have the opportunity to impact so many 
people just by doing what they love.
“That’s why I want to go into this as 
a career because I want to inspire peo-
ple,” Rubin said. 
@emmamcavoy1   
emcavoy@alligator.orgFour students, one 
chance, one stage 
MUSIC
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
Expect “White Guy on the Bus” to open eyes 
and open discussion. It does not provide answers, 
but it does raise a lot of questions.
This one-act play deals heavily with themes 
such as black oppression, inequality and racial 
tension. Its setting is modern-day Philadelphia, 
the fourth most racially segregated city in Amer-
ica. Two people from the divided city meet, and 
their lives become intertwined.
Bryan Ferriter, a UF acting master’s student, 
plays a white, wealthy businessman named Ray 
from a rich neighborhood called Mainline.
“Ray lives in his own bubble. He is a success-
ful man on paper and has a loving wife and fam-
ily, but through certain circumstances, he twists 
through this dark, dark parth,” Ferriter said. “His 
journey becomes a vicious and tragic cycle for 
everyone involved.”
Shatique is a black nursing student and single 
mother from a poor neighborhood, played by 
Akieba Allen, a UF acting master’s student. 
Malcolm Gets, Tony Award nominee and di-
rector of the play, credits the cast for being sup-
portive of each other due to its sensitive issues.
“We try to create a safe space as possible and 
dig into the subject matter,” Gets said. “This 
[play] reﬂ  ects the world today — a unique and 
challenging point in history.”
Gets’ interpretation of “White Guy on the Bus” is meant to encompass Ray’s world, which be-
comes both a nightmare and a dream as he is 
confronted by people in his past.
“The purpose of playing is to hold the mirror 
up to nature,” Gets said. “Even if the audience 
doesn’t want to admit it, they are likely to iden-
tify with any of the characters.”
Elise Selah, a UF acting master’s student, plays 
Roz, Ray’s wife and dedicated teacher at an in-
ner-city school. 
Selah said she wanted to play this character 
because she likes that Roz is strong, straightfor-
ward and challenges people. The actress’s charm-
ing, bubbly personality changes when she gets 
into character. 
“It was challenging at ﬁ  rst to ﬁ  nd what we 
share together. But I’ve found that what we share 
is trying to expand people’s minds and give other 
perspectives,” Selah said. “Her heart for students 
is really where I identify with Roz.” 
Allen said a main lesson she learned is that 
reality and perception are not always the same. 
“How open are we to see from the other per-
spective?” Allen said. “How willing are we to 
confront what can possibly be true?”
The ﬁ  rst showing of “White Guy on the Bus” 
is Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Black Box The-
atre. The play will run from March 21 through 
March 31.
@sarahan921
shan@alligator.org‘White Guy on the Bus’ holds a 
mirror up to human natureChris King  / Alligator Staff
STRFKR at High Dive
Astronauts from the band STRFKR dance during their set Sunday night at High Dive. 
STRFKR played to a sold-out crowd during the St. Patrick’s celebration.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
On Saturday and Sunday, the Reitz 
Union was ﬁ  lled with more than 3,700 
guests from across Florida for SwampCon — an annual event where people come 
together to interact with those who share 
the love for video games, anime, sci-ﬁ   and 
comics. 
@AlexCamargo95
acamargo@alligator.orgTop SwampCon Cosplays
Cosplay
Dark Magician Girl
Gabby Guinn, 20, 
came from Vero 
Beach, Florida, to 
attend SwampCon 
and show off her 
cosplay as Dark 
Magician Girl from 
the popular anime, 
“Yu-Gi-Oh!” Guinn 
said the cosplay took 
a month and a half 
to complete and is 
mostly made out of 
foam and glittery 
fabric.
“Cosplay who you 
love, ” she advisesd 
ﬁ  rst-time cosplayers. 
“Whoever you 
cosplay, make sure 
you do it because you 
love the character. ”
Spider-Gwen
Stephanie McDonough, a 23-year-old 
UF physical therapy doctoral student, 
cosplayed as a comic book and “Spider-
Man: Into the Spider-Verse” character 
Gwen Stacy, also known as Spider-Gwen 
and Spider-Woman. McDonough said 
she has been cosplaying for about 10 
years and this is one of the few cosplay 
costumes she bought. “I didn’t wanna 
make spandex, ” she said jokingly. “I hate 
sewing spandex ‘cause it’s evil. ”
Her advice to ﬁ  rst-time cosplayers is 
it’s OK to buy your cosplay. “I know that 
seems like a taboo kind of thing, but not a 
lot of people have the time or the money 
or the skill to make a cosplay, ” she said. 
“We don’t care. Have fun. That’s the 
point. ”Katsuki Bakugo
James Memos, a 20-year-old Santa Fe freshman, cosplayed as “My Hero Academia” 
character Katsuki Bakugo. He decided to cosplay as the angry character because he 
loves how Bakugo thinks he’s better than everyone else.
“I feel like that arrogant persona is something that I identify with quite a bit, ” he said.
It took him a week to make the costume and he used foam from a gym mat to make 
the grenades, Memos said. He advises ﬁ  rst-time cosplayers to “just do it. ”
“It can make you nervous, ” he said. “But once you’re in costume, it’s so much easier 
to talk to people. Instead of having some sort of cold approach, you could just be like 
‘Hey what’s up Batman, ’ and then you’re instantly friends. ”
GAINESVILLE BAND 
DROPS NEW ALBUM 
BEFORE SHOW AT 
HARDBACK CAFE
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Poblano’s new album, “Dad 
of the Year,” asks: What do you 
do when you lose someone who helped deﬁ  ne you? 
For the lead singer and guitar-
ist of the Gainesville-based band 
Levi Bradford, this album splits in 
two: One part asks and tries to an-
swer that question, and one part 
reﬂ  ects on working through his 
trouble of not having a relation-
ship with his brother anymore.
Bradford, 24, and his brother 
had a falling out and have not 
spoken in two years. The brother 
break-up, while hard for Brad-ford, inspired most of the songs 
on “Dad of the Year.”
The music addresses this 
through emotional lyrics and 
catchy beats with Riley Hawkins 
on bass and Daniel Skelly on 
drums. The songs, on ﬁ  rst listen, 
do not appear loaded, but each 
time you press play there is a dif-
ferent facet to discover. 
The band’s second album sits 
right under 20 minutes with eight 
songs that walk the line between alternative rock and punk. Fast-
paced lyrics and guitar provide 
for high, raucous energy, making 
it the ideal listen while trying to 
escape your straightedge parents. 
The song “Bird Bucket” is 
meant to describe Bradford’s 
brother troubles. The lyrical 
meaning is hard to decipher, but 
it makes sense: The emotions 
driving the song are messy and 
confusing.  
“I’m just trying to commu-nicate how it feels to be going 
through this as close to the actual 
feeling as I can,” the 24-year-old 
UF law student said. 
The album is available to 
stream on Spotify and will be re-
leased on cassette as well.  On 
March 26, the band will perform 
at the Hardback Cafe.
@Jackiedef7
Jdefreitas@alligator.orgLocal indie band Poblano releases ‘Dad of the Year’ 
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect 
for dinner any day of the week. Come in 
and check out one of the best wine lists 
in town. Ask questions and learn while 
you wait for the chef to put out nothing 
but goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask 
about our Monday Wine Dinners and 
private parties for lunch or dinner. Open 
Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 
SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and 
discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf 
Oil building or outside under the modern 
portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven tandoor 
cooking for succulent Halal beef, chicken, 
lamb, and goat made fresh daily for tikka 
masalas, vindaloos,  kormas, and paneers. 
Vegetarian and vegan available too! Daily 
lunch specials include rice, naan, appetizers, 
salad, desserts. Open Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, 
Sunday noon - 9. Delivery through Bite Squad. 
Order ahead www.kababhousegainesville.
com   604 NW 13th St. 352-792-6764.BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made on 
premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, 
or sausage on a Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. Call 
ahead 352-375-0376. Your order will be ready when you arrive 
5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 5am 
-7pm Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale prices available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of desserts 
and treats made daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! Free 
Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to the 
Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet 
operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
Tasty ramen at great prices!  Come try our new specials! 
Vegan and gluten free options available. Mention this add 
and get 10% off your order!
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUTUF GRADUATE RETURNS FROM 
LA FOR GAINESVILLE SHOW
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
On March 22, Los Angeles-based 
techno-house DJ ‘Durante’ will make 
a stop in Gainesville on his way to Mi-
ami Music Week.
Kevin Durante, whose last name 
doubles as his stage name, grew up in 
Fort Myers and graduated from UF. He 
normally does not make the long treck 
back to Gainesville, which makes this 
performance especially exciting.   
“There’s a lot of people that live 
here that are either his friend or fan,” 
Vi Seixas, the 31-year-old event coor-
dinator, said. “They are all very proud 
of how his music has evolved and ca-
reer is shaping up.”
Fans of electronica and house mu-
sic will also enjoy local artists Dunstan 
Wallace and Kelly Kochis. 
Durante impressed Kochis with his 
energy, passion and track selection. In 2013, she performed alongside him in 
Gainesville. 
“To see the success he’s created 
for himself, to have the opportunity 
to share a night again, almost six 
years later, to open for him, to hear 
all the buzz around him being back in 
town to play, brings up so many posi-
tive memories and excitement,” the 
37-year-old DJ said. 
In January, Bonobo, a British 
producer and DJ, picked Durante’s 
track “Maia” to be on his “fabric 
Presents:Bonobo (DJ Mix,)” a hint 
that Durante’s popularity may be on 
the rise. 
With a music style described as 
tribal and melodic techno, Durante’s 
stage presence will have audiences 
dancing, Seixas said.
Additional speakers as well as a la-
ser rig will help bring The Wooly to its 
full club potential, Seixas said. Tickets 
are $8 online and $10 at the door. The 
event starts at 10 p.m. and is for peo-
ple 18 and older. 
@Jackiedef7
Jdefreitas@alligator.orgDurante at The Wooly
MUSIC
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
If you have taken a bus in Gainesville in the last 
few weeks, you’ve likely seen a yellow ﬂ  yer taped to 
the bus stops with the words “Kahnmanmusic” print-
ed on them. Those ﬂ  yers belong to Kevin Callahan, a 
46-year-old salesman who decided to shift his focus 
and pursue a career in creating music.
About 14 years ago, before the birth of his el-
dest daughter, Callahan used to DJ throughout the 
Gainesville community. Then, he shifted to what be-
came a decade-long career in business and sales. 
“I used to DJ years ago, but my daughter’s mother 
— she was pregnant — so I quit drinking, quit DJing, 
and started selling and becoming a manager with a 
company,” he said.
Once Callahan learned to use programs and ma-
neuver his way through making his ﬁ  rst songs, he 
challenged himself by covering multiple genres and 
a buddy of his challenged him to make a hick-hop 
track, which is a blend between country and rap.
“You know, I never even knew that I had any 
talent whatsoever other than spinning records and 
dance. I never thought to make music. I used to buy 
records instead of making my own songs,” he said. 
At the end of last year, Callahan produced and 
released an electronic dance music album and two 
singles on Spotify, iTunes, SoundCloud and other 
streaming services. His entire production process took two months to complete as he wrote, recorded and 
edited the pieces in his home.
So, where do the yellow ﬂ  yers come into play?
The Gainesville native said he tapped into the old-
school advertising technique of posting ﬂ  yers, which 
he used as a DJ, for the idea. 
Callahan’s plan was to release an original track 
once a month, but when his advertising attracted 
more listeners, he promised them a new song every 
week this year. 
The ﬂ  yers did their job, and for the past two 
months he has released a new single every Friday, 
Callahan said.
Now that he has started to a accumulate a listen-
ing base for his music, Callahan hopes to continue his 
growth in the music industry. 
“I guess I’m after being a legend,” Callahan said.
His goal is to make money to support his family 
and if he acquires more, to put it back into the com-
munity by teaching kids music. 
Those who are looking to experience Callahan’s 
music can ﬁ  nd it online at kahnmanmusic.com. 
He said he is very excited to continue making mu-
sic.
“It seems like it’s second nature. Like I was sup-
posed to be doing it, it don’t matter what type of mu-
sic,” he said.
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgThe man behind the yellow ﬂ  yersBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
1 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT- 
THE OAKS SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM 
APARTMENT WITH BALCONY FOR RENT. 
WALK TO OAKS MALL, RESTAURANTS- 
CALL 404-323-9338     3-29-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 20, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Student
Must have some knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Any time between: 
Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF 
students to help with Gator Dining meal plan 
sales from April – September. Approx. 20 hrs 
a week, $11/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours 
and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy 
interacting with others in a professional 
manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, 
customer service or volunteer experience is 
a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 222980 
at www.gatordining.com      3-20-19-3-14  
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
WEEKEND SERVER NEEDED
Country Foodly is now hiring. Please drop off 
a resume during our operating hours (7AM to 
1PM). Open six days a week and closed on 
Tuesdays. 5240 NW 34th Blvd    3-25-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a 
love for children to staff its summer camp 
program. For a complete listing of positions 
visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview 
process begins April 13th.      4-12-19-13-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All 
equipment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/
hr. Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.
com    4-24-17-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
1. ENTERTAINERS: Which pop 
music singer was born with the name 
Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou?
2. HISTORY: Who was the first 
woman to hold federal office in the 
United States?
3. MEDICAL: What is a more com-
mon name for “myocardial infarction”?
4. MUSIC: Which singer had a 2010 
hit single with “Rolling in the Deep”?
5. GENERAL LANGUAGE: What 
is the NATO phonetic word for the let-
ter “I”?
6. SCIENCE: What is the only type 
of rock that is less dense than water?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of jellyfish called?
8. MOVIES: Who voiced the charac-
ter of “The Iron Giant”?
9. LANGUAGE: What are the Cara-
binieri in Italy?
10. U.S. GOVERNMENT: How 
many states are required to ratify an 
amendment to the U.S. Constitution?
Answers
1. George Michael
2. Jeannette Rankin, elected in 1916 
as a U.S. representative from Montana
3. Heart attack
4. Adele
5. India
6. Pumice
7. A swarm, a bloom or a smack
8. Vin Diesel
9. Military police with civilian duties
10. Three-fourths, or 38 of 50 states
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 18, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesWEDNESDSAY, MARCH 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Learn how to make an extra $400
a week filling out surveys as a student.
Go to uniopportunity.club       3-20-195-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Mark McClain
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, March 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 About, in dates
6 Words With 
Friends and such
10 They form a 
“cage”
14 Bee-related
15 Cry while pointing 
a finger
16 Rebecca’s 
firstborn
17 General opening?
18 Breed also known 
as a Lion Dog
20 High regard
22 Nasty types
23 Warm feeling
25 Gridiron official
26 Angry display
31 Skill useful in 
delicate situations
35 Big name in 
gaming
36 Like the 
Javanese 
calendar
38 Swear
39 Catholic univ. in 
San Antonio
40 Facebook titter
41 Kagan on the 
bench
43 Symphonic rock 
gp.
44 Port-au-Prince 
locale
46 “Otello” composer
47 Towns on some 
maps
49 When the volume 
is the highest
51 Guffaw syllable
53 Prominent fox 
features
54 Alters to fit
58 Souvenir with a 
slogan
62 Survey 
surreptitiously
64 Sanction
65 Graph line
66 Westin 
competitor
67 Rope often coiled
68 Beer order
69 Pop
70 Moves 
rhythmically
DOWN
1 Detective’s job
2 Nasdaq debuts
3 Breach4 Hurricane 
strength term
5 Colorful reef 
denizen
6 The Eiger, for 
one
7 Work often 
recited
8 Sack holding 
a pig, in an old 
idiom
9 Winter sports 
mecca
10 Pass along, with 
dubious etiquette
11 “It’s clear now!”
12 Barbershop 
member
13 “X” author 
Grafton
19 Austin-to-Dallas 
dir.
21 Do some floor 
work
24 Singer Nelson
26 Well-known
27 Writer Calvino
28 Seer’s deck
29 Prescribed goal
30 “A tradition __  
any other”: 
trademarked 
catchphrase for 
The Masters32 Declares
33 Housing choice
34 Huck Finn 
creator
37 Setbacks
42 Pet control 
ordinance
45 Fitting
48 Least forward
50 Didn’t play
52 In the  
manner of
54 Bus alternative55 Similar (to)
56 San __: Riviera 
resort
57 Transmit
59 Ingrid’s 
“Casablanca” 
role
60 Optimistic
61 There are five 
in ten
62 Word with dance 
or root
63 Sedona, for one
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Factory work 
period
6 Choral part
10 Stand the test of 
time
14 Hang around
15 Deliberately 
avoid
16 Nabisco nibble
17 Period with 
dreams, e.g.
19 Screenwriter 
Ephron
20 __ Ark
21 Rest area array
22 Timber shaper
25 Subject of 
some weather 
advisories
28 Stars and Stripes 
squad
30 Soup spheres
31 Delivery doc
32 Movie lab 
assistant
33 App annoyances
36 Gp. that isn’t 
gun-shy
37 Apple tablet from 
2013 to 2016
40 Real estate buy
41 Have some grub
42 Ranch grazers
43 Botanical 
swelling
45 Yellow Brick 
Road dog
46 Back-of-book 
lists
48 Summit Plummet 
at Disney World, 
for one
52 Bit of pageant 
attire
53 Fashionista 
Mary-Kate
54 Flowers, in 
Florence
56 Pothole’s place
57 Perform in the 
theater ... and 
what can be done 
to the end of 
17-, 25-, 37- and 
48-Across
62 Drive-__ window
63 Chicago mayor 
Emanuel
64 Scrabble 
10-pointer
65 Diary securer
66 Vein yields
67 Several hairpin 
turnsDOWN
1 Wall and 
Bourbon: Abbr.
2 Kubrick’s out-of-
control computer
3 Dublin’s land: 
Abbr.
4 Faux ally
5 Proofer’s find
6 Bronchial woe
7 Capital of Tibet
8 Yank
9 Ace’s value, at 
times
10 They don’t like 
company
11 Taco truck allure
12 Calligrapher’s 
swirl
13 Wedding 
reception 
highlight
18 Mouth off to
21 Visibly healed, 
as skin
22 Advice to 
sinners
23 Messing of “Will 
& Grace”
24 Restaurant 
survey creator
26 Lexi Thompson’s 
sports org.
27 Sainted fifth-
century pope29 Mythical horned 
equine
32 Cards with pics
33 Amazon Echo’s 
assistant
34 Mosque toppers
35 Narc’s discovery
38 Cookware items
39 AFB truant
44 Calls it off
45 Ready to drive, 
as a golf ball
46 Figures of speech
47 Hard-to-miss sign48 Value
49 Hawaiian hi
50 Romanov royals
51 “__ shoe fits ... ”
55 Use a wrecking 
ball on
57 In favor of
58 Former Mideast 
org.
59 Embroidered 
pronoun
60 World Cup shout
61 Jazzman 
Montgomery
1.  ____ hat
1.  Wheedle, coax5.  ____ account
2.  Penned6.  Type of strong string
3.  Tall bird7.  News ____
4.  Cover, overlayOYWOCB
AECLOJTOJNI
WITEN
ETNIWRT
ORSCIHTCHROAN
ERVENEANSWERS: 1A-Cowboy  5A-Joint  6A-Twine  7A-Anchor
1D-Cajole  2D-Written  3D-Ostrich  4D-Veneer  B-John Wayne3-20-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor was a lifelong chess enthusiast.
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Oliver Crawford and the Florida 
men's tennis team hosts No. 13 
Illinois and No. 28 Vanderbilt this 
week at the Ring T ennis Complex.Gators fall to Princeton at home
The No. 16 Florida lacrosse team lost to the No. 9 Tigers 13-11 on Tuesday 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Attackers Lindsey Ronbeck and Sydney Pir-
reca and midfielder Shannon Kavanagh recorded three goals each, while 
goalkeeper Haley Hicklen made seven saves.GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Florida gymnastics walked into Fay-
etteville, Arkansas, on the first day of 
March and walked out as regular-season 
SEC Champions.
It held the honor undisputed for the 
first time in the program’s history. With 
only a single loss in SEC play (against the 
Georgia Bulldogs) and a dominant victory 
over Penn State to end the regular season, 
it appeared far and away that the Gators 
were the SEC’s very best team during the 
regular season.
Except that according to the seeding for 
the upcoming SEC Championships in New 
Orleans, they weren’t.
The LSU Tigers were.
During UF’s break, LSU defeated the 
No. 30 Arizona Wildcats and, in the pro-
cess, clinched the No. 1 seed in the tour-
nament, which it has won the past two 
years. The Tigers not only knocked the 
Gators down to the No. 2 seed, but they also overtook them in the Road to Nation-
als Rankings, claiming the No. 3 spot and 
moving UF to No. 4.
But if Florida was crowned the regu-
lar season champion — a title LSU wasn’t 
even in contention to share — and it de-
feated the Tigers earlier this year, how did 
LSU clinch the No. 1 seed in the tourna-
ment?
The answer lies in a statistic known as 
NQS.
National Qualifying Score (NQS) is 
the metric through which the gymnastics 
ranking system, Road to Nationals, de-
termines its rankings. To calculate it, a 
team’s best six scores are taken — three 
of which have to be from road or neutral 
meets — and the highest score is dropped. 
The average of the remaining five scores is 
a team’s NQS.
The Tigers had an advantage that Flor-
ida didn’t: they scheduled more meets. 
UF’s season started on Jan. 11 against the How LSU earned No. 1 seed 
at the SEC ChampionshipsSOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The No. 6 Florida softball team (24-6) 
suffered its second-consecutive series loss to 
open SEC play after a 3-2 walk-off loss against 
No. 8 LSU (24-6) on Monday. Here are how 
the Gators have lost back-to-back series for 
the first time since 2011:
Offense sputters against Tigers
It’s no secret that Florida has had prob-
lems scoring runs. The Gators have scored a 
measly 15 runs in six SEC games this season, 
and they’ve been shut out twice. Their latest 
slump has seen their runs per game drop to 
just 5.07, which is 81st in the country.
One of the biggest issues for Florida is the 
batting lineup after outfielder Amanda Lorenz 
and catcher Kendyl Lindaman. Its offense has 
depended heavily on both players, and the 
Gators have had a difficult time creating pro-
duction beyond them. Catcher and designated player Jordan Rob-
erts has three hits in her last 17 at-bats. Sec-
ond baseman Hannah Adams and shortstop 
Sophia Reynoso both have only three hits in 
their last 18 at-bats. Outfielder Danielle Ro-
manello has two hits in her last 21 at-bats, and 
the list goes on.
As great as Lorenz and Lindaman are, the 
Gators’ offense isn’t going to do much until 
the team around them improves. 
Florida’s other big problem is its inability 
to hit with runners in scoring position. UF has 
batted 5 for 31 (.161) with runners in scoring 
position in SEC play, and it has stranded 36 
total runners in the process. 
The problem hasn’t been a lack of contact, 
either. Florida struck out only 10 times in 
three games against LSU. 
However, there are signs that the offense 
can turn things around. 
The Gators are ranked 15th in the country 
in on-base percentage (.415) despite hitting Struggling offense, shaky 
pitching shows in Florida's 
consecutive SEC series lossesChris King / Alligator Staff
Florida second baseman and center fielder Jacob Young went 3 for 4 in UF's 13-8 win 
over Jacksonville on Tuesday at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Brady McConnell turned on a ball and 
sent it to the bleachers in left field to put 
an end to Jacksonville’s comeback in the 
seventh inning.
Florida held a nine-run lead just two in-
nings prior but had allowed the Dolphins to 
work their way within three runs.
That two-run home run put the game 
out of reach.
No. 14 UF staved off multiple rallies by 
JU to hold on for its second-straight win.
Florida clinched the season series over 
Jacksonville with a 13-8 victory at home, 
concluding its 14-game homestand.
“Offensively we were solid tonight,” 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “But the dis-
appointing part is the bullpen, we contin-
ued to give up rebound runs.”
The Gators’ lively bats allowed them to 
put the game out of reach early.
Nelson Maldonado started the scor-
ing with an RBI single in the first, plating 
Jacob Young. Maldonado continues to be 
UF’s most reliable hitter. The senior cap-
tain went 3 for 5 on the night, continuing 
a 15-game tear in which he’s hitting .490 
(27-55). Kendrick Calilao later hit an RBI single 
to score McConnell. Calilao finished 1 for 
2 and added another RBI in the third in-
ning, his team-leading 28th. Maldonado 
later came around to score on a wild pitch 
to give the Gators a 3-0 lead after the first.
UF (16-7) scored five more runs in the 
third and fourth innings to take a com-
manding 8-0 lead.
It built such a lead in part because of 
Nolan Crisp’s execution on the mound.
The freshman excelled in his first start, 
earning the win and bouncing back from 
his worst outing of the season against FSU. 
Crisp walked three batters and allowed 
three runs in just one relief inning in the 
win over the Seminoles on March 12.
He held Jacksonville (12-9) to just one 
hit in four innings and finished with two 
strikeouts.
“Very efficient,” O’Sullivan said of 
Crisp. “Probably one of the biggest reasons 
we won this ballgame.”
When Crisp was replaced by Ben Specht 
in the fifth inning, the Dolphins offense be-
gan stringing together hits. Specht loaded 
the bases and allowed back-to-back RBI 
singles with two outs to put an end to the UF ends 14-game homestand with win over Jacksonville 
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The first quarter seemed to be over.
A defender knocked the ball free from 
UF guard Kiara Smith’s hands as the clock 
wound down during the Florida women’s 
basketball game against Arkansas on Jan. 27. 
Both teams began walking back to their 
respective benches, and coaches started 
planning for the second quarter. But Kristina 
Moore ignored them all.
The forward came out of nowhere looking 
to save the ball and the play. In her attempt, 
she landed awkwardly on her left arm. The 
crowd at the O’Connell Center went silent as 
Moore laid down on the ground for several 
minutes while two trainers tended to her. 
As they led her off the court into the lock-
er room, she hung her head and winced. She 
was told she had a broken arm, and the six-
week recovery time kept her out for the rest 
of the season.
It wasn’t her first major setback, and it 
wouldn’t be the first time she faced hard-
ship. She had come from Australia where she 
played semi-professional basketball and had 
already overcome previous injuries and chal-
lenges. This injury wouldn’t be the end.
“For the first couple of days (after the in-
jury), it really played with me a bit,” Moore 
said. “I’m not rushing anything, but I want 
to be ready for when I come back. I will be 
back.”
Kristina’s whole family played sports.
Her dad, Andrew “Moose” Moore, and her 
brother, Alex, played rugby for most of their 
lives. They encouraged her to play sports 
ever since she was a little girl in Pennant 
Hills, Australia. 
Kristina played soccer, threw discus and 
swam. When she was 11, a coach approached 
her at a club track and field meet and told her 
to play basketball.
“My dad was probably the happiest,” 
Kristina said with a laugh. “My dad was like, 
‘Awesome. You need to get into that because 
you’re tall, and you can be good at that.’”
Kristina started in the Under-12 league 
but struggled early. She had never played a 
sport with so much physicality and focus on 
technique. She began working with coaches 
on her ball handling and learned to impose 
herself in the paint using her size.
“I was bigger than the average girl, even 
at that age,” the now-6-foot-1 forward said. 
“It took me quite a while. Still not 100 per-
cent there yet.”
As she grew into her frame in high school, 
Kristina developed her skills on the court. She 
started to use her size and toughness to score 
close to the basket, and success followed.
Kristina went on a short-term school ex-
change in 2015 to Ridley College in Ontario, 
Canada. She was named the Ridley College 
MVP after leading her team to victory at 
the Canadian Independent Schools National 
Tournament.
In 2016, she won a gold medal with the 
New South Wales team at the School Sport 
Australia Basketball Championships. 
A year later, she competed in the semi-pro-
fessional Waratah League with the Hornsby 
Spiders, where she played with professional 
players from all over the world, including 
Alicia Poto, who competed for the Australian  
women’s national basketball team and won a 
silver medal with them at the 2004 Summer 
Olympics.“That year was the year that I grew the 
most in my basketball skills and knowledge,” 
Kristina said. “Playing alongside people like 
Alicia, and playing against other teams that 
had professionals made me have to learn 
quick.” 
She learned fast and dominated the sea-
son. By the end, Kristina was awarded the 
Waratah League Rookie of the Year. 
Soon after, she got offered to take part 
in a two-week long Amateur Athletic Union 
(AAU) tour in the United States to showcase 
her skills to college coaches across the coun-
try.
Her career was accelerating, but, in an in-
stant, a massive injury put it all on hold.
Kristina had never considered going to 
the U.S. to play basketball. But when the 
President of AUSA Hoops, Rhys Murphy, 
approached her about the opportunity, she 
couldn’t say no.
“I was surprised honestly,” she said, “but 
that was the beginning of thinking about 
coming to America as a college opportunity.”
Murphy was a native of Hornsby, Austra-
lia, who played basketball at Oregon State 
University. He returned to Australia after his 
collegiate career to create AUSA Hoops, an 
organization designed to help up-and-coming 
Australian basketball players find opportuni-
ties to play in the U.S. 
When Murphy saw Kristina play in the 
Waratah league, he knew that she could 
make it in the States.
“Off the court, she’s so sweet to every-
one and looks like she couldn’t hurt a fly,” 
he said. “But on the court...she’s a killer. 
Tougher than everyone. Mixed up with it in 
the middle. It’s almost scary.”
In July 2017, Kristina joined Murphy and 
other promising players at two AAU tourna-
ments in San Francisco.
She impressed once again. And colleges 
noticed.
After playing for years against semi-pro-
fessional players in the Australian leagues, 
she grew accustomed to playing tough com-
petition.
“It really got me used to the speed of the game over in America,” Kristina said. “(The 
tournaments) really sparked a lot of interest 
from colleges because they had never seen 
me, and they had never watched me play 
over in Australia.”
She was almost overwhelmed at the op-
portunities opening up as schools began to 
recruit her.
But most of those calls stopped when Kris-
tina tore her ACL on a fast-break layup and 
missed the final three games of the tour.
“It was incredibly frustrating,” she said. “I 
was very fortunate to still have people inter-
ested in me even after the injury. Some still 
thought I could come back as good as I was 
before, and it made me want to.” 
Florida coach Cam Newbauer heard about 
Kristina’s performances on the tour. 
Newbauer was in his second offseason as 
Florida’s head coach and needed to secure a 
talented class and rebuild a program that had 
never won the SEC. 
To start, he needed big, tough players in 
the post to grab rebounds and score close to 
the basket. Kristina was perfect. 
Newbauer planned to travel to San Fran-
cisco to watch her in person until she tore her 
ACL. Instead, he stayed in Gainesville and 
weighed his options. Newbauer and the staff 
eventually to recruit her anyway. 
“How she affected the game wasn’t based 
off athleticism alone,” Newbauer said. “A lot 
of what she does is based off toughness and 
smarts, so the injury wasn’t going to take that 
away in my mind.”
Newbauer and Kristina never met face 
to face before she visited UF.  They mostly 
talked on the phone and through video chat, 
but that was enough. 
In December 2017, she took her official 
visit to UF to meet the players and coaches 
and to see what life would be like for her in 
Gainesville.
“UF is one of those schools that you hear 
of even back home,” Kristina said. “It’s one 
of those big American schools that you want 
to know more about. The prestige and fam-
ily atmosphere was a top priority from me 
considering I was coming all the way from Australia.”
Kristina instantly felt at home. She talked 
to Funda Nakkasoglu, another Australian 
player on the team who was amid a season 
where she led the Gators in scoring with 14.9 
points per game. 
Kristina was also told by Newbauer that 
she would be allowed to throw discus in the 
offseason, a huge factor in her decision to 
sign with Florida. 
Everything impressed her, from the team 
to the lifestyle at the university. 
“America is just a completely different 
world,” she said. “The crowds and the cul-
ture in colleges, you get nothing like that 
back home.” 
Kristina was convinced it was a perfect fit. 
She committed to UF less than a week after 
her visit. 
“I knew I was joining a new coaching 
staff, and I wanted to be part of something 
big,” she said. “I could have went some-
where more established, but I think the fun 
of it is being with a set of people that are try-
ing to change everything about basketball at 
Florida.”
But every startup has a tough beginning.
Six straight losses to begin a career will 
force any player to learn patience. 
The Florida women’s basketball team was 
rebuilding, and patience was needed for a 
young roster that consisted of three freshmen 
and seven transfers to gel. 
Newbauer changed his starting lineup 
seven times before the start of SEC play in 
the 2018-19 season, but there was one con-
sistent factor. 
Kristina’s ability to get to the basket and 
improve her jump shot every day compelled 
Newbauer to put her on the court as much 
as he could. 
In the team’s first 20 games, Kristina was 
the only player to start every one.
“I don’t think I’ve ever shot more threes in 
my life than in the year since I’ve got here,” 
she said with a laugh. “It was definitely a 
transition for me since my game was down 
low for the most part.”
When she broke her arm against Arkan-
sas, her second major injury in two years, 
Kristina’s absence was felt immediately. 
UF won just three more games and got 
outrebounded in 10 of the 11 contests she 
missed. Florida did not have her stout, 6-foot-
1 frame to play physically beneath the basket.
The Gators finished the season with a dis-
appointing 8-23 record, but there was reason 
for optimism.
The team will lose Nakkasoglu, who was 
in her fifth and final year at the collegiate lev-
el, and guard Delicia Washington, who an-
nounced on Twitter her intent to transfer. UF 
will have recruits Lavender Briggs and Brylee 
Bartram, who set a national record for most 
three-pointers made in a career, to make 
shots from the perimeter, while Kristina and 
other forwards play down low.
Kristina is optimistic that she and the 
Gators can come back and be successful.
“We are definitely freshmen this year,” 
Kristina said. “We get a bit shaky. You can 
see that sometimes. We’re playing teams that 
have played with each other for three years. 
It will just take time, and I know that we’ll 
get there. I know we’ll be better.” 
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org.From the Outback to the Swamp:  
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman forward Kristina Moore started in every game this season before 
she broke her arm on Jan. 27 against Arkansas.
Kristina Moore’s journey to the U.S. and battle through injury
•   •   •
•   •   • •   •   ••   •   •restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect 
WEDNESDAYS 
 
$4 Yuengling Pitcher
$6 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSMissouri Tigers, but by that point, LSU 
had already won a meet against then-No. 
8 California. Overall, the Tigers compet-
ed in 11 dual meets this year, whereas 
UF only competed in nine.
What’s even more staggering is the 
difference. The Tigers defeated Arizo-
na 198.175-196.225 the week after the 
Gators’ season ended. They  used that 
win as the drop score of their six high-
est scores for their NQS, and it was still  
barely enough. The Tigers’ NQS is just 
0.005 higher than Florida’s, 197.680 to 197.675. Had LSU’s drop been its sec-
ond-highest score, a 198.150, it wouldn’t 
have been the No. 1 seed.
As the No. 2 seed, the Gators will 
compete in the second session of the SEC 
Championships, and they’ll compete in 
the order of bars-beam-ﬂ  oor-vault. UF 
hopes to complete an SEC sweep with 
a victory in the conference’s postsea-
son tournament. The Tigers, meanwhile, 
seek to win their third-straight SEC tour-
nament and avenge their loss to Florida 
at the beginning of the regular season.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Gators enter as No. 2 seed
only .291 as a team. This is 
largely because they’re draw-
ing 4.1 walks per game, so 
even when they can’t get hits, 
they are still getting on base. 
Odds are, the Gators won’t 
continue to hit as poorly with 
runners in scoring position. 
But they’ll need to ﬁ  gure it out 
quickly because in a tight SEC, 
the difference between win-
ning and losing is often who 
can hit in crucial situations. 
Pitching inconsistent 
against elite offense
Florida struggled at the 
plate once again against LSU, 
but its pitching mostly did a 
good job of keeping the team competitive.  
Pitching on the road 
against an offense ranked No. 
10 in runs per game is no easy 
task, and Kelly Barnhill kept 
the Gators competitive in both 
of her starts despite the lack 
of run support. She held the 
Tigers hitless in the ﬁ  rst four 
innings on Saturday, struck 
out 14 batters combined in her 
two starts and only allowed 
ﬁ  ve earned runs in 13.1 in-
nings of work. 
But the disaster was on 
Sunday, when the Gators used 
their other four pitchers in an 
8-0  run-rule loss. 
Starter Natalie Lugo was 
yanked after allowing two 
runs in two innings, and fresh-
man Elizabeth Hightower and 
junior Katie Chronister didn’t fare any better, combining for 
six earned runs in three in-
nings. Chronister didn’t record 
an out against ﬁ  ve hitters. 
That’s been the story 
for Florida’s pitching so far 
against elite offenses: really 
good or really terrible. 
The Gators have played 
nine games against offenses 
in the top 10 in runs per game 
and are 3-6 in such contests. 
They have given up three or 
fewer runs in ﬁ  ve of those 
games but have also given up 
28 runs and have been run-
ruled twice in the other four. 
Florida can’t afford to 
throw away games in a com-
petitive SEC. Especially not af-
ter starting 2-4.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Florida 3-6 vs. top-10 ofensesshutout.
Still, Florida led 8-2.
UF built on that lead in 
the ﬁ  fth inning, beginning 
with a solo home run by 
Austin Langworthy, his third 
of the year.
Langworthy’s homer 
began a string of four con-
secutive hits by the Gators. 
Brady Smith doubled. Young 
singled. And McConnell sin-
gled to score Smith. Young 
later scored the 11th run of 
the night for Florida on a 
Maldonado sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y.
Nick Blasucci, who fol-
lowed Specht out of the 
bullpen, allowed a three-run homer to JU’s Duncan Hunt-
er to cut the deﬁ  cit to 11-5 in 
the sixth inning.
In the following inning, 
John Cassala got a hold of a 
ball off Justin Alintoff for a 
three-run homer, narrowing 
the gap to three runs.
Florida’s bullpen strug-
gled in relief of Crisp. After 
four scoreless innings to be-
gin the game, Specht, Blas-
suci and Alintoff allowed 
eight runs on nine hits to let 
Jacksonville back into the 
game. Albeit, Alintoff earned 
his ﬁ  rst save of the season.
It was McConnell’s home 
run that put the game away.
The top of the order 
excelled against Jackson-
ville, after everyone, other than Maldonado, struggled 
against Mississippi State. 
Young, McConnell, Maldo-
nado and Calilao hit 10 for 
14 with eight runs scored 
and nine RBIs between 
them.
UF will look to carry that 
offensive momentum into its 
ﬁ  rst road series of the season 
against No. 8 Vanderbilt be-
ginning Thursday night.
“We knew that this win 
was really going to affect 
us going into the weekend,” 
McConnell said. “Especially 
after we dropped two with 
Mississippi State, that we 
needed this win.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14UF bullpen struggled after Crisp
The Associated Press
LSU coach "DD" Breaux (right) hugs Sydney Ewing after Ewing's balance beam 
routine during the NCAA college women's gymnastics championships on April 
18, 2014, in Birmingham, Alabama.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2019