We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Who is Gainesville?
The Alligator is hosting a community forum today, pg. 4
Death drop for your life
RuPaul Drag Queens performed at UF, pg. 9Gators complete sweep of Texas A&M
The UF softball team defeated the Aggies 4-1 
on Sunday behind Jordan Roberts’ two-run 
homer, pg. 14MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 81
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida wide receiver Tyrie Cleveland celebrates a touchdown with fans by jumping into the stands 
during the Orange and Blue game on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. The Orange team won 60-35. 
Read the story on pg. 14.
LIVING IN GAINESVILLE: RESIDENT (PART 4 OF 4)
ALACHUA COUNTY 
HAS SOME OF HIGHEST 
PROPERTY TAXES IN STATE
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Pool parties used to roar across 
the street from Claire Lamar’s 
Gainesville home in the 1980s.The students in the military fra-
ternity would jump off the roof and 
into the pool. 
“They move in, and they don’t 
realize that, maybe, around them 
are some families that have small 
children,” Lamar said.
She recalled one late night when 
the students were playing bongo 
drums. Her husband stormed out 
of the house in boxers and marched over, yelling at them to stop. 
Now, the fraternity is long 
gone. Lamar has watched a num-
ber of people move in and out of 
the Duckpond neighborhood, ﬁ  lled 
with historic homes in downtown 
Gainesville. But more and more 
young professionals and growing 
families are moving to the west 
side of town. 
In 2018, 5,133 single-family and attached units were sold 
in Gainesville, according to the 
Gainesville-Alachua County Asso-
ciation of Realtors multiple listing 
services. 
The median price of a single-
family home in Gainesville as of 
the ﬁ  rst half of 2018 was $169,900, 
which is lower than the county as 
a whole, said Anne Ray, a Florida 
Housing Data Clearinghouse man-ager.
In Gainesville, buying a home 
means looking west for new devel-
opment and expecting to pay high 
property tax rates.
Alachua County faces some of 
the highest property tax rates in 
the state, said Matt Geiger, execu-
tive director of tax operations at the Homeowners face higher taxes, older homes
HE OWNED TWO 
CASSOWARIES 
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
The world’s most danger-
ous bird attacked and killed 
a man in the backyard of his 
Alachua County home. 
On Friday at about 10 a.m., 
paramedics responded to a 911 
call and found Marvin Hajos, 
75, of Alachua County, at-
tacked by his cassowary, Jeff 
Taylor, the Alachua County 
Fire Rescue Deputy Chief, 
wrote in an email.
Paramedics brought Hajos 
to a hospital where he died 
from his injuries, Taylor said. 
Cassowaries are large, 
ﬂ  ightless birds that can grow 
up to 6 feet tall and have a 
claw on each foot that can 
grow up to 4 inches long. 
Hajos owned the property 
and the two birds, but it is 
not clear if both birds were in-volved in the 
attack.
Taylor  
said it ap-
peared Hajos 
was injured 
after falling 
in a path near 
the birds’ en-
closure. At 
least one of the birds attacked 
him. 
The birds are secured on 
private property at this time, 
said Lt. Brett Rhodenizer, an 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce spokesperson. This is the 
ﬁ  rst time an attack like this 
has happened since he has 
been with the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
“The investigation is still 
on-going as we work to con-
ﬁ  rm that this was just an un-
fortunate accident,” Rhoden-
izer said.
@JoFuller24
JFuller@alligator.orgMan dies after being 
attacked by large bird
Casuarius casuarius
By Lakshmi Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF undergraduate applications 
reached a record high this year, 
but minority applicants saw a dip 
in admissions. Minority admissions decreased 
by 4 percent this past year, ac-
cording to a report from Charles 
Murphy, the UF director of fresh-
man and international admissions. 
This year, minority admissions 
dropped to 3,330 after increasing in 2018 from 3,614 to 4,129.
The decrease in minority ad-
missions can be attributed to few-
er students being admitted into 
UF as a whole, Murphy said. UF 
admitted about 750 fewer students 
into the freshman class this year.However, other UF admission 
rates have stayed steady over the 
past three years, including ﬁ  rst-
generation students at 19 percent, 
legacy students at 20 percent and 
top 10 percent of graduating class 
at 70 percent. 
“For any group, there will be 
less admitted students because the 
overall total of admitted students was less,” Murphy said. 
Despite the decrease in minor-
ity admissions, UF has seen an in-
crease in minority applications in 
the past ﬁ  ve years. 
In a presentation to the Board 
of Trustees at the March 29 meet-
ing, Zina Evans, the vice president 
for enrollment management, re-Fewer minority students were admitted to UF this year
There was a 4 percent decrease from 2018 to 2019
SEE DIVERSITY,  PAGE 3SEE RESIDENT,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
TODAY
Transparency: Physiology, 
Wellness and Beyond in the 
Trans Community
When: 6:30-8 p.m.
Where: Florida Gym, Room 105
What: An informational and 
resource-driven event focused 
on physiology and wellness in 
the transgender community. The 
event will begin with a community 
exposition featuring student and 
community organizations and 
presentations from students of 
human physiology focused on the 
effects of medical transitioning 
on different organ systems. At 
7 p.m., a panel of health care 
and community members will 
have a discussion focused on 
transgender health care and 
wellness. Details and RSVP: hhp.
ufl.edu/transparency.
Film shows impact of death sen-
tences on jurors
When: 7 p.m.
Where: Civic Media Center, at 
433 S. Main St.
What: Gainesville Citizens for 
Alternatives to the Death Penalty 
will show the film “Lindy Lou 
Juror No. 2.” This film is a look 
at the criminal justice system 
from the perspective of a juror 
in a trial that sentenced a man to 
death, resulting in his execution. 
The main character, Lindy, has 
feelings of guilt that inspire 
her to seek answers from her 
fellow jurors. The film follows 
her journey, examines how the 
verdict impacted the jurors who 
decided it and raises questions 
about America’s system of 
capital punishment. For more 
information, call 352-278-4342.
Science: Unsilenced
When: 11:30 a.m.-12:15 p.m. 
and 12:30-1:15 p.m.
Where: Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service
What: This week-long series of 
events is devoted to free speech 
in science. These events will start 
campus conversations around 
free speech and censorship. 
Speakers include: Christina 
Arena, the creator and executive 
producer of “Let Science Speak,” 
a documentary to help defend 
America’s environmental 
scientists; Connie Bersok, a 
former 30-year employee of 
the Florida Department of 
Environmental Protection and 
alumnus of the UF Howard T. 
Odum Center for Wetlands who 
was suspended for her memo 
against a wetlands permit; Joel 
Clement, an Arctic Initiative Senior Fellow at Harvard’s 
Kennedy School who was an 
executive at the U.S. Department 
of the Interior for seven years 
before he resigned for disclosing 
the impacts of climate change; 
and Sonja R. West, Otis Brumby 
Distinguished Professor in First 
Amendment law at the University 
of Georgia, who will lecture at UF 
Health on doctors and freedom 
of speech. On Monday, there 
will be a short film screening of 
“Let Science Speak” and pizza at 
Frazier-Rogers Hall, Room 122.
Festival of Nations
When: 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Outdoor 
Table Area and Terrace 
What: This second annual 
multicultural festival will give 
students a chance to learn about 
different cultures through food 
tastings, music, interactive 
activities, dance performances 
and free T-shirts. 
TUESDAY
Girl Boss Workshop
When: 3-5 p.m. 
Where: Reitz Union, Room 6315
What: The #GirlBoss Workshop 
will host two speakers from the 
UF Career Connections Center to 
talk about being a Girl Boss and 
how to negotiate pay. Less than 
40 percent of women negotiate 
their pay while being hired for a 
job, and women are more often 
denied pay raises than men in 
the workplace. Each discussion 
will last 30-45 minutes with a 
10-minute Q&A session at the 
end. People can also decorate 
their own inspiration board. 
There will be free pizza and 
snacks.
WEDNESDAY
International Student Internship 
Panel and Workshop
When: 3-5 p.m. 
Where: Career Connections 
Center: Connection Room on the 
ground floor of the Reitz Union
What: The International Student 
Affairs Cabinet is collaborating 
with Volunteers for International 
Student Affairs and the Career 
and Connections Center to host 
a career and internship panel 
and workshop event to help 
with the application process for 
international students seeking 
job opportunities in the U.S. 
International students can learn 
how to grow their network and 
implement job search strategies. 
Additionally, the workshop 
will include a panel of current 
international students who will 
share their job experiences and 
give advice on how to stand out as applicants. There will also be a 
networking session and with light 
refreshments. The first 30 people 
to attend will get free padfolios. 
If you have any questions about 
the event, contact international@
sg.ufl.edu.
THURSDAY
UF Performing Arts to host 
National Geographic presen-
tation on oceans
When: 7:30 p.m.
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: The Florida Museum 
of Natural History and the 
UF Performing Arts present 
“National Geographic Live: Ocean 
Soul,” a night of exploration 
through film, photography 
and discussion with a National 
Geographic photographer. Brian 
Skerry, a National Geographic 
photographer, has spent more 
than 10,000 hours underwater 
telling stories from the ocean. 
Tickets are $25 for adults and 
$10 for children and UF students. 
For more information or to buy 
tickets, visit the performing arts 
center’s website or call 352-392-
2787. 
Cookie decorating wine tasting
When: 6:15-7:30 p.m.
Where: Downtown Wine and 
Cheese, at 113 N. Main St.
What: Wines will be paired 
with sweets as people decorate 
sugar cookies. Cheese and 
light refreshments will also be 
served. There will also be happy 
hour specials with $5 glasses of 
wine and discounts on bottle 
purchases. Tickets are $15.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  51°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Lily Girton,
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez, Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Eve Rosen,
Shelby Smith, Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 81MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
HELP WANTED
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time position. Applicant must 
be extremely comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop.
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department, and coordinate 
newspaper design and layout with content 
from student editors. 
Email cover letter and resume to Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.orgRequirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Experience working with students is a plus.
• Must have experience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday, 
Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and 
spring. Schedule changes during summer 
semester.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great 
work atmosphere. Modest salary. No phone calls, please.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer         Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a 
summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position 
your advertisements for the local market.All ads receive a 
10% discount
Deadline: Wednesday, April 17
Run Date: Wednesday, April 24
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are 
getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your 
exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester 
and reach students and Gainesville locals.ported a 27 percent increase in mi-
nority student applications in the 
past ﬁ  ve years. 
Evans could not be reached for 
comment.  
The ofﬁ  ce of admissions is 
considering increasing outreach 
efforts for next year’s admission 
cycle in hopes of promoting diver-
sity on campus, Murphy said. 
These efforts include engag-
ing with prospective students by 
attending more college fairs, ap-
plication workshops and visiting 
high schools across the state and country. 
“We play a lead role, but it’s 
not just admissions’ job,” Murphy 
said. “It’s really the whole univer-
sity’s job.”
The ofﬁ  ce of admissions has 
also been working with campus 
partners to increase minority ap-
plication and admissions rates, 
including UF Multicultural and Di-
versity Affairs, the UF Alumni As-
sociation and the UF Association 
of Black Alumni, he said. 
The Alligator reached out to UF 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs 
and were redirected to UF spokes-
person Steve Orlando, who could 
not comment. Evans will present a more de-
tailed admissions update to the 
Committee on Academic, Faculty 
and Student Affairs and Experi-
ence at the next Board of Trustees 
meeting June 6, Murphy said. 
Alita Milian, a Hispanic 21-year-
old UF biochemistry senior, said 
UF is not doing enough to promote 
diversity. 
Milian thinks UF administrators 
should tailor their outreach efforts 
to people of color so these students 
don’t feel discouraged from apply-
ing, she said. 
“Minorities tend to face a lot of 
challenges in order to get to college 
because the same opportunities don’t present themselves,” Milian 
said. “Resumes and applications 
are lacking compared to counter-
parts that have more advantages.”
Milian struggled to ﬁ  nd Hispan-
ic associations on campus when 
she transferred to UF her junior 
year. She said organizations for 
students of speciﬁ  c backgrounds 
exist but are only promoted by 
students within the clubs instead 
of faculty, and they are difﬁ  cult to 
ﬁ  nd. 
“If the university sees a de-
crease in these rates, they should 
take the effort and time to look 
into why there was a decrease,” 
Milian said, “not just let it ride.” 
@lakshmigomez_ 
lgomez@alligator.orgDIVERSITY,  from pg. 1Admissions oice considering increasing outreach
Minorities
2017- 3,614
2018- 4,129
2019- 3,330
First Generation 
2017- 2,550
2018- 2,799 
2019- 2,685
T op 10%
2017- 9,674
2018- 10,483
2019- 10,050
Legacy 
2017- 2,950
2018- 3,011
2019- 2,900Demographics over 
the past three years Alachua County Tax Collector’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
The property tax rate in the county is high 
because about 50 percent of the land value is 
exempt from paying taxes, he said. 
All government properties, such as 
schools and city hall, non-proﬁ  t organiza-
tions, and some homeowners are exempt 
from certain taxes.
UF is a public institution that makes up 
a large part of those tax-exempt properties 
because it takes up about 2,000 acres of 
Gainesville, according to the UF website.
A large number of tax-exempt areas lead 
to people paying double in property taxes, 
he said.
Justin Froiseth, a 33-year-old homeown-
er, said he feels like he pays higher rates in 
Gainesville than if he lived somewhere else. 
Froiseth is a student-turned-homeowner 
in Gainesville. When he lived in apartments 
around UF, he wasn’t worried about paying 
property taxes or driving 45 minutes into 
town for work. He now lives in a 4-bedroom, 2-bathroom 
house in South Pointe off of Newberry Road 
with his wife and 1-year-old daughter. 
When purchasing their ﬁ  rst house, they 
chose west Gainesville because they wanted 
to get away from the hustle and bustle of the 
city. 
“All of a sudden, once you’re out of col-
lege, it’s like you don’t want to necessarily 
be around all the college kids anymore,” 
Froiseth said. 
Froiseth’s biggest complaint about his 
home in west Gainesville is the commute 
time. It usually takes him about 45 minutes 
to make the 8-mile drive from his house to 
his physical therapy job at UF Health Shands 
Hospital. 
“It’s not the worst,” Froiseth said. “But 
for being such as small city, that’s probably 
our biggest complaint that the commute for 
going such a short distance can take so long.”
Despite the long drive, west Gainesville 
is seeing the newest housing developments.
Most of the new housing developments, 
which are usually higher priced, are push-ing out of the city limits and into the coun-
ty, Anne Ray said. This leaves the heart 
of Gainesville with older homes and west 
Gainesville with newer developments. 
Mixed-use communities in west 
Gainesville, like Haile Plantation and Tioga, 
are popular places among people relocating 
to Gainesville. Even those who are new to 
the area are familiar with these communities 
due to their walkability to restaurants, shop-
ping and school zones. 
Haile Plantation is one of the largest 
planned units development in North Central 
Florida with 62 subdivisions consisting of 
2,700 houses, townhomes and apartments, 
ranging from $150,000 to $1.5 million, said 
Sandra Lehrer, who has been a real estate 
agent for 25 years. 
“This appeals to everybody,” Lehrer 
said. “We have a lot of retirement people 
who come in here, we have small homes for 
them. Empty nesters. And there’s excellent 
schools nearby so we have families, too.” 
At the heart of Haile Plantation sits the 
town village Boutique shops, restaurants and ofﬁ  ces sit underneath apartment buildings 
with trees growing to canopy the street. 
Driving further into the community, in 
the Oakmont subdivision, Jane Calabrese 
tied her hair back in a baseball cap as she 
swept fallen leaves from the street in front 
of her house. 
She moved to Gainesville in 1990. 
They decided to move into their almost 
3,000-square-foot house in Haile Plantation 
mostly for the trail because she’s a runner.
She said they’ve lived in the neighbor-
hood the longer than anyone else.
Back downtown, across the street from 
Claire Lamar’s House, where the military 
fraternity once lived, live Steven and Mary 
Reid. 
Their historic mansion is ﬁ  lled with mem-
ories and stories. 
They considered selling the house, which 
is now valued at $1.1 million but decided 
they weren’t ready to say goodbye. 
They love owning their house right in 
the heart of downtown and being walking 
distance from everything they want to do. 
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgRESIDENT,  from pg. 1Non-college residents try to move away from UF4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019THERE WILL BE AN HOUR-
LONG DISCUSSION WITH 
SEVEN PANELISTS
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer
The past, present and future of 
the city of Gainesville will be dis-
cussed tonight in order to define 
“who” the city is.
From 7 to 8 p.m. today, The 
Independent Florida Alligator will 
host a forum discussing these top-
ics and more for its project “Who 
is Gainesville?” at the Center for 
Innovation & Economic Develop-
ment: Imagination Room, 530 W. 
University Ave.
A panel discussion will be mod-erated by Paige Fry, the editor-in-
chief of The Alligator.
Seven panelists will respond to 
Fry’s questions for an hour, with 
an audience Q&A session after.
The forum is part of The Alliga-
tor’s project that covers the past, 
present and future of Gainesville. 
This is a year-long project that 
started in September 2018 and was 
funded by $3,000 from the Poynter 
Media Institute, an organization 
that supports local and student 
journalism.
“This is our effort to create 
more of a conversation rather than 
just telling stories,” said Gillian 
Sweeney, The Alligator’s audience 
engagement team member.
Panelists, like Gainesville Po-lice Department Chief Tony Jones, 
were chosen based on their area 
of expertise relative to the greater 
Gainesville community, Sweeney 
said.
Levi Bradford, a 24-year-old 
first-year UF law student, plans to 
attend. He said the forum presents 
an opportunity for groups to dis-
cuss how they define Gainesville.
“There is so much more that 
goes on in town that needs to be 
looked at,” Bradford said. “Those 
ideas don’t come up in conversa-
tion unless someone has person-
ally experienced them and has felt 
the division.”
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgThe Alligator to host ‘Who is Gainesville?’ public forum tonight
Who: The Independent Florida Alligator
What: A forum for the “Who is Gainesville?” project led by seven panelists from the 
community, including:
 - City Commissioner David Arreola
 - Gainesville Police Department Chief T ony Jones
 - Pamela Davis, executive director of the Gainesville Housing Authority
 - Susan Crowley, assistant vice president for community relations at UF
 - Valerie Freeman, director of education equity and outreach for Alachua 
    County Public Schools
 - Peggy Macdonald, the former director of the Matheson History Museum
 - Rahkiah Brown, coordinator for the ReadingPals program.
Where: The Center for Innovation & Economic Development: Imagination Room, 
530 W. University Ave. at Santa Fe College
When: 7 to 8 p.m. today
Why : T o open a conversation between leaders and members of the community to 
discuss the past, present and future of Gainesville as well as the relationship between 
UF and the greater Gainesville area.Forum Quick FactsAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Busting Moves
Dancers perform to “Burlesque” by Christina Aguilera Saturday during the “Floridance Presents: 
Floridance in Wonderland” performance at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. More than 
100 people attended the performance.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is on par nationally when it 
comes to rates of faculty leaving, 
but it is still working to address 
why.
Faculty turnover rates are 
measured as the rate in which 
faculty leave, usually over the 
course of a year, said Jodi Gentry, 
the vice president of UF Human 
Resources. At UF, turnover rates 
are in line with the national 
average at about 10 percent for 
non-tenured faculty and about 5 
percent for tenured.
Faculty have seen issues with partners finding jobs or needing to 
relocate for family needs, which is 
a problem UF is attempting to fix 
in coming years by working with 
local partners and businesses.
According to the Faculty Hiring 
Report from the Board of Trustees 
meeting on March 29, the highest 
faculty turnover rates from Fall 
2017 to February 2019 are at 17 
percent in the College of Nursing 
and the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. The College of Medicine 
had the second highest turnover at 
15 percent.
The College of Public Health and 
Health Professions had a rate of 29 
percent, but the number reflected a shift in departments, Gentry said. 
A number of the faculty transferred 
to UF Health Shands.
The Center for Latin American 
Studies, the UF Whitney Labora-
tory for Marine Bioscience and the 
Florida Sea Grant all had rates at 0 
percent, the report said.
UF Human Resources started 
an exit survey this year and found 
the most common reason for staff 
leaving was because of family 
needs, Gentry said.
Gentry said the office would 
often hear that partners of faculty 
members struggled to find jobs in 
Gainesville during exit interviews.
“Out of the gate, the number one reason was related to location 
and family needs,” she said. “We 
know that that’s a community-
wide challenge for us.”
The living situation can be dif-
ficult in households with only one 
member who is a professional aca-
demic, Gentry said.
“Gainesville can be challenging 
in terms of the kinds of occupa-
tions or opportunities for careers 
outside of UF,” she said.
However, UF is working with 
local businesses and partners to 
help change this, Gentry said.
In March, UF had its first dual-
career round table, which brought 
a large representation of local 
employers, including the City of 
Gainesville, and human resources 
administrators together, to discuss the issue, said Melissa Curry, an 
assistant vice president at the Hu-
man Resources Office.
“Lots of times, the companies 
in Gainesville have the opposite 
problem of us,” she said. “They are 
having a hard time putting a pri-
mary person here.”
Curry said the team is hopeful 
there could be more opportunities 
for families to find jobs if it shares 
career partner information.
The team will meet quarterly 
and has created a Listserv email to 
start sharing resumes, Curry said.
The Alligator reached out to 
multiple faculty members who 
resigned. None were available to 
comment.
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgFaculty Turnover: Why do UF faculty members leave?
Turnover rates are as high as 17%
Turnover rates by college/center  According to board meeting record
College of Agriculture and Life Sciences
T otal Hires — 60; T otal Departures — 54; Turnover — 9%
College of Business
T otal Hires — 9; T otal Departures — 13; Turnover — 13%
College of Dentistry
T otal Hires — 13; T otal Departures — 14; Turnover — 14%
College of Design, Construction & Planning
T otal Hires — 14; T otal Departures — 5; Turnover — 6%
College of Education
T otal Hires — 26; T otal Departures — 14; Turnover — 13%
Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering
T otal Hires — 55; T otal Departures — 23; Turnover — 7%
College of Health & Human Performance
T otal Hires — 11; T otal Departures— 5; Turnover — 12%
College of Journalism & Communications
T otal Hires — 16; T otal Departures — 2; Turnover — 4%
Levin College of Law
T otal Hires — 6; T otal Departures — 8; Turnover — 13%
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
T otal Hires — 101; T otal Departures — 52; Turnover — 8%
College of Medicine
T otal Hires — 237; T otal Departures — 190; Turnover — 15%
College of Nursing
T otal Hires — 17; T otal Departures — 7; Turnover — 17%
College of Pharmacy
T otal Hires — 28; T otal Departures — 12; Turnover — 11%
College of Public Health and Health Professions
T otal Hires — 28; T otal Departures — 31*; Turnover — 29%
*shift in departments
College of the Arts
T otal Hires — 19; T otal Departures — 6; Turnover — 6%
College of Veterinary Medicine
T otal Hires — 35 T otal Departures — 13; Turnover — 8%MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
GAINESVILLE TO FIND 
BALANCE BETWEEN BIG 
CITY, SMALL TOWN 
By Karina Elwood
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville is growing and shows 
no signs of stopping. 
The city is experiencing a con-
struction boom with new businesses 
and housing popping up all over the 
city, said Andrew Persons, the in-
terim director of the Department of 
Doing, which is the planning and 
building department of Gainesville.
“It’s not hard to step outside and 
walk down University Avenue or 
13th Street and see all the cranes 
swinging and development activity 
occurring,” Persons said. 
As UF’s home, the city has an op-
portunity for growth that surround-
ing areas don’t see. 
Staci Bertrand, the Gainesville 
Area Chamber of Commerce vice 
president of economic development, 
said UF is the main asset of the city’s 
economic growth because it’s the 
largest employer.
“At the rate the University of Flor-
ida is growing, we need to keep up 
with it,” Bertrand said.
Gainesville’s growth can be seen 
in three key areas: Archer Road, 
Downtown and Midtown. 
Archer Road
Britta Forsmark, 26, has lived in 
Gainesville her whole life. Since she 
was a child, she has seen develop-
ment all over the city, especially on 
Archer Road.
“It’s gotten really big,” Forsmark 
said. “It was kind of more small and 
hipstery. Now it’s more like ‘Aye, 
let’s be Jacksonville.’”
Forsmark said Butler Plaza, a re-
tail conglomerate, is a mainstay on 
Archer Road she has watched grow. 
The plaza started in 1975 with the opening of a Publix. In 2016, the But-
ler North expansion opened, which 
introduced a Walmart, Lowe’s, 
Sam’s Club, Dick’s Sporting Goods 
and Total Wine & More. 
String lights decorate palm trees 
as they canopy over two of the en-
trances to the newest addition of the 
plaza, Butler Town Center.  
When completed, it will be a 
450,000-square-foot mixed-use cen-
ter with restaurants, shopping and 
housing, Mary Reichardt, the But-
ler Enterprises corporate director of 
marketing, wrote in an email. 
The center is in phase two of con-
struction, which will include a retail 
building with about 50 residential 
apartments on top of it, she said. 
The third and ﬁ  nal phase will be 
completed in 2022 and will include a 
food hall, along with 150 more apart-
ments and an open space for events. 
Phase one was the construction 
of a Whole Foods Market, a Grub 
Burger Bar, a P.F. Chang’s China Bis-
tro and other restaurants and busi-
nesses at the town center, she said.
The Cheesecake Factory, Irish 31 
Pub & Eatery and a Chase Bank will 
open late this summer, Reichardt 
said.
Further down Archer Road, just 
on the other side of Interstate 75, 
Celebration Pointe has grown. 
Celebration Pointe is a multi-fac-
eted live, work and play community. 
String lights swoop across the City 
Walk plaza where a modern court-
yard with bench swings, ﬁ  replaces 
and a small stage sits in front of a 
turf lawn. 
The shopping mall, which ﬁ  rst 
opened in 2016, is home to the Regal 
Celebration Pointe 10 & RPX movie 
theatre, Nike Factory Outlet, Tommy 
Hilﬁ  ger, Bass Pro Shops, Kilwins, 
MidiCi The Neapolitan Pizza and 
Miller’s Ale House.  
Ralph Conti, managing principal 
with RaCo Real Estate and devel-
opment partner with Celebration Pointe, said the project is unique 
because it is developing on a large 
piece of land in a prime location. 
He anticipates it will be complete in 
three to ﬁ  ve years. 
“It can’t be replicated,” Conti 
said. “There’s nothing like it for 300 
or 400 miles.”
The newest additions to the cen-
ter include plans for 86 townhouses 
and two apartment complexes that 
together will have 220 units. Con-
struction will begin on a mid-sized 
Dave & Buster’s toward the end of 
the year. 
“We’re literally building a city 
within a city,” Conti said.
Downtown
When deciding on a new location 
to brew its signature coffee, Opus 
Coffee chose downtown, said Thom-
as Whitman, the coffee company lo-
gistics manager.
Downtown’s locality and tradi-
tional look are what called to the 
company owners, he said. Archer 
Road attracts big, trendy businesses 
with real estate that most mom-and-
pop businesses can’t afford. 
“We love being in old-fart 
Gainesville,” Whitman said. “We 
come in and redevelop it, repurpose 
it, recycle it and turn it into some-
thing really cool.”
The coffee company has six other 
locations in Gainesville, ﬁ  ve in UF 
Health Shands Hospital and one-off 
Newberry Road in the ITProTV of-
ﬁ  ce complex. The opening date of 
the new storefront is still being dis-
cussed. 
Although downtown has many 
coffee shops, restaurants, bars and 
entertainment spots, it does not have 
many lodging places, at least for 
now.
Andrew Persons said he expects 
to see a rise in hotels coming to town 
to accommodate high-volume events 
such as Gator game days and gradu-
ation. There are plans for a Hyatt Place 
Downtown hotel in the empty lot 
across the street from the Palomino 
Pool Hall, at 19 SE Second Place, 
according to city plans. The plans 
show the location will have 143 
rooms with 18,000 square feet for re-
tail space and another 24,000 square 
feet for ofﬁ  ce space.
“We’re seeing a lot of hotels,” 
Persons said. “Because of the suc-
cess of the Hampton Inn downtown, 
there’s a lot of interest to bring ad-
ditional hotel capacity in the down-
town area.”
Keith Gerber, 26, said his favor-
ite part of Gainesville is downtown. 
He has lived in Gainesville for eight 
years and has seen it grow in his 
time here. 
“I’ve seen it go from kind of a 
small town to now it has kind of a 
bigger town feel to it,” Gerber said. 
“I’ve kind of enjoyed the expansion 
of Gainesville. There’s deﬁ  nitely 
more to do and everything looks 
nicer.” 
Midtown
Just across the street from UF sits 
a strip of restaurants and bars where 
generations of students have shared 
memories. 
Although the area is ﬁ  lled with 
businesses, there have been rumors 
that new luxury apartments may be 
the end of Midtown.
Carly Meyers, 22, a host at The 
Swamp Restaurant, started hearing 
rumors that Midtown bars and res-
taurants were going to be sold and 
turned into apartments. 
“I hear people saying, ‘We have 
to go to Mid before it closes,’” Mey-
ers said. “People are buzzing.” 
Andrew Persons has also heard 
the rumors but has seen nothing 
ﬁ  led with the city involving selling 
Midtown or new construction on the 
lot. 
He said he isn’t surprised rumors 
are ﬂ  oating because there is high-rise, luxury student housing coming 
to the Midtown area and around UF. 
Six new luxury apartment com-
plexes are planned for 2020.
The rising construction beams in 
the lot next to the Publix, at 203 NW 
13th St., will soon become a mixed-
use building known as Hub 2, which 
will be constructed in a similar way 
to The Standard.
Hub 2 will be a seven-story build-
ing, with the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor being retail 
space and the other six being apart-
ments, according to city plans. 
Dave Wilson, 77, has lived in his 
Gainesville home for 25 years and 
has watched apartment complexes 
and developments grow on the cor-
ner of University Avenue and 13th 
Street for years. 
Wilson is concerned about pro-
tecting his neighborhood from big 
corporation development like The 
Standard.
“Three or four stories is OK on 
the main corridors. Ten stories is 
totally unwarranted,” Wilson said. 
“It’s just a wall of student housing, 
and it’s coming toward me.”
@Karina_Elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgGainesville Grows: Where new businesses will call home 
 Archer Road
Butler Plaza 
The Cheesecake Factory 
Chase Bank
Irish 31 Pub & Eatery
T ory Burch 
Celebration Pointe
Dave & Buster’s
 Downtown
Opus Coffee
Cilantro T acos
Hyatt Place Downtown
Humble Wood Fire
 Midtown
Hub 2Upcoming BusinessesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumnThe editorial board’s tour 
at UF Health Shands
A few weeks ago, the editorial board was invited to take a tour 
of UF Health Shands Hospital, specifically the pediatric units af-
ter we wrote the editorial, “What does it mean to do it ‘For The 
Kids’?” In the editorial, we posed questions we felt were not read-
ily available to the general public concerning Dance Marathon 
at UF, such as how exactly money raised by DM is utilized. As a result, 
Shands representatives reached out to give us these answers and provide 
more transparency on how the money is spent in the children’s hospital. 
On Wednesday afternoon, two of the four members of the editorial 
board took a tour of Shands with several individuals: three DM at UF rep-
resentatives, a hospital representative and Ed Jimenez, the chief executive 
officer of Shands, with his two interns. 
Throughout the tour, doctors and nurses spoke about how money from 
DM at UF is used to buy and fund multiple parts of the pediatric units of 
the hospital. The Shands representatives stressed the importance of giving 
comfort to families and the health of the children at the hospital. We were 
shown renovated wings with private spaces for parents and newborns, 
newly bought incubators and other miscellaneous, but important, equip-
ment for the health of premature babies and the children in the heart 
center. We were told that any balloon-shaped stickers on incubators or 
equipment meant DM at UF money helped pay for those items. However, 
we were not taken close enough to the hospital equipment to see the 
balloons, the babies or their names tags because of the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which is a privacy law regard-
ing medical information. 
Jimenez said when he speaks at the annual DM, he tells the audience 
they are welcome to take tours with him. We were told later in a phone 
call with Jimenez that our tour was similar to tours given to other partici-
pants of DM at UF. 
Jimenez also discussed how money raised by DM at UF is used to sub-
sidize the building and items that were needed to improve the children’s 
hospital. He explained when the neonatal ICU was built, about $1 million 
raised by DM at UF last year was used in addition to about $20 million 
provided by the hospital. 
On our tour, we also learned how DM files its 990 tax form. DM at UF 
is not a 501(c)(3), which means it has not been approved by the Internal 
Revenue Service as a nonprofit, tax-exempt charitable organization. In-
stead, Shands pays to be a Children’s Miracle Network hospital, allowing 
it to be a separate entity and submit tax forms through this network. In 
2017, Shands Hospital had a total revenue of more than $1.4 billion, ac-
cording to its 990 tax forms. DM at UF donations are not used to pay for 
this membership. This is different from DM organizations at other univer-
sities which sometimes have to file their taxes separately because they’re 
smaller. 
In the first editorial we wrote about DM at UF, we questioned the prac-
tice of using Venmo, a mobile payment service, to raise money, stating it is 
not a system that allows for complete accountability between the donator 
and the fundraiser. In the phone call, we asked for Jimenez’s thoughts on 
the practice, and he agreed the question should be addressed in the next 
DM cycle. 
After we wrote our follow-up editorial on DM at UF, we received an 
email response from the executive director for DM, Madison Grasty, on 
questions we asked. We were told the total amount raised this year by DM 
at UF, $3.2 million, was the total after the deduction of costs for each DM 
event. DM national guidelines recommend events cost no more than 10 
cents per every dollar raised. UF operates under that amount at a 6-cent-
to-the-dollar ratio, Grasty said. 
We spoke with doctors and nurses about how much DM money meant 
to them throughout the tour, and it was clear how passionate those who 
work at Shands are about their patients. In the end, we did get answers to 
our questions, like how DM at UF funds events and specific examples of 
how money is spent at the children’s hospital. We did receive the trans-
parency we thought was important. However, it did take time and mul-
tiple requests. We included all of these facts to be able to relay to you the 
same level of transparency we have received within the past week. ‘Shine Theory’ and what it means for women
Since 2014, co-hosts Aminatou Sow 
and Ann Friedman have used their 
podcast, “Call Your Girlfriend,” as 
a platform to discuss pressing so-
cial, cultural and political issues. 
In particular, Sow and Friedman high-
light women who are agents, creators and 
those who initiate change. In doing so, 
they ensure “Call Your Girlfriend” gives a 
voice to women.
“Shine Theory” is a practice of culti-
vating genuine happiness and excitement when 
your friends are doing well and being there for them 
when they are not. The duo also coined the term 
Shine Theory, which they cite as the show’s back-
bone. The philosophy calls for an intentional ap-
proach to friendships and relationships that, in turn, 
fosters a more confident community.
While the theory can be applied to relationships 
between people of any gender, I believe that Shine 
Theory is uniquely important for women to under-
stand and adopt.
Women nowadays are too often pitted against 
one another. The idea of women as rivals is some-
thing we have been fed our whole lives through the 
books we read, the movies we watch and the advice 
we receive. Shine Theory attempts to challenge this 
norm of competition among women and instead en-
courage a reality in which women invest deeply in 
one another.
One of the ways Shine Theory works is by com-
pelling people to ask the question: Would we be 
better as collaborators rather than as competitors? 
Sow and Friedman argue the answer is almost al-
ways yes.
In a world where women still struggle to achieve success at the same level of their male 
counterparts, it seems foolish to create 
more barriers and enemies. No one under-
stands the challenges females face when 
climbing the ladder of success more than 
other women. In this sense, we should be 
thrilled when we see other women reach-
ing their goals and thriving even if these 
women are succeeding at the same things 
we wanted to achieve.
Practicing Shine Theory is not easy. It 
is an investment that takes place over a long period 
of time and is never practiced seamlessly. Even as a 
big proponent of Shine Theory, I sometimes fail at 
my attempts to practice it.
I still get jealous when I see other women suc-
ceed at something I have been trying to do. I am 
never a big fan of women dating someone whom I 
dated or who used to date someone I am currently 
dating. I am not exactly disappointed when I hear 
that ex-best friends of mine aren’t doing great. How-
ever, I understand that altering the way I view my 
relationships with other women is a process, and I 
am only at the beginning of it.
I strongly feel Shine Theory is a philosophy all 
women should try to live by. It will not be easy 
nor will it always make sense. However, if women 
are able to at least attempt to intentionally approach 
their relationships with other women, we will soon 
see a more confident female population that is able 
to take on the world knowing they have an army of 
others helping them shine.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and jour-
nalism senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
The dreaded day is upon us: April 15. 
Tax Day. Whether you did your taxes 
early or waited until the last minute, 
and whether you did them yourself or 
had help, you’ve probably thought at 
some point, “There has to be an easier way 
to do this.” I’m pleased to say there is. If you 
weren’t aware there is an easier system, you 
can blame TurboTax and H&R Block.
What I’m talking about is called return-
free ﬁ  ling. Return-free ﬁ  ling is a tax system 
in which the government does its own ac-
counting to determine how much you owe, 
according to the Tax Policy Center. You may 
be asking, “Don’t they need my information? 
What about all those forms I need to send 
them?” However, most people only collect 
income through wages and interest from 
money in the bank, and employers and ﬁ  -
nancial institutions already send that infor-
mation to the government, as explained by 
the Brookings Institute. 
So, under a hypothetical return-free ﬁ  l-
ing system, the government would send you 
your tax bill when you’d normally be ﬁ  ling 
your own taxes. You would review it and add any corrections or additional 
deductions, and then you would 
send it back. However, people 
could opt-out of return-free ﬁ  ling 
if they wanted to. This system 
wouldn’t be useful to everyone. 
Some people have more complex 
income sources and take more 
complex deductions. Most likely, 
those people would still have to do 
their taxes the old-fashioned way. Still, the 
Brookings Institute estimates up to 40 per-
cent of taxpayers could beneﬁ  t from return-
free ﬁ  ling.
This idea isn't new, so why hasn't it been 
implemented? Former President Ronald Rea-
gan proposed a version of return-free ﬁ  ling 
in 1985, and former President Barack Obama 
spoke approvingly of return-free ﬁ  ling while 
campaigning for president in 2007. Further-
more, 36 countries already use some form 
of return-free ﬁ  ling, so this isn’t just some 
obscure proposal dreamed up by a think-
tank policy maker. Why then, hasn’t anyone 
made this change? 
The short answer is “big money” and lob-bying, speciﬁ  cally by tax prepa-
ration companies like Intuit (the 
maker of TurboTax) and H&R 
Block. In 2013, ProPublica con-
ducted an investigation into In-
tuit’s lobbying of Congress. Ac-
cording to ProPublica, “Intuit has 
spent about $11.5 million on fed-
eral lobbying in the past ﬁ  ve years 
— more than Apple or Amazon.” 
Likely because of this lobbying, multiple 
bills to introduce return-free ﬁ  ling died in 
Congress.
As I write this, it looks like tax prepara-
tion companies are on the verge of another 
big win. For years, there has been an agree-
ment between Congress and industry groups 
that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 
would not offer its own return-free electronic 
ﬁ  ling service, instead deferring to an indus-
try consortium called the Free File Alliance. 
However, the Free File Alliance has been 
criticized as an underpromoted and confus-
ing program that mainly seeks to upsell us-
ers on premium and value-added services 
provided by tax preparation companies. De-spite these concerns, it looks like the status 
quo is going to be codiﬁ  ed into law. A bill 
before Congress would formally prohibit 
the IRS from introducing its own electronic 
or return-free ﬁ  ling program, according to 
the Chicago Sun-Times. This bill, ironically 
called the Taxpayer First Act, passed unani-
mously in the House of Representatives, and 
it now goes to the Senate.
In the face of industry lobbying and bipar-
tisan opposition to electronic and return-free 
ﬁ  ling, now is the time for us to speak up. 
Write to your congressman and senator to 
tell them you support electronic and return-
free ﬁ  ling and you oppose the Taxpayer First 
Act as long as it bans the IRS from creating 
its own electronic ﬁ  ling system. It may be a 
long shot with the forces of the tax prepara-
tion industry against us, but that’s what de-
mocracy is all about. We all need to speak 
up and support an idea that would end the 
dreaded feeling of Tax Day and make our 
lives so much easier. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Return-free ﬁ  ling oﬀ  ers a solution to Tax Day woes, and this is what you need to knowColumn
UF’s Black Student Union 
has taken it upon itself to 
ensure local high school 
students have the funds 
necessary to pursue a col-
lege degree. UF’s Leadership Devel-
opment Institute, a program within 
BSU, recently created a scholarship 
called the Rich in Color Scholarship 
to promote higher education for local 
high school students who otherwise 
may be unable to afford it.
Last semester, I wrote about the importance 
of helping local communities. I suggested it 
is imperative to focus on the people in close 
proximity to us — the people who we see every 
day, and go to school and work. A local group 
has embodied the spirit of helping our com-
munity and has founded a scholarship for lo-
cal students, particularly those at Eastside High 
School, an Alachua County high school.
The Leadership Development Institute, a 
cabinet within the BSU, recently founded the 
scholarship, which is geared toward helping 
high school seniors in east Gainesville afford 
education beyond their high school graduation. 
Keirten Nivol, a member of the Leadership De-
velopment Institute stated, “A big part of our 
mission is making sure that our members have 
all of the tools that they need in order to suc-
ceed and providing them with a space to grow 
into pillars in their community. We want to 
give this opportunity to the community that we 
live in.” Members of the Leadership Develop-
ment Institute have noticed a stark inequality 
in the number of high school seniors from the 
east side of Gainesville who attend college, 
compared to those from the west, and are striv-
ing to eliminate this gap.
The focus of the Leadership Development 
Institute is to “build community while staying 
true to the values and ideals of the black student 
union with the goal of empowering the leaders 
of tomorrow,” according to the program’s web-
site. This group aims to empower leaders, both current members and future high 
school graduates, through the ﬁ  nan-
cial support from their scholarship.
Gainesville, despite being a pro-
gressive college town, is geographi-
cally segregated. Schools on the east 
side of Gainesville are predominantly 
black, in contrast with schools on the 
west side, which are predominantly 
white. In 2018, Alachua County was 
noted as having the widest achieve-
ment gap between black and white students in 
Florida in math, science and language arts. The 
lack of funding and support for east Gainesville 
schools shows a stark racial divide in our com-
munity, and we must bridge this divide. 
Gainesville is fortunate to have groups like 
the BSU and its Leadership Development Insti-
tute that aim to eradicate antiquated racial di-
vides and promote diversity on college campus-
es. Education is the truest form of liberation. By 
helping high school graduates afford and attend 
college, we will see a more diverse, inclusive 
future with leaders who understand the impor-
tance of helping others. America’s future will 
be led by students from our communities who 
appreciate the need for promoting diversity, im-
proving education and bridging racial divides 
in our counties, as well as across the U.S. The 
country's future is brighter than ever, thanks 
to scholarships promoting education within our 
communities.
Graduates who beneﬁ  t from the Rich in Col-
or Scholarship provided by BSU will be likely 
to understand the importance of giving back 
to the community from which they come from 
and helped them to achieve their goals. By pro-
moting this understanding of the importance 
of giving back, the Leadership Development 
Institute is truly building pillars of the commu-
nity. This newfound scholarship will enrich our 
community for generations to come.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sopho-
more. Her column appears on Mondays.How helping our own community can 
create a better Gainesville in the future Column
It is time we talk about 
memes and meme cul-
ture. I love a good meme, 
and I assume you do as 
well, or else you wouldn’t 
be wasting your time reading 
a column about memes. In-
ternet memes have become 
a prevalent part of a Millen-
nial and Generation Z’s daily 
life. You could even say they 
have become a sort of coping mecha-
nism. Memes represent the pent-up 
frustrations and passions of this time in 
history. Millennials are generally known 
to be in a worse off economic situation 
than the generation before, having been 
handed the failures of our ancestors 
without sufﬁ  cient education to craft a 
solution. Those of us pursuing a college 
degree have to deal with incredibly high 
tuition costs and possibly immense stu-
dent loans. Millennials are characterized 
as the “anxious generation,” and Gen-
eration Z has been reported as naming 
depression and anxiety as the biggest 
problems facing their peers, according to 
The Economist. The only way out of the 
unearned strife that has deﬁ  ned the short 
run-time of the third millennia is a good 
meme. But when should we create or 
share a meme? When should we not? It 
must be noted one cannot always meme, 
but then again there are times when a 
meme is the most essential service one 
can provide. For guidance, we look to 
Shakespeare’s most famed work, “The 
Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark” 
or Hamlet, for short. 
To meme: Get your Reddit ﬁ  ngers 
ready because this section is all about 
when it’s appropriate to share a meme. 
There are numerous times when creating 
a meme is appropriate, necessary even, 
to alleviate stress or just to prompt a nice, 
hearty chuckle. These times include, but 
are not limited to, a silent Uber ride, a 
party with people you’ve never met be-fore or, of course, when you 
should be studying for ﬁ  -
nals. As Shakespeare argues 
through his emo leading 
man, Hamlet, life is suffering 
and the only tether we have 
to it is the fear that death 
may be worse. In the 16th 
century, though, they didn’t 
have memes. Memes are ca-
thartic – sucked out of the 
inﬁ  nitely deep hole of pop culture and 
changing each week. Life is static, but 
memes aren’t. Whenever life gets you 
down a meme is the perfect pick-me-up. 
Not To Meme: Unfortunately, a cer-
tain jovial nature attached to memes 
renders them, inert at best and in some 
cases egregiously offensive if issued in 
the wrong situations. And to the naysay-
ers who insist such circumstances are 
delusions propagated by the mainstream, 
I will display a couple of these poor situ-
ations. Exhibit A: a breakup. Why would 
you show your devastated ex-boyfriend a 
meme after taking a bite out of his heart? 
It sounds wrong because it is. Exhibit B: 
a funeral. I’m not providing a zany ex-
ample for this one. Just don’t do this. In 
Hamlet’s famous dialogue on how life 
doesn’t always seem worth living, he 
captures this struggle with indecision. 
Exercise restraint. 
Most know Hamlet’s famous delib-
eration on suicide referred to throughout 
this article. “To be or not to be, that is 
the question.” Many don’t know, how-
ever, that it is answered. In Act 5, Scene 
2, before Hamlet and Laertes sword ﬁ  ght, 
Hamlet solves the question by saying 
“Let be.” That is the answer I believe we 
should apply to meme timing. When it 
feels right, go for it, but don’t be rude 
about it. To meme or not to meme, that 
is the question. The answer: Let meme.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.A question: To meme or not to memeColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Motorcyclists pass through the Third Annual Great Gainesville Car Show at Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Hundreds of people attended the annual event.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
youKaro Sinawski, an 81-year-old Gainesville resident, looks through a 1947 Chevrolet 
Fleetmaster Saturday during Third Annual Great Gainesville Car Show at Bo Diddley 
Community Plaza. Sinawski went to the car show last year, and he said he appreciates 
the amount of work the show’s car owners put into their respective cars.Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Frank Smith, a 61-year-old retired Gainesville resident, applies detailer to his 
1950 Ford Sedan Saturday during the Third Annual Great Gainesville Car Show 
at Bo Diddley Community Plaza, at 111 E. University Ave. Smith has owned the 
car for 17 years and said it took him 11 years to restore it. He came to the event 
to show off the car and said he often goes to car shows with it. He started to 
restore a 1970 Ford Falcon for his wife when she passed away from cancer. “I’m 
still doing it, ” he said. “I’m going to finish it for her. ” 
Great Gainesville Car ShowABOUT 300 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED 
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gia Gunn strutted off the stage at 
the Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts Saturday night. Her gold-
beaded outﬁ  t sashayed from side-
to-side as she danced up the aisle.
Gunn, known for being one of 
the ﬁ  rst openly transgender queens 
to compete on “RuPaul’s Drag 
Race,” gathered her heavy ponytail 
and whipped it around like a heli-
copter. About 300 UF students and 
Gainesville residents cheered her on and tipped her dollar bills.
The hour-and-45-minute long 
performance, “Resilience: A Drag 
Performance,” showcased both lo-
cal and internationally known drag 
queens. UF Pride Awareness Month, 
a subgroup under UF’s Pride Stu-
dent Union, hosted the event. 
Gia Gunn and Ariel Versace, 
queens from “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” 
both ﬂ  ew in for the performance.
The event, funded by UF Student 
Government, cost $22,000.
Queens lip-synced songs like 
“Money” by Cardi B and “Danger-
ous Woman” by Ariana Grande. 
They showed off their beauty while 
mentioning the pain it takes to look “ﬁ  shy,” a term used to describe 
very feminine looking drag queens. 
“The tip of my d--- is stapled to 
my spinal cord,” said Faith Taylor, 
a Gainesville drag queen.
Samuel Stall, the show’s stage 
manager and a UF computer science 
senior, said the attendance was low-
er than last year’s, which was about 
400 people. 
“Things like weather and popu-
larity of the queens affected us,” 
the 22-year-old said. “Everything 
ran smoothly, but we’re going to try 
even better next year.”
Soju, who competed on season 
11 of “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” was 
not able to perform due to ﬂ  ight de-lays from bad weather in San Fran-
cisco, Stall said. 
Gunn was also delayed due to 
weather in Dallas but was able to 
arrive on time.
“It was a bit chaotic,” Stall said. 
“Everything ended up perfect, 
though.”
Lauren Pozdol and her mother 
wore matching “Make America Gay 
Again” shirts for the show. They 
drove from Ocala to see Versace.
“Everyone is all together tonight. 
Gay, straight, whatever you are. 
Come and have a good time,” Poz-
dol said.
Rav, a 23-year-old UF theatre se-
nior, and Eve Harrison, a 21-year-old UF plant science junior, are drag 
kings, who came to watch the per-
formance.
Rav, who is gender-ﬂ  uid and 
uses the singular they pronoun, is 
known as “MX Bubbles,” and Harri-
son is known as “Lezberace” while 
in drag. 
Rav said while the art of drag is 
fun to let their personality shine, it 
also allows them to express them-
selves after years of being silenced. 
“I grew up as the weird fat kid 
who felt like I couldn’t do anything. 
Drag has allowed me to ﬁ  nd my 
voice.” Rav said. “It’s really validat-
ing to do these things to make other 
people happy as well as myself.”MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Amanda Rosa / Alligator Staff
Faith T aylor, a Gainesville drag queen, performs “Shut Up and Drive” 
by Rihanna at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, at 3201 
Hull Road, Saturday night. She was one of several drag queens who 
performed at “Resilience: A Drag Performance, ” hosted by UF Pride 
Awareness Month. “We’re here to show you we don’t have to be a 
RuPaul girl to be ﬁ  erce, ” she told the audience.
Local, ‘RuPaul’s Drag Race’ drag queens perform at Phillips Center
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Doggo Day
Stephanye Hunter (left), 33, and Adam DeVoria, 33, turn in eggs Saturday while their dog Cora steals 
some treats from a table during the Pups in the Park 2019 event at Must Love Dogs of Gainesville, at 
5505 SW Archer Road. Cora collected four eggs, but Hunter said she was more interested in having fun 
at the park. The annual event was hosted by the Humane Society of North Central Florida. Hundreds of 
eggs were scattered around the park and the top three winners received trophies.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
HE WANTED TO PICK 
UP HIS DAUGHTER 
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Georgia man pointed a pistol at his ex-
wife when she didn’t let him pick up their 
daughter, deputies said.
Moses Johnson, 35, of Valdosta, Georgia, 
drove to Gainesville to pick up their daughter, according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce ar-
rest report. Johnson called 
his ex-wife multiple times, 
but she did not answer. 
When he arrived at her 
house, he told her he want-
ed to take their daughter, 
the report said. She refused. 
He then told his ex-wife 
he was going to check the mail, and she went with him, the report said. While driving to the 
mailbox, Johnson stopped the car and went to 
the trunk. 
Johnson returned to the car and his ex-wife 
thought he had a pistol, the report said. She 
said he pointed the pistol at her and told her 
that he was going to take their child.
When they got to the mailbox, she got out 
of the car and ran for help, the report said.
Johnson and his girlfriend told deputies, 
who arrived soon after, that the pistol was a BB gun, and he did not point it at his ex-wife. 
The ex-wife told deputies she thought John-
son was going to kill her, the report said. 
He was charged with aggravated assault 
with a deadly weapon without intent to kill, 
the report said. 
Johnson was released from the Alachua 
County Jail Saturday on his own recognizance. 
He could not be reached for comment. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgACSO: Man threatens ex-wife with pistol, take child
Johnson
By April Rubin
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF professor’s research 
shows that climate change 
will expose areas to disease-
carrying mosquitoes in the 
future. 
On March 28, a study ti-
tled “Global expansion and 
redistribution of Aedes-borne 
virus transmission risk with 
climate change” was pub-
lished in PLOS Neglected 
Tropical Diseases, a peer-re-
viewed open-access scientiﬁ  c 
journal. It projected future 
distribution of mosquito-
borne disease transmission 
with climate change models, 
said Sadie Ryan, the lead au-
thor of the study and a UF 
medical geography associate 
professor.Projections show that 
mosquitoes will start mov-
ing to Europe, sub-Saharan 
Africa and Latin America 
by 2050, she said. Europe 
doesn’t currently face as 
many mosquito-borne dis-
eases because of its less tem-
perate climate.
“When you start to see 
new people and novel emer-
gence of diseases is when 
you start to see more explo-
sive outbreaks,” Ryan said. 
“That’s where we start to 
have real worries in terms of 
global public health.”
The research and a por-
tion of her salary are funded 
by a $2.5 million National 
Science Foundation grant 
and a $10 million grant from 
the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention’s Center of Excellence in Vector Borne 
Diseases at UF, she said. 
The two-year long re-
search looked at how tem-
perature changes could affect 
transmission of diseases such 
as dengue and yellow fever, 
Ryan said. 
Cat Lippi, a 34-year-old 
UF medical geography doc-
toral student who researches 
at the lab Ryan directs, said 
the study alerts people to 
medical issues that change 
with the climate. 
“If we can identify what 
those patterns are, then we 
can start to work with poli-
cy makers to come up with 
strategies to break those dis-
ease transmission cycles,” 
Lippi said. 
@AprilMRubin
arubin@alligator.org Disease-carrying mosquitos may spread
By Naomi Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thousands of dollars will go toward 
the full launch of an environmental app 
developed by UF students on Earth Day 
later this month. 
Pablo Garces, a 21-year-old UF com-
puter science junior, was part of a team 
who won a $20,000 prize this past week-
end at E-Fest, a national undergraduate 
business pitch competition, at the Uni-
versity of St.Thomas in Minneapolis. The 
group pitched a meal service that packs 
healthy school lunches. 
However, Garces will use his cut 
funds to fully launch his app LiveGreen, 
which tracks carbon emissions and off-
sets it by planting trees in other coun-
tries.
LiveGreen was released as a private 
test version in June and had 200 testers, 
Garces said. In January, there was a soft 
launch that wasn’t heavily marketed on the Apple App Store. 
The money will go toward a simpli-
ﬁ  ed design for tracking and new pricing 
for the subscription plans and marketing.
“We want to use a mix of environ-
mental micro-inﬂ  uencers and social me-
dia ads along with some money being 
allocated to attend environmental con-
ferences,” Garces said. 
Brian De Souza, one of the creators of 
the app and a 21-year-old UF computer 
science junior, said most people want 
to be environmentally conscious but 
don’t understand how a carbon footprint 
works.
Garces and De Souza said they hope 
to see their app grow and eventually 
partner with environmentally conscious 
organizations within the U.S.
“It’s hard to understand what truly 
makes a difference in your environmen-
tal impact,” De Souza said. “Our app 
changes that.” UF students win $20,000 for pitchBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsAcross from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1500/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000 Ext. 100      4-24-19-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
GOT PETS? NEED PARKING?
Why Rent When You Can Own?
Let us help you find your dream home!
Call today: Mark Robinson 352-215-7265
J. Mark Ulmer 352-871-3925. Watson Realty
4-24-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
5-14-19-97-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF
3 & 4BR/ 2BA HOUSES
Starting @ $1500/mo. Tile & hardwood 
floors, reserved parking. Pets ok. 
dalyproperties.com or  Carol @ 352-359-3341    
4-24-19-14-2
4/2 House For Rent In Historic Golfview 
Neighborhood. Available August 1st.
This house features a huge living room with 
pool table, patio with gas grill, washer/dryer, 
2 carports & is on a double lot adjacent to a 
2.5 acre wooded preserve. Located between 
the University Golf Course & Law School. 
Walk to campus. $2,200 a month.
Call John Ryan 954-258-5900.
4-22-19-5-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a part-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and 
layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday during 
the fall and spring semesters. Schedule 
changes to Monday and Wednesday 
during summer semester. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to soconnor@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"UFSRC Hiring NOW!
720 SW 2nd Ave.| Suite 156 Mon-Fri 9am-
9pm | 352-392-2908 ext. 105.
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance in-
centive + Paid Training.
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator 
Jobs! |http://jobs.ufl.edu       4-24-19-15-14
State Farm, Starke, FL
Sales rep/CSR position, FT/PT
Agency Internship available
Business ownership possibility
Call Sheri at 904-966-0011       4-19-19-12-14
● ● ● LOVE MOTORSPORTS? ● ● ●
The Florida International Rally & Motorsport 
Park has a cool p/t track position open. Must 
be reliable, on time, 'can do' attitude, love  of 
motorsports. Email: Management@GoRally.
com to apply. NO CALLS. @RaceTheFIRM 
learn more before applying. $12 / HR     4-17-
19-10-14
★HIRING FOR JANITORIAL CLEANERS ★.
The positions: FT & PT include both heavy 
& light cleaning at a commercial business. 
MUST have transportation. APPLY NOW!! 
Call 352-258-1357                 4-24-19-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    4-24-19-27-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Join our team and make in impact.
Camp, Gymnastics, Ninja, Rockwall 
Apply now at suncountrysports.com/jobs
5-23-19-21-14
ARTS/ENGINEERING SUMMER CAMP
Want to build a Zip-Line Dragon Cart? 
Construct a Kinetic Machine that throws 
pies? Design a musical Costume Fashion 
Show? We need creatives to build and play 
this summer! Visit www.masterbuildercamp.
com to apply.     4-24-18-14
YARDWORK - PT Student for retiree. Close 
to UF. Yardwork, house cleaning, painting, 
etc. A few hrs/wk. Starting sum A.  All equip -
ment furnished. Some exp helpful. $11/hr. 
Reply short resume ghpolkgator@gmail.com    
4-24-17-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WRITE-IN!!!
MITCHELL WILLIAMS
FOR PRESIDENT 2020
Non-Nazi Republican
and Not Divorced or Bankrupt
Paid political ad paid for & approved by 
Mitchell Willliams, Ind. for U.S. President
4-9-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1. Name the last World Series before 
2017 featuring two teams that each 
won 100 or more games during the 
regular season.
2. Which Yankees player hit the 
most home runs in his first three full 
years (at least 100 games per year) in 
the majors: Joe DiMaggio, Lou Geh-
rig or Mickey Mantle?
3. In 2017, South Florida’s Quinton 
Flowers became the sixth player in 
Football Bowl Subdivision history to 
record 60-plus passing touchdowns 
and 40-plus rushing TDs during his 
career. Name two of the other five.
4. Name the top three coaches in 
terms of wins in Miami Heat history.
5. In 2019, Nikita Kucherov became 
the fastest Tampa Bay Lightning play-
er to reach 100 points in a season (62 
games). Who had been the fastest?
6. Who was the only Olympian to 
win five medals at the 2018 Winter 
Olympics?
7. Sergio Garcia set a Ryder Cup 
record in 2018 for most career points 
(25.5). Who had held the mark?
Answers
1. It was 1970 (Baltimore versus 
Cincinnati).
2. DiMaggio had 107 home runs; 
Gehrig, 83; Mantle, 71.
3. Dan LeFevour, Tim Tebow, Colin 
Kaepernick, Lamar Jackson and Dak 
Prescott.
4. Erik Spoelstra, Pat Riley and Kev-
in Loughery. 
5. Vinny Lecavalier, in 78 games in 
2006-07.
6. Norwegian cross-country skier 
Marit Bjoergen.
7. Nick Faldo, with 25 points.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 15, 2019King Features Weekly Service
1.  ____ stone
1.  Acne blister5.  Large painting
2.  TV Dillon’s job 6.  Clydesdale, for example
3.  Countable unit7.  Shirt ____
4.  Stick, clingCEUIMP
LEPMIPARMUL
OHERS
AMHLSAR
LERICAOSEVELE
RCEOEHANSWERS: 1A-Pumice  5A-Mural  6A-Horse  7A-Sleeve
1D-Pimple  2D-Marshal  3D-Calorie  4D-Cohere  B-Samuel Morse4-15-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This inventor, who was born in 1791, 
was also an established portrait painter.
BONUS
By Paul Coulter
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 Cuts off
5 Member of a 
strict Jewish sect
10 Artistic Chinese 
dynasty
14 Ohio’s Great Lake
15 Justice Kagan
16 Egg-shaped
17 Ancient mariner’s 
fear
19 Flexible mineral 
sheet
20 Persuade with 
flattery
21 Fossil resins
23 “Beowulf,”  
poem-wise
24 Rubs the wrong 
way?
25 Chain reaction 
requirement
29 Stagecoach puller
30 Allied gp. since 
1948
31 Dangerous 
snakes
35 Antipollution org.
36 Hit, as a fly
40 Alphabetically 
first of two 
Hawaiian 
maunas
41 Like some coll. 
courses
43 Gp. getting many 
returns in April
44 Regular’s bar 
order, with “the”
46 Nation that 
promotes 
its people’s 
economic and 
social prosperity
50 Malicious rumors
53 “Do __ others ... ”
54 Judge, e.g.
55 Like faces at a 
fireworks display
59 “Dream on!”
60 Meditation goal 
hinted at by this 
puzzle’s circles
62 Wander
63 Close-knit group
64 Fairway club
65 Didn’t dillydally
66 Act with excessive 
passion
67 The Big Apple, in 
addressesDOWN
1 Make-do 
amount?
2 Two-tone cookie
3 Chanteuse  
Edith
4 Six-line stanzas
5 Brave
6 Llama relative
7 Ooze
8 Quaint stopover
9 Sortable 
information 
source
10 Kenya’s major 
port
11 Like Wrigley 
Field’s walls
12 Mother-of-pearl
13 Water or wine 
vessel
18 Catches sight of
22 Dash in a spice 
rack?
24 Amo, amas, __
25 “Moonstruck” 
star
26 Weapon in Clue
27 Baghdad’s land
28 Gobs of
32 Arctic seabird
33 __ moss
34 Markdown event37 Whole-grain 
food
38 Pound sounds
39 Quarrel
42 Towered over
45 Preserve using 
barrels, as wine
47 Bard’s “before”
48 Buffy the 
Vampire Slayer’s 
“Watcher” __ 
Giles
49 Main course50 Burns a bit
51 Legendary 
fabulist
52 Easily deceived
55 “Go back” PC 
command
56 __ a one: none
57 Supply-and-
demand subj.
58 Reject as false
61 “The Deer 
Hunter” war 
zone, for short
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/13/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/13/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, April 13, 2019
ACROSS
1 Bikini-ready 
physique, 
informally
9 Missed an easy 
one
15 One who 
finesses the tab, 
facetiously
16 Yale sobriquet
17 Admits
18 Compound in 
much tea
19 Pol. site
20 Cyclotron bits
22 Sacred musical 
work
23 Lascaux cave 
paintings, e.g.
26 Plentiful
29 Attraction
30 Trash
33 Postal motto 
conjunction
34 Keeps in the 
email loop
36 Fictional boxer 
Joe
38 Prepare to spring
40 Like some ice 
cream
41 Relief for aching 
muscles
43 DOJ honchos
44 Finished a dish
45 Stadium vendor’s 
stack
46 Word to a 
service station 
attendant
48 Missed the note, 
say
50 Dejected words
53 “Hidden Figures” 
actress  
Janelle __
55 Cinematographer 
Nykvist
56 Fried rice 
additive
59 Spheres of 
influence
61 Sandwich spread
64 __ Agron, Quinn 
portrayer on 
“Glee”
65 “The Big Bang 
Theory” main 
male characters, 
notably
66 Emulate 
YouTube
67 Zinfandel, for oneDOWN
1 Arthur with Lead 
Actress Emmys 
for two different 
sitcoms
2 Glamour rival
3 Org. involved in 
many Supreme 
Court cases
4 Like some gospel 
music
5 Chop down
6 Elementary
7 Modern crisis 
subject
8 Sierra Nevada’s 
__ Pass
9 Many a Tweeter
10 Alpaca relative
11 Ralph Kramden’s 
pal
12 Overdid it
13 Nastase of 
tennis
14 Window shade?
21 Lose it
24 Longtime Clark 
Bar maker
25 Bluegrass sound
26 Dried chili pepper
27 No-brainer?
28 Bodybuilder’s 
snack
31 Stingray cousin32 Gratified and 
then some
35 Banter
37 Many a gambler
39 1898 Havana 
Harbor sinker
42 Rio and Soul
43 Pollen season 
drug brand
47 Sportscast, 
usually
49 2006’s “Casino 
Royale,” for 
example51 Blue Cross 
alternative
52 Fussy Felix
53 Satirical issues 
since 1952
54 Skip over
57 Skirt feature
58 Greek Mother 
Earth
60 Frodo’s sidekick
62 Deal with  
moguls
63 Broadband 
option, for short18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets 25 Lost & Found 16 Health Services
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Tiger Woods won the Masters 
T ournament for the fifth time 
Sunday. It was his first major 
win in 11 years.Gators clinch SEC regular season title
The Florida men's tennis team defeated South Carolina on Sunday 6-1 to win 
sole possession of the regular-season conference title for the first time since 
2003. Johannes Ingildsen sealed it for the Gators with a 6-3, 7-5 win. Read 
the story on pg. 16.FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
It was kind of hard to analyze 
the Orange and Blue game on Sat-
urday.
You have teammates going 
against each other, a defense that 
didn’t seem to try at times and an 
absolute bomb to a former Gator 
who ran onto the field during the 
play. You also had an uncontested 
two point conversion — the de-
fense wasn’t on the field for extra 
points.
There were still some defining 
moments from Orange’s 60-35 win 
over the Blue team, despite just 
how different this game is from 
normal ones.
Here are three things we 
learned on Saturday:
Florida’s offense will be bet-
ter than last season’s
If you watched the spring 
game, you would think the Gators 
had the best offense in the coun-
try.
Both teams combined for 920 
yards and 11 touchdowns. Grant-
ed, one touchdown was to former 
UF receiver Chris Doering, but 
collecting that many yards is still 
impressive. 
Florida will never look that 
good in a game, obviously. But it 
does show that UF’s offense could 
be one of the best in the NCAA 
next season.
Quarterback Feleipe Franks was hitting his 
receivers in stride. His past mistakes of over- 
and under-throwing receivers were virtually 
nonexistent on Saturday.
“There’s definitely more pressure on him to-
day than there is a regular practice,” coach Dan Mullen said. “When you’re playing quarterback 
at Florida, you’re under a lot of critique.”
Franks also still has most of his weapons on 
offense. Every main receiver is returning this 
year, and the only running back that left was 
Jordan Scarlett. Lamical Perine, Dameon Pierce 
and Malik Davis figure to take the bulk of the 
carries. Expect great things from the offense this sea-
son.
The defensive line will be just as strong
It seemed like Florida’s defensive line would 
take a hit once Jachai Polite announced he was Offense, defensive line look strong as spring closes
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Tight end Kyle Pitts recorded four catches for 56 yards for the Blue team in UF's Orange and Blue 
game. Blue was defeated by Orange 60-35 in the highest-scoring spring game of all time.
If you looked away from 
your TV screen for more 
than five seconds during 
Florida’s annual Orange 
and Blue game on Satur-
day, then guess what?
You probably missed a deep 
touchdown pass.
It was a big day for the Flor-
ida quarterbacks. Both teams 
combined for 762 passing yards 
in the highest-scoring UF spring 
game of all time.
And it all went according to 
plan for head coach Dan Mul-
len.
“We let today be more of a 
celebration, where (the players) 
can have fun in front of their 
friends and family and all of our 
fans,” he said after the game.
The spring game matters. An 
exciting exhibition can energize 
the fan base and surround the 
program with momentum head-
ing into the long summer break. 
But it’s important that fans 
take the spring game for what it 
is: a show.
And Mullen put on quite the 
show.
The Gators opened the game 
with a trick play — a double-
reverse pass from receiver 
Kadarius Toney to quarterback 
Feleipe Franks for a 40-yard 
gain.
Franks looked like the quar-
terback we saw in the final 
four games of the season. He 
appeared confident and com-
petent, going 13 of 18 for 327 
yards and four touchdowns. 
His only “mistake” came on a 
scripted pick-six play for for-
mer Florida defensive back Lito 
Sheppard.
And that’s just it. Most of 
the game was scripted.Spring game 
showed us 
too littleNothing but Nettuno
Tyler Nettuno
Twitter: @TylerNettuno
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The wind blew in Jordan Rob-
erts’ face as she stepped into the 
batter’s box during the top of the 
third inning. 
The UF catcher watched the two 
hitters before her, left fielder Aman-
da Lorenz and designated player 
Kendyl Lindaman, knock back-to-
back RBIs off Texas A&M pitcher 
Kendall Potts. 
Roberts worked Potts to a 2-2 count then powered a belly-but-
ton high offering to left field. The 
ball travelled against the wind but 
soared over the wall at Davis Dia-
mond, and the two-run home run 
gave Florida a 4-0 advantage. 
The No. 6 Gators defeated SEC 
foe Texas A&M 4-1 in College Sta-
tion, Texas, on Sunday behind a 
four-run third inning punctuated by 
Roberts’ homer. UF (36-9, 9-6 SEC) 
swept the Aggies (25-18, 3-12 SEC) 
to win its seventh-straight game, six 
of which have come against confer-ence opponents. 
Florida pitcher Kelly Barnhill 
was key to the victory as well. She 
took a no-hitter into the seventh in-
ning and struck out seven. Barnhill 
allowed a walk in the first and sec-
ond innings but then kept the bases 
clear until the final frame. 
TAMU center fielder Kelbi 
Fortenberry launched a double 
over the head of Alex Voss in cen-
ter field to lead off the seventh and 
break up the no-hitter. Fortenberry 
scored two batters later on a field-er’s choice where shortstop Sophia 
Reynoso turned a double play. 
UF out-hit TAMU 8-3 and got 
half of those hits in the third.
Third baseman Hannah Sipos 
went 2 for 3 on Sunday and started 
the rally with one out. She chipped 
an 0-2 pitch over the head of first 
baseman Payton McBride and scam-
pered to second for a bloop double. 
Sipos touched home two batters 
later when Lorenz lasered a double Gators sweep Texas A&M to win seventh-straightSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
BASEBALL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan wouldn’t go as far 
as to say Saturday’s game against South Caro-
lina was a must-win. But for all intents and 
purposes, it was.
The Florida baseball team dropped a Fri-
day night game to the Gamecocks 6-3 to even 
up the series at one apiece. With the loss, the 
Gators fell four games below .500 in the SEC.
UF only came out victorious once in its first 
four conference series and was swept twice.
Pitcher Jordan Butler may have single 
handedly kept the Gators afloat in the SEC 
with his late-game heroics. He hit his first two 
career home runs on Sunday, the second of 
which was a walk-off three-run homer with 
two outs to secure a 6-4 win to take the series.
Florida’s pitching has been lackluster so 
far this season. It was down a weekend start-
er for the second series in a row as sopho-
more Jack Leftwich continues to recover from 
a blister on his throwing hand. The fact the 
Gators survived a weekend series in the SEC 
not only without Leftwich, but without a 
dominant pitching performance from any of 
its starters was encouraging for O’Sullivan’s 
staff. Up to this point, UF was buoyed in its 
only conference-series win by a complete 
game from sophomore Tommy Mace.
Mace rebounded against South Carolina 
after getting shelled a week prior at Ole Miss, 
earning his sixth win of the season. He went six innings on Thursday, which gave his pre-
dominantly freshman bullpen some wiggle 
room.
The offense took advantage of the strong 
start and had its third-highest scoring outing in SEC play against the Gamecocks in a 9-5 
win.
The rest of the pitching staff was not as 
sharp, namely freshman Christian Scott. He 
allowed four home runs and six earned runs on Friday, but it was enough for the Gators to 
take the series.
UF’s offense looked good against South 
Carolina, as it has most of the year. The Gators 
had 31 hits this weekend, drew 13 walks and 
struck out only 16 times.
What changed against the Gamecocks was 
Florida’s lineup. O’Sullivan experimented 
with  Brady McConnell, who leads the team 
with a .374 batting average and a .426 on-
base percentage, hitting first. He responded 
well to the change. The sophomore went 3 for 
12 with four RBIs on the weekend. McConnell 
replaced freshman Jacob Young in the leadoff 
spot, who is slumping. He is hitting 2 for 16 in 
the past two weeks.
Junior Austin Langworthy, who has been 
hitting better recently after a massive slump 
to start the season, hit second all weekend 
long, replacing McConnell in that role.
Designated hitter and team captain Nelson 
Maldonado was noticeably absent from the 
lineup on Saturday, as he has the third-high-
est batting average on the team (.328). Butler 
took his spot at DH while Maldonado deals 
with a sore shoulder.
The series win should be more of a re-
lief than a celebration for Florida (24-14, 6-9 
SEC), which still has ground to make up in 
the conference standings and has road series 
at No. 9 LSU and No. 2 Georgia in the next 
two weeks.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgButler’s walk-off home run keeps Gators competitive in SEC
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Pitcher Jordan Butler hit a walk-off homer to earn a series win over South Carolina.
LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s lacrosse 
team went into halftime with a 15-3 
lead against Jacksonville on Thurs-
day.
But the second half was a differ-
ent story.
UF was held scoreless for more 
than 23 minutes and limited to 
only four goals, while the Dolphins 
scored 10.
Coach Amanda O’Leary chal-
lenged her team to “put two halves 
together” in its next game despite 
beating Jacksonville 19-13.
The No. 18 Gators responded by defeating East Carolina 20-10 at Don-
ald R. Dizney Stadium on Saturday. 
Florida outscored the Pirates 13-8 in 
the first half and held them to only 
two goals in the second.
UF (9-6, 3-0 American Athletic 
Conference) remained undefeated in 
conference play by:
Converting from the free position
The Gators were fouled 28 times, 
with 18 of those resulting in free-po-
sition attempts.
They found the back of the net 
eight times from the free position.
Attackers Lindsey Ronbeck and 
Grace Haus took advantage of those 
opportunities by scoring four and two goals, respectively.
The other two free-position goals 
came from midfielder Shannon Ka-
vanagh and attacker Madisyn Kittell.
Kittell had not scored from the 
free position this season until Satur-
day’s contest.
Although Florida committed 19 
fouls, only eight of those turned into 
free-position chances for the Pirates, 
who scored on four of them.
Forcing turnovers
ECU turned the ball over 12 
times, and UF forced 11 of them.
Defender Cara Trombetta, the 
program’s all-time leader in caused 
turnovers (97), led Florida with six against the Pirates.
Five other Gators chipped in with 
one apiece, including midfielder 
Maddie McMaster, who recorded 
her first career caused turnover on 
Saturday.
UF also took care of the ball on 
offense, giving away possession only 
six times — its lowest mark of the 
year.
East Carolina forced three of 
those turnovers, which ties Mary-
land for the fewest caused turnovers 
by a Florida opponent this season.
Controlling the draw
The Gators’ performance in the 
draw circle helped determine the outcome of Saturday’s game.
UF won 20 draw controls to 
ECU’s 12, which led to more pos-
sessions and more opportunities to 
score.
On top of causing the most turn-
overs on Saturday, Trombetta also 
led the team with five draw controls.
“Every day she steps out on that 
field she’s going to compete to the 
best of her ability,” O’Leary said. 
“Today was a good day for Cara 
(Trombetta) and one that we expect 
on a regular basis.”
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgUF plays complete game to take down East Carolina
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto 
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s tennis team’s season 
hasn’t been stellar.
The Gators tallied their fewest wins this 
season since 1979 with 11. Florida has just 
two seasons in its 46-year history with dou-
ble-digit losses. This year was one of them. 
UF has been historically bad in Gainesville, 
holding a program-worst 6-7 home record.
Despite all these numbers implying that 
the Gators’ season has been an absolute bust, 
coach Roland Thornqvist believes it’s far 
from it.
“We just look like a completely different 
team than we did a few months ago,” Thorn-qvist said following Saturday’s 4-2 loss to 
South Carolina. “We look like a prototypical 
Florida team now where we compete and are 
emotionally engaged.”
He’s not wrong. 
The Gators (11-10, 7-6 SEC) have im-
pressed in the past few weeks, taking down 
two then-top-15 opponents in Texas A&M 
and Michigan and playing in three tightly 
contested 4-3 finishes against No. 7 Vander-
bilt, No. 24 Kentucky and then-No. 23 LSU.
One reason Florida struggled so much out 
of the gate was health. Sophomore Victoria 
Emma started the season on the bench due to 
injury, while McCartney Kessler is nursing a 
lingering hip injury that has forced her out of 
a few matches. Though difficult to manage, Thornqvist attributes this as a main reason 
the Gators have found their stride as of late.
“I think we had some growing pains early 
in the year because we were playing a man 
down for the stretches,” he said. “When 
somebody goes down, that gives someone 
else an opportunity to step up.”
Those who stepped up were freshmen 
Sydney Berlin and Marlee Zein, who have 
been some of Florida’s brightest spots this 
season. 
Berlin has won four matches in confer-
ence play on Courts 5 and 6, giving the Gators 
much-needed depth required to compete in a 
fierce SEC. 
Zein has been one of Florida’s stars this 
season as well, tying a team-best seven sin-gles wins in conference play. The freshman 
from Sugar Land, Texas, collected SEC Fresh-
man of the Week earlier this season and held 
down Court 4 in Emma’s return with a team-
leading seven wins.
The Gators will enter the SEC Tournament 
ranked in the latter half of the standings as 
the No. 7-seed. But Thornqvist believes his 
team is prepared for what’s to come.
“I think the trend is our friend,” Thorn-
qvist said. “I think we are getting better and 
getting tougher. Our freshmen aren’t fresh-
men anymore, we are going to be ready for 
whatever comes our way.”
@victorprieto_11
vprieto@alligator.orgHistorically bad campaign trends upward for Florida16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2019
declaring for the NFL draft. He 
anchored a unit that sacked the 
quarterback 24 times (Polite had 
11 himself).
Senior CeCe Jefferson and Po-
lite’s departures left a lot of ques-
tions about the future of the defen-
sive line.
After the spring game, we know 
the answers. It will be just fine.
On a day where Florida’s of-
fense ran rampant, the line pro-
vided enough pressure that would 
make almost any other quarter-
back in the SEC panic. It collected 
5.5 sacks and forced the quarter-
back out of the pocket at other 
times.
A player that could make an im-
pact at the line is graduate trans-
fer Jonathan Greenard. Listed as 
a linebacker, Greenard started the 
Orange and Blue game on the line 
and recorded a sack and two solo 
tackles.
“He’s had a great spring and 
understands the system, but differ-
ent player than Polite was,” Mul-
len said of Greenard.
Florida will need to rely on 
Franks
Franks entered the Orange and 
Blue game as the clear favorite to 
start, and he left in the same posi-
tion. If there were any doubts he 
would earn the starting job again, 
they were all gone after Saturday.
He completed 13 of his 18 pass-
es, good for 327 yards, four touch-
downs and an “interception” to 
former Gators defensive back Lito 
Sheppard. All of those stats were 
the most of any quarterback.
Franks played great, but his 
play also showed a slight problem.
If Franks gets hurt or doesn’t 
play well, the Gators don’t really 
have a good option at backup right 
now. They will need him to be 
at his best or they don’t stand a 
chance.
Let’s start with backup Kyle 
Trask. He performed well, going 
11 for 16 for 209 yards and two 
touchdowns. But he also threw a 
pick-six.
While his numbers were good, 
they weren’t great, especially in a 
game where the offense was a nev-
er-ending highlight reel. If Trask 
plays, it wouldn’t be the worst 
thing, but it would be a challenge 
for him to live up to the hype the 
2019 season brings.
Then we have Emory Jones, 
who went 6 for 13 with 117 yards, 
two touchdowns and an intercep-
tion. He still has a long way to go 
before he’s ready to take over the 
offense.
Franks is definitely the guy, but 
if the Gators have to rely on their 
backup quarterbacks, it could spell 
trouble.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UF scored 
11 times  
off the right-center wall. 
Designated player Kendyl Lindaman pulled a 
pitch down the left-field line to bring Lorenz home 
on the next at-bat to make it 2-0. It was her 49th RBI 
of the season, a team high. 
Then, Roberts doubled the lead with her home 
run, her seventh of the season. 
Florida threatened offensively in the fifth and 
sixth innings but couldn’t add to its lead. 
Back-to-back one-out singles by center fielder 
Jade Caraway and Lorenz gave the Gators runners 
on first and second. Roberts drew a two-out walk to 
load the bases, but first baseman Jordan Matthews 
popped out to end the frame. 
Reynoso led off the sixth with a walk. She stood 
on first until Sipos dropped a 3-2 pitch into shallow 
left-center field with two outs. Reynoso made it to 
third, and Sipos advanced to second on the throw 
from Fortenberry in center. 
Outfielder Danielle Romanello pinch-hit for Car-
away on the next at-bat but grounded out to third 
base to extinguish the threat. 
Florida passed the bat well in its weekend against 
the Aggies and scored more runs (20) than any of its 
previous SEC series. The team hit 8 for 23 with run-
ners in scoring position, accumulated at least eight 
hits in each contest and hammered four home runs 
altogether. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Florida out-hit Texas A&M 8-3 on Sunday
Yeah, Florida’s secondary got 
torched. But that’s what Mullen 
wanted.
Defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham, in all likelihood, al-
lowed the offense to have the suc-
cess it did.
Sure, he could have brought 
the heat. But neither team’s of-
fensive line was fully comprised 
of first-team guys. Offensive line 
depth is a legitimate concern 
right now, but there’s no reason 
the fans needed to see that in the 
spring game.
Mullen’s predecessors didn’t 
exactly get it. Under Will Mus-
champ and Jim McElwain, the 
spring game was a dry affair. It was basically a glorified practice.
Mullen, on the other hand, 
seems to see the value of fan ser-
vice.
So, what can fans take away 
from the game?
Franks is the starter. That 
much is clear.
There’s an entire slate of fall 
practices between now and the 
season opener against Miami on 
Aug. 24. So in theory, that could 
change.
It’s highly unlikely, though. 
Franks got the most reps of any 
quarterback. Redshirt junior Kyle 
Trask and redshirt freshman Emo-
ry Jones looked solid, but neither 
of them were as poised as Franks.
Receiver Trevon Grimes looked 
much improved. Franks’ favorite target on Saturday had a spring-
game record 195 yards on only 
four catches. Two of those were 
touchdowns.
Fans should be cautiously op-
timistic. Florida returns a ton of 
offensive talent, especially at skill 
positions. The running back and 
receiver rooms are absolutely 
loaded, and the offense looked 
comfortable in the system.
But fans shouldn’t live and die 
by what they saw in a scrimmage. 
That goes for other teams, as well.
Redshirt junior Tate Martell, 
the favorite to win the quar-
terback job at UM, reportedly 
struggled in his spring game. His 
performance likely dropped him 
behind redshirt freshman Jarren 
Williams and redshirt sophomore N’Kosi Perry.
But there’s a lot of time to im-
prove between now and August. 
Martell could be a completely dif-
ferent player when he suits up 
against UF this fall.
If you’re reading this and think 
I’m being negative, I’m not. An 
exciting spring game is certainly 
better than the alternative.
It’s just important to temper 
expectations and realize that what 
we saw during a heavily curated 
spring game might not be indica-
tive of how good the team actu-
ally is.
Tyler Nettuno is a sports writer 
for the Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @TylerNettuno or contact 
him at tnettuno@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Chris King / Alligator Staff
Catcher Jordan Roberts went 1 of 3 and hit her seventh home run of the season in 
Florida's 4-1 victory over T exas A&M on Sunday.
MEN'S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
The celebration of Florida’s win over South 
Carolina was expected.
It was one worthy of a team that became 
the sole SEC regular-season champions for the 
first time since 2003.
The players all huddled and cheered to-
gether with one even throwing his hat over 
the fence. And it was finished by a water 
shower of coach Bryan Shelton.
The No. 3 Gators (20-2, 12-0 SEC) de-
feated the Gamecocks 6-1 on Sunday at the 
Ring Tennis Complex to win the SEC regular 
season championship. UF finished conference 
play undefeated for the first time since 2003 
as well. The Gators also finished the regular 
season with their best overall record since 
1977.
Florida jumped out to a quick lead in dou-bles. The first win came on 
Court 2 with junior Johannes 
Ingildsen and senior Mc-
Clain Kessler winning 6-1. 
The point was clinched on 
Court 3 when sophomores 
Duarte Vale and Andy An-
drade won 6-1, giving the 
Gators the doubles point 
for the third-consecutive 
match.
Singles started out closer than expected, 
with No. 18 South Carolina winning the first 
set on three of six courts. 
The Gators soon re-discovered their domi-
nance. No. 47 freshman Sam Riffice put the 
Gators ahead 2-0 with a 6-3, 6-2 win on Court 
2. Kessler then made it 3-0 on Court 6 with a 
6-4, 6-3 win.
He explained post-match what the moment 
meant to him, winning on senior day.
“This is what I’ve been wanting my whole life,” Kessler said. “My granddad played foot-
ball for Florida, and when I first got here, he 
passed away, so in that moment I thought of 
him.”
Attention turned to Courts 4 and 5. Both 
Ingildsen and Perez were close to sealing their 
matches. It was Ingildsen who pulled it off 
with a 6-3, 7-5 win over Beau Pelletier on 4. 
Perez won 2-6, 6-0, 6-1 on Court 5.
The one blemish on UF’s day came on 
Court 1 where No. 9 Paul Jubb defeated No. 
11 sophomore Oliver Crawford 6-4, 7-6 (8-6). 
Florida bounced back on Court 3, when No. 
38 Andrade came back and won in three sets 
4-6, 6-3, 6-4.
“Really proud of the start and then to finish 
the way we did,” coach Bryan Shelton said. 
“I’m just really excited for the team, our staff, 
just everyone behind the scenes.”
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgGators clinch sole SEC regular-season championship
Kessler
