We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators lose another close game
Forward Keyontae Johnson and the UF men’s 
basketball team went on the road and lost 71-68 
to Mississippi State, pg. 14.UF Online is also in the top 10 
The university’s online program has jumped in rankings, pg. 5
Grab a book from a little library
A mini library was installed in the Reitz Union, pg. 4WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 47
STUDENTS CAN PICK 
UP TICKETS AT 
THE REITZ UNION.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Ohio’s 69th governor will speak 
at UF Jan. 23.
For its ﬁ  rst event this semes-
ter, the Accent Speakers Bureau is hosting the for-
mer 2016 Repub-
lican presidential 
candidate John 
Kasich, who will 
speak at 7:30 
p.m. at the Uni-
versity Auditori-
um, said Rachel 
Gerardi, an Accent spokesperson.
Accent Chair Gregory Wolf de-clined to comment on the cost to 
bring Kasich, which comes from 
student fees. A public records re-
quest for the contract between Ka-
sich and Accent could not be im-
mediately ﬁ  lled. 
Kasich will speak about his life 
and deﬁ  ne what it means to be a 
leader, Wolf said. The speech will 
aim to inspire students, not lecture 
them on political issues.“That’s the type of person we 
wanted to bring,” Wolf said. “Not 
one with a negative attitude, but a 
constructive one.”
His speech will be followed by 
a 30-minute Q&A session, Gerardi 
said. There are 850 seats available 
for the event. UF students can pick 
up their free tickets from 10 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Jan. 22 at the Student Gov-
ernment suite in the Reitz Union.Summer Cook, an 18-year-old 
UF microbiology and cell sciences 
freshman, said she wasn’t sure 
why Accent chose a politician from 
a different state. 
“I don’t know what he’s going 
to say to us since he doesn’t know 
a lot about the people here,” she 
said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgFormer presidential candidate John Kasich to speak at UFChris Day / Alligator Staff
Jamming Out
Victor Viramontes-Pattison, the 23-year-old lead vocalist for the band Arrows in Action, 
performs during the band’s headlining show Saturday at The Atlantic in downtown 
Gainesville. Viramontes-Pattison graduated from UF in Spring 2017 with a marketing 
degree. The show helped promote the band’s new single “Chasing Rhymes, ” which came out 
Friday and was the ﬁ  rst new release from the band in over a year. The concert also included 
the bands Sports Reference, You Vandal and Bothering Dennis. Read the story on page 9.
SHE FILED A COMPLAINT WITH 
THE UF HONOR COURT.
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
Over half of the UF class of 2021 phar-
macy students will face a disciplinary council after allegations that they cheated 
on an assessment. 
Priti Patel, a UF pharmacy professor, 
said students in her capstone course used 
an unapproved source during a November 
class session. 
The four-hour class focused on diagnos-
ing a ﬁ  ctional patient’s symptoms and de-termining treatment, said Patrick Chucri, a 
third-year UF law student defending one of 
the accused students, whom Chucri would 
not name.
“They were all looking at the same 
problem in class, so of course there was 
only one right answer,” Chucri said. 
The students in the course were allowed to team up with classmates to analyze the 
problem and discuss the symptoms, Chucri 
said. 
However, Patel saw the similar respons-
es as students cheating. Patel claimed that 
57 students out of 100 in her class used an 
online document with a similar question UF pharmacy professor accuses students of cheating
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
He was a black police ofﬁ  cer who in-
ﬁ  ltrated the Ku Klux Klan.
Now, he’s telling his story at UF.
Ron Stallworth, 65, a black retired 
police ofﬁ  cer who went undercover to 
investigate the KKK in 1978, will speak 
at 7 p.m. tonight at Reitz Union’s Rion 
Ballroom, said Erin Ferguson, a 23-year-
old UF clinical and health psychology 
doctoral student and event chair for the 
Martin Luther King Jr. celebrations. 
The Reitz Programming Board and 
the Black Graduate Student Organization 
paid about $20,000 for Stallworth to ap-
pear, Ferguson said.
The hour-and-a-half long event will 
consist of a discussion with Stallworth 
and UF English professor Mark Reid 
about his experience with racism and 
police work, Ferguson said. An audience 
Q&A will be held afterward.
This is the second of nine events for 
the Martin Luther King Jr. celebrations 
over the next two weeks.
The movie “BlacKkKlansman” is based on a memoir 
detailing Stallworth’s 
experience with the 
KKK as an undercover 
ofﬁ  cer, and it will be 
shown at 7 p.m. the 
day before and the 
day after the event 
in Room G310 in the 
Reitz Union, Ferguson 
said.
Ferguson said she is hoping a speaker 
like Stallworth at UF will inspire students 
to make a change in the way they view 
racism in regards to today’s policing.
“I hope people can see the connection 
between his legacy and Martin Luther 
King Jr.’s,” Ferguson said.
Michelle Komisarchik, an 18-year-old 
UF political science freshman, said she 
is curious to see the movie and meet the 
person behind the story.
“The movie has been gaining so much 
social traction, especially with award sea-
son,” she said, “So it will be amazing to 
see the man who did it all.” 
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.org‘BlacKkKlansman’ Ron 
Stallworth to come to UFSEE PHARMACY,  PAGE  4
Stallworth
Kasich
He was paid about $20,000.
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Puerto Rico: Resilience After 
the Storm
UF emerged as a leader in re-
search and scholarship to help re-
build Puerto Rico after Hurricane 
Maria. At 6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall 
Ocora, UF architecture professors 
Martha Kohen and Nancy Clark 
will discuss UF’s work and col-
laborations aimed at helping the 
island imagine a more resilient 
future.
THURSDAY
Black Identity and Continuing 
Black Movement Activism 
in Brazil
The guest lecture from 7:10-
8:30 p.m. in the UF Center for 
Latin American Studies will be 
provided by Gladys L. Mitchell-
Walthour, a University of 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee associate 
professor of public policy and 
political economy. She will dis-
cuss the increasing importance 
of black racial identity in Brazil 
and how black activists have or-
ganized around their identities. 
She will also talk about how or-
ganizing has been challenged and 
will continue under a repressive 
government.
FRIDAY
Consciousness in Science 
Symposium
Scientists and scholars will get 
together for a conference from 
6:30-9 p.m. at the Harn Museum 
of Art, located at 3259 Hull Road. 
The event is free and open to the 
public. Light refreshments will be 
provided at a reception starting 
at 6:30 p.m. Keynote addresses 
will take place in the auditorium 
at 7 p.m. The keynote speakers 
include Stuart Hameroff, an anes-
thesiologist and professor at the 
University of Arizona who helped 
develop a quantum theory of con-
sciousness, and Brenda Dunne 
of the Princeton Environmental 
Engineering Anomalies, who will 
speak about the subjective and 
objective aspects of conscious-
ness.   
GatorNights – The Price is Reitz
From 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., a game 
show-themed Gator Nights will 
be hosted for free at the Reitz 
Union. Attendees must be current 
UF students and must bring their 
Gator 1 Card to enter. One guest 
per student is allowed. Attendees 
can play game challenges like 
“Family Feud” and “Minute to Win It.” There will also be a 
Wipeout Challenge and a “Shark 
Tank” mechanical shark. 
The first painting class of the 
semester will accept the first 
100 students. Sign-ups begin at 
7:30 p.m. in Room 3315. Guests 
can create do-it-yourself stick-
ers, TV picture frames, wooden 
birdhouses and take-home street 
signs. The UF Swing Dance will 
host “So You Think You Can 
Swing Dance.” The Club Creole 
Pageant will also be held. “Night 
School” will be shown at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. in the Chamber. 
There will be free bowling and 
billiards in the Game Room, a 
Global Coffeehouse and pizza will 
be served at Midnight Munchies.   
SATURDAY
Great Invader Raider Rally 
Pre-registration is required. From 
9-11 a.m., volunteers will help 
remove invasive plants from 
Gainesville’s preassigned natu-
ral areas. After the restoration, 
the volunteers are invited to 
Morningside Nature Center from 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. to celebrate 
with music, T-shirts, prizes, en-
vironmental booths, games and 
food. Email Ludovica Weaver to 
pre-register at weaverl@cityof-
gainesville.org.
MORE
New exhibit at Florida Museum 
offers look at killer whales
Visitors can learn more about the 
Lummi People, who are the origi-
nal inhabitants of Washington’s 
northernmost coast and south-
ern British Columbia, and their 
beliefs that killer whales are 
their kin in the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, at 3215 Hull 
Road. The exhibit is open until 
May 5. Exhibit features include 
a more than 4,000 pound, 16-
foot, hand-carved whale totem 
of a human riding a whale by 
the House of Tears Carvers of the 
Lummi Nation; five historical to-
tem poles; two carved pipes that 
depict killer whales, eagles, bears 
and humans; and five carved 
platters with images of killer 
whales, humans, fish and ravens 
from other museum collections.
An Evening with Pam & Doug 
Soltis: Building, Using and 
Teaching the Tree of Life
Pamela Soltis and Doug Soltis, two 
professors at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, will hold a free 
lecture and book signing at 6 p.m. 
on Jan. 24 in the Harn Museum 
of Art, at 3259 Hull Road. Pamela 
and Doug Soltis are investigators 
in the UF Laboratory of Molecular Systematics & Evolutionary 
Genetics and contributing authors 
for the Angiosperm Phylogeny 
Group. They are also contributors 
to the development of the Tree of 
Life Web Project, an online phy-
logenetic taxonomy project that 
includes 2.3 million species. 
What Colors Do You Bleed?
All LifeSouth area donor centers 
and bloodmobiles will participate 
in a competition between UF and 
the University of Kentucky. The 
bloodmobiles will be located at 
1221 NW 13th St. and
4039 Newberry Road. The com-
petition starts Monday and will 
continue until Jan. 18. All donors 
will be entered into a drawing to 
win a pair of tickets to the UF ver-
sus University of Kentucky bas-
ketball game. Spirit points toward 
Dance Marathon and the Spring 
Greek Blood Drives will be given 
and double the points will be 
earned for donating at a LifeSouth 
Community Blood Center.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  63° LOW  37°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hope Hathcock, Lourdes Hernandez
Graham Marsh, Blake Trauschke,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
Corrections:  
In the section of upcoming 
events published Friday, the 
“#SCOTUS” event with UF alum 
Robert Barnes will happen April 
11. The Alligator previously re-
ported differently. 
In an opinions column titled 
"Rep. Rashida Tlaib’s Remarks 
Can Not Be Condoned" that was 
published Monday, Tlaib made 
profane remarks at a bar near 
Congress during a reception for 
progressive group MoveOn.org. 
The Alligator previously report-
ed differently.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 47WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 Laundry?
Solved.
From Tide to Febreze,  
shop and save close to campus.
Your Campus T arget
Just north of campus on
University and /one.lf /three.lfth St
© 2019 T arget Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and T arget are registered trademarks of T arget Brands, Inc. C-000807-03-011
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
9Nicole Needles / Alligator Staff
The Reitz Union’s free library opened Jan. 2 and can be used by anyone. It includes titles from 
authors such as T om Clancy, Anthony Horowitz, Carl Hiaasen and James Patterson. 
THE PINT-SIZED PROJECT 
COST $850 TO BUILD.
By River Wells
Alligator Staff Writer
If you don’t look twice, you may just 
miss it.
It’s a little brown bookcase, about 
seven feet tall, ﬁ  lled with hardcover 
and paperback alike. It rests against the 
wall of the Reitz Union stairs, waiting 
diligently for someone to browse its 19 
shelves.
It’s what the Reitz Union Board of 
Managers calls a “Free Library,” a col-
lection of free books for students read, 
share or add to.
“I honestly don’t go to the Reitz that 
much, so it’s a really nice surprise,” 
said Anael Mamane, a 21-year old UF 
industrial engineering junior. “It makes 
me really happy that people not only 
take the books, they also give one 
back.”
The library cost about $850 to build 
and was built from plywood with an 
oak veneer and constructed by two to 
three people in 120 hours, said Mike Mironack, the Reitz Union’s director of 
operations and the project’s manager. It 
was installed Jan. 2. 
The library had about 40 books to 
start with, Mironack said. The collec-
tion increased to 93 books Tuesday 
morning.
“Once people got word that it was 
up, it took off doing what it was sup-
posed to do,” Mironack said.
The books on the shelf — which 
included titles such as “The Girl With 
the Dragon Tattoo” and authors such as 
Carl Hiaasen, James Patterson and Tom 
Clancy — were supplied by various 
people, including students and staff, 
Mironack said. 
A free outlet for books is an impres-
sive feature to have, said Orestes Gon-
zalez, a 22-year-old UF history junior, 
upon his ﬁ  rst visit to the bookshelf. 
“As a community here at UF, it’s re-
ally important that we just try to connect 
with each other,” Gonzalez said. “Hav-
ing a bookshelf here at the Reitz Union 
is just the perfect way of doing that.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgNew mini-Reitz Union free library looks to grow readershipto ﬁ  nd the answer to the in-class problem, 
Chucri said. 
Patel ﬁ  led the complaint with the Honor 
Court at Peabody Hall and listed the stu-
dents she claimed cheated on the assign-
ment that same month. Students who were 
listed will now face a disciplinary panel to 
share their position on the matter within 
the next few weeks. 
“These aren’t lawyers or public speak-ers,” Chucri said. “These are college stu-
dents who aren’t prepared for this type of 
questioning.”
The disciplinary council is made up of 
six students and one faculty member. The 
council hears cases that range from plagia-
rism to rape. 
The pharmacy students who must face 
the council can accept the claim that they 
cheated and receive a zero or say they are 
not guilty and argue their innocence, Chu-
cri said.  
Accused students can also accept the charge that they cheated but ask for a less-
er punishment instead of receiving a zero 
on the assessment. For instance, a student 
can say that they cheated but ask to retake 
the course, Chucri said. 
“This professor is tanking the careers of 
these students,” Chucri said. 
The UF College of Pharmacy is currently 
ranked in the top 10 in the nation, accord-
ing to U.S. News and World Report. If the 
students are found guilty, the school could 
see its ranking drastically drop, Chucri 
said. Patel declined to comment. The dean of 
UF’s College of Pharmacy, Julie Johnson, 
also declined to comment on the situation. 
Robyn Pescatore, the UF Student Gov-
ernment pharmacy college senator, said 
that this incident does not represent what 
the school stands for. 
“We have some of the brightest and 
most dedicated students and professors in 
the state,” she said. “I hope this gets re-
solved soon.”
@Taylor__Roth
troth@alligator.orgPHARMACY,  from pg 1The professor, pharmacy dean declined to comment.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
In Honor Of The 
Man And His Dream
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertisingThe DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
DISPLAY: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday, 
Jan. 21 due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertising
The DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.
Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
THE ASSAULT HAPPENED
AT SANTA FE COLLEGE.
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez 
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman reported being sexually assaulted Sunday 
evening at Santa Fe College, Santa Fe Police said. 
Before the incident, she was walking with a group on 
Sante Fe’s Northwest Campus but then left them, said 
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book. Police have not yet said if 
she is a student.
The woman told police she was held at knifepoint on 
the south side of campus and forced into a Sedan between 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Book said. 
At the time, there were no classes or activities happen-
ing on campus, Book said. 
Police believe she was taken to a road or parking lot near the running track, where she was sexually assaulted 
in the car, Book said. After, the man made her get out.
She made it to her apartment and had someone call 
the police, Book said. She went to a local hospital and has 
been discharged. 
Police are working with the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce, Book said. Police are looking into video surveil-
lance footage.
Extra ofﬁ  cers will patrol the campus at night this week, 
Book said. He recommends using a police escort, walking 
with someone and in well-lit areas. 
Police will provide nighttime safety escorts to some-
one’s car or class by calling 352-395-5519 or by using the 
Safe Santa Fe app, according to an email sent to students 
from the college.
University Police are continuing to routinely patrol UF, 
UPD staff said. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgPolice search for sexual assault suspectTHE PROGRAM WAS 
RANKED NO. 12 
LAST YEAR. 
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Online has jumped to the top 
rankings for online bachelor’s degree 
programs in its ﬁ  fth anniversary.
On Tuesday, UF Online ranked 
ﬁ  fth out of all online bachelor’s de-
gree programs in the nation in the 
2019 U.S. News & World report, said 
Evangeline Cummings, the UF assis-
tant provost and director of UF On-
line. Last year, it was ranked No.12.
Pennsylvania State University 
World Campus and the University of 
Illinois at Chicago both tied with UF 
Online for the No. 5 slot, the report 
said. Florida State University’s online 
program was No. 102,  the University 
of Central Florida’s online program 
was No. 14 and the University of 
North Florida’s was No. 37 overall.The rankings are based on a com-
bination of factors including student 
engagement, faculty credentials and 
expert opinion, the report said. UF’s 
program earned a score of 95 out of 
100 points.
UF Online offers 20 majors, has 
481 faculty members and 3,000 stu-
dents enrolled, Cummings said. The 
average student is 27.2 years old and 
is pursuing either a ﬁ  rst or second de-
gree.
Tuition is $129 per credit hour for 
in-state students and $552 per credit 
hour for out-of-state students, Cum-
mings said. UCF’s online program 
costs $179 for in-state students and 
$300 for out-of-state students, accord-
ing to their tuition website.
Cummings said if prospective 
students are looking at the rankings 
for digital bachelor’s programs they 
could attend, UF Online would cer-
tainly be on their radar now.
“To be tied with schools like Penn 
State World Campus, I think, is a real test to the hard work that has been 
going on here at the university,” she 
said. “They’ve been at it for a lot lon-
ger than we have.”
UF Online’s program focuses on 
faculty credentials, virtual campus 
and student engagement, Cummings 
said. Nearly all professors who teach 
UF Online courses have the highest 
degrees offered in their ﬁ  elds.
Hannah Golden, a 27-year-old UF 
Online alumna, pursued her second 
degree in anthropology while based 
in Austin, Texas, after receiving a 
bachelor’s degree in bioinformatics 
from Baylor University. She chose to 
enroll in UF Online in 2017 due to its 
low cost and ﬂ  exibility with her full-
time job. She has been working in IT 
as a systems analyst for Texas Health 
and Human Services since 2015. 
“As somebody who is having to 
pay for it herself, this online program 
makes it a whole lot easier to get the 
education that you need for the things 
you want to do in life,” she said.UF Online ranked No.5 in nation
A DECISION HAS 
BEEN POSTPONED 
UNTIL FEB. 11. 
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Com-
mission decided Tuesday to 
postpone decisions on funding 
Gainesville’s redevelopment 
agency and closing a homeless 
camp until February.
The commission unanimous-
ly voted to collect more informa-
tion on the two issues so they 
can be further discussed on Feb. 
11.
The Gainesville Commu-
nity Redevelopment Agency, 
which builds community proj-
ects, plans to combine its four 
districts — College Park and 
University Heights; 5th Avenue 
and Pleasant Street; Eastside; 
and Downtown — into one. The 
Gainesville City Commission al-
ready approved the action but 
also needs county commission 
approval.
The agency also plans to 
have $70 million in funding and 
requested $40 million over 10 
years from the county commis-
sion, said County Commissioner 
Ken Cornell during the meeting.
County Commissioner Mike 
Byerly encouraged the commis-
sion to request a list of projects 
for at least the next three years 
from the agency before making a 
decision about payments.
“I don’t have any idea what 
they’re doing, and I don’t think 
any of you do,” Byerly said.
Cornell agreed that in a usual case they would ask for the list 
but because the agency said the 
scope of the project is so large, 
he advised against needing one.
“Let’s talk about what that 
investment in slum and blight 
would bring back in the com-
munity because it’s supposed to 
spur private investment in East 
Gainesville,” Cornell said.
There are two meetings 
scheduled for Feb. 11 and Feb. 
25 with the County Commis-
sion, Gainesville City Commis-
sion and the agency to discuss 
these plans, said Alachua County 
Commission Chairman Charles 
Chestnut. 
The commission unanimous-
ly voted on a motion to request 
the city to come up with a pre-
liminary project list for the ﬁ  rst 
meeting that also includes debt, 
interest rates and expiration 
dates. 
After discussions about the 
agency, the commission went 
on to decide whether to close 
Dignity Village, a homeless en-
campment that surrounds Grace 
Marketplace. 
The commission unanimous-
ly voted on a motion to have staff 
gather data on housing needs by 
Feb. 11. 
Jon DeCarmine, the executive 
director of Grace Marketplace,  a 
homeless facility, said homeless-
ness is a critical social problem. 
“We’ve got a lot of work left 
to do, but we’re closer now to 
ending homelessness than we’ve 
ever been,” he said.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgCounty Commission 
discusses Gainesville 
redevelopment agency The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
How an egg has the 
power to change 
social media
A not-so age-old question was answered this week: 
Which came in first, the egg or Kylie Jenner? In this 
case, the definitive answer is the egg.
In the only post by the anonymous Instagram ac-
count @world_record_egg, a picture of an aestheti-
cally pleasing egg became the most liked picture on Instagram 
with more than 43 million likes, dethroning Kylie Jenner’s first 
post of baby Stormi, which has about 18.5 million likes. It’s 
a strange comparison, a sweet newborn compared to a single 
egg. You’d think there would be no competition. A baby equals 
lots of likes and an egg equals breakfast; there really should be 
no correlation. But, here we are trying to understand another 
weird facet of how the internet works.
There are entire teams of people who work for weeks and 
weeks to try to make something go viral and never succeed. 
Maybe what we can learn about social media and society in 
general is that all you have to do if you want something is ask. 
It didn’t take much for this egg to be liked 43 million times. 
It just made a simple request: to become the most liked pic-
ture on Instagram. The anonymous account tagged a few pub-
lications like Buzzfeed and the Daily Mail, which may have 
helped get the ball rolling a bit. But to be honest, it seems that 
this egg’s popularity comes from just being ridiculous, and 
that’s the real beauty of it.
It’s weird, yes, that an egg has the power to unite millions 
of people, but it’s funny and it has spawned a plethora of fan 
accounts, news stories, memes and has amassed millions of 
followers. The egg is a good example to not take things too 
seriously, especially in regard to social media, a place where 
politicians and celebrities create feuds on a daily basis. In the 
end, neither an egg nor a picture of a reality star really de-
serves millions upon millions of likes, but that’s just the world 
we live in. It’s a place where an inside joke among more than 
43 million people turned into a world record.
It’s a nice thought that a cute, little egg can unite more 
people than the entire population of California. It puts things 
in perspective. Things don’t have to be all doom and gloom 
every day. Social media is a place that often makes news for 
some negative thing a celebrity said — it’s not often that some-
thing so wholesome is a headline.
Every single person who likes that picture is breaking a 
world record. An egg made history. Maybe next week it’ll be 
something else equally irrelevant like a tomato or a potato, but 
for now, the mysterious stock photo egg will remain supreme.
We can learn a few things from this mystery egg. First, any-
thing can go viral and all we can do is guess what will take off 
and what won’t. Second, in the grand scheme of things, social 
media isn’t something we have to spend too much time think-
ing about. It’s supposed to be fun, a way to stay in contact 
with old friends and a place to meet new friends.
An egg has a lot to teach us about what is really important 
in life, and it’s not how many likes or retweets you can get. 
Sorry, but I think 43 million people is going to be pretty hard 
to beat for a while. Next time you’re contemplating what to 
post, don’t think about it too hard. If you like it, post it. If it 
makes you laugh, post it. If it makes you feel something, post 
it. Don’t think too hard about social media, and don’t let it be 
something that stresses you out. Enjoy social media for what 
it is: a weird internet corner where an egg has the power to 
create a movement.Do not let your major define you or your future
Journalism is for the kids who were rep-
rimanded for talking too much in class. 
It’s also for the quiet students who only 
talked when called upon by the teacher 
— or so I thought.
As students, we feel as if that is our main 
identity: to be students, and with that comes 
our major. Although majors do reflect some 
insight into what someone values, they do 
not define a person. The human essence is 
complicated and multifaceted. A one-to-three-
word major can’t possibly define a person.
When I first came to UF, I thought that everyone’s 
major was a direct reflection of his or her personality. In 
my mind, business majors were carbon copies of Jordan 
Belfort. Biology majors were the next Jane Goodall. Jour-
nalism students were akin to Nancy Drew. Of course, I 
was wrong.
We shouldn’t rely on someone’s major to talk for 
them. When we do, it deters students from choosing a 
major that they might not fit the mold for.
As a freshman, journalism scared me. I was relatively 
shy. I was never seen as popular, and I was never one 
to toss and turn over unanswered mysteries. A younger 
version of me thought being outspoken, well-liked and 
investigative were the necessary qualities to be a jour-
nalism student. My predetermined ideas about the ma-
jor almost kept me from choosing it because I didn’t fit 
that mold. It did not matter that I loved to write. It did 
not matter that I loved to talk to people once I finally 
mustered up the courage to do so. The stark difference 
between who I am and who I thought the ideal journal-
ism student should be almost kept me from taking the 
plunge.
Similar cases occur not only for those at a collegiate 
level but also at lower academic levels.  According to a study done by Microsoft partnered with KRC 
Research, young women find it difficult to pic-
ture themselves in science, technology, engi-
neering and mathematic roles.  Some findings 
of the study indicate that girls don’t picture 
themselves as coders or engineers because it 
is a field dominated by men.
Here we see how the stereotypes we set 
for certain fields of study can affect a student 
before he or she even gets to college.  Even 
though elementary and middle school chil-
dren do not know it, they may be conditioned to sell 
themselves short from a field they have genuine enjoy-
ment for.
We should encourage those who do not see them-
selves as the type for a major to challenge the mold set 
before them. You can take a class you are interested in 
just to test out that major. The Microsoft and KRC study 
suggests parents and teachers should support student’s 
interests because it makes a difference. “Sixty-six percent 
of middle school girls who were encouraged in STEM by 
their teacher say they are likely to study computer sci-
ence in high school, compared to 40 percent who haven’t 
been encouraged,” the study states.
Picking a major is hard, and I would be silly to say 
it does not shape a large portion of your college experi-
ence. But don’t let the fear of not fitting into the ste-
reotype hold you back. Fight the urge to shapeshift into 
the cookie cutter definition of your major’s ideal student. 
There is something to be gained by going into a field of 
study that scares you. If you don’t learn something from 
the challenge along the way, at least others will see that 
no major can define you.
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Hollywood is no stranger to contro-
versy. Celebrities are normal peo-
ple who are subject to more scruti-
ny than most of us ever will be, so 
it’s not surprising they get called 
out for their behavior pretty frequently. 
With the rise of the #MeToo movement, 
along with other social justice and activist 
movements throughout Hollywood, celeb-
rities are being held to a higher standard 
when it comes to both their personal and 
professional lives. Some respond to said 
controversy with poise, while others… 
don’t.
More and more, I’ve noticed younger 
celebrities are responding to being called 
out with more professionalism and cour-
tesy than older celebrities. Recently, Elsie 
Fisher tweeted her support of both Rami 
Malek and “Bohemian Rhapsody” for win-
ning Golden Globes. She received back-lash for supporting such a con-
troversial ﬁ  lm. Her followers 
didn’t appreciate that she was 
overwhelmingly happy about a 
ﬁ  lm with a problematic director 
attached to it and some issues 
with its accuracy. However, the 
way she responded to the back-
lash (by apologizing for her lack 
of information about the ﬁ  lm 
and asking her fans to continue 
to help her learn ways to be better) was 
digniﬁ  ed and professional.
Fisher’s small bout of criticism didn’t 
make nearly as many headlines as the 
controversy swirling around Kevin Hart. 
The actor and comedian came under ﬁ  re 
for some homophobic tweets from several 
years ago after the announcement that he 
would be hosting the Oscars. When the 
Academy Awards asked him to apologize in order to keep his position as 
host, he refused, thus giving up 
the opportunity to host. He has 
made appearances on several 
talk shows to discuss the tweets 
and, supposedly, apologized for 
them. Except, he doesn’t apolo-
gize. He refuses to acknowledge 
his mistake (regardless of the 
time in which they were made) 
and, frankly, continues to em-
barrass himself more and more.
Why is it that a 15-year-old breakout 
star can admit her wrongs and make a 
promise to improve herself, while also ac-
knowledging that she will always uninten-
tionally make mistakes, but a 39-year-old 
who has been in the industry for decades 
cannot? Perhaps Fisher entered Hollywood 
at a time when the climate demanded more 
apologies and less deﬂ  ections, whereas Hart didn’t. It could also have to do with 
the fact that Hart is a male comedian, of 
whom not many used to be criticized for 
their problematic comments because they 
were viewed as part of their act.
Either way, it’s clear that times are 
changing in Hollywood. Deﬂ  ection and 
refusal to apologize for forms of hate like 
homophobia, sexism, misogyny or racism 
will no longer be tolerated. We’ve seen 
prominent stars fall from fame for their 
past actions, such as Kevin Spacey and 
Louis C.K. and become irrelevant. If older 
celebrities want to remain important and 
preserve their fan base, they better start 
taking note from the younger ones, like 
Fisher, who are setting the standard for 
how to respond to backlash.
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Wednesdays. Young Hollywood is setting the standard for how to respond to controversy
To us UF students, there 
is nothing quite like the 
dread of seeing someone 
with a clipboard walking 
toward us. We hate being 
approached by strangers. There 
is a certain pain that comes from 
hearing those fateful words: “Have 
you registered to vote in Alachua 
County?” or “Hi, sorry to bother 
you!” It’s like being in the bath-
room and having your stall door 
ﬂ  ung open. Even being handed a ﬂ  ier in Tur-
lington Plaza is aggravating. To most of us, 
avoiding Turlington altogether may be the 
best solution.
But why does it bother us so much to in-
teract with strangers, and more importantly, 
should it?
I don’t think it should. Actually, we are 
more culpable for feeling this dread than 
those who ignore our privacy. I use the word 
dread loosely, as a placeholder for all of the 
other reactions we have toward being ap-
proached: irritation, anger, fear and so on. 
Listening to others’ beliefs, especially ones 
that challenge our own, isn’t something we 
want to spend our time doing. I would bet 
that if the UF population was polled, less 
than three percent of us would want to grab 
dinner with a campus preacher.
The ancient world was different. When 
apostle Paul, for instance, went to Athens 
to preach the gospel in the first century, it 
was commonplace for Athenians to do noth-
ing but listen to the ideas and arguments of 
strangers. They loved rhetoric, debate and 
persuasion. The words spoken in a pub-
lic place were debated and challenged. It 
wasn’t a bad experience for them to hear 
if their beliefs were wrong because it was a 
learning experience for everyone involved.
But today, those with strong beliefs stick 
out like a stick ﬁ  gure in a Jackson Pollock 
painting. That is because the backgrounds 
of different peoples’ cultures are inherently 
subjective. As long as you are happy, you 
can be a Christian or an atheist. Your beliefs 
are yours and they work for you, but they 
might not work for me. I could be different. 
Everyone’s beliefs are different, but maybe being right isn’t always the most 
important thing. Who is to really 
say?
Our assumption is that a person 
will lay low and seek happiness for 
his or herself and live life as a pri-
vate person. For most of us there is 
nothing pressing we have to share 
with a stranger. Those abnormal 
people who knock on our doors to 
tell us about a political candidate 
or step in front of us with a ﬂ  yer 
outstretched are more of a nuisance than 
anything else. To debate or engage them is 
less effective than the most popular method: 
ignoring them.
Privacy is a complicated thing. We are 
bothered when it’s ignored but oppressively 
lonely when it’s not. We don’t want to have 
to take out our headphones, but we wonder 
why it’s difficult to make friends. The most 
difficult thing in our modern world might 
be making new friends. The next time you 
walk through campus, look at the benches 
designed for small groups of people holding 
only one person and see the ocean of space 
between individuals sitting just a few feet 
away from each other. Being an individual 
is a great thing until you actually feel like 
one.
Much of our cultural discourse can be 
reduced to one theme: Leave me alone. We 
think: "Don’t tell me how to live, I’ll ﬁ  gure 
that out on my own terms." For the most 
part, this request has been granted, and at 
the cost of connecting with people, we are 
left to eat alone, listen to music alone, think 
alone and feel alone.
Perhaps we should gladly listen when 
strangers approach us. It’s most likely a 
good thing for our solitude to be breached. 
We can hear about what political agendas 
are on the ballot-to-be, or how Jesus can 
save our souls. Perhaps it is less painful to 
talk to a stranger than it is to feel lonely. The 
next time someone approaches you with a 
clip board, don't avert your eyes, stop and 
talk to them.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays. Talk to strangers and learn something new
Sometimes when I write 
these columns, I wish I 
could type away prais-
ing Student Govern-
ment competence with 
rainbows, unicorns and classi-
cal music in the background. 
Today’s topic comes from 
the recent news of the ﬁ  rst 
Senate Judiciary meeting in 
which the committee failed an 
online voting bill. I thought it 
would be responsible to clear some things 
up about online voting and the Constitu-
tional Revision Commission. Additionally, 
I suppose this column would be a good 
refresher for those unfamiliar with the 
bumpy history of online voting here at UF.
Our story begins where some people 
once considered its end. After well over 
a decade of advocacy, a constitutional 
amendment passed in the 2016 SG election 
that would have paved the way for online 
voting. It just so happened that the major-
ity party today won the executive ticket 
back then, too. As described in an upset 
student’s letter to the editor, the Student 
Body president manipulated the legislative 
branch to somehow appoint ﬁ  ve out of 
seven  SG Supreme Court justices.
It would be the same Supreme Court 
that struck down online voting, choosing 
to interpret the constitution in a rather un-
conventional way. Per our constitution, “a 
three-ﬁ  fths approval vote of those voting in 
the spring general election is necessary to 
ratify all constitutional amendments.” The 
Supreme Court said the approval vote of 
those voting in the Spring election meant 
you needed to count the votes out of ev-
eryone instead of just those voting on a 
constitutional amendment. That meant 
that whenever people skipped voting on a 
constitutional amendment, which a lot of 
people do, their abstention was effectively 
counted as a vote against its ratiﬁ  cation.
Of course, that’s ridiculous, but so 
is SG. Under this new way of counting 
votes for amendments, the Supreme Court 
tossed out a handful of old amendments, 
including the recently passed amendment 
on online voting. They also had to shoot 
themselves in the foot because I’m pretty 
sure one amendment had to do with the 
number of Supreme Court justices (there 
are ﬁ  ve now, though on the SG website it just says “justice4” where some-
one’s name is supposed to be). 
Unfortunately, I have to say 
stuff like “I’m pretty sure” when 
talking about the case because 
I can’t even ﬁ  nd the Supreme 
Court case on our website, 
which is pretty shady if you ask 
me.
The old letter to the editor, 
printed in 2016, concludes, “it 
seems the ruling class in SG is 
back to its old tricks — ignoring the voice 
of the Student Body and running from the 
nearest sight of sunshine.”
Interestingly enough, the student who 
wrote the letter to the editor attacking 
the actions of the majority party, Preston 
Jones, has come around to the point of 
now working within the majority party’s 
administration as their solicitor general, 
the administration’s lawyer. The only way 
this even remotely makes sense to me is 
when considering he has a younger sister, 
Meryl Jones, who serves in the Senate seat 
for District A within the Impact party (and 
by virtue of pure coincidence is already a 
committee chairperson). They say the real 
F-word is family; you got to do what you 
got to do for your sis.
Every constitutional amendment since 
that Supreme Court case has failed, which 
leaves online voting stuck in a rut. Natural-
ly, there have been code revisions written 
in a way that tries to slide by the even older 
court case that says online voting is uncon-
stitutional, but the majority party usually 
shuts those down as it did last Sunday in 
the Senate Judiciary committee.
This time, one of the fools on the com-
mittee suggested that the Constitutional 
Revision Commission would be the only 
way online voting would be brought to UF 
knowing full well that any amendment put 
up by the Commission would likely fail like 
all those in recent years. The Commission 
within our SG functions much as it does at 
the state level, (recall the long ballot in the 
November election). But because of these 
abstentions shenanigans, it’s probably go-
ing to be a lot more useless beyond provid-
ing superﬁ  cial lines on people’s resumes.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
junior and Murphree Area Senator. His 
column normally appears on Fridays.So about that online voting thing...ColumnColumn
Column
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Scott 
Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Pop Punk Emo Night
Read about the monthly event happening at The 
Wooly Saturday Pg 9
AASU’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm festival
Find out what happened when Wong Fu came to town Pg 10SEX TOYS ARE AN IMPORTANT 
INGREDIENT IN THE PLEASURE 
OF COUNTLESS INDIVIDUALS.
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Sex toys are a billion dollar industry. 
The worldwide market is projected to 
reach 29 billion dollars by 2020, according 
to research by TechNavio. Even so, these 
devices are still taboo, which leaves many 
consumers with countless questions and 
concerns.
“It is not easy to approach the use of sex 
toys for the ﬁ  rst time,” said Tameca Harris-Jackson, a 41-year old sex educator. 
“Videos, magazines and some on-
line websites can sometimes portray 
their use in ways that are intimidat-
ing or that can create misconcep-
tions.”
Sex toys may not be for everyone, 
but those interested in ﬁ  nding new ways to 
enhance sexual pleasure may ﬁ  nd sex toys 
and devices as a positive option, she said.
Before purchasing a device, she suggests 
research: Make sure the toy you have in 
mind is the best type for your needs. 
Sex toys require more than simple soap 
and water. Instead, owners should invest 
in specialized cleansers that sanitize, but 
don’t break down the material, said Cha-
rissa O’Quinn, a senior consultant of Pure 
Romance, a sex wellness company.
Using a sex-toy speciﬁ  c cleanser is im-
portant to prevent health problems. Silicone 
toys, if not cleaned properly, can lead to 
infections because the toy has a ﬁ  lm on it that can collect dirt and bacteria, added the 
27-year-old Gainesville resident.
According to O’Quinn, sex toys should 
be used with lubricant and should not be 
stored collectively. 
O’Quinn wants to break the stigma that 
masturbation is dirty or unnatural. She ex-
plains it can be a way to alleviate stress or 
become a happier human being.
 “There’s nothing dirty about using a 
toy. It’s like a tool. It’s an instrument,” she 
said. “Just like if you were an artist, it’s like 
a paintbrush. It’s going to help you get to 
that masterpiece that you want.”
These devices are not only for cis-gender 
females. There are devices for males, trans-
gender individuals and those in the process 
of transitioning as well. 
 “Regardless of gender or sexual orienta-
tion, any person who desires can use sex 
toys,” Harris-Jackson said. “There are many 
options of pleasure toys out there and most 
are designed for almost any person’s body to be able to use.”
Monday night, Pure Romance introduced 
the RGB collection, which is designed for 
“all genders, identities, and orientations.”
“You know, there wasn’t a safe place for 
the trans community for a long time any-
where. They couldn’t go in and get these 
devices,” O’Quinn said. “We are now start-
ing to cater to that group that was before 
left behind.”
 Some worry that sex toys will leave 
“regular” sex in ruins.
For those with this valid concern, 
O’Quinn explains sex as a cheeseburger.
“They’re fulﬁ  lling. It’s delicious, but 
sometimes you just want a bacon cheese-
burger,” she said. “And it’s not that you’ll 
never have a cheeseburger again, it’s just 
that this time you want it with bacon on it.”
@jackiedef7 
jdefreitas@alligator.org
THE HIPPODROME STATE 
THEATRE PRESENTS THE 
OFTEN HILARIOUS YET 
HEARTBREAKING STORY.
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
“A Doll’s House, Part 2” will make 
you laugh and break your heart. It’s the 
story of one woman’s ﬁ  ght for the free-
dom to pursue her ambitions while shat-
tering her family in the process.
Directed by UF associate professor of 
theater Charlie Mitchell, the Hippodrome 
will be presenting the play from Jan. 11 
to Feb. 3.
Lucas Hnath’s “A Doll’s House, Part 
2” is the sequel to Henrik Ibsen’s 1879 
three-act play, but audience members 
don’t need to know anything about the 
original show to be enthralled by this per-
formance.
Nora Helmer abandoned her husband 
and kids in “A Doll’s House.” The sequel 
picks up 15 years later with her standing 
at the doorstep of the home she left be-
hind.
The play begins with an abrupt knock 
on a bright red door set in the center of 
the stage. The loyal family nanny, Anne 
Marie, portrayed by Sara Morsey, an-
swers to ﬁ  nd Nora, portrayed by Tess 
Hogan, standing on the other side. 
Dressed head to toe in extravagant 
green-and-gold garments, Nora conﬁ  -
dently strides into the home where she 
walked out on her family to achieve her 
ambitions. Now an author, Nora has become 
fabulously wealthy from writing books 
about women and criticizing the concept 
of marriage. She claims “marriage makes 
a person change for the worst,” a bold 
statement that had some audience mem-
bers chuckling while others furrowed 
their brows in disbelief. 
Nora did not return to make amends. 
Instead, she’s back because she may be 
in some legal trouble because Torvald, 
portrayed by V Craig Heidenreich, did not 
ﬁ  nalize their divorce. Heidenreich’s performance of Torvald 
is ﬁ  lled with hysterical outbursts and re-
sentment toward Nora for leaving with-
out explaining why she was so unhappy 
with their marriage.
Emmy, Nora’s daughter, is portrayed 
by UF School of Theatre and Dance stu-
dent MaRah Williams. Emmy has become 
a young woman who dreams of being a 
wife and having a family of her own. She 
wants the simple life her mother decided 
to run away from. 
Nora and Torvald exchange plenty of swear words during the intense yet im-
pactful ﬁ  nal scene of the play. Hogan and 
Heidenreich (who happen to be married 
in real life) perfectly depict the harsh real-
ities of divorce. However, you can’t help 
but wonder if there is still love between 
the two estranged spouses despite their 
constant quarreling.  
The play proposes tough questions 
relating to independence, equality and 
aspirations.   
Mitchell said the play is not a true 
sequel, but a modern riff on “A Doll’s House” that is ﬁ  lled with haunting, dev-
astating lines presented in a comedic 
way. 
Mitchell hopes audience members 
will gain more than mere entertainment.
“I guess what you get out of anything, 
you sort of question your own life,” 
Mitchell said. “You question your own 
values, you question your relationships, 
not in a bad way, but in order to get a 
fuller sense of who you are.” 
vblankenship@alligator.org
@vanessablankieReview: ‘A Doll’s House, Part 2’
THEATER
Rachel Jones
“A Doll’s House, Part 2” will run from Jan. 11 to Feb. 3.Rachel Jones
Nora and T orvald ﬁ  ght in the play’s ﬁ  nal scene.
Toy Talk with a Sex EducatorWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
GAINESVILLE’S MONTHL Y 
GATHERING AND JAM SESSION 
FOR PUNK FANS WILL HAPPEN 
SATURDAY NIGHT AT 
THE WOOL Y. 
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Are you already stressed about this se-
mester? Let your emotions out and rage to 
pop punk and emo music Saturday night at 
The Wooly. 
The monthly event features music remi-
niscent of the mid-to-late 1990s and early 
2000s pop and emo rock sound. Artists like 
Blink 182, Dashboard Confessional, Green 
Day and Panic! At The Disco frequent the 
speakers at this event.
Pop Punk and Emo Night began in 2014 
but did not truly take off until the end of 
2017 when the coordinators discovered the 
best direction for the party, said Vijaya Seix-
as, the 31-year-old event coordinator. 
Seixas was inspired when his business 
partner, James “Jimbo” Rountree, 31, was craving different music from the same songs 
that constantly played at the nightclub where 
the two worked at the time.
When they created the event, they un-
knowingly tapped into the inner angst of pop 
punk fans, not only from Gainesville, but 
across the state. Seixas said he has had at-
tendees come up from as far as South Florida 
to take part in the event.
Arrows and Action will rock the stage 
Saturday, with special guest vocals from 
Gainesville native Quil Cauchon, who only 
performs with the band on Pop Punk and 
Emo Nights. The set list for Saturday will 
consist only of covers. Those planning to 
attend can suggest songs on the Facebook 
event’s discussion page.
Cauchon, 22, said “Helena” by My Chem-
ical Romance and “MakeDamnSure” by Tak-
ing Back Sunday are two of her favorite cov-
ers to perform. 
“The beauty of the event is that there’s so 
much good material, we don’t have to play 
bad stuff,” she said. 
Tatiana Baker requested “First Date” by 
Blink 182. She said she hopes to hear music 
she grew up with Saturday. 
“I’m tired of clubs with the same songs playing on repeat,” 
the 19-year-old UF 
pre-nursing student 
said. “I’m excited to 
go to something that’s 
different than the 
usual and throwback 
to middle school awk-
ward phases.”
Baker is not the 
only one hoping to 
bask in the nostalgic 
music of years past. 
Arnon Khantawang, 
24, will be attend-
ing this event for the 
fourth time this weekend. 
“It is just the songs of high school,” Khan-
tawang said. “Like these songs are just feel-
ings of the youth and fun of high school and 
middle school.”
Jesse Frimmel, Arrows in Action’s drum-
mer, said this type of music also inﬂ  uenced 
him growing up. 
“We know we’re not Fall Out Boy or My 
Chemical Romance,” Frimmel, 24, said. “But 
[we] try to do a really good job of learning 
the songs almost note for note so that it re-ally feels like you’re there.”
Seixas expects about 500 people to at-
tend. Doors open at 9 p.m., and the musical 
performance starts at 10 p.m.
The event is open to those 18 or older. 
Tickets cost $5 for attendees who are 21 and 
over and $8 for attendees under 21.
If planning to attend, be sure take Frim-
mel’s advice and stock up on black nail pol-
ish and eyeliner.
@jackiedef7 
jdefreitas@alligator.org
MUSIC
Angsty days are here again:
Pop Punk and Emo Night of Gainesville
Chris Day, Alligator Staff
Above: Arrows in Action headlined a show last Saturday 
at The Atlantic to promote the band’s new single “Chasing 
Rhymes, ” which came out Friday and was their ﬁ  rst release 
in more than a year. Last week’s show also included 
performances from Sports Reference, You Vandal and 
Bothering Dennis. Victor Viramontes-Patterson, the 
21-year-old lead singer pictured on the right, graduated 
from UF in the spring of 2017 as a marketing major. When 
the band performs this Saturday for Pop Punk Emo Night 
he will be substituted with Quil Cauchon, 22.
LOCAL ARTISTS OF 
GAINESVILLE WILL GATHER 
ON WEDNESDAY, JAN. 
16 AT 8 P .M. AT THE CIVIC 
MEDIA  CENTER
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Connect the Dots is a 
Gainesville music, media and art 
collaboration that highlights art-
ists who give voice to marginal-
ized communities through their 
creations. 
Tonight, the Civic Media Cen-
ter will host Connect the Dots’ 
show with several artists from 
these marginalized communities. 
The artists will perform live 
music and speak for those in the 
Gainesville community who do 
not have a voice. The show features the band 
Rent Strike, She/Her/Hers and a 
local solo artist called “Sometimes 
I’m Very Loud, And Sometimes 
I’m Very Quiet.” Doors will open 
at 8 p.m. and the show will start 
at 9 p.m.  
Connect the Dots was estab-
lished in March 2018.   
“This impacts the Gainesville 
arts community because it builds 
a bridge between the arts and local 
activism,” Manuela Osorio, Con-
nect the Dots founder, said. “I am 
most excited to meet the travel-
ing musicians and hear their tales 
from their hometown and being 
on the road.”  
All artists performing at this 
event are members of marginal-
ized communities, said Osorio. 
The artists aim to express the pas-
sions and ideas of those who are 
ignored in society, such as minori-ties and the LGBTQ+ community. 
The Civic Media Center acts as a 
sanctuary for these artists to shed 
light on social and political issues. 
Both Rent Strike and She/Her/
Hers play music that is political 
in nature. Osorio says their lyr-
ics emcompass topics from gender 
abolition to mental-health issues.
Robin Best, a 22-year-old UF 
international studies senior, will 
perform under the name “Some-
times I’m Very Loud, And Some-
times I’m Very Quiet.”
Her sound is inspired by an 
orchestra concept of dynamic 
contrast, which she says is really 
expressive by drastically changing 
her volume. 
A solo acoustic artist, her 
sound is inspired by her diverse 
musical background. She began 
piano, guitar and the bassoon in 
her middle school years, and start-ed singing in high school, where 
she learned about African choir 
and the sounds from South Afri-
can music.
Best deﬁ  nes her speciﬁ  c sound 
today as acoustic punk rock. She 
draws much of her inspiration 
from other punk bands such as 
Mitski and Girlpool. 
“As a woman, I feel like I’m 
supposed to be quiet and I’m not 
supposed to say what’s on my 
mind because it might be offensive 
or emotional,” she said. “Listening 
to those bands showed me that my 
voice is valuable and doesn’t have 
to be pretty like girls are supposed 
to be.”
The main marginalized com-
munities she hopes to reach at 
Wednesday’s event are those 
struggling with mental health and 
people who are bisexual.
Best said she identiﬁ  es as part of the bisexual community, which 
she said is often ignored in popu-
lar culture because most people 
think of sexuality as either gay or 
straight, without any shades of 
gray between the two. 
Best’s music also reaches out to 
those who deal with anxiety and 
depression, hoping to commu-
nicate the importance of mental 
health. Best herself has struggled 
with these diseases and hopes to 
impact the lives of others with 
mental health difﬁ  culties.
“I just want to promote some 
healing. To heal, you have to feel 
the pain,” Best said. “A lot of my 
lyrics talk about how to be sad and 
be okay at the same time. You can 
still be sad and be okay.”  
@emmamcavoy1
emcavoy@alligator.orgConnect the Dots: A Collaboration of Marginalized Artists 
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange 
pie. Now that is a meal any FL Gator 
can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. 
Only here can you see the legendary 
bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” 
Green, playing nightly.
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you Lunch: Mon-Sun 
11a m - 3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pmITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm.  
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years 
as an alternative to alcohol used 
for ceremonial, political, medicinal, 
and social purposes. Come try our 
Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas 
in Downtown Gainesville. Open 
weekdays 12pm-12am, weekends 
12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay 
oven tandoor cooking for succulent 
Halal beef, chicken, lamb, and goat 
made fresh daily for tikka masalas, 
vindaloos,  kormas, and paneers. 
Vegetarian and vegan available too! 
M-F lunch specials include rice, naan, 
appetizers, salad, desserts. Open 
Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order 
ahead www.kababhousegainesville.
com   604 NW 13th St. 352-792-6474.BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 
NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available 
Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, 
espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or 
outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482WONG FU PRODUCTIONS 
CAME TO SPEAK
 FOR $9,000.
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
The buttery smell of popcorn waft-
ed through the air as the soundtrack 
of “Crazy Rich Asians” played over 
the sound system of the Reitz Grand 
Ballroom. Students waited excitedly 
as the lights dimmed to signal the 
start of the Asian American Student 
Union’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm festival.
The event spanned over Saturday 
and Sunday and featured a student 
submission competition and a guest 
appearance from YouTubers Wong 
Fu Productions. 
Wong Fu Productions is an Asian 
American digital ﬁ  lmmaking com-
pany that has over 3 million sub-
scribers. The group was paid about 
$9,000 to speak at the event.
“I was really excited to see them 
because I’ve been watching their 
videos for a long time and being able to get them here and meeting 
them in person was really surreal,” 
said Henry Nguyen, a 22-year-old UF 
biomedical engineering senior and 
co-president of the Asian American 
Student Union. 
On the ﬁ  rst day of the event, 25 
student ﬁ  lms were shown, 10 of 
which were submitted for the stu-
dent ﬁ  lm competition. Submissions 
came from both UF and University 
of Central Florida students.
“We didn’t know who would be 
interested, and even people from 
UCF came out,” said Lauren Vu, a 
21-year-old UF psychology senior 
and co-president of the Asian Ameri-
can Student Union. “It really showed 
us that if you give people the oppor-
tunity, they will rise to the occasion 
and the community will come out.” 
Students were able to vote online 
for their favorite submission, and on 
day two, winners were announced. 
Ingrid Wu, a 21-year-old UF adver-
tising junior, won ﬁ  rst place and re-
ceived a plaque and a $30 gift certiﬁ  -
cate to 4 Rivers Smokehouse. “Philip Wang signed my plaque 
‘Keep telling stories,’” Wu said. “I 
really liked what he wrote down, 
and especially coming from an es-
tablished ﬁ  lmmaker, it meant a lot.”
Wong Fu Productions also 
screened its ﬁ  lm “Yappie,” which 
follows the experience of being a 
young Asian professional through 
comedy and drama. The screening 
was followed by a Q&A session and 
a meet-and-greet with Philip Wang, 
one of the founders of the company.
Wong Fu Productions previously 
visited UF in 2008. It has toured col-
lege campuses for 12 years.
“It’s important to let people know 
that we have a voice and that our 
community has a voice,” Wang said. 
“We can show them the depth of 
our community, and I hope that it’s 
encouraging young creators to feel 
comfortable to share their voice.”
Exhibition and competition ﬁ  lms 
can be viewed on YouTube. 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgAASU hosted first film festival 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Wong Fu productions onstage at AASU’s ﬁ  rst FilmFest.
FILMBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower fwamilies
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds 
to advertising use caution and inves -
tigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal informa -
tion or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Biologist Wanted for Part-Time Employment: 
Run a 3D Digital PCR
Biologist with extensive digital PCR experi -
ence wanted. Envision one to two days a 
week running non-diagnostic blood samples 
for local non-profit research organization. 
Co-authorship on papers possible. Contact 
jclement@betterhumans.org      1-23-19-5-
14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
★★★★★ Five Star Pizza ★★★★★
on Tower Road is now hiring Delivery 
Drivers, Pizza Makers and Phone Personnel. 
Full Time and Part Time positions available. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St.    1-18-
19-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. GAMES: How much do you have 
to pay if you land on the “Income Tax” 
space in Monopoly?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek prefix “poly” mean in English?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of the island of Fiji?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
substance in chili peppers that makes 
the tongue burn?
5. SCIENCE: What does the acro-
nym DNA stand for?
6. MATH: What is the top number of 
a fraction called?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was the 
Secret Service code word for first lady 
Michelle Obama?
8. LAW: What is the 10th Amend-
ment to the U.S. Constitution about?
9. ANATOMY: What is the rarest 
blood type in human beings?
10. MUSIC: The film “Rhapsody 
in Blue” was about the life of which 
composer? 
Answers
1. 10 percent of your assets or $200
2. Many
3. Suva
4. Capcaicin
5. Deoxyribonucleic Acid
6. The numerator
7. Renaissance
8. Rights retained by the states
9. AB negative (less than 1 percent)
10. George Gershwin
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 14, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16New Acupuncture Patients Welcome
Interested in experiencing the physical, men -
tal and emotional benefits of Acupuncture?  
Clinic Intern, in final school year of Masters 
Program, accepting new patients starting Jan 
2019.  Appointments will take place at the 
school's clinic in downtown, Gainesville, FL.  
Appointment times:  Monday mornings and 
Tuesday afternoons. Cost:  1st appointment 
$45 and follow up appointments $35 Serious 
inquiries only: 302colette@gmail.com      1-18-
19-3-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Susan Gelfand
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Aesop’s “The __ 
in the Lion’s Skin”
4 Rips off
8 Batter’s position
14 Phone ringing 
onstage, perhaps
15 “Star Wars” critter
16 More homey
17 “Don’t know yet,” 
on skeds
18 iPad model
19 Ways to go
20 “The Iceman 
Cometh” 
playwright
23 Emmy category
24 Fed. accounting 
agency
25 Winery vessel
28 Sir Winston 
Churchill’s 
ancestral home
33 Pulled in different 
directions
34 High-end watch
35 Quick punches
39 Victim of Artemis, 
in some accounts
42 Cream of the 
crop
43 Pungent
45 “NFL on CBS” 
sportscaster 
Gumbel
47 Cocoa butter 
treat
53 Stage 
background
54 “__-ching!”
55 Single-handed
57 Passenger 
compartments, 
and an apt 
description of this 
puzzle’s circles
61 Italian sub meat
64 Facility
65 Stroller rider
66 Gets dolled up
67 British singer __ 
Ora
68 “True Detective” 
network
69 Certify
70 No longer fizzy
71 “Uh-huh”
DOWN
1 Played the part
2 Commuter’s 
destination
3 Action star 
Steven
4 Leftover5 Toddler’s scrape, 
to the toddler
6 Irish singer/
philanthropist
7 Onion exterior
8 Act frugally
9 Handy strip of 
computer icons
10 Blue, in 
Barcelona
11 Insect egg
12 Chute opening?
13 Stumbling 
sounds
21 Suffix with morph
22 Around the 30th: 
Abbr.
25 Low-lying area
26 Breezes through
27 Written words
29 Follower of boo, 
woo or yoo
30 Choose answer 
(a) instead of (b), 
say
31 “The Princess 
Bride” 
swordsman __ 
Montoya
32 Arcing shot
35 Top-grossing film 
of 1975
36 Ice pack target
37 Tube rider, 
perhaps38 Grab a chair
40 Tolkien creature
41 “The Matrix”  
hero
44 Literally pulls up 
stakes
46 Give the evil eye
48 Resurrection 
figure
49 Japanese yes
50 “True  
Detective” star 
Mahershala __
51 Like some grins52 Dress for the 
choir
56 Legally prohibit
57 Got to the  
party
58 Lightweight ball 
brand
59 Shadow
60 “¿Cómo __ 
usted?”
61 Massage venue
62 Hotel lobby 
display
63 Illuminated
By Gary Larson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, January 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 Half-__: coffee 
with a little less 
kick
4 Chocolate-
making bean
9 Polynesian 
people
14 Darth, as a youth
15 Suspect’s 
excuse
16 Muslim religion
17 Single-digit 
temps, for most
19 Exams for 
would-be attys.
20 Try to whack
21 Jazz great Blake
23 Cabinet dept. 
concerned with 
nukes
24 1984 Prince hit
29 Picket line 
participant
31 Fierce public 
protest
32 Jot down
35 Napkin’s place
36 Body of water 
between 
Connecticut and 
southeastern 
New York
42 Skater Midori
43 Muscle injury
44 Small river
48 Tribulations
52 At close range
55 Bushels
56 Ponzi scheme, 
e.g.
57 Ann __, Michigan
58 California/Nevada 
resort lake
61 Grandmaster’s 
last word ... and 
what the last 
word in 17-, 
24-, 36- and 
52-Across can be
64 Milky gemstones
65 Breed that’s 
Welsh for “dwarf 
dog”
66 Fresh
67 George of 
“Cheers”
68 Trap during a 
winter storm, say
69 Dozens of mos.
DOWN
1 Secret supplies
2 Bless using oil
3 Color-altering 
camera lens 
accessory4 Actors in a show
5 European 
mountain
6 Paris corp.
7 More adept
8 Prepare to shine 
in a bodybuilding 
contest?
9 Cultural setting
10 State with 
conviction
11 Suffix with pay
12 Templeton in 
“Charlotte’s 
Web,” e.g.
13 Cyberchats, 
briefly
18 Adventurous
22 Rain-__ bubble 
gum
24 Animals at  
home
25 Eurasian border 
mountains
26 Rights advocacy 
org.
27 “Reading Lolita in 
Tehran” setting
28 Big Apple law gp.
30 Japanese carp
33 Skin pic
34 Noted 2001 
bankruptcy
36 Talk like Daffy
37 Director 
Preminger38 More formal “Me 
neither!”
39 Lacking light
40 Bully in the “Toy 
Story” films
41 Like challenging 
push-ups
45 Surround
46 Taking a break
47 Management 
deg.
49 Capital on the 
Hudson
50 Thief during a riot51 Scatters, as 
seeds
53 Soap star Susan
54 For a specific 
purpose, as a 
committee
57 Comparable (to)
58 Aid for a disabled 
auto
59 Big lug
60 Solo of “Star 
Wars”
62 Before, in verse
63 Cinematic FX
1.  In fashion
1.  Stealing, swiping5.  T-O-K-Y-O anagram
2.  Branch of biology6.  ____ grinder
3.  Water shortage7.  ____ Beach
4.  PostureDYRETN
GANTIKKOTOY
GRAON
COYGELO
GOTRDUHRELMYT
CTSAENANSWERS: 1A-Trendy  5A-Kyoto  6A-Organ  7A-Myrtle
1D-Taking  2D-Ecology  3D-Drought  4D-Stance  B-Annie Oakley1-16-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ performed for Queen Victoria, the 
king of Italy and the president of France.
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Softball stadium on schedule for reopening
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium is on track for completion in time for the 
start of the 2019 Gators softball season. The ﬁ  rst game will be played on 
Feb. 12, which will be an exhibition against Japan. The home-opener is on 
Feb. 13 against UNF.Coach Kevin O'Sullivan and the 
Florida baseball team released their 
full roster on Tuesday. The season 
begins on Feb. 15 against Long 
Beach State.Mark My Words / Opinion
Imagine you’re a 
Clemson Tiger, 
fresh off your 
National-Champi-
onship win over 
Alabama, pulling up to 
the White House. 
You put in count-
less hours of work in 
the weight room, ﬁ  lm 
room and on the practice ﬁ  eld, fought 
through injuries and found a way to 
navigate through 15 games with an 
undefeated record for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 1897. 
You walk with your teammates 
through the entrance hall of the 
world’s most famous home, down 
the hallway, and into the State Din-
ing Room, where a s**tstorm of re-
porters are waiting.
You’ve earned a dinner with the 
president, and it’s probably the only 
time in your life you’ll have this ex-perience. How exciting!
After entering the din-
ing room you, approach 
a long, candlelit, mahog-
any table and grab some 
ﬁ  ne china. Then you look 
down and… McDonald's? 
Wendy's? Burger King? 
Pizza? 
You stopped for Mc-
Donald's before you got on the plane 
to D.C., and now, it’s being served 
to you by the President of the United 
States. 
What. A. Joke. 
A lavish meal was the least of 
your expectations. Prime rib, not 
McRib. Lobster, not Filet ‘O Fish. 
But there’s a government shut-
down. The White House kitchen staff 
can’t even come to work. So Donald 
Trump ordered out Monday night, 
and he chose JUNK FOOD for his es-Trump gave Clemson the 
short end of the stick
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The game wasn’t pretty, 
not by a long shot. 
Florida players couldn’t 
ﬁ  nish at the basket, three-
pointers were bouncing off 
the front of the rim and slop-
py defense allowed Mississip-
pi State to skate into the paint  
for easy buckets.
It came down to the wire 
for the fourth game in a 
row, but Florida, yet again, 
couldn’t pull away with the 
win.
It lost at the buzzer this 
time.
Bulldogs guard Quinndary 
Weatherspoon received the 
inbounds pass, noticed the 
hole in the middle of the 
court and attacked the basket 
before UF center Kevarrius 
Hayes could slide to draw a 
charge.
All Hayes could do was 
watch as the ball bounced off the backboard and into the 
net, and listen as the referee 
blew his whistle signaling a 
foul.
The Gators men’s basket-
ball team couldn’t ﬁ  nish for 
the third time in four games, 
succumbing to the same mis-
takes that have plagued the 
team since the start of 2019 
— lack of effort on the defen-
sive end and a failure to win 
games in the ﬁ  nal minutes.
No. 24 Mississippi State 
edged out Florida 71-68 on 
Tuesday night in Starkville, 
Mississippi, UF’s second loss 
to a ranked-opponent in as 
many games.
Guard KeVaughn Al-
len dropped a game-high 17 
points on 5-of-12 shooting 
with three assists and two 
rebounds. He anchored the 
offense in the second half of 
the game, drawing fouls and 
getting to the free-throw line.
No player really stood out, Florida fails to close out Mississippi State in ﬁ  nal seconds
MEN'S BASKETBALL SIDEBAR
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s basketball team’s game 
against Mississippi State was a microcosm of its 
season.
Mississippi State three-point spurts, offensive 
lapses and an eventual late collapse leading to 
defeat.
Ongoing loops of quick runs and scoring 
droughts characterized Florida’s 71-68 loss to 
No. 24 Mississippi State in Starkville, Mississip-
pi, on Tuesday as the Gators dropped their third 
SEC matchup of the season. 
UF (9-7, 1-3 SEC) made its ﬁ  rst ﬁ  eld goal — 
a jumper from senior guard KeVaughn Allen — 
less than 15 seconds into the contest. It then 
missed its next seven shots, all but two of which 
were from three-point range. The other two 
shots were missed jumpers from guards Jalen 
Hudson and Noah Locke. 
Freshman guard Andrew Nembhard ended 
the drought with the team’s ﬁ  rst make from 
deep, stopping a 9-2 MSU run. Allen and forward 
Dontay Bassett got a couple shots to fall to give 
the Gators a rhythm.A 9-0 Bulldogs run followed.
Guard Lamar Peters was responsible for all 
nine of the Bulldogs’ points during that span, 
nailing three from beyond the arc.  
But Florida, a team whose offensive identity 
is built around the deep ball, continued to rely 
on those three-point shots. Seven of the Gators’ 
ﬁ  rst 12 attempts were from three-point range, 
and they shot 10-for-31 on the night. Mississippi 
State (13-3, 1-2 SEC) also made 10 threes, but 
it took them almost half as many shots (17) to 
get there.
When the Gators did get those three-point 
shots to fall, it usually sparked a small run that 
allowed them to either cut into MSU’s lead or 
take a lead of their own. 
After missing six straight shots, Florida closed 
out the ﬁ  rst half on an 8-2 run thanks to a pair of 
threes by Keyontae Johnson, one at the buzzer.
The second half started the same way.
It was a 9-0 burst headed by Johnson, Nemb-
hard and Locke, that gave Florida a 45-40 advan-
tage by the under-16 media timeout. 
And it was succeeded by a drought that saw 
the Gators make just one of their next seven ﬁ  eld Gators' loss to Bulldogs was a 
rollercoaster ride of runs and droughts
SEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 16Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF guard KeVaughn Allen scored a game-high 17 points on 5-of-12 shooting during Florida's 71-68 loss 
to Mississippi State on Tuesday in Starkville, Mississippi. 
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Two Gators gymnasts got 
more than just a win to remem-
ber Florida’s first meet of 2019 
by.
Two standouts from No. 3 
UF’s meet against Missouri, se-
nior Alicia Boren and freshman 
Trinity Thomas, were honored 
by the SEC this week.
Boren was named SEC Gym-
nast of the Week for her efforts 
as an all-arounder in the Mis-
souri meet. She posted a 39.575 
total score, which ties the UF 
record for highest all-around 
score in an opening meet. The 
SEC Gymnast of the Week title 
is Boren’s third in her colle-
giate career.
Boren’s floor routine drew 
particular attention, scoring a 
9.925 that tied freshmen team-
mate Nya Reed’s score for 
the best of the night. Success 
on the floor is no stranger to 
Boren, however, as she won 
the SEC title and the regional 
title for the floor last season.
Boren won four events in 
the Missouri meet, including a 
9.900 on the balance beam, and 
with one more event win dur-
ing the season she’ll become 
the 15th UF gymnast with 40 or 
more individual event wins.
Thomas was named co-
SEC Freshman of the Week, 
along with Auburn’s Derrian 
Gobourne. She was one of the 
team’s three all-arounders on 
the night along with Boren. The achievement that likely 
netted Thomas the award was 
her score on the uneven bars, 
scoring an outstanding 9.950. 
That wasn’t her only stand-
out event of the night, how-
ever. Thomas also placed 3rd 
amongst the Gators with a 
9.900 on her floor routine. 
Thomas is also the only 
member of the U.S. National 
Team that is on a collegiate 
roster in 2019. Thomas helped 
lead USA Gymnastics to a gold 
medal at the 2018 Pan Ameri-
can Gymnastics Champion-
ships and won silver at that 
same event for all-around and 
the uneven bars.
The Gators, which de-
feated the Missouri Tigers in 
Gainesville, will turn to Boren 
and Thomas to continue their 
momentum when they face off 
against another Tigers team in 
No. 5 LSU at the Pete Maravich 
Assembly Center on Friday. 
The match will be the team’s 
second-straight grudge match, 
as LSU was the other SEC team 
that defeated the Gators in the 
team’s regular season schedule 
last year as well as in every 
regular-season matchup be-
tween the two since 2011. 
Unlike Missouri, LSU also 
defeated UF in the 2018 SEC 
Championships, and the team 
will look to start its season 2-0 
and avenge its loss in the post-
season last year.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgTwo Gators earn SEC honors for first week of competition
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman Trinity Thomas earned SEC Freshman of the Week for her performance during Florida’s 
197.30-196.45 win over Missouri on Friday. Thomas scored a 9.950 on the uneven bars and a 9.900 on her 
floor routine, for which she finished third.
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Rhonda Faehn, the former 
head coach of the Gators’ gym-
nastics team, has been relieved of 
her duties as a consultant for the 
University of Michigan’s women’s 
gymnastics squad less than three 
days after her hiring.
The university signed Faehn to 
a contract through May 31 of 2019 
for $15,000 a month, according 
to the Detroit Free Press. Michi-
gan paid Faehn the $15,000 she 
would have made this month due 
to a clause that required the uni-
versity to give her a one-month’s 
notice if they were to let her go 
without paying her salary.
According to an article pub-
lished by the New York Post, 
Faehn reportedly drew criticism 
from Michigan’s board of regents 
for her involvement in the Larry 
Nassar case, where the former-
USA Gymnastics team doctor was accused and subsequently con-
victed of sexual abuse toward his 
patients. Faehn stepped down as 
the senior vice president of the 
women’s USA Gymnastics pro-
gram four months after Nassar 
received his sentence on Jan. 24 
amidst a call for her resignation 
by Olympic gold-medalist Aly Ra-
isman.  
Faehn was the head coach for 
13 years at Florida and brought 
its gymnastics team a National 
Championship three years in a 
row from 2013-2015 as well as 
10 top-five NCAA Championship 
finishes and four SEC Champi-
onships. The Gators hadn’t won 
a national title before Faehn be-
came the coach.
Faehn left the program in 2015 
to accept a position as senior vice 
president for USA Gymnastics 
and was replaced by current UF 
gymnastics coach Jenny Row-
land. Her stint there only lasted 
two and a half years. Since taking over, Rowland 
has an SEC Championship with 
Florida in 2016 and has guided 
the squad to a top-four ranking 
in every year she’s coached in 
Gainesville.
Faehn traveled with the team 
to its quad meet in Tuscaloosa, 
where the Wolverines faced off 
against Alabama, Bowling Green 
and Denver on Friday, but on 
Sunday, her hiring was deemed 
as a mistake.
“It was the wrong decision, 
and I apologize,” Warde Manuel, 
Michigan’s Director of Athletics, 
said in a release. “Our student-
athletes are our highest priority, 
and I want to do everything in my 
power to support them fully and 
put the focus back on their ath-
letic performance.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFormer UF gymnastics head coach fired from University of Michigan
Alligator File Photo
Former UF gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn was dismissed by the 
University of Michigan less than a week after being hired.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSteemed guests. 
I understand the president has 
a place in his heart for a Big Mac. 
We’re talking about a guy who 
pushes a button and a server walks 
into the Oval Ofﬁ  ce to deliver him 
a Coca Cola. 
But if you’re worth $3.1 billion, 
you’ve got to serve something bet-
ter than a colder version of what 
the players eat on their cheat day. 
Support some local Washington 
D.C. restaurants instead of massive 
corporations that have served bil-
lions of customers. You can afford 
it. 
And from a Clemson standpoint: 
you invest a lot of money into the 
nutrition of your football team. 
You have a nutritionist, Paul Har-
rington, and chef, Donna McCain, 
solely to serve your team and moni-
tor their eating habits. McCain even 
offers cooking classes to the players 
so they don’t eat unhealthy on their 
own. I’m sure they had salads.
These players train all season to 
maintain their bodies. After win-
ning the national title, I bet they 
cheated on their diets more than a 
little bit. So McDonald’s, Wendy’s 
and Burger King have likely all been 
on the menu over the last week.
But when you go to the White 
House for a meal, you expect un-
forgettable food in an unforgettable 
place with an unforgettable person-
ality. 
I’m sure none of the players will 
forget the 300 hamburgers they 
consumed. People tend to remem-
ber the times they get the short end 
of the stick. 
Mark Stine is assistant sports ed-
itor at the Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @mstinejr or contact him at 
mstine@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg 14
other than Allen.
Guard Andrew Nembhard tied his season-
high of 13 points and garnered eight assists 
but turned the ball over six times and missed 
seven threes.
Guards Noah Locke (12 points) and 
Keyontae Johnson (11 points) each scored in 
double digits, but they were limited in what 
they could do against Mississippi State due 
to defensive pressure. Locke only attempted 
four three pointers, his lowest since Florida’s loss to Michigan State on Dec. 8.
The biggest difference in the game was 
the shooting. Mississippi State (13-3, 1-2 
SEC) took more controlled shots and had a 
higher shooting percentage because of it. It 
shot 53.1 percent from the ﬁ  eld, compared to 
UF’s 42.4 percent. 
The Bulldogs shot 58.8 percent from be-
yond the arc, while the Gators (9-7, 1-3 SEC) 
shot a measly 32.3 percent. 
The reason the game was so close, how-
ever, was because of the turnovers. Missis-
sippi State turned the ball over 15 times, 
leading to 21 points for Florida. The Gators committed 11 turnovers, but the Bulldogs 
only turned those into 12 points. 
It allowed UF to stay in the game late and 
gave it a chance to win at the end.
It just couldn’t close the contest out, yet 
again.
As Weatherspoon drove to the basket, 
those hopes diminished as the ball fell 
through the net.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Nembhard: 13 points, eight assists and six turnovers
goals.
Still, Florida remained 
within reach of a victory un-
til the very end, as has been 
the case for every one of its 
conference losses this sea-
son. 
The Gators pulled down 
12 offensive boards com-
pared to six by MSU, scored 
21 points off turnovers to the 
Bulldogs’ 12 and guarded the 
perimeter well for most of the 
game.
But their inability to make 
consistent shots caught up 
with them as the time di-
minished, and the Bulldogs, 
who shot 53.1% on the night, 
took advantage of Florida’s 
notorious inability to close 
out games.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgSIDEBAR,  from pg 14The Gators pulled down 12 ofesnive rebounds
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF guard Keyontae Johnson dropped 11 points during Florida's 71-68 loss to Mississippi State.
