We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGoFundMe raises thousands for crash survivor
A 6-month-old’s family was killed in the crash, pg 5
Dave & Busters breaks ground
The entertainment business will open summer 2020, pg 4Gators win despite late comeback
Florida earned a 70-62 victory over St. Joseph’s 
in the Charleston Classic, staving off a late push, 
pg 14
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 39
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
SARA ZANDY IS ONE OF 
ONL Y THREE IDENTIFIED 
KURDISH UF UNDERGRADS 
By Grethel Aguila
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Sara Zandy closes her 
eyes, she sees mountains covered 
in ﬂ  owers in the springtime. Pome-
granates are the size of a hand. 
Waterfalls outline the landscape. 
Villagers make bread and drink tea.
To Zandy, that’s Kurdistan, a 
region encompassing portions of 
Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran.
Zandy, who is president of the 
Kurdish Student Association, is 
one of about 20,000 Kurds living in the U.S. and one of three identiﬁ  ed 
undergraduate Kurdish students at 
UF. Her childhood memories of vis-
iting Iraqi Kurdistan are ﬁ  lled with 
images of serene areas where the 
best thing to do is picnic. 
But that’s not the reality for the 
rest of the region.
Turkish military forces invaded 
Kurdish-controlled northern Syr-
ia on Oct. 9 following President 
Donald Trump’s withdrawal of 
American forces from the region. 
The decision was widely criticized 
by Kurdish forces, with a leader 
of Syrian Kurdish forces calling it 
“akin to genocide,” according to 
the Associated Press.
As of last Friday, a senior U.S. coalition commander told the AP 
the partnership between the U.S. 
and Syrian Kurdish forces ﬁ  ght-
ing the Islamic State group remain 
strong, despite the invasion. 
However, Zandy, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology junior specializing 
in behavioral and cognitive neuro-
science, said she considers what’s 
happening in Syria legally sanc-
tioned ethnic cleansing and an at-
tempt to wipe out her people.
“It’s like if you live in Florida 
and another American lives in 
Washington,” she said. “You’re 
both American.”
Zandy’s parents left Iraq as 
Kurdish political refugees in 1996 
after persecution of Kurds began under Saddam Hussein. It was a 
life or death situation, Zandy says. 
They chose a new life for their fam-
ily in America, she says. 
She fears the potential for geno-
cide could affect as many as two 
million Syrian Kurds. According 
to the BBC, Kurds are the largest 
ethnic minority in Syria, making 
up between 10 to 15 percent of the 
country’s total population of 22 
million. The potential for genocide 
may mean the loss of their identity, 
because Kurdish language and cul-
ture has evolved differently in Syr-
ia, leaving Syrian Kurdish culture 
with no written history. 
But as the president of the Kurd-
ish Student Association, Zandy doesn’t need books to share her 
culture. 
Zandy has not always been in 
touch with her roots. When she 
was younger, she was embarrassed 
by her culture and yearned to just 
be a “regular American girl”, she 
said.
But her view of her culture 
changed her freshman year of high 
school when her family drove to 
Virginia to attend a celebration of 
Newroz, the Kurdish new year. She 
was surprised to see kids her age 
dressing in traditional gowns and 
speaking in Kurdish.
“Something in that moment made 
me proud of being Kurdish,” she said.‘Doing my job as a Kurdish woman’: UF student reﬂ  ects on Turkish invasion
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE 
DEEMED RESOLUTION 
AS ‘ILLEGITIMATE’
By Emma McAvoy
Alligator Staff Writer
The resolution to impeach UF 
Student Body President Michael 
Murphy failed at the Student Gov-
ernment judiciary committee meet-
ing Thursday morning because it 
was deemed illegitimate. 
Some of the resolution’s student 
authors said this meeting was in-
valid, which is why they didn’t at-
tend. Now, senators on both sides 
of the impeachment debate are 
at odds over how to interpret SG 
laws. What happens next is uncer-
tain.   
UF Student Senate judiciary 
chairman Branden Pearson wrote in an email the impeachment body 
won’t consider the impeachment 
resolution due to his committee’s 
decision. 
Ben Lima, a co-author and In-
spire Party leader, said if Emily 
Dunson, the Senate president and 
leader of the impeachment body, 
doesn’t schedule the hearing, then 
the authors of the resolution will 
consider appealing the decision to 
the SG Supreme Court. 
Judiciary committee member 
Madeleine Bennett emailed The 
Alligator, saying the resolution in-
cluded factual inaccuracies. 
“Primarily, the resolution al-
leges that student fees were ex-
pended to ‘support a political par-
ty,’” the email said. “However, the 
University of Florida spokesperson, 
Steve Orlando, stated the exact op-
posite on several occasions.” Judiciary committee fails 
Impeachment Resolution
FEATURE FRIDAYIMPEACHMENT
REMEMBRANCE
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Flo Turcotte holds a candle during the Transgender Day of Remembrance vigil at Depot Park 
Wednesday night. More than 50 people attended to remember those who lost their lives to 
transphobic violence. Read the full story on page 8.
SEE KURDS,  PAGE 10SEE IMPEACHMENT,  PAGE 10T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  53°2  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
21st annual ‘ Trashformations’
When: Today, 6-8 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: See how Alachua County 
middle school, high school 
and college students transform 
“waste” into creative works of art 
on Nov. 22 from 6 to 8 p.m. The 
Florida Museum of Natural History 
will display winning entries from 
the 21st annual Trashformations 
through Monday, Dec. 2. For 
more information or to complete 
the online application, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
trashformations or call 352-548-
1297.Taps for Tortoises
When: Saturday, 1 to 5:30 p.m.
Where: Swamp Head Brewery, 
3650 SW 42nd Ave.
What: This fundraiser event 
benefits Ashton Biological 
Preserve and features a special 
talk by the Ashton team at 3:30 
p.m. "Stubbies and Steins" food 
truck will have food available for 
purchase. All donations and $1 
proceeds from each sale of the 
specialty gopher tortoise beer 
will benefit Ashton Biological 
Preserve.
The 7th Annual Survivors of 
Suicide Candlelight Vigil
When: Saturday, 10 a.m. to 12 
p.m.
Where: Cofrin Nature Park, 4810 
N.W. Eighth Ave.What: Activities will start at 
10:00 a.m. with the ceremony 
beginning at 11 a.m. This event is 
free and open to the community, 
and refreshments will be 
provided. The Judy Broward 
Survivors of Suicide Memory 
Garden was established in 2013 
with the purpose of serving those 
who have experienced the loss 
of a loved one to suicide. The 
garden offers a space for peaceful 
reflection to those who have 
experienced any kind of loss and 
is also open to the community for 
those who wish to find retreat 
amidst the beauty and comfort 
offered by the garden. 
Generation Sketch Comedy: 
“We Got HOT”
When: Dec. 6, 8:30 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom West
What: Gainesville's Longest 
Running Sketch Comedy Troupe 
is back with their Fall show. 
Generation Sketch Comedy has 
been providing laughs to the UF 
and Gainesville community since 
the Spring of 2006. Admission is 
a donation of your choice, but the 
recommended amount is $2. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 39
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeChloe Greenberg, Lonnie Numa, Danny Khor, 
Manny Rea, Allessandra Inzinna, Rachel Kelsey, 
Samia Lagmis, Ashlyn JonesMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
Happy Thanksgiving!
Happy Thanksgiving!
Have a
will not publish from Wednesday, 11/27 — Friday, 11/29
Happy Thanksgiving!
will not publish from Wednesday, 11/27 — Friday, 11/29
Happy Thanksgiving!
Happy Thanksgiving!
theFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
publix.com/orangeandblue
Order Now
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE 
SHOWED UP TO THE EVENT
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Ibram X. Kendi spoke about dismantling 
oppressive systems, the role of the church in 
racism and teaching African American his-
tory in Alachua County Public Schools — all 
while holding his 3-year-old baby in his arms.
“Are we going to be on the side of 
struggling against racist policies, or are 
we going to be on the side of racism?” he 
asked.“Because there’s no in-between.” 
Nuclear war, climate change and bigotry 
are crippling the nation, Kendi said during 
his event at the Phillips Center for the Per-forming Arts Thursday night. His third New 
York Times best-selling novel, “How to Be 
an Antiracist,” was for sale and a signing 
event followed his speech. 
Kendi addressed the crowd of about 
1,230 people about how racist policies, 
which disproportionately affect communi-
ties of color, include things like  mass incar-
ceration for nonviolent drug offenses and 
voter suppression. 
Kendi, who was diagnosed with stage 
4 colon cancer in January 2018, compared 
systemic racism to a tumor. He said two 
approaches exist to treating racism: either 
cutting out the figurative tumor, or flooding 
the body with antiracist policies. 
“The person who does nothing in the face of a cancer … in the face of racism … 
what’s going to happen?” he said. “It’s only 
going to get worse.”
Kendi’s visit to Gainesville came days 
after black female students were called ra-
cial slurs in a SNAP van, which is a free 
transportation service for UF students simi-
lar to Uber.
In this case, the male student’s racism 
was passed down as learned behavior from 
parents or other sources, Kendi said. 
Earlier in the day, Gainesville Mayor 
Lauren Poe and Kendi held an event at 
the Alachua County Library Headquarters 
Branch discussing his book. About 250 
people attended that event, where Kendi 
dove deeper into topics concerning Ala-
chua County Public School’s achievement 
gap and how black individuals can be rac-
ist, even if the community is not.
He also spoke about the intersections of 
race, gender, sexuality, class and how U.S. 
history must be understood when talking 
about racism.
“People who are asserting this nation is 
post-racial … what they are simultaneously 
saying is that the racial groups on the lower 
ends of the disparity … are on the end be-
cause they are inferior,” he said. 
Kendi was a UF assistant professor of 
African American history from 2015 to 
2017, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
Raja Rahim, a UF history doctoral stu-
dent, became Kendi’s mentee after she 
took his class in 2015. She said students 
can learn from Kendi about how racist 
ideas and policies have been used to divide 
rather than unify.
“This is one of the ways, not only for 
black and brown, but for all people of all 
races can come together and rewrite how 
they think about race,” she said. 
@Aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgNew York Times best-selling author, 
former UF assistant professor talks racism 
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Ibram X. Kendi answers an audience question during a Q&A session moderated 
by author and UF history professor Jack Davis while Kendi’s daughter sits in his 
lap at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Thursday night. About 1,230 
people attended the event.
The ding of arcade 
games and cheers of 
bar patrons as their fa -
vorite teams score will 
soon ring throughout 
Celebration Pointe. 
Construction has 
begun on Gainesville’s 
future Dave & Buster’s 
location, a bar and ar -
cade set to open sum -
mer 2020 at 4949 Cel -
ebration Pointe Ave., 
said Ed Forler, Vice 
President of Opera -
tions at Dave & Bust -
ers. 
Though Dave & 
Buster’s has eight loca -
tions in Florida, their 
management decided 
to open a ninth at Cel -
ebration Pointe after 
three years of plan -
ning. The new location 
will be 19,000-square-
feet, Forler said. 
The restaurant and 
entertainment chain 
has been in operation 
for 37 years, appealing 
to college students in 
Gainesville who may 
have grown up going 
to Dave & Buster’s 
with their families, 
said Forler. 
While Dave & Bust -er’s is well known 
for its arcade games, 
Forler said college 
students may also be 
interested in watching 
football games in the 
entertainment center’s 
restaurant area. 
“We have some 
of the largest screens 
for TV viewing so, 
for those that aren’t 
traveling on the away 
games, it’s a great 
place to meet,” Forler 
said. 
Hannah Lamberg, a 
21-year-old UF English 
and psychology senior, 
recently heard about 
the upcoming opening. 
She said there are psy -
chological benefits to 
occasional competitive 
gameplay, and looks 
forward to the plea -
sures the future arcade 
has to offer. 
“Hanging out with 
friends in a friendly, 
competitive space is 
positive for develop -
ment,” Lamberg said. 
@priya_dames
pdames@alligator.orgDave & Buster’s 
construction begins 
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
THE FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT 
BUSINESS WILL OPEN 
SUMMER 2020FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
Now enrolling for highly specialized graduate programs  in:
Scan this code to start your 
Master’s Degree  today →FINANCE 
 →INFORMATION SYSTEMS &  
OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT
 →REAL ESTATE →ENTREPRENEURSHIP NEW! Online or on-campus
 →INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS NEW! Online or on-campus 
 →MANAGEMENT NEW! Online or on-campus
 →ACCOUNTINGEarn a  MASTER’S DEGREE  in business   
in ONE YEAR OR LESS
No work experience required!THREE OF FOUR FAMIL Y MEMBERS DIED 
AS A RESULT OF THE COLLISION 
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer
After a 6-month-old baby became the sole survivor of a car 
crash on Waldo Road, hundreds have raised almost $39,000 in 
two days in support.
On Nov. 16, Christopher Hesling, 30, his wife Brittany Trowell 
Hesling, 31, and their two children collided head-on with a 2007 
Toyota RAV4 while driving east on Waldo Road, or State Road 
24. Authorities have not yet identified the Toyota driver, who 
also died in the crash, because of severe fire damage to the body.
The Heslings and their 4-year-old son Jack died as a result of 
the crash and are survived by their 6-month-old daughter Mag-
gie, according to the GoFundMe page. 
Jack’s kidneys were able to be donated and Maggie is being 
cared for by family, said Emily Burnside, a life-long friend of Brit-
tany and one of the fundraiser organizers.
The family was driving home to St. Marys, Georgia after cel-
ebrating Brittany Trowell Hesling’s birthday at the Clearwater 
Marine Aquarium when the accident happened, she said. 
“All the money is going to be in a trust for Maggie so that 
whoever has guardianship of her and raises her can make sure 
that she has a great life,” Burnside, 31, said. 
Jenna Campbell, who worked with Chris Hesling for three 
years at a family waterpark and aquatic center in Statesboro, 
Georgia, helped Burnside organize the GoFundMe. She said the 
initial $5,000 goal was met within an hour.
The donations, which are continually growing, surpassed the 
following $10,000, $25,000 and $30,000 goals, Campbell, 32, 
said. The current goal is set at $50,000, the fund has over 600 
donors, and the page has been shared over 10,000 times as of 
Thursday night.
“It immediately took off,” Campbell said. “I feel like a lot of 
people are feeling the need to give because they knew them per-
sonally.” 
When Chris and Brittany married in 2012, it was the first wed-
ding Campbell and her current fiance attended together. She said 
Chris was “always full of laughs” and Brittany was “that light in the room.” 
“They always, both of them, just had this sense of compassion 
about the people that they were around,” she said.  
Burnside and Brittany Trowell Hesling were born one day 
apart and grew up together as best friends. Burnside said. The 
couple was high school sweethearts, who generously gave to oth-
ers without asking for anything in return. 
“All of our worlds are just shattered, but we have one little 
glimmer of hope left,” Burnside said. “We have a little piece of 
Brittany and a little piece of Chris, and that’s Maggie. She’s per-
fect in every way.”   
@lina_ruiz48 
lruiz@alligator.org Campaign raises $39,000 for 6-month-old car crash survivor
Courtesy to the Alligator
Maggie Hesling
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Hesling family smiles in a family photo. Six-month-old Maggie was the sole survivor of a car crash.
EditorialFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
SG Budget Crisis: Winners and (mostly) losers
As usual, it all started with an email.
The subject line “SG Allocations: 
Funds available!” may lead you to 
believe that funds are available. That 
is most certainly not the case.
The email, sent to leadership of organiza-
tions under Student Activities and Involve-
ment, merely goes over how much funding 
has been allocated and how much has yet to 
be allocated. To say that funds are available 
is to ignore the glaring fact that the amount 
of funding requested by student organizations exceeded 
the amount originally budgeted for within an hour of 
requests opening on Oct. 2.
I do not regret likening the new budget process to 
the Hunger Games, as that’s mostly what it turned out 
to be. 
Docutraq, the system that we use to submit budget 
requests, crashed for the ﬁ  rst time at 8 a.m. when re-
quests opened. By 8:56 a.m., the amount of money re-
quested by student organizations had already exceeded 
the $812,137 originally allocated for Spring. 
Not every request submitted by 8:56 a.m. will be ap-
proved in full, so requests sent after may still receive 
funding; however, the number of additional requests 
that will be approved is an unknown variable. Addition-
ally, an unknown amount of money that wasn’t spent in 
the Fall will roll over to the Spring. If we assume that 15 
percent of the alloted student organization budget from 
Fall ($557,727.71) went unspent, then about $83,659 
should be rolling over, which, given a little back-of-the-
envelope math, means that requests submitted by 9:17 
a.m. and potentially including the minutes after should 
be in the clear. 
To be clear, I just picked that 15 percent number 
since it sounds reasonable. The people who have the actual numbers just aren’t exactly the com-
municating type, which is why the public is 
cursed with my guesstimates.
All in all, there were 1,399 submitted 
budget requests and only 370 of them were 
submitted by the soft cut-off of 8:56 a.m. Be-
hind the 370 requests are 158 organizations. 
Behind the other 1,029 requests are 307 or-
ganizations, 200 of which did not submit any 
requests by the soft cut-off. Most of those 200 
organizations will not receive funding — and 
they don’t know that yet.
We need to let the organizations that are still in ﬁ  s-
cal limbo know the reality of their situation so they can 
make alternative plans ASAP — but we aren’t. Instead, 
we’re still sending out cheery “funds available” emails 
that fail to acknowledge how terrible, horrible, no good, 
very bad this budget cycle has gotten.
Anyone who’s seen the budget request data knows 
it’s beyond obvious that the majority of requests sub-
mitted will be denied. By 9:44 a.m., the amount of 
money requested for the Spring exceeded the amount of 
money that we budgeted for student organizations for 
the entire school year ($1,376,531). We could — and 
should — have closed requests by 9:30 a.m. on Oct. 2 to 
save people the trouble of submitting requests that will 
almost certainly be denied.
This new system was supposed to be fair. It’s our 
fault that Docutraq crashed, which directly resulted in 
organizations not being able to submit their requests on 
time. It’s our fault that we kept budget requests open 
even when there was no hope of them getting approved. 
Does that sound fair to you?
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science senior and 
serves as the Murphree Area Senator
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.A loud noise wakes you up from your midnight nap. 
It’s ﬁ  nally the end of the semester and you’re look-
ing forward to winter break but deﬁ  nitely not ex-
ams. You haven’t been sleeping much, but the 
tables at Library West always serve as a nice sub-
stitute for a bed. 
Looking around for the source of commotion, you quick-
ly become confused by the lack of occupants in the library.
You start to wonder how late it is, and why there aren’t 
even people at the reception desk. 
The only other person in the room seems to be a man 
crudely dressed as Santa Claus.
It’s clearly time to leave.
As you try to escape, the old man reaches over and takes 
something out of his rucksack. 
For some reason, you decide to stay and see what he 
has to offer you, probably because you’ve seen too many 
Lifetime movies.
In the palm of his hand, you see...
Darts and Laurels
Sadly, Darts and Laurels is coming to an end this se-
mester, but amidst these hard times, we ﬁ  gure the best way 
to let off some steam is to look for the good in life — and to 
call some people out too.
We have to celebrate both Lizzo and Billie Eilish being 
nominated for all four major Grammy nominations by giv-
ing them both laurels. Thanks for working hard and repre-
senting female creativity and capability. 
Too bad the Grammys failed to nominate a single woman 
for rap album of the year, but we’re going to let that one 
slide for now. 
It looks like other people are having trouble represent-
ing the wants of the public and MSNBC has recently come 
under ﬁ  re for this on Twitter. The news organization hosted 
the most recent Democratic debate on Wednesday and gave 
Andrew Yang the least speaking time, despite his ranking 
sixth in popularity polls. Alongside this, Yang was given the 
most absurd questions and received no mentions in their 
daily programming. We have to give MSNBC a dart for ig-
noring the wants of the public and not being mature enough 
to conduct a debate without inserting their own bias.
Thankfully, at least one organization has begun to in-
corporate public opinion. Following several years of public 
controversy, Chick-ﬁ  l-A has decided to stop funding anti-
LGBTQ+ organizations, and we have to give them a laurel
for being somewhat supportive of the community. Hope-
fully, they can follow this with policies ensuring safe work-
places for LGBTQ+ employees next.
The Salesian Catholic order, an organization dedicated 
to child advocacy, has hurt the community it aims to serve. 
CNN recently reported an investigation conducted on one 
of its members, Father Luk Delft, who was allowed to work 
with vulnerable families for years despite being a convicted 
pedophile. 
This monster deserves way more than a dart, but we’re 
going to have to settle for that for now.
At the very least, we can ﬁ  nd comfort in the fact that 
Twitter has been making fun of President Trump for his ter-
rible handwritten letter, and we have to give him a dart for 
embarrassing our country yet again with his terrible writing.
Hopefully, we won’t have to deal with him as our presi-
dent for much longer.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7 
Impeachment is a strong and often fear-
lessly used word, so much so that the 
popularity of the word on Merriam-
Webster’s website jumped 3,600 percent 
the day House Speaker Nancy Pelosi an-
nounced an impeachment inquiry into Presi-
dent Trump. By all means, impeachment is 
a rallying cry that screams justice, account-
ability and the need for marginalized voices 
to be loud and clear in the face of adversity. 
It’s for these reasons that our conscience and 
decency as a student body force us to begin 
the process of impeaching  president Michael 
Murphy.
Murphy’s affiliation with the Trump cam-
paign is of no surprise to anyone who’s been 
keeping up with SG, as consistently reflected 
in his Instagram account, and his father’s lob-bying efforts are available to anyone through 
some digging on the FEC website. Normally, 
I’d be inclined to disagree with his views and 
move on were it not for his emails detailing 
his collusion with the Trump Victory Commit-
tee, as reported on by the Alligator. In these 
emails, laid out for all to see, is the informa-
tion that so many of us already suspected: 
Murphy openly collaborating with a mem-
ber of Trump’s reelection campaign to bring 
the president’s son to campus at the Trump 
campaign’s instigation. As far back as the 
4th of July, it looks as if he had no intention 
of bringing a diverse or politically challeng-
ing speaker, but one who would fit his views 
and bring a de facto campaign stop to UF’s 
campus. The use of $50,000 of student fees to 
fund the bigotry and campaigning that Trump Jr. brought to campus, including at least one 
rape joke, is a disgusting abuse of power that 
only impeachment can remedy.
Murphy’s actions speak far louder than his 
words ever could. In the face of rising sexual 
assault on campus, he calls emergency blue 
light phones “a tremendous waste of student 
fees” and fails in his duty to serve students 
by promoting a useless and often buggy app. 
Phone batteries die, but emergency blue light 
phones don’t.
When students are increasingly report-
ing mental health crises on our campus, the 
Counseling and Wellness Center remains un-
derstaffed, underfunded and maintains a dan-
gerously excessive wait time that Murphy’s 
actions have no doubt contributed to. But the 
biggest insult to the student body is how po-
litical division, racism and bigotry on college 
campuses are all increasing at alarming rates, 
yet he goes out of his way to find a major 
perpetrator of such hate to speak on our cam-pus. Normally, I’d ask if he has learned noth-
ing from the experience UF had with Richard 
Spencer, but his actions clearly point out that 
he hasn’t. He even has gone so far as to hob-
ble SG’s Bridges Minority Outreach Program 
by refusing to appoint staff to it, thus actively 
preventing SG from continuing a previously 
promising program to recruit high school stu-
dents from underrepresented communities to 
attend UF. Murphy’s priorities are clear, and 
they do not lie in using SG to center marginal-
ized voices.
It’s time for students to let their voices be 
heard. It’s time for our student leaders to be 
held accountable for their actions and to real-
ize that they work for us, not the other way 
around. Now more than ever, it’s time to im-
peach.
Spencer Gorelick is a member of the 
Student Healthcare Advisory Board and a 
public health juniorIt’s time to impeach Michael Murphy Letter to the Editor
On Tuesday, nearly 100 UF 
students showed up to a 
speaker event and behaved 
appallingly.
Yoni Michanie, 26, a rep-
resentative of the Committee for Ac-
curacy in Middle East Reporting in 
America (CAMERA) and a reserve 
member of the Israel Defense Forc-
es was invited by various pro-Israel 
groups on campus to speak about the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Michanie’s speech, titled, “Why 
There is No Palestinian State,” dis-
cussed the need to humanize Pales-
tinians, making a distinction between 
people and leadership. 
The two problems are not in the 
speaker, the speech or even the 
choice to protest.
The first lies in the protestors’ 
choice not to listen to the speaker and 
have an open discussion, and to hold 
signs accusing him of being a Nazi, a 
war criminal and a filthy colonialist.
I am an avid proponent of free 
speech, so my problem isn’t with the 
act of protest in itself, but the route 
they chose. 
When the protestors stood up to 
leave, not only was it disrespectful to 
the speaker, but intimidating to those 
few who were there to listen. The 
disrespect and intimidation is only 
increased with protesters hurling lies 
at the speaker. 
Calling a Jew a Nazi is not only a 
lie, but diminishes the atrocities com-
mitted by the Nazis in the Holocaust. 
The idea that Michanie is a “filthy co-
lonialist” is anti-Semitic in itself, as it 
denies the indigeneity of the Jews to 
the land of Israel. 
What the protestors should have 
done is sit and listen to the talk, then 
question the speaker after. 
As the protestors were leaving, 
Michanie implored them to stay and 
discuss the issues they have. Instead, 
they left and learned nothing that 
might challenge their orthodoxy. 
A university is supposed to be not 
only a bastion of free speech, but the 
free exchange of ideas. How can we 
be considered a top university if our 
students are unable to challenge their 
beliefs and debate those they disagree 
with?
The second problem is the way it was reported by The Alligator. Clear-
ly biased, the article focused on vic-
timizing the student protestors, while 
failing to completely share both sides 
of the story. 
The writers focused disproportion-
ately on quotes from the protestors, 
and the vigil held following the walk-
out, while not fully or completely on 
the quotes of the speaker and non-
protestors. 
When asked, “What message 
would you like to give to all those 
students who walked out of the pro-
test?”
It would’ve been helpful for the 
reader, to have quoted his answer in 
full.
The article also failed to empha-
size the goal of Michanie’s talk.
Cutting important segments of 
quotes from the speaker and hosts, 
focusing mostly on the protestors 
is journalistic injustice that aims to 
make the protestors the victims in 
need of sympathy.
A vigil was held after the walkout 
in honor of those Palestinians killed 
by the IDF, 18 of which were Palestin-
ian militants, which says everything. 
The article also fails to mention the 
number of rockets fired toward Israel, 
which was about 450.
It’s incredibly worrying to see a 
rise of anti-Zionism and anti-Semitic 
attitudes disguised as such, appear-
ing on college campuses. Results 
from an 2017-2018 FBI report show 
that across America, Jews were the 
number one recipient of religious hate 
crimes. Just this week, at York Uni-
versity in Canada, Boycott, Divest-
ment and Sanctions (BDS) protestors 
violently assaulted a group of Jewish 
attendees of a pro-Israel event.
Students for Justice in Palestine 
are disguising their hate as defense of 
Palestinians. They threw away an op-
portunity for dialogue. Their choice to 
leave shows their closed-mindedness 
and their victimization is perpetuated 
by The Alligator’s article. 
In the end, the protestors did noth-
ing to support Palestinians; all they 
did was show the world the worst UF 
has to offer. 
Geoffrey Datz is a UF 
international studies juniorInaccurate reporting by Alligator downplays 
rising Anti-Semitism on campusOn Tuesday, UF’s Students for Justice in Pal-
estine organized a vigil and walkout during 
an event featuring former Israel Defense 
Forces (IDF) sergeant Yoni Michanie. The 
event commemorated yet another year of 
SJP organizers putting together a vigil to mourn 
those in Gaza. Year after year, Israel attacks unpro-
tected Gaza with state of the art bombs and missiles. 
Following the 2014 conflict between Israel and Pal-
estine, the United Nations came out with a report in 
2018 stating that Gaza could become uninhabitable 
by 2020 if the conditions remained as they were.
Bombs continued to rain down on Gaza.
It is important to note that the bombs did not 
come from nowhere. These missiles and weapons 
did not strike of their own accord. There was no third 
party nor some incomprehensible, untouchable high-
er beings causing such a level of mass destruction. It 
was the state of Israel. This past week in Gaza, 34 
Palestinians were murdered, 16 of which were civil-
ians, according to the Associated Press.  
Eight were children, three were women and 111 
more were injured. 
Israeli officials want us to believe that these wom-
en and children are terrorists. At Tuesday’s event, 
Yoni Michanie was prepared to speak on some of 
his previous ideas he had written about. In 2018, Mi-
chanie wrote for the Jerusalem Post that it was “Time 
for the world to call for new democratic elections in 
the West Bank…” and that the world must “. . .force 
the Palestinian leadership to end their struggle...” Is 
this the great democracy that the United States boasts of having in the Middle East? A state where it is all 
too common for high ranking officials to call for oth-
er countries to lead a coup in prettily dressed terms? 
Since the Great March of Return Protests began in 
Gaza in 2018, over 400 Gazans have been murdered 
while protesting for a better future for their children. 
Is this the democracy you wanted? Michanie’s other 
writings have referred to Hamas and the Palestin-
ian struggle as “Islamic Jihad” and the Palestinian 
Authority as “barbaric.” To invite such a high rank-
ing military leader who endorses such policies and 
shows such disdain for Palestinian life is shameful as 
is. To invite him the week that dozens in Gaza were 
murdered is appalling. 
The majority of Gaza’s population is young, 
which could be attributed to a variety of societal 
problems caused by bombings. Therefore, the major-
ity of Palestinian victims are young. What happens 
in Gaza every day is a sad tale. The city is one that 
sits on the beach with crystal clear water and bright 
white sand. The rocks jut so high, it feels as if each 
might pierce the sky itself. Yet, we do not live in a 
timeline where we can just appreciate the beauty of 
Gaza. We must also fight for it. UF SJP will stand for 
it today and everyday. To any and all who seek to 
support the cruel and appalling policies we saw this 
week, we have a message for you: be ready. We’ll 
be there.
Saja Hussein is the treasurer for Students for 
Justice in Palestine and a UF political science 
sophomoreStudents for Justice in Palestine stands for Gaza
Letter to the Editor Letter to the Editor8  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
MORE THAN 50 
PEOPLE GATHERED 
AT DEPOT PARK
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
“La Joha” González Leal, 26, 
Maracaibo, Venezuela.
Beaten. 
Kiki Fantroy, 21, Miami, Florida.
Shot. 
Nina Surgutskaya, 26, Kursk, 
Russia. 
Strangled or hanged. 
Juliana Ferreira, 22, Mandagua-
çu, Brazil. 
Stoned. 
88 pages. More than 300 names. 
For about 30 minutes, a hush 
fell over Depot Park. Candles ﬂ  ick-
ered in palm-sized jars and loved 
ones huddled in the cold while the names, locations, dates and causes 
of death of transgender people 
killed around the world in the past 
year were read aloud. 
More than 50 people gathered at 
the park Wednesday night in honor 
of Transgender Day of Remem-
brance to mourn those who were 
killed because of transphobic vio-
lence this year. 
The annual event, organized by 
Alachua TranQuility Community 
Group and the Pride Community 
Center, is typically held at Bo Did-
dley Plaza. It was relocated to Depot 
Park this year, said Kane Barr, one 
of the co-organizers of the event. 
Barr, 31, participated in his 
ﬁ  rst Day of Remembrance when 
he moved to Gainesville back in 
2014. Over the years, he said he’s 
noticed an increase in visibility and 
recognition of the day within the 
Gainesville community.Barr stressed the importance of 
recognizing the suffering of differ-
ent groups because the suffering of 
one affects everyone, he said. 
“It’s very important that local 
elected ofﬁ  cials, and even state and 
national ofﬁ  cials take part in the 
community and in various different 
communities who are suffering and 
ﬁ  nd ways to alleviate pain and suf-
fering,” he said. 
Both before and after the candle-
light vigil, local trans people and 
activists shared poetry, stories and 
messages of hope and unity with 
the crowd. 
Local organizations set up tables 
around the park, offering infor-
mation and various resources to 
those in the transgender commu-
nity. Some, such as Florida Name 
Change, provided legal services to 
trans people in attendance. 
Mayor Lauren Poe shared a proc-lamation on behalf of the city of 
Gainesville and offered his support. 
He said everyone should be remind-
ed that the disproportionate amount 
of violence transgender people face 
is not normal. 
“We also remind ourselves that 
one day, we will come together in 
fellowship on an evening like this 
and have no names to read because 
our work will be done,” he said.
The Rev. Christe Lunsford, a 
trans-masculine and non-binary 
minister at the Unitarian Universal-
ist Fellowship of Gainesville, said 
they participated in Wednesday 
night’s vigil with about 15 of their 
congregants, some of whom are 
also transgender.
Lunsford, who began transition-
ing ﬁ  ve years ago, said they “bucked 
the system” by not aligning their 
appearance with their identity as a 
form of social justice.“So many black women and 
women of color are killed, and it’s 
more important to me to spend my 
money getting them safe documen-
tation than me having safe docu-
mentation,” they said. “Because I 
walk with privilege in the world.”
Unfortunately, the number of 
transgender people who took their 
own lives or were buried under 
false identities weren’t included in 
the list read aloud during the vigil, 
as the exact number is hard to iden-
tify, Lunsford said.
“It’s hard to know that over 300 
people were killed for being who 
they were,” they said. ”If you’re 
living your true self, you should be 
able to do that in the world.”
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgOne year, 300 names. Gainesville mourns victims of transphobic murders
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Volunteers light candles during the Transgender Day of Remembrance vigil at Depot Park.
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff
Carmen King, 55, and Christopher King, 58, stand in solidarity during the Transgender 
Day of Remembrance vigil at Depot Park as the names of people who have lost their 
lives to transphobic violence are read aloud. The Kings said they have a transgender 
daughter who lives in Holland.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
UF now ranked #7
among public universities
 – U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2020
UFL.EDU
THANK YOU   faculty, staff 
and students. It is because of you 
we can celebrate this success. 
As the flagship university in the nation’s number one state for 
higher education, the Unversity 
of Florida’s momentum is on an 
unstoppable trajectory.
INVESTING IN OURSELVES. 
INVESTING IN WHAT’S NEXT.10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
Bennett included statements from 
Orlando that all say the speakers were 
not campaigning or breaking rules. Or-
lando previously told The Alligator UF 
administration remains separate from 
all SG matters. 
UF President Kent Fuchs told a PO-
LITICO reporter that UF attorneys told 
him the event was legal before it hap-
pened.
Judiciary committee member Colson 
Douglas said the resolution had no le-
gal standing. He didn’t answer further 
questions on why he saw the document, 
which was signed by about 100 students 
and alumni, as illegitimate.  
The last time SG senators filed an 
impeachment resolution against a Stu-
dent Body president was in 2009 against 
Kevin Reilly. It was voted on by the im-
peachment body one week after it was 
filed, according to Alligator archives. 
Lima said the judiciary committee’s 
decision isn’t valid because the im-
peachment resolution, per the Student 
Body Constitution, must go through an 
impeachment body hearing. The im-
peachment body consists of the senators 
elected in the Spring and is led by the 
Senate president.
The constitution says, “The Student 
Senate president shall preside over the 
impeachment body and may vote if the 
Student Senate president is a member 
of that senate class,” meaning Dunson 
herself must schedule an impeachment 
body hearing for the resolution.
Emails released on Oct. 30 showed 
an exchange between Murphy and a 
President Donald Trump re-election 
campaign official on bringing Trump Jr. to campus. About a week later, students 
demanded Murphy’s resignation at a 
Senate meeting, accusing him of misus-
ing student activity fees for the Oct. 10 
event. Two weeks later, senators hand-
delivered Murphy the impeachment 
resolution.
Dunson emailed the impeachment 
resolution to Pearson Monday night, 
requesting his committee review the 
resolution, stating SG Senate Rules and 
Procedures require it, which the authors 
of the resolution said is untrue. Dunson 
didn’t respond to The Alligator’s emails, 
calls or texts for comment.
Pearson then emailed the authors of 
the resolution Wednesday saying his 
committee will hear the resolution at 
Thursday’s meeting. Pearson cited Stu-
dent Body Statute code 306.3, which 
says the Senate can assign a committee 
to review resolutions. Lima responded 
to Pearson that the rules don’t specify a 
committee to hear impeachment resolu-
tions. 
In an email to The Alligator, Pearson 
wrote it is “required by Student Body 
Law” for the judiciary committee to re-
view the impeachment resolution.
According to Lima’s email read re-
ceipt records, Dunson, Murphy, Fuchs, 
SG Senate Adviser James Tyger and As-
sistant Vice President for Student Affairs 
Kim Pace read his email Wednesday.
The SG codes don’t give someone 
who didn’t file an impeachment reso-
lution the authority to submit it on the 
authors’ behalf, Lima said. Lima wrote 
to Pearson that the impeachment resolu-
tion was exclusively submitted to Dun-
son for consideration. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org IMPEACHMENT,  from pg. 1Last impeachment was in 2009 When she first came to UF, she struggled 
with finding friends, involvement and pas-
sion. But she eventually found her place in 
the Kurdish community on campus, even 
though the community was comprised of 
only herself and one other person. Later, 
they met another Kurdish student and their 
circle grew. 
“Seeing the familiarity on campus was 
such a great moment for me,” Zandy said. 
“I love seeing people get connected from 
around the world.”
While Zandy has been trying to promote 
Kurdish culture in Gainesville, she said it’s 
being erased in Turkey.
Matthew Jacobs, a UF specialist in the 
Middle East, said the Turkish government 
has been trying to minimize Kurdish influ-
ence in the region for years. Kurds in Iraq 
have significant political autonomy, and 
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is 
concerned that the spread of Kurdish autono-
my in Syria could lead to calls for autonomy 
within Turkey as well, Jacobs said.
The Turkish invasion caused the Kurds 
to lose land within Syria, Jacobs said. At 
the same time, Erdogan is attempting to use 
the military strike to regain political support 
within his own borders, where he has faced 
criticism during his presidency, he said.
The Turkish government’s next move is 
to claim parts of northern Syria as its border, he said. Shortly after the Turkish invasion, 
the U.S. government negotiated a cease-fire 
between Turkey and the Kurds. However, 
clashes between Turkish and Kurdish forces 
continue.
Syrian Kurds’ retreat from the area could 
be problematic for Americans. The New York 
Times reported in October that loss of Kurd-
ish power may allow up to 11,000 captured 
Islamic State fighters and their families to es-
cape detention camps guarded by the Kurds.
Syrian Kurds have three options, Jacobs 
said. They can build stronger ties with the 
autonomous Iraqi Kurds, collaborate with 
the violent Kurdistan Workers’ Party in Tur-
key or try surviving day-to-day life within re-
duced territory in Syria, he said.
As a Kurdish American, Zandy believes 
she has a duty to educate people in the U.S. 
on the history and culture of the Kurdish peo-
ple as well as current events within Kurdis-
tan. She said misinformation can lead to the 
creation of conspiracies about Kurds, which 
is harmful as they already face discrimina-
tion in the Middle East.
The Kurdish Student Association hosted 
a panel on Oct. 25 to discuss the events in 
northern Syria. About 40 people attended the 
event, where two professors discussed the 
situation and then opened the floor to answer 
community questions. There will be more 
events showcasing and educating the public 
on Kurdish culture in the future, she said.
“I feel I’m doing my job as a Kurdish 
woman,” Zandy said.KURDS,  from pg. 1About 20,000 Kurds live in U.S. Few attend UF as undergrads
Grethel Aguila / Alligator Staff 
Sara Zandy, 20, represents her culture wearing a jily kurdy in front of the Kurdish flag.
DEPOSITIONS WILL 
HAPPEN DEC. 4
By Marlowe Starling
Alligator Contributing Writer
The hearing regarding UF 
engineering team GatorWing’s 
charges against UF administra-
tion for claiming the team’s $2 
million award has been pushed 
back more than a month.
The UF Board of Trustees 
motioned to reschedule the 
hearing originally scheduled 
for Dec. 4 to mid-January after 
United Faculty of Florida, a UF 
faculty union, filed a charge on 
Oct. 24, said Eric Lindstrom, the 
lawyer representing GatorWings 
and the union. 
The motion to postpone was 
received and granted on Nov. 
6 by the Public Employees Re-
lations Commission, a Florida 
committee that hears cases un-
der the Public Employees Rela-
tions Act, according to a motion 
submitted to the commission. 
Lindstrom said he suspects UF 
wanted to postpone the hearing 
to have more time to prepare. 
GatorWings and Graduate 
Assistants United representa-
tives said UF violated the Public 
Employees Relations Act. The 
United Faculty of Florida first filed an unfair labor practice 
charge on June 13 to challenge 
UF’s claim to $750,000 won in 
2018, according to the official 
charge against the employer. 
UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando said he couldn’t comment 
because the case involves active 
litigation. 
At a Tuesday rally, Gradu-
ate Assistants United and Ga-
torWings team members pro-
tested UF administration to raise 
awareness to passersby on 13th 
Street and administration in Ti-
gert Hall.
Twelve people gathered for 
the rally holding signs that read 
“Students take loans, UF takes 
prizes,” and chanting, “Down 
with Gator greed.”
The university will hold de-
positions on Dec. 4, Lindstrom 
said. 
Professors John Shea and 
Tan Wong and university law-
yers will present their sides. Stu-
dents were not invited.
Florida state labor statutes 
say a public employer, such 
as UF, cannot change policies 
without notifying the union so 
it can bargain over the change. 
When this is violated, it is con-
sidered an unfair labor practice 
and basis for ordering UF to re-
voke the prize money rule.The charges are based on the 
basis of this violation, Lindstrom 
said, although UF also violated 
terms in the 2017-2019 Collec-
tive Bargaining Agreement. 
The agreement between UF’s 
Board of Trustees and the Unit-
ed Faculty of Florida outlines 
faculty terms and conditions of 
employment, according to the 
document.
There is no collective bar-
gaining agreement for students, 
which is why only Shea and 
Wong can complain about vio-
lations, said David Greene, a 
31-year-old UF electrical and 
computer engineering doctoral 
and GatorWings member.
Accepting scholarly prizes 
doesn’t have to be reported 
to UF as long as the activity is 
legal, according to the agree-
ment. GatorWings didn’t need 
to report the prize money, said 
Wong, a professor in the depart-
ment of electrical and computer 
engineering. 
Wong said he and Shea are 
concerned about how to com-
pensate team members who do 
not earn a salary at UF. 
“We put in all our hard work 
and we put the university’s 
name out there, and I do not 
think that our efforts are appre-
ciated,” Wong said. Employee commission postpones 
GatorWings hearing until JanuaryFEATURE FRIDAYFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11  
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M00219BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Today in history — 1497: Portuguese navigator 
Vasco da Gama rounds Cape of Good Hope on way to 
first voyage from Europe to reach India.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
★ ★ ★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★ ★ ★
Native Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. Table-top to 30 gal/10' tall. Open 
Nov 29, wkends thru Dec 22. 10am - 6pm. 
Kettle Corn popped on site for sale. Free 
pecans & sugarcane w/purchase 20926 NW 
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-
1885 www.bkcedars.com     12-4-6-10
Today in history — 1861: U.S. Civil War battle of 
Fort McRee, Florida.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Today in history — 1903: Franklin Roosevelt 
and Eleanor Roosevelt are engaged.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/22/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/22/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, Novemver 22, 2019
ACROSS
1 New England’s 
only National 
Park
7 Eponymous 
explorer of 
Australia
13 Pressure sensors 
attached to 
buoys are parts 
of their warning 
systems
15 Recorded, in a 
way
16 Colbert et al.?
18 Useful thing
19 Additionally
20 Coastal raptor
21 Something to file
22 Frond source
23 With 53-Down, 
maxim
25 Ob-__
26 Jacket fabric
27 First name in  
a 2010s first 
family
29 Part of a 
candlemaker’s 
design process?
31 Subarctic forest
33 Hawke of 
“Boyhood”
34 Outdoor  
wedding guests 
on a steamy  
day?
38 “Over the 
Rainbow” 
composer
39 Bowling venue
40 PD alert
43 Understand
44 Oil equipment
45 “Because 
Freedom Can’t 
Protect Itself” 
org.
46 Meditation goal
49 Keurig Dr Pepper 
brand
50 1954 Honorary 
Award for 
35-Down
51 What a hiker 
might do after a 
nap on the trail?
54 December decor
55 Gift with tracks
56 Absinthe herb
57 Chocolates, e.g.DOWN
1 “You’ve heard  
this from me 
before ... ”
2 Replaces a 
dancer
3 Adams with 
negatives
4 Bonkers
5 “Here’s a 
thought,” briefly
6 Reef diver’s 
need
7 Sock part
8 Prince Harry’s 
aunt
9 Ado
10 Early Mississippi 
flag symbol
11 Farthest-from-
the-sun orbital 
point
12 Monarch catcher
13 Country music 
sound
14 Unexcitable
17 Marseille man
22 Pie-topping nut
24 Newscaster 
Rather
26 Invitation to eat
27 Daydreaming 
Walter28 Wan
29 Bic’s __-Out
30 First known 
asteroid
31 Car manual topic
32 Like the seats 
in an SRO 
performance
34 Funny one
35 She never went 
to 50-Across 
ceremonies
36 Flexible37 North African 
capital
40 Confront boldly
41 China pieces
42 Pop
45 Together
47 Corned beef order
48 Tiny insect
50 “Hamilton” award
51 Scrabble-like 
app, briefly
52 Puckish org.?
53 See 23-Across
By Kevin Christian and Brad Wilber
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/23/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/23/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, Novemver 23, 2019
ACROSS
1 “Dust yourself off 
and hang tough!”
9 Ford muscle cars, 
familiarly
15 Reluctant 
acquiescence
16 Walk-off hit 
situation, perhaps
17 Note-taking aid
18 Country by the 
River Shribble
19 “Hands off!” in an 
ad slogan
20 “Hamburger Hill” 
setting, briefly
22 Clue room
23 For __: not gratis
24 Had to miss 
school, perhaps
26 All over
27 Rare color
28 Bismarck’s realm
30 Sworn statement
31 Fit
32 Having 
memorized the 
script, in theater 
lingo
34 “Funky Monkeys” 
musical
37 Pipe edge
38 Was 
unmanageable
40 Schnitzel meat
41 “__ seen better”
42 Ready
44 __ pocket
47 Start of 
something
49 More than fishy
50 Traje de __: 
Seville swimsuit
51 Indian 
improvisations
53 __-country: music 
genre
54 Boston and 
Chicago, but not 
San Francisco
55 Negative feeling
57 Triumphant GIF 
phrase
59 More intricate
60 “Hate to run,  
but ... ”
61 Small suit maker
62 Suit seller
DOWN
1 Priesthood 
symbol
2 Michael of 
“Caddyshack”3 Went back and 
forth
4 How a 
sommelier might 
sort wine
5 Peace Prize city
6 “You betcha!”
7 Heaviest 
naturally 
occurring 
element
8 They often get 
depressed
9 Stop on a line: 
Abbr.
10 “__ wondrous 
pitiful”: “Othello”
11 Vital supply line
12 Unorganized, in 
a way
13 Unticketed plane 
passenger
14 Be sensitive to 
social injustice, in 
slang
21 Middle: Pref.
24 Brand that sells 
Arnold Palmers
25 Holds another 
view
28 Top-drawer
29 Key of Chopin’s 
first Opus 25 
étude31 Flier for 71 years
33 Acct. amount
34 Most phone 
button groupings
35 Drop off midday, 
say
36 Fill with life
39 Hindu god of 
desire
40 Trace
43 Notorious B.I.G. 
discovered her in 
199444 Storm on ESPN
45 Purplish blue
46 After surg.
48 Bess, __,  
Jackie ...
50 Pushes the 
buttons of
52 Started an  
action
54 Layered lunches
56 Sign of being 
packed?
58 Actor Chaney
11/20/19
answer on page 13
solution on page 13FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
Today in history — 1930: Elijah Muhammad 
forms Nation of Islam in Detroit
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
How to MAKE EXTRA MONEY PLAYING
VIDEO GAMES explained.
Free E-book tells how at
www.vidgamerz.com
11-25-19-7-14
Today in history — 1954: Humane Society (US) 
forms in Washington, D.C.
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
Today in history — 1963: John F. Kennedy as-
sassinated in Dallas, TX. Lyndon B. Johnson 
sworn in as 36th president of U.S.Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Today in history — 1968: Beatles release "Beatles" 
(White Album), their only double album.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Today in history — 1969: Isolation of a single gene 
announced by scientists at Harvard University.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Today in history — 1995: Toy Story , the first 
entirely computer generated feature-film 
in history, is released.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Today in history — 2005: Angela Merkel be -
comes the first female Chancellor of 
Germany.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Today in history — 1972: US ends 22 year travel 
ban to China.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place 
an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrange-
ments or show off your bus and shuttle ser-
vice. 373-FIND
Today in history — 1974: UN General Assembly 
recognizes Palestine right to sovereignty.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org15 Services 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
1.  Contribute, give
1.  Ten years5.  Nepal neighbor
2.  Not one or the other6.  ____ valve
3.  Struggle7.  Play
4.  ____ SeaAENTDO
ECDDEANCIHA
ARHTE
IEREHNT
VRILTAACLFORI
CLAIBTANSWERS: 1A-Donate  5A-China  6A-Heart  7A-Frolic
1D-Decade  2D-Neither  3D-Travail  4D-Baltic  B-Antarctica11-22-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There’s no evidence that this was seen 
by humans until the 19th century.
BONUS
answers
solution  
EVEN 
EXCHANGE 
ANSWERS1.     Wafer, Water
2.     Pasta, Paste
3.     Castor, Pastor
4.     Scold, Scald
5.     Nickel, Nicked
6.     Tarry, Terry
7.     Remain, Retain
8.     Relay, Relax
9.     Throw, Throb
10.   String, Strong
1. Pride; 2. Credit; 3. Super; 4. Gloom
Today's Word: DUMPSPUZZLE
SOLUTIONS
SCRAMBLERS  SolutionFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Trask recognized for Earl Campbell Tyler Rose Award
Redshirt junior quarterback Kyle Trask was named a semifinalist among the 
nation's top collegiate offensive players with connections to T exas on Thurs-
day. Trask played for Manvel High School in T exas. Sophomore Kyle Pitts was the 
only tight end recognized as 
a semifinalist for the Walter 
Camp Player of the Year, 
which FBS coaches and sports 
information directors vote for.By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Kerry Blackshear Jr. had only 
played for about three-and-a-half 
minutes in the first half of Tues-
day’s game before he was pulled 
due to foul trouble.
After flailing his arms and hit-
ting an opposing player with his 
elbow 90 seconds into the second 
half, referees decided he wouldn’t 
play a minute more.
Blackshear Jr.’s ejection was 
the most notable rough spot in a 
game where UF staved off a late-
stage comeback from the St. Jo-
seph’s Hawks and edged out a 
70-62 victory in Charleston, South 
Carolina. It was its second win 
over the Hawks since it faced them 
in the 2015 Basketball Hall of Fame 
Tip-Off Tournament.
A large topic of concern for 
Florida lately has been its field goal 
percentage. But on Thursday, it 
saw improvements from the field.
In the first half, the Gators end-
ed 47.1 percent from the field and 
38.9 percent from beyond the arc. 
Florida’s three-point percentage 
dwarfed St. Joseph’s, as the Hawks 
only managed to hit 7.1 percent of 
their three-point shots in the first 
half.One particular improvement for 
UF came in the play of guard Noah 
Locke, who, after struggling from 
the three-point line this season, 
went 3 for 5 from three in the first 
half. Locke also netted an assist 
and three rebounds in the first half.
Despite Florida leading after the 
opening half by 16 points, St. Jo-
seph’s out-rebounded UF by one 
(24-23) and only committed two 
more turnovers (6-4). The Hawks 
were largely outscored, though: 
Their leading scorer in the first 
half, Ryan Daly, had eight points 
(and would end the game with 25), 
while sophomores Keyontae John-
son and Andrew Nembhard both 
had 12 for UF.
Florida found that lead dwin-
dling in the second with a series of 
errors.
After Blackshear Jr.’s ejection, 
UF’s shot percentage from the field 
dropped to 38 percent across the 
second half, and the Gators failed 
to hit a single trey in four attempts. 
The Hawks came within striking 
distance numerous times during 
the closing minutes of the game, 
and with 56 seconds left, that 
16-point lead Florida held at the 
end of the first half down to two.
But after a series of free throws, 
UF held on, and it would escape the first round of the Charleston 
Classic with a win.
A large part of that victory was 
Johnson’s doing, who posted a 
double-double with a career-high 
22 points and 12 rebounds. It was 
the fifth double-double of John-
son’s career. Johnson was one of 
three Gators to score in double-dig-
its on Thursday, along with Nemb-hard (16) and Locke (13).
UF will face off against the Mi-
ami Hurricanes (4-1) on Friday in 
the second round of the tourna-
ment.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
By Graham Marsh
Sports Writer
Seven games, zero losses. 
Between Florida’s women’s 
basketball team and Indiana’s, 
that is the combined record. The 
Hoosiers are 3-0, and the Gators 
are 4-0. The battle of unbeatens 
will be in Gainesville on Friday 
night at 6 p.m. This is by far the 
best team the Gators have played 
this season, but Florida has start-
ed out hot.
Here’s what the Gators need 
to keep doing to top IU: 
Controlling the pace
Redshirt junior point guard 
Kiara Smith captains everything 
for this Florida team. The offense  
runs through her, and the pace 
this year has been a huge reason 
for its success. Smith is unboth-
ered by whatever defense gets 
thrown at her. When she speeds up or slows down, it is done on 
her terms, not the opponent’s, 
which has allowed UF to dictate 
the flow of its games thus far. 
“One thing that I wanted to 
work on coming back this sea-
son was being more aggressive,” 
Smith said. “So it’s just (being 
more aggressive) and still finding 
my open teammates.” 
Keeping Briggs’ light green
The Gators have drastically 
improved from last season, and 
it’s largely with the same cast of 
players. What changed? Perhaps 
it is the main personnel addition 
this season: freshman shooting 
guard Lavender Briggs. The Pro-
vo, Utah, native is shooting 42.1 
percent from beyond the arc and 
averaging 13 points a contest. 
She’s been steady all season 
so far but exploded against Sam-
ford. That day, she had 19 points 
on 43.8 percent shooting. The main stat from that game though, 
was her 83.3 percent from three. 
“I was missing a lot of shots 
(before the Samford game), but I 
just kept shooting,” Briggs said. 
“Coach (Cam Newbauer) kept 
saying, ‘Can’t score if you don’t 
shoot.’”
Obviously, 83 percent shoot-
ing is unrealistic to expect on 
a regular basis, but in all like-
lihood, Florida will need her 
firepower on Friday night. The 
Hoosiers currently average 92.3 
points a game. It is unlikely that 
the Gators will hold them to un-
der 50 like Samford and Presby-
terian. 
Feeding Johnson, Williams
Sophomore guard Ariel John-
son has been hot as of late, and 
redshirt senior forward Zada Wil-
liams has been playing well all 
season. After only a combined 
five points in the first two games, Johnson has 15 and 10 in the last 
two contests, respectively. Wil-
liams is averaging 7.5 points per 
game on 32.4 percent shooting. 
“All of us are pretty good, all 
of us can score,” Johnson said. 
“We’re all aggressive, we all 
have that mindset, just to win, to 
play hard, and let it happen.” 
As Indiana is Florida’s tough-
est game so far, coach Cam New-
bauer knows his team needs to 
play high-level basketball to 
stack one more to the win col-
umn on Friday night. 
“(Indiana is) playing really, 
really well right now, they’re 
scoring a lot of points,” Newbau-
er said. “We’ve got to be physical 
and be more poised.” 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgSTAFF REPORT
Two bye weeks in a month?
Why, it must be SEC football 
in November!
The Gators are on hiatus with 
in-state rival (and currently full-
time head coach-less) Florida State up 
next, but hot takes know no bye. 
There are several games this week 
which affect playoff and conference rac-
es, and our team of “experts” is ready to 
help you make lots of money.
(Disclaimer: We are not experts. The 
Alligator does not guarantee that you 
will make any money using these picks.)
Sports Editor Tyler Nettuno and foot-
ball beat writer Kyle Wood debate the 
most important of those: a matchup be-
tween No. 9 Penn State and THE No. 2 
Ohio State that will likely decide the Big 
10 East Division.
Penn State will win because…
The Nittany Lions will be the first 
team to truly test the Buckeyes.
THE Ohio State has beaten just two 
ranked teams (and only one Power Five 
team with a winning record) — current-
No. 12 Wisconsin and No. 19 Cincinnati. 
It beat the Badgers the week after their 
playoff hopes were dashed by Illinois, 
and it beat the Bearcats in Week 2.
Penn State will present a much 
tougher challenge on Big Noon Saturday 
(or, Big Nude Saturday, as Gus Johnson 
with a cold would say). 
Quarterback Sean Clifford is in the 
middle of a fantastic sophomore cam-
paign in which he has logged 2,450 pass-
ing yards, 22 touchdowns and only six 
interceptions. He also has 374 yards and 
five more scores on the ground.
He has been one of the best at his po-
sition in the nation, despite what Penn 
State fans — who sent Clifford death 
threats after the passer *checks notes* 
lost a single game (seriously, college 
football sucks sometimes) — may say.
The Buckeyes seem to have a clear 
path to the playoffs, and because this 
game is no longer the CFP semifinal it 
once appeared to be, they’ll be looking 
past the Nittany Lions.
PSU’s defense will force quarterback 
Justin Fields to win a competitive game 
in the second half for the first time, and 
he’ll falter as Penn State completely 
shakes up the playoff race.
— Tyler Nettuno
Ohio State (-17.5) will win because…
Chase Young is back from his ridicu-
lous suspension. And, per his Instagram, PICKS:
Week 13
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff 
Center Kerry Blackshear Jr. was ejected 30 seconds into the 
second half of Thursday's game against St. Joseph's. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S BASKETBALLFlorida survives late-game push to advance
Gators get first ranked opponent in IndianaFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
CROSS COUNTRY
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
 
And then there was one.
Senior Jessica Pascoe will be 
the only runner representing the 
Florida cross country team af-
ter qualifying as an individual 
for the NCAA Championships in 
Terre Haute, Indiana, Saturday at 
11:15 a.m.
Pascoe earned her spot at the NCAAs after finishing second in 
the NCAA South Regional Cham-
pionships. It was at the regional 
championships where Florida’s 
men’s and women’s teams failed 
to place first or second to qualify 
for NCAAs as teams — effectively 
ending their season.
Pascoe has never competed 
at the NCAAs as an individual 
before and will end her storied 
UF cross country career as one of the program’s most decorated 
athletes.
This year alone, Pascoe placed 
first in four separate meets and 
was given All-Region honors af-
ter her runner-up performance 
last week.
 
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.orgPascoe to end UF career at NationalsVOLLEYBALL
SWIMMINGBy Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The loss to Kentucky on Sun-
day was disappointing. There’s no 
getting around that. 
But there are still things to play 
for other than the regular-season 
SEC title. 
Arguably the most important 
thing left for Florida is its rat-
ing percentage index (RPI). The 
Gators still don’t have a signature 
win against a top-25 opponent in 
the AVCA Coaches Poll, but they 
do have the ninth-best RPI. Addi-
tionally, all four losses this season 
have been to top-10 teams in RPI. 
However, another loss could 
cast some legitimate doubts about 
how good this Florida team is and 
do serious damage in terms of 
seeding when the NCAA Tourna-
ment comes around. 
UF’s easy sweep over an Au-
burn team that’s about as threat-
ening as Mr. Rogers likely won’t 
change any minds. Florida hit over 
.350 in the match and forced Au-
burn into 20 errors and a hitting 
percentage south of .100. Redshirt 
junior Holly Carlton and sopho-
more Thayer Hall combined for 23 
kills in the sweep. The Gators’ performance was 
what you would expect from a 
top-15 team in the country against 
the Tigers, who are winless in SEC 
play. But it’s not something that 
leaves a lasting impression. 
Which means that the Gators’ 
last three regular-season matches 
are crucial. Two of those three 
matches are against Georgia and 
Texas A&M. Both teams are in 
the top 35 in RPI, and the Aggies 
received votes in the most recent 
AVCA Coaches Poll. 
A win against Georgia, which 
is third in the SEC standings, on 
Sunday afternoon on the road in 
Athens, Georgia, will guarantee 
that the Gators will finish no lower 
than second. 
That likely won’t be an easy 
feat considering that the Bulldogs 
gave Florida a brief scare at home 
in their last matchup. Georgia took 
the first set 25-22, thanks to some 
lackluster defensive play from the 
Gators. The Bulldogs smashed 16 
kills with just one error on 33 at-
tacks. 
Georgia’s offense was ice cold 
the rest of the way, though, as it 
hit a pathetic .136 in the last three 
sets of the match. The Bulldogs 
still managed to register two more kills than Florida did, and the first 
three sets were still decided by 
only a combined nine points. 
Florida’s suffocating defense af-
ter the first set and an offense that 
was consistently good throughout 
the match resulted in the team 
winning three-straight sets en 
route to a 3-1 (22-25, 25-21, 25-23, 
25-17) victory. 
Hall and Carlton also had big 
performances in that match with 
29 kills between the two attackers.
Georgia comes into the week-
end with wins in its last two 
matches, but the Bulldogs have to 
play South Carolina on Friday be-
fore playing a rested Florida team. 
The Bulldogs are a difficult 
team to figure out because they 
have a middling offense (.234, 
seventh in the conference), allow 
opponents to convert at a high 
rate (opponent hitting percentage 
of .255, 11th SEC) and don’t block 
well (1.73 blocks per set, last in 
the SEC). 
However, Georgia’s serving 
game is one of the best in the con-
ference. The Bulldogs record 1.57 
aces per set, the second-most in 
the conference. 
Florida isn’t too far behind 
Georgia in aces (1.39 aces per set) and has only allowed .9 aces per 
set this season. But the Bulldogs 
had six against UF last time.
Georgia also does a good job 
of finding ways to amass as many 
attacks as possible. Despite their 
low hitting numbers, the Bulldogs 
are third in the SEC in both kills 
per set and assists per set. 
But as long as the Gators limit the damage from Georgia’s serves, 
Florida’s advantages at the net 
and defensively should be more 
than enough to lock up second 
place in the SEC on Sunday. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
By Dylan O’Shea
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s and women’s 
swimming and diving teams will 
compete in the annual Georgia 
Tech Invitational at the McAuley 
Aquatic Center this weekend.
The competition will be the last 
meet of 2019 before UF wraps up 
competition for the fall.
The invitational is a three-day 
competition that will hold prelims 
at 10 a.m. each day, followed by 
finals among the top-30 prelim 
times at 5:30 p.m.
UF’s No. 6 men’s team (6-1) 
will face off against Alabama, 
Eastern Carolina, Florida State, 
Georgia Tech, North Carolina, 
South Carolina and Utah.
The No. 1 women (7-0)  will 
compete against all of the same 
schools, along with Georgia 
Southern.
Here’s how the Gators have 
fared in past Georgia Tech 
Invitationals:
Going for five
The women have won four of 
seven invitationals since 1998, 
with their most recent coming just 
last season.
The 2018-19 win was aided 
by the dominant performances of 
Vanessa Pearl, Leah Braswell and 
Kelly Fertel.
Pearl posted a top-5 swim each 
day of the meet and recorded the fastest 200 breast time in UF 
history.
Braswell and Fertel both posted 
top-10 swims over that weekend.
Lead the way
UF’s men’s team won last 
year’s invitational with more than 
1,200 points and led at the end of 
each day.
Florida has three wins all-time 
since 1998, with their other two 
wins coming in 2004-05 and 2014-
15.
Kieran Smith, Khader Baqlah 
and Will Davis are among the 
returning swimmers who helped 
UF dominate the invitational last 
season.
Smith and Baqlah were 
members of the 400 relay team 
that posted the 10th-best time in 
UF history.
Davis posted the sixth-best 50 
free time in school history on the 
first day of the event.
See you next year
Florida’s men’s team will 
return to the pool in 2020 against 
Auburn on Jan. 25.
The women will be back in 
action against Vanderbilt, North 
Florida and Liberty on Jan. 3.
They will then join the men in 
their final home meet of the year 
against Auburn.
@dylanoshea24
doshea@alligator.orgAfter easy win against Auburn, Gators enter crucial stretch
Florida heads to Atlanta to wrap up 2019 fall slate at GA Tech
Alligator File Photo
The Gators have the No. 1-ranked women’s team and No. 6-ranked men’s team in the country. Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Thayer Hall leads the team with 369 kills on the season 
through 26 matches, 144 more kills than the next-best player. 
16  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2019
NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$3 Wells
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJFRIDAY
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Green Tea Shots
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 First Mag PintsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Cocktails on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
ROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Red Fish Po’ Boy with Tots
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
restaurant & rooftop bar
restaurant & rooftop bar
the chip on his shoulder has only 
gotten bigger.
The Buckeyes’ dark horse Heis-
man defensive end was suspended 
for two games for taking a loan from 
a family friend and, somehow, THE 
OSU survived against Maryland and 
Rutgers.
Now, he returns for a true test 
against the Nittany Lions, anchor-
ing one of the top defensive units in 
the country. THE Ohio State allows 
fewer than 10 points per game and 
has held all but two of its opponents 
under the 20-point mark.
Conversely, THE OSU offense 
averages better than 50 points per 
game, boasts an average margin of 
victory of 42 and have yet to score 
fewer than 33 points in a game this 
season. Quarterback Justin Fields 
and running back J.K. Dobbins lead 
the top scoring offense in the FBS. 
Fields, in his ﬁ  rst year as a Buck-
eye, has a ridiculous 33-1 touch-
down-interception ratio. When 
things aren’t working through the 
air, he can hand the ball off to Dob-
bins, who has more than 1,300 yards 
on the ground and 13 rushing touch-
downs. Fields also makes plays on 
the ground, with 377 rushing yards 
and 10 scores on the ground as well.
Ohio State, like other teams near 
the top of the CFP rankings (be-
sides LSU) has not been truly tested. 
However, they’ve rolled through 
their schedule up to this point. They 
won their two games against ranked 
teams (then-No. 25 Michigan State 
and then-No. 13 Wisconsin) by a 
combined 55 points.
Penn State will not be a push-
over, but playing in Columbus will 
beneﬁ  t Ohio State. They are outscor-
ing opponents 308-57 at home. The 
Buckeyes will remain undefeated 
this weekend and continue their 
death march back to the CFP.
— Kyle WoodNow onto the picks:
In ﬁ  rst at 64-31 is Tyler “420” 
Nettuno, who decided to act like the 
child he is Tuesday night while casu-
ally looking at his Twitter proﬁ  le and 
coming to the realization he had 420 
Twitter followers. We get it, Tyler. 
It’s hard for you to resist the urge to 
make a 420 joke whenever the op-
portunity arises. It’s not your fault, 
but it also kind of is. It’s also why I 
unfollowed you for a hot minute, but 
I guess I’m not the only one since at 
present time you only have 418 fol-
lowers. 
In second at 59-36 is Kyle “Anti 
Disney” Wood, who shamelessly 
retweeted an anti-Mavs jersey hot 
take on Twitter. I mean c’mon, Kyle. 
You’re telling me that you don’t ap-
prove of a straight-out-of-Disney 
look for Dallas Mavericks, a jersey so 
majestic it may as well have a Dis-
ney castle printed on it, too. Hey, at 
least the new Mavs jersey looks bet-
ter than the Orlando Dreamers logo, 
but that’s another conversation. 
Tied for third at 53-42 is Graham 
“Call Your Shot” Hall, who accu-
rately predicted that Bradley Beal 
would score 30+ points and the 
Magic would still win Sunday night. 
Good call, Graham. Usually, we’d 
make fun of you for even going to an 
Orlando game, but we know you’re 
a Cavs fan. You’ve got to get some 
“quality” basketball somewhere.
Tied with Graham is Mark 
“What Did Mason Rudolph Do To 
You?” Long. Mark posted a picture 
on Twitter of him enjoying Cleve-
lander Ale while the Browns were 
beating the Steelers last Thursday 
night — shortly before the contro-
versial brawl that resulted in Myles 
Garrett’s rest-of-season suspension. 
Mark, we’re not saying what hap-
pened to Rudolph’s skull is your 
fault. We’re just saying that the 
Browns are a cursed franchise, and 
you can’t expect to post about their 
success without something happen-ing to ruin it.
In ﬁ  fth at 52-43 is Nick “Punters 
Are People Too” De La Torre, who 
fangirled over Florida punter Tom-
my Townsend’s semiﬁ  nalist status 
for the Ray Guy Award, which is an-
nually given to college football’s best 
punters, for the second straight year. 
Your #PuntersArePeopleToo mantra 
lives on, Nick. Thank you for taking 
such a strong stance on the most im-
portant issue facing college sports. 
Tied for sixth at 51-44 is Dylan 
“I Hate Louisiana But Not Enough 
To Hate A Good Pic” Rudolph, 
who laments his hatred for his home state of Louisiana, yet doesn’t fol-
low through all the way. Dylan, 
also known as @dyrudolph, has an 
interesting proﬁ  le picture. The anti-
Louisiana sports writer has deemed 
his pic at Death Valley his most pho-
togenic look. I understand you carry 
this strong hatred for the Cajuns, 
Dylan, but I think you have more 
feelings to work through. 
Tied with Dylan is Zach “Film 
Junkie” Goodall. Say what you 
will about Zach, but he knows what 
a run-pass option is. When another 
sports journo on Twitter (who will 
not be named here) posted an un-
fortunate video labelling a normal read option as an RPO, Zach’s Xs 
and Os knowledge kicked in. He 
asked the reporter which receiv-
er was the option, joining in the 
pile-on. We get it, Zach. Everyone 
thinks everything is an RPO these 
days. But you didn’t have to do 
him like that… 
Read the rest online at
www.alligator.org/sportsPICKS,  from pg. 14
Tyler (64-31) Kyle (59-36) Graham (53-42) Mark (53-42)
PSU @ OSU (-17.5) PSU OSU OSU OSU
TAMU @ UGA (-13.5) UGA UGA UGA UGA
MICH @ IND (+10.5) IND MICH MICH MICH
TEX @ BAY (-5.5) BAY BAY BAY BAY
ARK @ LSU (-44.5) LSU LSU LSU LSU
ORE @ ASU (+14.5) ORE ORE ORE ASU
ILL @ IOWA (-16.5) ILL ILL IOWA ILL
TENN @ MIZZ (-4.5) TENN MIZZ MIZZ MIZZ
Nick (52-43) Dylan (51-44) Zach (51-44) Sam (50-45)
PSU @ OSU (-17.5) OSU PSU PSU PSU
TAMU @ UGA (-13.5) UGA UGA TAMU TAMU
MICH @ IND (+10.5) MICH MICH MICH IND
TEX @ BAY (-5.5) BAY BAY BAY BAY
ARK @ LSU (-44.5) LSU ARK LSU ARK
ORE @ ASU (+14.5) ORE ORE ORE ASU
ILL @ IOWA (-16.5) ILL IOWA IOWA ILL
TENN @ MIZZ (-4.5) TENN MIZZ WISC TENN
Brian (50-45) Edgar (49-46) Mari (48-47)
PSU @ OSU (-17.5) PSU OSU OSU
TAMU @ UGA (-13.5) UGA UGA TAMU
MICH @ IND (+10.5) IND IND MICH
TEX @ BAY (-5.5) BAY BAY BAY
ARK @ LSU (-44.5) ARK LSU LSU
ORE @ ASU (+14.5) ORE ORE ORE
ILL @ IOWA (-16.5) IOWA ILL ILL
TENN @ MIZZ (-4.5) TENN TENN MIZZ'Expert '  Picks of the W eek