Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
REI to open at Butler
The outdoor equipment store will open in 2020, pg 5
Woman accused of poisoning, killing dog
Cops say she also plotted to kill cousin, pg 4SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperwww.alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide.
Pascoe’s chase for greatness
Record-breaking cross country runner Jessica 
Pascoe struggled through injuries her ﬁ  rst two 
years at UF. Now, she tries to cement her legacy, 
pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 30
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
VOLUME 114 ISSUE 30
VOLUME 114 ISSUE 30
SPECIAL
RIVALRY
ISSUE
INSIDE!
 SPOOKY SZN
Allison Veliz / Alligator Staff
Hallie Short, 5, pulls her siblings Barren, 3, and Evelyn, 2, through a pumpkin patch Tuesday afternoon 
at the Buy a Pumpkin Feed a Child event hosted by the Gainesville Church of God. The event included 
bounce houses, games for children and fall-themed snacks. All of the proceeds went to help hungry 
children in North Central Florida, the Navajo Nation, the Bahamas and Latin America.LUCCA ROCH-HERNANDEZ 
WAS 20-YEAR-OLD 
FROM MIAMI
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The man who died in Sunday’s 
tanker truck crash was a 20-year-old 
Santa Fe College student.
Gainesville Police are still in-
vestigating the ﬁ  ery accident that 
killed Miami-native Lucca Roch-
Hernandez early Sunday morning 
when a truck crashed into a car on 
Northwest 43rd Street, according 
to a release from law enforcement 
Tuesday evening. 
According to the original release, 
the crash ruptured two of the ﬁ  ve 
fuel compartments and caused a ﬁ  re 
to soar hundreds of feet in the air. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue extinguished 
the ﬁ  re. Other agencies including 
Gainesville Regional Utilities, Alach-ua County Fire Rescue and Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce were on the 
scene.
Due to the extensive ﬁ  re and 
damage, the investigation will con-
tinue for an undetermined amount 
of time. 
No blame or arrest will be made 
until all evidence is fully assessed 
and analyzed by multiple labs, po-
lice said. The incident shut down 
Northwest 43rd Street, from North-
west 23rd Avenue and Northwest 
16th Boulevard to Northwest 18th 
Place, for most of Sunday. 
Santa Fe could not be reached for 
immediate comment.
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst death of a San-
ta Fe student this Fall. A male stu-
dent was found dead near the col-
lege’s Fine Arts Hall in September. 
The death wasn’t believed to be foul 
play at the time.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMan who died in Sunday
crash was Santa Fe student
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville resident Johnny Carr post-
ed on Facebook Sunday morning saying 
he found what looks like rodent feces 
mixed into the rice of his China Star meal.
After the ﬁ  nd, Carr made a doctors ap-
pointment for Thursday to ensure he has 
not contracted any diseases, he said. Carr 
has also contacted the Alachua County 
Health Department to pick up the feces to 
be sampled at a lab.
China Star, a 13th Street dine-in and 
takeout Chinese restaurant, has a history 
of health code violations, according to in-
spection reports from the Department of 
Business and Professional Regulation. As 
of its most recent inspection on July 1, it 
had two high-priority violations. 
These violations were for the improp-
er disposal of potentially hazardous food 
items, which were sold to customers after 
sitting out for four hours. 
According to the department’s web-
site, “Each inspection report is a ‘snap-shot’ of conditions at that moment. On 
any given day, an establishment may 
have fewer or more violations than noted 
in their most recent inspection.” 
China Star’s management declined to 
comment.
Carr and his wife each ordered the 
lunch special and a to-go order of six 
chicken wings and shrimp fried rice for 
dinner on Saturday, Carr said. Sunday 
morning, he decided to eat the rest of 
his leftovers when, after several bites, 
he tasted something hard with an awful 
smell.
He removed the brown bits from his 
rice and said it appeared to be poop. He 
said it smeared on a paper towel and his 
hands when he tried to remove it from 
the bowl.
Carr immediately went to vomit, wash 
his hands and brush his teeth, he said. 
Since Sunday, he said he has felt nau-
seous and gets headaches.
“I want to know what exactly this is 
that I ate,” Carr said. “Trust me, I will be Man says poop was in China 
Star food, contacts Health Dept
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
A team of UF Student Government sena-
tors decided to speak out against sexual as-
sault, but the resolution draft will have to 
wait for approval. 
The senators drafted the “Resolution Sup-
porting ‘We Believe Survivors’ and Standing 
With Survivors of Sexual Assault” to sup-
port sexual assault survivors at UF after the 
announcement that Supreme Court Justice 
Clarence Thomas will teach a UF law class in 
Spring in light of his 1991 sexual misconduct 
allegations. 
Inspire Sen. Claudia Tio said the resolu-
tion was inspired by a Letter to the Editor 
in The Alligator submitted last Tuesday by 
We Believe Survivors, a group created by law 
students in response to Thomas’ class. 
A resolution is a written expression of 
opinion, which is not legally binding. Pass-
ing this resolution will take time because the 
new judiciary committee, which reviews and 
passes legislation to Senate for voting, hasn’t 
been established. Anita Hill, who formerly worked for 
Thomas at two government agencies, testi-
ﬁ  ed at his 1991 conﬁ  rmation hearing that he 
sexually harassed her. 
Tio said the senators were also motivated 
to write the resolution as a result of the “jar-
ring” results of the campus climate survey 
showing an increase in reports of assault on 
campus and the report of former UF profes-
sor Andrew Lotto’s resignation following a 
sexual misconduct Title IX investigation. 
“We really want to show sexual assault 
survivors that we stand with them,” she said. 
“I think it’s really important that Student 
Government speak up and act in support of 
survivors.” 
The authors, Senators Isabella Garcia, 
Matthew Diaz, Shawn Zimmer, Tio and 
Minority Party Leader Ben Lima are associ-
ated with Inspire Party but don’t believe this 
should be a partisan issue, Tio said. 
“Even if this resolution isn’t passed, 
we’re going to collaborate with adminis-
tration, Student Government and different Law student group against Justice 
Thomas’ class gains SG support
SEE POOP,  PAGE 5 SEE RESOLUTION,  PAGE 5RESOLUTION DRAFT IN LIMBO UNTIL 
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE IS ESTABLISHEDTHE RESTAURANT HAD TWO HIGH-PRIORITY 
HEALTH CODE VIOLATIONS THIS YEART oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  70°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
Correction: In the Alligator's 
photo story on Pride, Jackie 
Korpela was mentioned as 
member of the Gainesville 
Roller Rebels. Korpela known 
as Haley’s Vomit, is a mem-
ber of the Ocala Cannibals 
Roller Derby team.WHAT'S HAPPENING
Chris Kattan & Friends at High 
Dive 
When: Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 2nd Ave.
What: The Saturday Night Live 
veteran, stand up comic, actor and author comes to Gainesville for the 
first time for an unforgettable night 
at High Dive. Tickets are available 
online at Hear Again Records with 
a $1 fee and at the High Dive box 
office with no fee. General admission 
seating is $25 in advance and $28 the 
day of the show.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 30
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
Pain removal at once.
40% off. Opening Promotion
(352)283-3637  |  oneacu.comBack, Neck, Shoulders, Knees, etc.
Q Acupuncture & Herb Clinic
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Natasha Restuccia, 33; her 3-year-old daughter, Harper; her 1-year-old son, Henry; 
and her 40-year old husband Phil sit on the steps with their candy at the Shoppes at 
Thornebrook after trick-or-treating. Phil Restuccia said the family likes to come to the 
event every year.
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Kingston Williams, 3, eats a lollipop while dressed as Jake from State Farm after trick-
or-treating at the Shoppes at Thornebrook on Tuesday night.Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Ziggy Morales, 3, looks at Halloween decorations at the Shoppes at Thornebrook 
while dressed as a butterfly Tuesday night.
Happy Halloweenies 4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICRAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its 
Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside 
the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-
9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection:  World’s Best Coffee, 
Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily since 
1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-
375-0376. Your order will be ready when you arrive 
5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open every-
day 5am — 7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Electric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!
,, 
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
20 NEW INSTITUTIONS 
JOINED ALLIANCE
 THIS YEAR 
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
In her three years as an engineer-
ing student, Lauren Wonicker-Cook 
barely had female professors. 
Now that UF has joined a national 
alliance to increase STEM faculty di-
versity, the 21-year-old UF electrical 
engineering junior, said she hopes that will change. 
UF is joining 19 other universities 
this year in an alliance to increase 
diversity in STEM faculty. “Aspire: 
The National Alliance for Inclusive & 
Diverse STEM Faculty” is led by the 
Association of Public and Land Grant 
Universities (APLU) and the Center 
for the Integration of Research, Teach-
ing and Learning.
Cook, the recording secretary of 
the UF Society of Women Engineers, 
said the effort shows UF is aware stu-
dents need diverse role models.
“When I have a female profes-sor, it’s encouraging and inspiring,” 
Wonicker-Cook said. 
Travis York, APLU assistant vice 
president of academic and student af-
fairs, said the alliance is taking nation-
al, regional and institutional change 
initiatives. The network of universi-
ties in the alliance is called IChange. 
Now, a total of 35 institutions are in-
volved, York said. 
Institutions apply to be in the 
IChange Network, and they are cho-
sen based on their commitment to the 
goals, York said. 
UF was ranked No. 1 by the Amer-ican Society of Engineering Education 
for having the most African-American 
female tenured or tenure-track faculty 
this month in its engineering depart-
ment. However, the 2018 University 
of Southern California Race and Eq-
uity Center report gave UF an F for 
racial representation, the lowest grade 
in the racial representation category. 
Institutions commit to at least 
three years in the alliance and con-
duct a self-assessment to identify 
their strengths and where they need 
to grow. The alliance will develop an 
action plan with UF based on the self-assessment to carry out in the remain-
ing two years.
The Aspire Alliance will provide 
resources and training, funded by the 
National Science Foundation which 
has a current investment of $10 mil-
lion over a time period of ﬁ  ve years, 
York said.  
“It’s really hard to be what you 
can’t see,” York said. “It’s helpful for 
students to have role models in those 
spaces.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgHE IS BEING HELD 
ON A $175,000 
BOND
By Lina Ruiz 
Avenue Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was 
accused of robbing a man 
with a handgun Sunday. 
Roddney “Rudeboy” 
Baugh, 27, threatened a 
34-year-old Gainesville 
man with a black and sil-
ver handgun and told him, 
“You have 10 seconds to 
give me $50,” according to 
an Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report.
After refusing to give 
the money, Baugh struck 
the man on the left side 
of his face with the heel of the handgun, deputies 
said. 
The incident occurred 
at the 6000 block of South-
west 21st Lane. 
Deputies found Baugh 
at a nearby house, and he 
agreed to talk to authori-
ties after being read his 
Miranda rights, according 
to the report. 
Baugh said he didn’t hit 
the man or have a hand-
gun, but he did confront 
the man about being at the 
location where the alleged 
incident occurred, accord-
ing to the report. 
Baugh told deputies 
he was at the house be-
cause he was “charging his 
phone.” 
Baugh was charged with aggravated battery, 
armed robbery and pos-
session of a ﬁ  rearm by a 
convicted felon, according 
to the report. 
He remains in the Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of 
a $175,000 bond.
@lina_ruiz48
lruiz@alligator.org SHE GOOGLED 
“HOW TO POISON 
A DOG, ” “HOW TO 
KILL A PERSON”
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
A High Springs woman 
was arrested Monday after 
she was accused of poi-
soning her family dog and 
plotting to kill her cousin. 
Autumn Chestnut, 22, 
admitted to police she 
killed the family dog, a 
Poodle mix, by salt poi-
soning, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest 
report. Chestnut also al-
legedly attempted to kill 
her cousin with ant spray.
She continued to feed 
the dog salt on Sunday, which ultimately resulted 
in its organ failure and 
death, according to the 
report. She told police she 
gave the dog salt because 
she “wanted it to die.” 
Chestnut also told po-
lice she tried to crush the 
dog’s ribs with her hands.
According to the re-
port, Chestnut told au-
thorities she searched 
Google for “How to poison 
a dog” and “How to kill a 
person.” 
Police said Chestnut 
expressed no remorse or 
emotion while admitting 
to poisoning her dog, even 
when learning of its death.
When the arresting of-
ﬁ  cer asked Chestnut if 
she had considered killing 
members of her house-
hold, she said she previ-
ously attempted to kill her cousin  
by poi-
soning  
them  
with ant 
spray,  
accord-
ing to 
the re-
port.
She told authorities her 
plan ultimately failed, the 
report stated. However, 
she explained if given the 
opportunity to do so, she 
would spray her cousin 
with ant spray again.
Chestnut is being held 
in Alachua County Jail on 
charges of felony animal 
cruelty and conspiracy to 
commit murder. Her bail 
is set at $100,000. 
@alexldeluca
adeluca@alligator.org
UF joins national alliance to increase diversity in STEM faculty Man accused of armed robbery Woman poisons dog, police say
Baugh
Chestnut
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
relieved if they come back 
and say it’s not poop.”
Carr said he posted 
about this on Facebook to 
warn others. As of Tues-
day night, the post had 
150 comments, 73 shares 
and 97 reactions.
Carr said he is not look-
ing to sue and is waiting 
for the lab results before 
he contacts the owner.
“My goal is not to try to 
make any ﬁ  nancial gain,” 
Carr said. “The main thing 
is I just want everyone to 
be safe. People might dou-
ble, maybe triple check 
their food now.”
@jordynkalman
jkalman@alligator.orgPOOP,  from pg. 1He is waiting for lab results
Courtesy to The Alligator
A Gainesville resident said he found what looks 
like rodent feces in his Chinese takeout. 
student groups to make 
sure that survivors have 
the resources to succeed,” 
she said. 
UF’s resources for sexual 
assault victims includes the 
Title IX ofﬁ  ce, the Counsel-
ing and Wellness Center 
and the Ofﬁ  ce of Institu-tional Equity and Diversity.
Sophia Serrao, a 24-year-old UF second-
year law student and member of We Believe 
Survivors, said she hopes the resolution af-
fects change in resources for survivors and 
increases awareness of sexual assault on cam-
pus. 
“We hope that the resolution will show 
that there’s more to be done,” Serrao said. 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org RESOLUTION,  from pg. 1UF sexual misconduct reports increased ITS 20-YEAR PERMIT 
EXPIRED IN JUNE 
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
Local activists say they aren’t giving up Flor-
ida’s water without a ﬁ  ght. 
On Friday evening, advocates from Our Santa 
Fe River, Climate Action Gator and Sierra Club 
Suwannee will gather to protest a permit that 
would allow Nestlé Waters North America to 
take 1.152 million gallons from Ginnie Springs 
per day for bottled water. 
Protesters will meet at 6 p.m. at 25 NE Rail-
road Ave. in High Springs. There will be speak-
ers, followed by a march and rally held between 
Main Street and the Brewery of High Springs, 
said Michael Roth, a protest organizer and presi-
dent of Our Santa Fe River, a group that advo-
cates for protecting the river. 
Roth said his organization’s goal is to raise 
awareness about the water bottling permit, as 
he’s realized few people are aware the river is 
classiﬁ  ed as “in recovery” and will be devas-
tated by the additional water draw. 
“To use [the river water], to take it out of our 
area and transport it somewhere else is uncon-
scionable in an area where resources are declin-
ing,” he said. 
Seven Springs Water Co. had a 20-year per-
mit that expired in June that allowed it to bottle 
1.2 million gallons of water a day from the river. 
The company applied for a 5-year renewal of the 
existing permit.
Nestlé Waters released a statement on Aug. 
6 that said the company is adhering to all state 
standards regarding water withdrawals. Accord-
ing to the release, the total volume of water used 
monthly by Seven Springs Water Co. will be re-
ported to the district and published online.
Jenna Knobbe, a 19-year-old UF environ-
mental management in agriculture and natural 
resources sophomore, said her friend who she recently attended a climate strike with invited 
her to the protest’s event on Facebook. While 
she’s not sure if she can attend the protest be-
cause of a previous commitment, she said she 
will try to make it because the cause is impor-
tant to her. 
“I think it is absolutely ridiculous that there 
is even consideration into giving Nestlé a permit 
to pump out of Ginnie Springs, considering the 
detrimental effects that it’s going to have on our 
aquifer for the entire state of Florida,” she said. 
Knobbe said if Nestlé were to begin pump-
ing and bottling water out of Ginnie Springs, it 
would cause irreversible damage to Florida’s 
water supply.
“I think that’s something that people should 
just keep in mind, that this is bigger than just us 
in Gainesville,” she said. 
@alexldeluca 
adeluca@alligator.orgActivists plan to protest Nestlé 
bottling in High Springs Friday THE OUTDOOR CLOTHING 
BRAND WILL OPEN IN 2020
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville nature lovers and athletes 
will have another place to buy outdoor 
essentials.
Recreational Equipment Inc., known 
as REI, a popular outdoor equipment 
store, will open in Butler Town Center 
in spring 2020, said Mary Reichardt, 
corporate director of marketing at Butler 
Enterprises. 
Butler Enterprises chose REI to ﬁ  ll 
an available 23,000-square-foot space in 
April 2019 because of the natural attrac-
tions that surround Gainesville as well 
as the store’s focus on sustainability, 
Reichardt said. 
“They remain focused on their mis-
sion above proﬁ  tability, and that has 
made them a very successful company 
and a perfect ﬁ  t for Alachua County,” 
Reichardt said. 
The athletic retailer will be in com-petition with Dick’s Sporting Goods, 
Bass Pro Shops and Lloyd Clarke 
Sports, which already have locations in 
Gainesville. 
However, customers shouldn’t feel 
pressured to choose just one store, 
Reichardt said. 
“[REI] is really focused on more 
outdoor experiences like tents, biking, 
hiking, ﬁ  shing or canoeing,” Reichardt 
said. “That’s really a strong focus for the 
store, and I think it rounds out what we 
already have in the market.”
Gianna Sweeting, a 19-year-old UF 
biomedical engineering student, re-
cently heard about REI’s new location. 
She said she is looking forward to both 
browsing their products and attending 
some of the workshops the store offers. 
“I’m most excited about the free out-
door classes and the good prices on out-
door equipment,” Sweeting said. 
@priya_dames
pdames@alligator.orgREI set to open at Butler Plaza
Thomas
Courtesy to The Alligator
Nestlé Waters North America plans to bottle 1.152 
million gallons from Ginnie Springs per day.
EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The mystery of the disappearing Student Government agencies
Halloween is coming up, so I think it’s 
an appropriate time to talk about a 
spooky mystery that has been on my 
mind for quite some time.
UF Student Government’s execu-
tive branch has agencies akin to our federal 
government’s departments. Each agency has 
its own mission. The ACCENT Speakers Bu-
reau brings in speakers, as I’m sure you’ve 
all realized at this point, while Chomp the 
Vote dabbles in registering voters.
Now, if the U.S. Department of Energy or 
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security disappeared 
overnight, I’m sure a lot of heads would turn. In a simi-
lar sense, a lot of people are wondering what happened 
to two SG agencies: the Freshman Leadership Council 
(FLC) and Bridges Minority Outreach Program.
FLC has always been an interesting program. It 
aimed to bring together 50 or so ﬁ  rst-year students to 
engage in professional development, learning how to 
program all under the wing of SG. I applied when I was 
a freshman, but was rejected. Full disclosure: I’m still 
a little salty about that, but I suppose I’m salty about 
SG in general.
However, I expected to be rejected because I knew 
where FLC stood in the grand scheme of things.
FLC, alongside other organizations such as Gators of 
Tomorrow, has long served as an incubator for impres-
sionable students, molding their Silly Putty souls into 
becoming lackeys for Florida Blue Key. To be fair, FLC 
has churned out some great leaders who have decided 
to use their powers for good.
Earlier in the year, you might recall that the person 
appointed to run FLC, Austin Carroll, wasn’t actually 
a part of FLC. This led to a showdown in Student Sen-
ate in which many alumni turned up to pressure the Senate to do the right thing and not conﬁ  rm 
the chairman. The Senate ended up voting to 
conﬁ  rm the unqualiﬁ  ed agency head which 
appears to have led to the scuttling of the en-
tire agency. Situations like those really open 
people’s eyes to see how messed up SG re-
ally is.
(If anyone from UF Health Shands Hospi-
tal is reading this, give me an email if y’all do 
pro bono spine transplants because I know a 
couple of people with Twizzlers for spines.)
Aside from one Facebook share in the sum-
mer that advertised staff applications, we never heard 
from FLC again. Normally their recruitment process 
happens in September, but this year I was surprised to 
see that Florida Blue Key was launching its own fresh-
man leadership program around the same time. Wow, 
I’m sure that was sure a coincidence.
It doesn’t feel right to call “FLC” lucky, but at least 
it has (or “had”) an agency head. Bridges Minority Out-
reach Program, on the other hand, is both leaderless 
and mysteriously quiet.
The mission of this agency is (or was) to: “prepare 
the next generation of racial minority scholars in the 
state of Florida to be competitive applicants in UF’s ap-
plication process.” It is a little worrisome to see the po-
tential ﬁ  zzling out of this actually meaningful agency 
after its inaugural year.
These two SG agencies, both new and old, have van-
ished and people deserve to know what happened. SG 
needs to own up for its lack of transparency. Not all 
mysteries are best left unsolved.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science senior and 
serves as the Murphree Area Senator.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Be safe and spooky 
this Halloween
Halloween may be fun, but sexual assault isn’t. With 
the number of reported incidents of nonconsensual 
sexual contact increasing this year at UF, we urge 
everyone to be careful this weekend. Try to have fun 
with your friends, but make sure to keep an eye out 
as well. Most sexual assaults reported by college women are 
caused by someone they know. These monsters are human.
We’re not saying to drop everyone you know because that 
would be ridiculous. Plus, walking alone at night is pretty dan-
gerous, and we don’t recommend that. We urge you to be 
more cautious about people who surround you. If you don’t 
really know someone that well when they’re sober, you prob-
ably won’t know them any better when they’re drunk.
It seems we are at an unfortunate state of playing the 
guessing game of who’s who, and women are especially 
forced into this. Women have to guess whether or not some-
one is going to get a little too aggressive on a date, and we 
even have be more aware when we walk down the street. 
You could call it “paranoia,” but with nearly one in ﬁ  ve  
women suffering from date rape at some point in their life, 
is it really?
The problem isn’t that we’re paranoid, it’s that we’re 
forced to try to ﬁ  x a problem that isn’t ours. Throughout life, 
the majority of society is forced to deal with the typical alpha 
male’s tomfoolery. Do you remember when you had to hide 
your bra strap in middle school so that guys wouldn’t get 
“distracted?” Restrictive dress codes like that not only hin-
dered our sense of fashion, but also produced an unhealthy 
mentality in the minds of adolescents. 
What’s the best way to prevent rape and sexual assault on 
schools and campuses?
Maybe try not to be creepy, touchy or a rapist, but that’s 
just a thought.  
You should feel free to wear whatever you want because 
it’s your body, and be able to enjoy Halloween with friends 
you can trust. But the harsh truth is that you can be in danger 
anywhere while wearing anything, and Halloween customes 
don’t make a difference. In 2013, Jen Brockman created the 
“What Were You Wearing?” art exhibit to combat the notion 
that women are to blame for their own encounters with sexu-
al violence. A lot of these victims were just wearing jeans and 
a T-shirt. One of them wore an army uniform and carried a 
gun. Your “skimpy” costume isn’t the problem, it’s people’s 
mindsets. 
We have to work harder in order to change what people 
think. With the rise of the #MeToo movement and calling 
out men in power, it seems that people are changing for the 
better. Unfortunately, right now we have to deal with society 
while it’s still an ignorant mess.
One of the easiest ways to stay safe in an male-dominated 
society is to stay sober. Alcohol can really mess up your sens-
es. At least half of student sexual assaults involve alcohol, 
and about 90 percent of rapes involving acquaintances in-
volve alcohol as well. Please be wary of what you drink and 
how much. If you’re too drunk to even stand on your own 
two feet, maybe you shouldn’t be standing on them.
Go home, watch some Netﬂ  ix and maybe drink some tea 
— just remember to treat yourself kindly this Halloween.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
UF men’s basketball wins exhibition game
The Gators defeated Lynn University 89-71 in their 
preseason game.  Pg. 11Cyprus & Grove Brewing Company hosting free 
concert at 7 p.m. on Friday
Michael Kane & the Morning Afters, Secret Spirit, In the 
Meantime and Loose Bearings will be performing.THE PUNK ROCK FESTIVAL IS 
TURNING 18 THIS NOVEMBER
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
Tony Weinbender is the DIY Walt Disney 
for Gainesville punk-rock lovers.
Nov. 1 marks 18 years since his punk-cen-
tered festival, FEST, burst onto the Gainesville 
music scene and into punk-rockers’ hearts. 
With its hand-picked bands, comedians and 
yoga, the three-day festival has become a sta-
ble event for Gainesville residents and punk-
rock lovers across the globe.
FEST operates as a multiple-venue, choose-
your-own-show that resembles similar festi-
vals like SXSW while still maintaining its in-
dividuality. 
“We like the multiple venue format. I like it 
because as an attendee, you can choose your 
own adventure. Gainesville deﬁ  nitely lends to 
that, and it gives you a better sense of what 
downtown Gainesville is like. Seeing a show 
in different rooms and different environments 
lends each show to have a different experi-
ence,” Weinbender said.
This year’s lineup includes many bands cel-
ebrating a moment in their careers: Jawbreak-
er is back from the dead, Jawbox is recently 
reunited, Stiff Little Fingers is celebrating 40 years of their game-changing debut, Against 
Me! is playing two sets and FEST itself is cel-
ebrating its transition into adulthood.
“I feel like I don’t have to baby it anymore. 
We have done it many years now, and I can 
kind of loosen the reigns a little bit,” Wein-
bender said. “Not to let it be a free-for-all at 
FEST, but trusting more of the other people 
that help me do FEST. I don’t have to go 
around and micromanage stuff anymore. As a 
dad, I feel like it has come around pretty well.” 
FEST creates its unique atmosphere by 
combining new bands with seasoned veterans.
“Everybody there is there for the same rea-
son: the same love or passion that they’re into, 
and so everybody is just excited that somebody 
else is there,” Weinbender said. “Honestly, 
we’re all just a bunch of nerds that really like 
a very small sub-genre of music. If you’re into 
sub-genre punk-rock music or indie rock, FEST 
is a great experience for you to come and learn 
about new band.” 
Weinbender said he wants to keep the DIY 
feeling of FEST even through its success. He 
reaches this goal by keeping attendees in the 
front of his mind when planning FEST each year.
“I am not some big promoter,” he said. “I 
don’t do shows throughout the year. We don’t 
utilize an outside production company. This is 
not a part of some big conglomerate. There are 
no outside investors.”
“This started up from the ground up, and it’s always gonna be from the ground up. In 
the end, our goal is to put on the best show and 
experience possible for attendees. We always 
put attendees even over bands in our priority 
list of like to take care of people. Maybe that is 
just me coming from a fan’s point of view, but 
I just want people to be happy.”
Before the existence of Facebook, FEST had 
a message board on its website where fans of 
the annual festival would go to chat through-
out the year. This online community is now lo-
cated on Facebook in the group “Fest Friends.”
Stephanie Falcon, program assistant at the 
UF Levin College of Law, is an administrator of 
the Fest Friends Facebook group and a former 
FEST volunteer. She attended her ﬁ  rst FEST in 
2004 and has attended every year since then. 
As the years have gone by, her friend group 
has increased. To her, FEST is equally, if not 
more, about seeing her close friends as it is 
about seeing cool bands. 
“What is important is seeing all of your 
friends. All of your ‘FEST friends’ as we call 
them, and that is personally my highlight of 
FEST is seeing all of my FEST friends who live 
in other states. My bestie is someone I met at 
FEST, and they live in New York, so this is 
pretty much the only time we get to hang out,” 
Falcon said.
She said FEST provides an incredible envi-
ronment for magical moments. According to 
Falcon, there is nothing like being with your best friends and hundreds of like-minded strangers.
“A lot of these bands are bands that nor-
mally play to a room of like 20 people. And 
now they are playing to three, four, ﬁ  ve hun-
dred people singing along,” Falcon said. Peo-
ple from all over the world there is something 
really magical about that, when you realize 
that in the middle of a room that you’re sur-
rounded by all of these strangers, but who are 
exactly the same as you, singing along to the 
same song.” 
Falcon is looking forward to the upcoming 
FEST 18. Apart from seeing her friends and 
absorbing the atmosphere, she is most excited 
about Against Me! singer Laura Jane Grace’s 
performance at the Civic Media Center. 
“I actually bought an extra ticket to that. 
Just in case it got to capacity, I can still get in. 
The reason why is because the CMC is one of 
the ﬁ  rst venues that Laura ever played at, solo 
or with Against Me!,” Falcon said. “The band 
Against Me! and Laura’s story in general have 
had a really huge impact on me and getting to 
see her in such an intimate setting that is so 
historic for the band, is just like; to me I can’t 
miss it. If I see no other bands and just that 
performance, I will be okay with that.”
This year’s FEST is taking place Nov. 1 
through 3. Three-day passes are sold out, but 
there are still tickets to individual showcases 
available on the FEST website. 
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgFEST returns to Gainesville this weekend
MUSICTHE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
DESCRIBES IT AS 
‘A STATEMENT TO OUR 
FAMIL Y’
By Samantha Scribano
Avenue Staff Writer
Three years ago, UF orientation 
led Madeline Crowley to a group 
she never anticipated joining, but 
she hasn’t looked back.  
No Southern Accent, UF’s pre-
mier coed a cappella group, was 
founded in 2001 and has come 
a long way since the group ﬁ  rst 
formed. They will release “Perma-
nent Address,” their ﬁ  rst album 
since 2016, this Friday. 
Crowley, a 21-year-old UF lin-
guistics junior and current ex-
ecutive director of the group, said 
they have changed noticeably over 
the last ﬁ  ve years, along with the 
evolution of a cappella as a music 
style. 
“The professionalism of col-
lege groups and a cappella groups 
in general just skyrocketed in the 
past couple of years,” she said.  “The groups have just gotten bet-
ter and better and are continuously 
exceeding expectations each year 
and getting more competitive and 
impactful.”
Crowley said “Permanent Ad-
dress” reﬂ  ects the sense of security 
she and other group members feel 
toward No Southern Accent and 
how far they have come musically. 
“The thought process behind it 
is No Southern Accent has histori-
cally prided itself on being a family 
and being a group of friends,” she 
said. “A tight-knit group of people 
that also love to make music with 
each other. This is what we have 
all encompassed within the past 
couple years, and this is the home 
that we’ve built with our music 
and the core of our foundation.”
From this album, listeners can 
expect a similar assortment of 
music genres seen on previous al-
bums, ranging from tastes of pop 
and rhythm and blues to jazz. 
However, there is a new sense of 
complexity and intentionality to 
the tracks. 
With 14 group members in to-
tal, they worked together to choose 
and then vote on the songs that ul-
timately made it on the album by 
using a song selection board. The 
songs include pieces they have per-formed at competitions in the past 
as well as personal favorites.
Some pop songs the group mem-
bers chose include “E.T.” by Katy 
Perry feat. Kanye West and “Roar-
ing 20s” by Panic! At The Disco.
All of the music from the album 
was arranged, taught and edited by 
Kim Evens, a 21-year-old UF adver-
tising senior and previous music 
director of No Southern Accent. 
She worked with Myles Lopez, a 
20-year-old UF women’s studies 
junior, to make the album happen. 
Crowley said Evens and Lopez 
worked extensively on track edits 
throughout Summer and during 
the Fall semester leading up to the 
release. Each song took four to six 
hours to ﬁ  nish recording depend-
ing on the complexity, she said.
“We had to set aside ﬁ  ve days 
or so to really bang out all the 
songs and have a lot of late nights 
singing,” Crowley said.
“Permanent Address” will 
stream on over 15 different plat-
forms Friday, some of which in-
clude  Apple Music, Spotify, You-
tube, Google Play, Amazon Music 
and Pandora.
@samscribano98
sscribano@alligator.orgUF a cappella album dropping Friday
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF a cappella group No Southern Accent is releasing their 
newest album “Permanent Address” on Friday.
8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
WORLD VEGAN DAY IS FRIDAY
By Cassidy Hopson
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville isn’t the ﬁ  rst place that comes to 
mind when thinking about vegan food. 
The college town is mainly known for its 
pizza at Leonardo’s By The Slice and burg-
ers at Relish. However, as veganism becomes 
more popular, local restaurants are responding 
by serving more plant-based options. In fact, 
some are offering special deals for customers 
on World Vegan Day this Friday.
Below are some of the best restaurants in 
Gainesville serving vegan options.
Hoggetowne Creamery
Hoggetowne Creamery is a new addition to 
the Gainesville community, having opened its 
doors this past August. The ice cream shop, 
located at 220 NW Eighth Ave., offers mul-
tiple nondairy ﬂ  avors made from scratch and 
sourced from local ingredients.  Justin Langer, the creamery’s owner and 
chef, said he wanted to provide better vegan 
dessert options for Gainesville residents. 
“We decided to start with something sweet 
because Gainesville was lacking any kind 
of dessert bar,” he said. “We felt that the ice 
cream could be made better. So, I decided to 
try to do everything from scratch.”
Their nondairy ﬂ  avors vary based on sea-
son, with options changing every couple of 
weeks. Current ﬂ  avors being offered include 
chocolate, black sesame and mango. 
“I love the vegan bases,” Langer said. “I al-
most like them better than my normal dairy 
bases. They came out really good.”
For World Vegan Day, the shop will be 
offering $1 off the purchase of any vegan ice 
cream. 
Curia On The Drag
It’s impossible to talk about vegan food in 
Gainesville without mentioning Curia On The 
Drag, as it is the only completely vegan restau-
rant in town. This vegans’ paradise, situated along 
Northwest Sixth Street, offers main dishes such 
as jackfruit quesadillas and loaded tater tots, 
while their coffee and tea shop offers coffee, 
tea and baked goods. 
Civilization
Travel across the world through cuisine by 
dining at Civilization. The restaurant serves 
New American and global dishes, offering spe-
cials from a different country every week.
Fittingly, the restaurant is located in the his-
toric Gulf Oil building, formerly a train station.
Items on their designated vegan menu in-
clude beer batter onion rings, Thai green curry 
and a falafel burger. 
Boca Fiesta
Even vegans can enjoy their Tex-Mex favor-
ites when dining at Boca Fiesta. Co-founded 
by Warren Oakes, the former drummer of the 
punk band Against Me!, Boca Fiesta has been 
part of the Gainesville community for over 10 
years.  Located on Southeast First Street, the res-
taurant offers tempeh as a meat substitute for 
many of their dishes, such as tacos, burritos 
and sandwiches. Pro-tip: On any entree that 
includes cheese, swap it out for vegan queso.
Daily Green
Daily Green takes pride in using local, or-
ganic and sustainable foods, according to co-
owner John Arana.
The restaurant has been whipping up 
healthy dishes since 2013, and their easy-to-
navigate menu clearly labels which items are 
vegan, raw, gluten-free and paleo.
The owners decided to include a wide va-
riety of vegan menu options because they felt 
there was a high demand for it, Arana said.
Vegan dishes include daily sweet wafﬂ  es, 
raw nachos and their most popular, the tem-
peh Rueben.
The restaurant will be offering a special for 
World Vegan Day that will be announced on 
their Facebook page. 
@CassidyHopson
chopson@alligator.org  The best spots in Gainesville for vegan food 
Food
AUDIO KARATE AND MORE 
TO PERFORM COVER SETS
By Cassandra Perez
Avenue Staff Writer
With FEST 18 right around the 
corner and eager attendees already ﬁ  l-
ing into town, many are searching for 
ways to bide their time until the punk 
rock music festival kicks off on Friday.
In response, the organizers will put 
on a pre-FEST Halloween show to-
morrow night at Bo Diddley Commu-
nity Plaza in downtown Gainesville, 
featuring covers sets of songs by Van 
Halen, Smashing Pumpkins, the De-
scendents and more. The event is set 
to run from 6 to 11 p.m. with tickets 
costing $6.66 in advance and $10 on 
the day of the show. They are avail-
able for purchase on FEST’s website 
or in person at the door. 
In previous years, the organiza-
tion has held a larger pre-FEST event 
in Ybor City in Tampa but decided 
to host it closer to home this year to 
focus their efforts on the upcoming 
festival. Because Bo Diddley Plaza 
will already be set up in anticipation 
for FEST, it’s an accommodating and 
affordable solution for those who will 
already be in town and are looking for 
Halloween plans. 
“Once people started coming in 
from overseas and started coming into 
town early, we’ve always tried to or-
ganize something for them to go to,” 
said Tony Weinbender, founder of 
FEST. “It’s also a bigger opportunity 
for bands that travel from very, very 
far away to play another show.”
Although not a part of FEST 18, the 
event will feature a number of bands 
performing at the three-day festival 
such as Save Ends, Answering Ma-
chine, You Vandal and Audio Karate. 
In addition, the event will include a 
costume contest, the winner of which 
will take home 20 beer tickets for FEST 
18 and one three-day pass to next year’s festival. 
Weinbender thinks that given the 
event’s prime location and affordable 
tickets, everyone should make an ef-
fort to come out and support it. 
“It’s going to be fun if the weath-
er’s amazing, which it usually is this 
time of year.” Weinbender said. “It’s 
a great opportunity to do something 
that’s going to be for all ages and right 
in the middle of downtown. Cover sets 
are always fun.” 
Audio Karate will be doing a De-
scendents cover set at the event, who 
they accompanied earlier in the month 
for a brief tour. Gabriel Camacho, the 
band’s drummer, says that Descen-
dents played a big part in shaping the 
band’s identity.
“As a teenager, Descendents and 
Bill Stevenson were my baptism into 
So-Cal punk,” Camacho said. “[He] 
served as my road map to everything 
I wanted to be as a drummer: loud, 
front and center in all recordings and 
often would do stuff I’d never heard a 
band allow a drummer to do up until 
that point.”
This year will mark Audio Karate’s 
second time performing at FEST. On 
the heels of releasing “Malo,” their 
ﬁ  rst full-length album in 15 years 
that is comprised of “lost and forgot-
ten” songs from their youth, the band 
looks forward to stepping back out 
into the spotlight and reintroducing 
themselves. 
“I spent nearly 10 years away from 
the band — my family.” Jason Cama-
cho, one of the band’s guitarists, said. 
“Being able to remix the album and do 
Audio Karate again is super gratifying 
and humbling. We are thankful our 
fans have stuck around and welcomed 
us back with open arms and ears.”
Audio Karate will also perform at 
Downtown Fats Friday night. Their set 
is tentatively scheduled for midnight. 
@cassandraperez0
cperez@alligator.orgBo Diddley Plaza to host 
pre-FEST Halloween show
MUSIC
A LOOK INTO THE THEATER’S 
HAUNTED HISTORY 
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
It was 1915. 
An exhausted and worried Lucinda Boyle had 
just arrived at the federal courthouse from Enid, 
Oklahoma, after receiving a letter her son Clement 
had written, which said he’d go on trial for a murder 
he didn’t commit. 
Boyle burst through the front doors, worn from the 
thousands of miles she’d traveled, only to be told by 
a postal worker that she was too late… her son had 
already been convicted and hanged on the gallows.  
She raced up three ﬂ  ights of stairs, and into the 
district court’s ofﬁ  ces. In her desperate search for 
answers about her son, she banged on all ofﬁ  ce 
doors and cried out for help. She was driven mad 
with grief, and collapsed on the ﬂ  oor of the women’s 
bathroom. 
Over 100 years later, some can still hear her 
whimpering in what is now The Hippodrome State 
Theatre. 
“Many believe she’s still here,” Matthew Lindsay, 
a Hippodrome acting company member, said.
Lindsay and the theater’s production manager, 
Bob Robins, led a tour on Sunday called “Boos and 
Brews” to give locals a peek into the building’s archi-
tectural and haunted history. 
All 21 attendees listened intently to the stories the 
structure contains.
The Hippodrome, located at 25 S.E. Second Place, 
was not always a theater. Construction began in 1909, 
and the building originally served as a post ofﬁ  ce and 
federal courthouse from 1911 to 1963, Robins said.  
“The United States Government somehow 
deemed Gainesville to be a town that would usher 
the growth of North Central Florida and Southern 
Georgia,” Robins said. “And they named it Federal 
Court District C.”
The main stage, where patrons watch the plays, 
once served as a federal courtroom, he said. 
While the building has evolved over time, the 
ghosts still lingers in its crevices. 
Some attendees rode the 110-year-old elevator up to the third ﬂ  oor, where Robins and Lindsay began 
to tell some ghost stories.  
Lindsay said the costume designer, Stephanie 
Parks, was burning the midnight oil in the costume 
shop one night when she heard an ominous sound 
from down the hallway. 
“At one point, she swore to me that she heard 
some sound that, well, sounded like a woman’s 
voice,” Lindsay said. “She came out into the dark 
hallway and saw nothing… when without warning, 
this door slammed shut when it was halfway open.” 
Lindsay then led the group to the third-ﬂ  oor lob-
by, where he recounted a story from the late 1980s 
about an intern who said she heard a woman sob-
bing in the bathroom, but saw no one there. 
The woman is believed to be Lucinda Boyle. 
After 35 years of working at the theater, Robins 
said he wears headphones or talks to himself when 
he locks up at night because he can’t stand the quiet. 
“Doors closing, cold breezes, I’ve witnessed 
it all,” Robins said. “And I’m a pretty 
hardcore science guy.”
Many areas of the theater, such as the third-ﬂ  oor 
women’s bathroom and the basement bathroom 
stalls, became the settings for ghost stories that still 
give Robins and Lindsay chills. 
Robins and Lindsay recounted a story from an ac-
tor who swore he heard a voice crying “Let me out!” 
from the basement bathroom stalls, which served as 
holding cells for convicts before they were hanged. 
Julia Sander, a 31-year-old local, said she’s been 
a patron at the Hippodrome for 25 years, and partici-
pated in its ghost tour several years ago.
“The whole concept that this used to be a court-
house where people were sentenced to die, and the 
fact that people act here, just ups the creepy factor,” 
Sander said. 
She said she wanted to see a different perspective 
and learn more about its history. 
“I’ve always loved this building,” Sander said. “I 
always thought it was beautiful and wanted to experi-
ence the lore and history of it.” 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org The Hippodrome State Theater hosts a 
ghost tour of its 110-year-old building 
LifestyleGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
Friends don’t let friends be driven home by 
drunk drivers1For Rent
furnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Gorgeous Lake House. Fish, swim & ski. 
beautful Lake Winnott (near Melrose, FL). 
3br/2ba cement block built in '03. Split floorplan 
w/approx 12'x 42' glassed-in FL room w/heat & 
air Concrete drive, boat ramp, fenced yd.18x31 
enclosed RV/boat barn. Poss owner financing. 
Call for photo & addl info 352-278-4644 Agents 
welcome. 4% commission.11-1-19-6-5
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Morton J. Mendelson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/30/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/30/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 30, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gets misty, with 
“up”
5 Salon treatment, 
briefly
9 Benjamins
15 Curly coif
16 Popular river 
name from the 
Welsh for “river”
17 They’re 
exchanged in 
Hawaii
18 Nonstick 
cookware product
19 Religious season
20 “Don’t take the 
blame”
21 Risked it big-time
24 Cooler filler
25 Chinese zodiac 
critter
26 Approximate nos.
27 MN and NM
30 Puts (in) 
tentatively
32 Bad-mouth
33 Word before bug 
or ant
34 Prov. bordering 
four Great Lakes
35 Hairpiece
36 Hazardous gas
37 Risked it big-time
42 Parrots geese
43 Fill up on
44 Nero’s 91
45 Exclusive
46 Part of UNLV
47 Wore
51 BB-shaped 
veggie
52 Coll. Board 
exams
53 “I’m sorry, Dave” 
film computer
54 “__ you serious?”
55 Risked it big-time
59 Compensate for
61 Short hoppers?
62 Hall of Fame 
pitcher Randy 
“The Big __” 
Johnson
63 Hairpiece
64 Pennsylvania 
county
65 5 for B or 6 for C
66 Coffee and wine
67 Lairs
68 One logging onDOWN
1 Fistfight souvenir
2 __ hours
3 Second 
Commandment 
adjective
4 Footprint maker
5 Silicon Valley 
city
6 Pentathlon’s five
7 “That’s a no-no!”
8 Where losers 
of a race may 
be left
9 West Point 
students
10 Gravity-powered 
vehicles
11 Classic video 
game
12 Reaffirming 
rebuttal
13 __ chi
14 Boomer that no 
longer booms
22 Screwdrivers, 
e.g.
23 Give approval 
online, in a way
28 Slacks, briefly
29 Email status
31 Far from self-
effacing33 Mystic on a bed 
of nails
35 Comforted
36 Soda since 1905
37 Explore  
OfferUp
38 Hue
39 Prohibited
40 “Awesome!”
41 Wide-open 
spaces
46 Coffeehouse 
orders47 Sure winner
48 Contaminates
49 White-coated 
weasel
50 One with bills to 
pay
52 Look of disdain
56 Hockey’s Phil, to 
fans
57 Sped
58 Waikiki bash
59 Needing no Rx
60 Egg __ yung
By Chase Dittrich
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/29/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/29/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 29, 2019
ACROSS
1 Rogues
5 Is without
10 Possesses
14 Rose’s Broadway 
love
15 Copier brand
16 Game with cues 
and balls
17 Social event with 
costumes and 
facial covers
19 Gaelic tongue
20 Defunct 
Amer. soccer 
competition
21 Commented
23 Footwear insert
26 Slice of history
27 Homebuyer’s 
need
28 Accustom (to)
32 Ron Weasley’s 
pet Scabbers, for 
one
35 The “S” in CBS: 
Abbr.
37 San Diego ball 
club
38 Act in a bipartisan 
way, and what 
the circled letters 
do Across and 
Down
42 Major blood 
vessels
43 Have a bug
44 Northern Calif. 
airport
45 Avow
46 Lunch hour
49 Nutrition fig.
51 Native 
encountered by 
Crusoe
55 Large watchdogs
59 “SNL” alum Cheri
60 Rebuke from 
Caesar
61 Kitchen storage 
brand
64 Rolled-up 
sandwich
65 Office 
communication
66 “__ hardly wait!”
67 Internet 
transmission 
delays
68 Uses for a fee
69 Therefore
DOWN
1 “The Stranger” 
novelist Albert2 Make self-
conscious
3 “Y.M.C.A.” music 
genre
4 Book that 
continues a story
5 Charlemagne’s 
domain: Abbr.
6 Balloon filler
7 Hiccups cure, so 
they say
8 Lymph __
9 Unifying feature 
of many escape 
rooms
10 Part of MO
11 Toil
12 Odor detector
13 Iditarod 
conveyance
18 __ no good: 
scheming
22 “That’s __ 
shame”
24 Speaks in a 
gravelly voice
25 One-named 
“Only Time” 
singer
29 Caterer’s 
coffeepots
30 Snorkeling spot
31 Gas brand in 
Canada
32 Some TVs33 In __: lined up
34 Ripped up
36 Mrs., in Madrid
37 Traffic cone
39 Recipients of 
venture capital
40 Broadway 
restaurant 
founder
41 “Mean Girls” 
screenwriter Fey
47 __ about: 
roughly
48 Peabrain50 Chasing
51 “Washington 
Journal” channel
52 Surfer’s hangout
53 Pianist Claudio
54 Real estate 
claims
55 Whimper
56 Gillette brand
57 Without a date
58 Do a slow burn
62 Mango remnant
63 Trains over the 
street
10/28/19
HERE IS A PLEASANT LITTLE GAME that will give you a message every day. It's a numer -
ical puzzle designed to spell out your fortune. Count the letters in your first name. If the 
number of letters is 6 or more, subtract 4. If the number is less than 6, add 3. The result is 
your key number. Start at the upper left-hand corner and check one of your key numbers, 
left to right. Then read the message the letters under the checked figures give you.
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
solution on pg. 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.orgWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesGet the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Check out DR. CHALMERS' OFFICE - 
the new short story by Terry Hensley - on 
Amazon. A surreal comedy (with just a touch 
of spookiness for Halloween). Original mu-
sic too ("Terry Hensley - topic"). Interview on 
CollegeUndergroundRadio.com.    11-4-19-
5-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE
YEAR 2045 LONG-RANGE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN
DRAFT
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION PLAN
OF THE
METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
ORGANIZATION
FOR THE
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED AREA
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area will consider approval of the Year 
2045 Long-Range Transportation Plan draft 
Public Participation Plan at its Monday, 
December 16, 2019 meeting at 5:00 p.m. 
in the Jack Durrance Auditorium, Alachua 
County Administration Building, 12 SE 1st 
Street, Gainesville, Florida. The Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area is inviting 
interested persons to review and comment 
on the draft Public Participation Plan at this 
meeting.
The draft Public Participation Plan docu-
ment may be viewed at the following 
website (www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo); Alachua 
County Library District Branches within the 
Gainesville Metropolitan Area; and at its staff 
office, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, 
Florida 32653 For further information, call 
352.955.2200.         10-30-1-20This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place 
your ad in the  Services 
Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us at 
373-FIND.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment
Trivia Test     By Chris Richcreek
1. TELEVISION: What was the name of the estate in the TV show 
"Dark Shadows"?
2. MOVIES: What sport was featured in the movie "The Natural"?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the largest freshwater lake in Africa?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What type of clothing did President Dwight 
Eisenhower popularize?
5. ANATOMY: What sense does the olfactory nerve affect?
6. GAMES: In what year did the Frisbee debut as a flying toy?
7. HISTORY: Which country did the Soviet Union invade in 1979?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: When is the next Leap Year?
9. MUSIC: Which famous singer was nicknamed the "Godfather of 
Soul"?
10. MEDICAL: What is the other name of the vitamin riboflavin?answers on this page
answers on this page answers on this page
TRIVIA TEST ANSWERS
1. Collinwood
2. Baseball
3. Lake Victoria
4. A waist-length jacket
5. Sense of smell
6. 1957
7. Afghanistan
8. 2020
9. James Brown
10. B2
(c) 2019 King Features 
Syndicate, Inc.
Stickelers Answer
1. land MASS age
2. ring MASTER mind
3. weather PROOF reader
4. web MASTER piece
(c) 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.SUDOKU SolutionPUZZLE 
SOLUTIONSspoilersahead
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida soccer forward Alyssa 
Howell was named to the SEC 
Community Service Soccer 
T eam after dedicating 184 
hours to six different activities 
since the fall of 2018. NCAA moves toward student-athlete compensation
The NCAA announced Tuesday that the organization voted to "consider up-
dates to relevant bylaws and policies" regarding student-athletes benefit-
ting from the use of their image and likeness "in a manner consistent with 
the collegiate model. " Changes are supposed to be made by January 2021. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
CROSS COUNTRYBy River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Forward Kerry Blackshear Jr. found 
the ball in his hands with less than five 
seconds left in the first half.
He was just behind the three-point 
line, and having already hit from long 
range earlier in the game, he let it fly with 
just a second left as the buzzer sounded 
across the O’Connell Center.
Swish.
“He pressed up a bit, and I got a little 
separation,” Blackshear Jr. said after the 
game. “It was a pretty good shot.”
The half-closing three was one of the 
highlights in graduate transfer Blacks-
hear Jr.’s debut with Florida as the team 
soundly defeated the Lynn University 
Fighting Knights 89-71 in an exhibition 
Tuesday night. 
The forward ended his first compe-
tition as a Gator with 16 points and 10 
rebounds.
The first half remained close for a 
short stretch, with UF holding a 10-7 lead 
four minutes in, but Florida opened it up 
shortly after.
Blackshear Jr. was the team’s best performer in the first half long before he 
hit the three to close it out. He netted 12 
points and went three for four from the 
field, hitting two of his three 3-point at-
tempts and grabbing four rebounds. 
Another notable first-half perfor-
mance came from sophomore forward 
Keyontae Johnson, who racked up nine 
points, two rebounds and two assists.
And Florida didn’t stop rolling once it 
started, and quickly outpaced the Knights 
to end the half with a substantial 49-29 
lead.
It may have just been an exhibition, 
but the Gators had no intent of slowing 
down.
The second half started with an 11-0 
run that included two buckets from the 
three-point line by sophomore guard An-
drew Nembhard.
Nembhard had a dominant second 
half, scoring 13 points and going three for 
four from beyond the arc. He added on 
to it with two rebounds and two assists  
and ended the night as Florida’s leading 
scorer, finishing the game with 17 points, 
six assists and four rebounds.
“I’ve been shooting it well lately from 
practice,” Nembhard said. “(I’ve been) staying focused on getting it to go down 
as much as possible.”
The Gators’ main task defensively in 
the second half was the containment of 
Lynn guard Jordan Allen, and despite 
UF’s victory, they were largely unable to 
do so. Allen accounted for more than half 
of the Fighting Knights’ points, ending 
the night with 37 of Lynn’s 71 points and 
shooting 13 for 23 from the field.
“Jordan Allen was fantastic, my good-
ness,” coach Mike White said after the 
game. “We allowed him to get going, and 
then he hit some tough, guarded shots.”
The Gators defense, though lacking a 
bit in the second half, managed 16 points 
off turnovers and never trailed during the 
game.
Florida will face off against North 
Florida for its first regular season game 
on Nov. 5, and the team will certainly at-
tempt to improve its defensive play be-
fore then.
“You’ve got to contest the shot, 
you’ve got to block out and you’ve got to 
contest the basketball,” White said. “We 
didn’t do that at a very high level.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
By Joseph Salvador
Sports Writer
 
“I kind of just dropped the bomb 
on them one night at dinner, and I was 
like, ‘I want to go to America.’”
That was how Australian Jessica 
Pascoe broke the news to her parents. 
That was before she broke UF’s 
records in the women’s 6K, UF Golf 
Course 5K and the SEC Champion-
ships 6K. And it was about three years 
before she had the highest finish in 
Florida history at the NCAA Champi-
onships.
It was about four years before Pas-
coe, now a senior, was positioned to 
cement herself as one of the greatest 
athletes in Florida’s history.
*   *   *
Pascoe has always been on the 
move. 
Growing up in the small town of 
Forbes, New South Wales, Australia, 
with a population of just over 8,000 
people, she kept herself busy. 
Pascoe was always athletic, al-
though she played sports you’ve prob-
ably never heard of, including netball 
(basically basketball without the back-
board) and touch football (essentially 
touch rugby).Her parents had busy schedules, 
but she was independent, so she ran to 
these various sporting locations.
Since Pascoe was already running 
everywhere, she realized her legs could 
be used for more than just a primary 
mode of transportation. She decided to 
train in distance running.
“Running, I found, was one thing 
I could do by myself when I wanted,” 
Pascoe said.  “And it was all on me and 
how far I took it.”
Her solitude manifested into a bud-
ding cross country career.
A career good enough to win the 
2016 Australian Junior Cross Country 
Championship and to garner attention 
from Division I programs in the United 
States.
Like any other world-class athlete 
being recruited, coaches were reach-
ing out to Pascoe via social media. She 
was on the fence at first and found her-
self wondering why these coaches (or 
“middle-aged men,” as she put it) were 
messaging her on Facebook, trying to 
get her to travel across the world.
Pascoe thought these messages 
were spam, as she was not familiar 
with the recruiting process.
Regardless, the messages kept com-
ing.
But only one offer stood out: the 
one from the University of Florida. Not 
because of the Gators logo. Not be-cause of the lore that surrounded the 
Swamp. And not because of the par-
ticular “middle-aged man” that sent 
the offer.
It was the program’s history with a 
certain Australian runner.
Genevieve Gregson (née LaCaze), 
a two-time Olympian and Queensland, 
Australia, native is considered to be 
one of UF’s greatest cross country run-
ners after her time with the program 
from 2009 to 2012.
The fact that the same school that 
Gregson ran for was reaching out to 
Pacoe was monumental. Gregson 
showed Pascoe it was possible, but 
now it was up to her to run in those 
shoes, and if she was lucky, run a little 
further. 
“(Gregson) was one of the main 
reasons I came to Florida,” Pascoe 
said.
Another was opportunity. 
Australia does not have any colle-
giate athletics, leading many of its ath-
letes to seek a path through the NCAA. 
Pascoe’s teammate and fellow Austra-
lian sophomore Imogen Barrett didn’t 
hold back on why so many Australians 
choose the route of competing in the 
U.S.
“The sports in Australia are actual-
ly, if I’m being honest, pretty pathetic, UF defeats Lynn University in first action of season
The last lap: Pascoe’s chase for greatnessSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Point guard Andrew Nembhard led the Gators with 17 
points and notched six assists in the exhibition win. 
Alligator File Photo
Senior Jessica Pascoe made program history as the first 
women's runner to notch four title wins in the first four meets. 
 SEE CROSS COUNTRY,  PAGE 1212  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeespecially for running,” she said.
After a quick visit to Gainesville in the 
middle of the 2015 cross country season, Pas-
coe was blown away by what she saw: Train-
ers, state-of-the-art facilities and an experi-
enced coaching staff was much more than the 
18-year-old ever had back home.
*   *   *
She committed to UF and joined the pro-
gram in the fall of 2016. The adjustment was 
hard.
Leaving her friends and family behind 
while acclimating to a new school and country 
proved difﬁ  cult. 
Her parents and grandparents were always 
near in the closely knit community of Forbes. 
But now, they were an entire world away.
But the battles she was ﬁ  ghting weren’t just 
mental. They were physical, too.
Pascoe has suffered many injuries over her 
four-year career. But as far as the details of 
those injuries go, it’s anyone’s guess.
She doesn’t like going into the speciﬁ  cs 
when in the public eye. Pascoe worries her op-
position will use that information against her.
The guarded competitor takes extra precau-
tions to combat those injuries.
Now, she ﬁ  nds herself in the training room 
before and after every practice to stretch, and 
receive a combination of acupuncture and 
massage therapy in order to keep her body 
in check for the estimated 140 kilometers she 
runs in any given week.
That’s a little over 86 miles, or the distance 
from Orlando to Tampa.
It’s what she has to do to mitigate the dam-
age she has already sustained. That damage 
held her back during her ﬁ  rst two seasons.
It wasn’t until her junior year that she hit 
her stride. A stride that included her 2018 SEC 
Women’s Runner of the Year title and 32nd-
place ﬁ  nish at the NCAA Championships.
Pascoe led her team to a 16th-place ﬁ  nish at 
NCAAs, the third-best in Florida history and its 
ﬁ  rst NCAA Championships appearance since 
2012.
Pascoe’s work ethic and style of running 
have become a source of pride for the Gators. Assistant coach Chris Solinsky described the 
combination as a perfect storm.
“She has the balance between power and 
ﬁ  nesse that every coach looks for,” Solisnky 
said. “She’s willing to go to some dark places 
when it comes to suffering within a race and 
within practice.”
Solinsky was alluding to Pascoe’s convic-
tion to endure the grueling physical demands 
of distance running and her overcoming count-
less injuries over the years.
“I just love the challenge, I love to dig as 
deep as I can and get the most out of myself,” 
Pascoe said. “I love the hurt. Those are my 
favorite workouts, when I’m absolutely de-
stroyed.”
*   *   *
Pascoe’s attitude, work ethic and drive 
haven’t gone unnoticed by her teammates.
Whatever she says goes — even though she 
doesn’t say much.
Junior Payton Capes-Davis transferred to 
Florida from Bucknell over the summer and 
was quick to pick up on the team’s dynamic.
Capes-Davis described Pascoe as a “show 
don’t tell” type of leader and, like the rest of 
the women on the team, she follows Pascoe.
“If Jess starts drills, we all start drills,” 
Capes-Davis said. “If Jess starts to warm-up… 
alright, maybe we don’t start to warm up be-
cause she’s running a lot faster.”
Redshirt junior Sophie Ebihara was in the 
same recruiting class as Pascoe and has seen 
ﬁ  rst-hand how she has transformed herself.
“I’ve never met anyone so driven,” Ebihara 
said. “She will absolutely put in the work no 
matter the day, no matter the hour, no matter 
how she’s feeling, she knows to be exceptional 
she has to put in the constant work.”
Capes-Davis compared Pascoe’s drive to a 
workhorse and her personality to an oyster.
Pascoe, herself, admitted her shell is hard to 
break through at ﬁ  rst. Whenever the mention 
of her goals or accolades are brought up, she 
has a knack for changing the subject, usually 
by breaking eye contact or nervously laughing 
so that she can talk about her teammates some 
more.
In training, it’s more of the same. She’s 
ambivalent toward material accomplishments.  She has other things on her mind besides re-
cords.
In typical early-20s fashion, Pascoe doesn’t 
exactly know what she’s going to do after she 
walks across the stage in May with her bach-
elor’s degree in health education and behavior.
“I’m going to see what I can do this year 
and hopefully set myself up for next year and 
years beyond,” Pascoe said. “I’d love to stay in 
the sport, whether that’s still competing, ﬁ  nd-
ing a job in this ﬁ  eld … I don’t think I could let 
this sport entirely go.”
When asked if she was going to stay in the 
U.S or go home, Pascoe did not have an an-
swer.
“Who knows when I’ll decide?”
Solinsky has been privy to all of Pascoe’s 
strides over the years and he believes that UF is 
not the last stop for her running career.
“She’s somebody that is on the trajectory, 
as long as she keeps her head on straight, she’s 
looking at a long career after her time here at 
the University of Florida.”
This body of work has separated her from 
her peers on the women’s team. When Pascoe 
started running back in Australia, she was on 
her own. But collegiate cross country is a team 
sport, and it is imperative to run as a pack 
when competing and training.
This has proved difﬁ  cult for the rest of the 
women’s team which, quite frankly, can’t keep 
up.
Since the summer, Pascoe has mostly 
trained with the men’s team so that she does 
not have to hold back in order to stay with the 
pack.
Even Solinsky admitted that Pascoe does 
more than just hold her own with her male 
counterparts.
“She gives them a run for their money,” he 
said.
The gap between her and the rest of the 
women on the team was apparent at Florida’s 
lone home meet of the season, where Pascoe 
ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst in the women’s 5K by a margin 
of 58 seconds.
Let that sink in.
She was high-ﬁ  ving her teammates to pass 
the time as she waited for the next runner at 
the ﬁ  nish line.
Pure dominance.
The Mountain Dew Invitational was the ﬁ  rst meet of her senior season. In her four 
meets of the 2019 season, she’s known noth-
ing but gold, ﬁ  nishing ﬁ  rst in all of them.
She is the ﬁ  rst women’s runner to win her 
ﬁ  rst four meets of the season in Florida history 
(it could have been ﬁ  ve for the season sweep, 
but she did not participate in the UNF Invita-
tional to start the year).
*   *   *
In a typical 5K, runners can’t go all-out the 
whole way. If they try, they’ll burn themselves 
out too early. Because of this, they’ll pace 
themselves early in the race, preserving their 
energy until the end.
Pascoe has paced herself this season, hold-
ing back until that ﬁ  nal kilometer, where she’ll 
empty the tank and go for gold. That ﬁ  nal ki-
lometer is the postseason, and it’s ﬁ  nally here. 
She’s saving her energy — at least, as best 
as she knows how. She has dialed back her 
regimen to just 120 kilometers a week (only 
the distance from Tampa to Kissimmee) so that 
she is fully rested for what lies ahead: the SEC 
Championships.
Pascoe and the Gators will start their post-
season Saturday at 9 a.m. in Lexington, Ken-
tucky.
It may be the site of another historic meet 
for Pascoe, as she begins to empty the tank and 
tries to be the ﬁ  rst to cross the ﬁ  nish line for an 
unprecedented ﬁ  fth time in a row.
However, No. 1 Arkansas will chase her 
down.
Now, on her last lap with the Florida cross 
country team, Pascoe has conquered bigger 
foes and outran scarier demons than the Ra-
zorbacks.
“I’ve overcome enough that I’m not afraid 
of anything anymore,” Pascoe said. “If I can 
get through what I’ve been through, I can han-
dle anything.”
@JSalvadorSports
jsalvador@alligator.org CROSS COUNTRY,  from pg. 11The Australian runs 140 kilometers weekly for training 