We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gainesville to be audited
Claims of ﬁ  nacial mismanagement led to audit, pg 4
Two-man play on Trump presidency to debut
It predicts Trump’s presidency two years in the future, pg 5SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperUF’s 2020 quarterback competition
Kyle Trask, Feleipe Franks and Emory Jones 
could all return next season, setting the stage 
for a battle between game-tested passers, 
pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 38
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
FLORIDA PRIORITIES SUMMIT
JUDGE GLORIA R. WALKER’S 
TERM BEGAN IN JANUARY
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Thousands signed their names to 
support a petition calling for the re-
moval of a judge they say unjustly 
threw out the case of a potential 
school shooter.
The petition on Change.org asks for 
the removal of Judge Gloria R.Walker 
of the Eighth Judicial Circuit, whose 
been in her position since January of 
this year. It was made Sunday by a 
Baker County High School parent after 
a 15-year-old’s second-degree felony 
charges were dismissed. The petition 
has more than 1,800 of its 2,500 goal 
of signatures as of Tuesday evening.
The student is accused of plan-
ning a mass murder after sharing his 
six-page “School Shooting Plan” with 
a peer in September, according to the 
Associated Press. The student was ar-
rested and charged as an adult.
The Marjory Stoneman Doug-las High School 
Public Safety 
Act, which ex-
panded the au-
thority of school 
ofﬁ  cials and law 
enforcement to 
act against cam-
pus safety threats, 
makes it a crime 
when someone 
“makes, posts, or transmits” a threat 
of mass shooting “in any manner that 
would allow another person to view 
the threat.” The law was passed after 
a gunman killed 17 people at the Park-
land high school Feb. 14, 2018.
The student was released from 
custody after Walker said prosecu-
tors couldn’t prove the notebook to be 
“transmitted,” like the law says, ac-
cording to AP. 
The Eighth Judicial Circuit and 
Walker declined to comment.
Tony Harris, the parent who cre-
ated the petition, said his freshman 
daughter at the high school was “trau-
matized” by the threat. He fears for the safety of his child and others at the 
high school.
He hopes the decision can be over-
turned higher up in the state legisla-
ture as well as prevent Walker from 
making a decision like this again.
“Parents think she endangered 
our children by not following through 
with [the case],” Harris said. “They 
think she’s sending a bad message to 
get away with it”
In the petition, Harris called for 
the Florida State Senate, the Florida 
State House, Florida State Senator Rob 
Bradley and Florida State Rep. Chuck 
Brannan to remove the judge. None of 
the aforementioned responded in time 
for comment.
He doesn’t plan on taking further ac-
tion after the petition but hopes the de-
cision will be rectiﬁ  ed after ofﬁ  cials see 
how many people support the cause.
“I’m not an activist,” Harris said. 
“But sometimes things have to be 
done and this was a way to bring at-
tention to the cause.”  
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgVIGIL FOR 
RECENT BOMBINGS 
FOLLOWED WALK-OUT
By Meghan McGlone 
and Ashley Lazarski
Alligator Staff Writers
When a reserve member of 
the Israel Defense Forces spoke 
at Little Hall Tuesday night, pro-
testors got up from their seats 
and left in support of Palestine. 
More than 100 people gath-
ered for his presentation, but 
only 17 remained until the end.
Yoni Michanie, 26, is a rep-
resentative of the Committee for 
Accuracy in Middle East Report-
ing and Analysis and reserve 
member of the Israel Defense 
Forces. He was scheduled to 
speak to a crowd in Little Hall 
about the Israeli-Palestinian con-
ﬂ  ict. 
He said the event was to hu-
manize Palestinians and discuss the role Palestinian leadership 
plays in the peace process. How-
ever, protestors said they want-
ed to bring awareness to recent 
bombings in the Gaza Strip, dur-
ing which Israeli and Palestinian 
forces exchanged rocket ﬁ  re de-
spite the rising death toll. 
An Isreali strike on Palestine 
in the Gaza Strip killed Palestin-
ian commander Baha Abu al-
Ata Nov. 12, according to the 
New York Times. Palestinian 
militants ﬁ  red rockets at Israel 
in response, killing and injuring 
dozens of people. 
Michanie was invited to 
speak by four pro-Israel advoca-
cy groups, The Alexander Ham-
ilton Society and the UF chapter 
of his own organization, he said. 
He was not paid.
Unaware of how many peo-
ple in the audience were protes-
tors, Michanie said his excite-
ment about the size of the crowd 
quickly turned to sadness when 1,800 sign petition to remove judge who 
dismissed potential school shooter caseAbout 100 students 
protest IDF speechSEE WEED,  PAGE 5
Walker
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Billy Nelson, 31, does a trick Tuesday evening at Possum Creek Skatepark. Nelson said 
self-improvement and learning new things are an important part of skating for him. He 
said he considers himself to be a philosophical person when it comes to skateboarding. 
“This is like the next generation of samurai s---, ” Nelson said about skating.FLORIDA LEADING INFLUENCERS 
SAY MEDICAL MARIJUANA IS THE 
FUTURE OF HEALTHCARE
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer 
Leaders from around Florida met Tues-
day afternoon to discuss the state’s budding 
industry: cannabis.
Fifty inﬂ  uential leaders tackled the grow-
ing concern over medical marijuana during  
the Florida Priorities Summit Tuesday at the 
University of Miami.
Florida is one of 33 states where resi-
dents can legally purchase medical marijua-
na after obtaining a card from a doctor. Ten 
cannabis dispensaries opened in Alachua 
County over the last two years. 
The Food and Drug Administration 
hasn’t approved cannabis use yet, but 
medical marijuana is poised to become a 
“billion-dollar-industry” in the state in the 
next few years, said Amy Driscoll, Miami 
Herald politics and health editor.
Here’s how a doctor, patient and a Flor-
ida-elected ofﬁ  cial see the cannabis boom. Dr. Ann-Marie Wong, Medical Mari-
juana Physician
The two active components of medical 
marijuana, THC and CBD, ease pain, reduce 
anxiety and control aggressive behaviors, 
said Ann-Marie Wong, a medical marijuana 
physician. It can be administered through 
topical creams, pills or vaporizer cartridges.
The state determined 10 conditions that 
qualify a patient for marijuana use, includ-
ing HIV, cancer, terminal illnesses and 
chronic pain, Wong said. 
This conditional approach excludes pa-
tients who don’t ﬁ  t these categories, leading 
physicians to administer cannabis under a 
comparable basis. For example, a patient 
who suffers from severe anxiety could have 
access to THC by comparing his or her ill-
ness to PTSD.
“We do that fairly often because a pa-
tient doesn’t always ﬁ  t into those catego-
ries, but they need the medication,” Wong 
said. 
Without FDA approval, Wong said pa-
tients pay out-of-pocket at dispensaries, 
which can be unaffordable. The Green Rush: Florida’s 
leaders discuss cannabis’ future
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  70° LOW  45°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
Culture Without Borders
When: Today, 6 to 8 p.m.
Where: Pugh Hall Ocora
What: UF MASA invites 
organizations to host a celebration 
of underrepresented immigrants 
and refugees in the U.S. from 
different cultural backgrounds. 
This event would inform the 
audience on how to get involved 
with all the organizations present. 
There will be a Q&A session with 
student panelists who identify as 
immigrants or refugees. There 
will also be food, music and 
tabling. At the end of the event, 
we will be having a vigil and 
lighting service with UF Chispas 
to honor those who have fallen 
through the journey of seeking 
"refuge" or immigrating. 
Transgender Day of 
Remembrance
When: Today, 7 to 9 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, S.E. 4th Street
What: The Alachua TranQuility 
Community Group and Pride 
Community Center have 
come together to host the 
annual Transgender Day of 
Remembrance. TDOR is a vigil 
held Nov. 20 to raise awareness 
of violence against transgender 
people and “mourn and honor 
the lives of those who might 
otherwise be forgotten.” TDOR 
started in the Castro district of 
San Francisco in 1999 to honor 
the memory of Rita Hester, a 
transgender woman of color who 
was killed in November of 1998.
If an organization wishes to 
table at this event, or for more 
information visit the website 
www.fltranq.com/tdor.
TEDxUFSalon: What I Stand for 
Is What I Stand On
When: Today,  6 to 8 p.m.
Where: Bryan Hall 232
What: The second TEDxUFSalon 
of the 2019-2020 school year 
will center around how people can move beyond just recycling  
and make mindful choices 
and ultimately improve the 
sustainability of our communities. 
The event is free and will provide 
food, drinks and discussion with 
environmental leaders.
How to be an Antiracist: A 
Conversation with Ibram X. 
Kendi
When: Thursday, 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
Where: Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
What: Ibram X. Kendi, formerly a 
UF assistant professor of African 
American history, will discuss 
his latest book "How to be An 
Antiracist." The novel discusses 
how everyone, at times, is 
complicit in racism and debunks 
myths and taboos surrounding 
racial differences. The event is 
free and open to the public. No 
tickets are required. A book 
signing will follow the talk.
Generation Sketch Comedy: 
“We Got HOT”
When: Dec. 6, 8:30 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom West
What: Gainesville's Longest 
Running Sketch Comedy Troupe 
is back with their fall show. 
Generation Sketch Comedy has 
been providing laughs to the 
UF and Gainesville community 
since spring 2006. Admission is a 
donation of your choice, but the 
recommended amount is $2. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 38
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeChloe Greenberg, Lonnie Numa, Danny Khor, 
Manny Rea, Allessandra Inzinna, Rachel Kelsey, 
Samia Lagmis, Ashlyn JonesMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
Pain removal at once.
40% off. Opening Promotion
(352)283-3637  |  oneacu.comBack, Neck, Shoulders, Knees, etc.
Q Acupuncture & Herb ClinicWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Claudia Zapata, the 46-year-old executive assistant for the UFIC dean’s ofﬁ  ce, holds the ﬂ  ags for Cuba and Colombia Tuesday morning during the ﬂ  ag display on the North Lawn. 
Zapata said the event was about breaking frontiers. “If the moon and the sun can share the same space, so can we, ” she said.
Jenny Sparrow, a 21-year-old UF 
economics junior, waves the Japanese 
ﬂ  ag Tuesday morning during the 
display. Sparrow is a member of Study 
Abroad Peer Advisors and has studied 
abroad in Japan.
Volunteers and members of the UF 
International Center lined the North 
Lawn Tuesday morning with about 80 
ﬂ  ags from different countries as part 
of International Education Week. The 
event celebrated the activities offered 
by the UFIC as well as the study abroad 
program and UF international students. 
All Around The World
Photo story by Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Gabriel Martin, a 20-year-old UF political science and French and 
francophone studies junior, waves the Honduran ﬂ  ag and Marisa Connell, a 
21-year-old UF political science and international studies junior, waves the 
ﬂ  ag of Kazakhstan Tuesday morning. Martin said he wanted to represent 
his Honduran heritage by carrying the ﬂ  ag. Connell said she hadn’t traveled 
to Kazakhstan but wanted as many countries to be represented as possible.
4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE
WORLDORGANIC RAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its Northern 
end and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and sustainable 
wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comElectric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!
UF STUDENT, ALUMNA TO 
PERFORM IN PLAY
By Alyssa Feliciano 
Alligator Staff Writer
This weekend, the UF Center for 
Arts in Medicine will explore border 
control, immigration and the Trump 
administration on stage. 
The play, “Building the Wall,” 
was written by playwright  Robert 
Schenkkan in 2016 after President 
Donald Trump won the election. It 
chronicles an interview between a 
historian and a former detention fa-
cility warden. 
“Building the Wall” will run from Thursday through Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. and on Sunday at 2 p.m. at the 
Civic Media Center. Tickets for the 
play will be $10 each.
Andy Prescott, a 33-year-old UF 
ﬁ  ne arts graduate student, produced 
and is acting in the play as Rick, a 
former facility warden who awaits 
sentencing for crimes that happened 
under his watch. 
Prescott produced and acted in 
the play as part of his degree’s in-
ternship requirement, which he is 
completing with the UF Center for 
Arts in Medicine. 
While the play was written in 
2016, it is set two years in the future. 
Prescott said Schenkkan used the 
“anti-immigration rhetoric” of the Trump adminis-
tration to predict 
what would hap-
pen during his 
presidency. 
Prescott said 
the play has been 
accurate since 
Trump took of-
ﬁ  ce. In the play, Schenkkan ques-
tions new immigration policy could 
change history. 
Prescott said after the play, he 
will host a discussion, where he 
hopes audience members can freely, 
respectfully discuss their opinions 
on the topics in the show.
“We want to allow the communi-
ty to ﬁ  nd this sense of catharsis and growth and strengthen them through 
the cutbacks of a pretty heavy play 
like this,” Prescott said. 
The play will be presented by 
The UF Center for Arts in Medicine, 
as well as The Civic Media Center, 
Veterans for Peace, Welcoming 
Gainesville & Alachua County, UF 
Chispas, UF College Democrats, a 
speech and debate group, The Hu-
man Rights Coalition, Rural Wom-
en’s Health Project and Madres Sin 
Fronteras. 
Proceeds from the play will go to 
the Human Rights Coalition’s Com-
munity ID Drive, which helps give 
IDs to citizens who do not meet the 
requirement for government IDs, ac-
cording to the coalition’s website.  Brittney Caldwell, an actress and 
UF master’s of ﬁ  ne arts alumna, will 
play Gloria, an African American 
historian who interviews the former 
warden. Caldwell said it wasn’t dif-
ﬁ  cult for her to relate to the role. 
“The topic of immigration and 
the racial tensions in this country 
is something that we deal with on a 
daily basis here,” Caldwell said. “It 
might’ve been hard to understand 
maybe 10 years ago, but right now 
with everything being so tense, it 
just feels like a page out of every 
day.”
@alyssashantelle
afeliciano@alligator.org2-person play on Trump administration to debut at CMC
HE IS BELIEVED TO BE 
INVOLVED IN OTHER 
RAPE CASES
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was arrested after police say he 
raped a woman he met on Snapchat and 
other applications.
On Monday, Gainesville Police charged 
Michael A. Hernandez, 38, of Lake City, 
with sexual battery after he talked to a 
woman over multiple phone apps, showed 
up to her apartment unannounced and 
raped her on Halloween, according to a 
press release. Authori-
ties believe Hernandez 
may be involved in 
other reported and un-
reported rapes. 
Hernandez ﬁ  rst met 
and texted the woman 
through the social me-
dia website “Whisper,” 
according to police. The two stopped talking until Hernandez 
reached out to her on Snapchat but under 
the ruse of being a food deliverer for Door-
Dash, a food delivery app.
Police said she ﬁ  gured out the man con-
tacting her on Snapchat was Hernandez, 
the same man talking to her on Whisper. 
On Oct. 31, Hernandez showed up at 
the victim’s front door, according to the re-
lease. She let him into her apartment after 
he recounted conversations the two previ-
ously had on social media. She told police 
he attacked her once inside.
Hernandez showed up at her door un-
announced on Monday, and the woman 
immediately called police, who ﬁ  gured out 
how to lure Hernandez to a place where 
police arrested him, according to the re-
lease.
Hernandez remains in the Alachua 
County jail on a $1 million bond. Anyone 
with information about the possibly related 
cases is encouraged to call 352-393-7665.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGPD: Man arrested for rapePrescott
Hernandez
REP . CHUCK 
CLEMONS, SEN. KEITH 
PERRY REQUESTED IT
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A state ofﬁ  cial is set to in-
vestigate the city of Gaines-
ville’s ﬁ  nancial operations 
ﬁ  ve months after the city’s 
auditor was ﬁ  red from his po-
sition. 
The Joint Legislative Audit-
ing Committee, a state entity 
which monitors government 
operations, unanimously ap-
proved a request to audit the 
city’s ﬁ  nances Thursday. Rep. 
Chuck Clemons and Sen. Keith 
Perry submitted the request to 
the committee in a letter citing 
concerns about the ﬁ  ring of for-
mer City Auditor Carlos Holt, 
Gainesville Regional Utilities’ “lack of ﬁ  nancial transparen-
cy,” and problems with Gaines-
ville’s annual ﬁ  nancial reports. 
City Manager Lee Feldman 
said it is unknown when the 
auditor general will begin the 
audit.
In 2018, city ofﬁ  cials hired 
an outside auditing ﬁ  rm to 
identify “oversights and inefﬁ  -
ciencies during a time of great 
transition and turnover in the 
ﬁ  nance department,” according 
to a statement by Mayor Lauren 
Poe.
Holt said at the Thursday 
meeting the 2018 audit revealed 
ﬁ  nancial problems like “capi-
tal outlay funds were [being] 
misstated over $8 million.” He 
cited a shortage of accounting 
and ﬁ  nance staff as the reason 
for the misstatements. 
“If you don’t have the peo-
ple, you don’t make the en-
tries,” Holt said. 
Clemons spoke to members of the committee on behalf of 
himself and Perry to ask for an 
afﬁ  rmative vote to audit the 
city’s “operational practices” 
and “managerial oversight.” 
“If there is not any impropri-
eties, we can raise the ﬂ  ag and 
say thank you,” Clemons said 
at the meeting. 
Mayor Lauren Poe and 
Feldman released statements 
Wednesday which both said, 
“Our doors and our books are 
open.” Poe did not respond to 
a phone call from The Alligator.
“We certainly welcome the 
opportunity to put to rest the 
baseless claims of a former em-
ployee and the caravan of char-
acters who continually attempt 
to derail and diminish the good 
work we are doing here at the 
city,” Poe wrote.
@lina_ruiz48
Lruiz@alligator.org City of Gainesville to be auditedthey walked out. 
“Part of me is torn apart that at one of the 
best universities in the state, 100 people decided 
to walk out,” he said. 
He said he asked protestors to stay and ask 
him questions while they were leaving.
Laila Fakhoury, a 22-year-old UF philoso-
phy and family, youth and community sciences 
senior, organized the protest and spoke at the 
candlelight vigil, which was held outside after 
the walk-out. 
“So many people are dying every single day 
in Gaza, so it [this event] is disrespectful and 
a disservice to the people who are on campus 
who have been directly affected by these bomb-
ings,” she said.
The known names and ages of 34 people 
who were killed were read aloud before a mo-
ment of silence during the vigil. 
Other protestors spoke of their experiences 
as U.S. immigrants. Some said they were teased 
for their clothing and religion, and others en-
couraged students to ﬁ  ght fascism.
Saja Hussein, UF Students for Justice in Pal-
estine treasurer, protested to raise awareness 
and to mourn the recent deaths.Hussein, a 19-year-old UF political science 
sophomore, is Palestinian and said it hurts to 
not visit family in her home country.
“I can’t, as a Palestinian, go back to my 
native land,” she said. “But someone like the 
speaker today is able to so easily come to Amer-
ica, then come back for a weekend in Israel.”
The students who stayed for the speech were 
as disappointed as Michanie.
Victor Santos, a 23-year-old UF political sci-
ence senior and vice president of Christians 
United for Israel, said the protest caused difﬁ  -
culty for event organizers. 
“If you think that an idea is bad, you discuss 
it,” he said. 
Maia Kofman, a 19-year-old UF animal sci-
ence sophomore, stayed for Michanie’s presen-
tation. She said that she is pro-Israel and attend-
ed the presentation to show support for Israel 
and Michanie.
“It is so important to show support for some-
thing that typically doesn’t have a lot of support,” 
she said. “The fact that they left before they could 
even hear him speak is very saddening.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org
@AshleyLazarski
Alazarski@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
HE HAS A $2.5 
MILLION BOND
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
It started with a cheating 
confrontation and ended in 
a drive-by shooting.
Alachua County Sheriff 
deputies arrested 60-year-
old Willie Young after they 
say he shot his girlfriend 
of 10 years ﬁ  ve times fol-
lowing an argument Mon-
day, according to an arrest 
report. UF Health Shands 
Hospital told deputies the 
woman was shot once in her 
abdominal area, three times 
to her right leg and ankle 
and once inside her left leg.
Young remains in the Ala-chua County Jail with a $2.5 
million bond on charges of 
attempted murder and posses-
sion of a ﬁ  rearm by a convict-
ed felon, according to county 
records. 
The woman told depu-
ties she was walking on the 
21800 block of Northwest 
47th Avenue after she and 
Young argued about her 
cheating on him, according 
to the report. While walk-
ing, Young drove up in his 
truck and began shooting at 
her.
A witness found the 
woman sitting outside of the 
witness’ home covered in 
gunshot wounds saying her 
boyfriend shot her, accord-
ing to the report. A different 
witness told deputies Young parked the 
truck be-
hind an 
abandoned 
residence 
and told 
the witness 
he “messed 
up and 
shot someone in the leg,” 
but didn’t say who, depu-
ties wrote. 
Deputies noted Young 
never admitted to shooting 
the victim later on.
Deputies wrote that both 
Young and the woman 
seemed to be intoxicated 
and weren’t straightforward 
about what happened, ac-
cording to the report. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMan arrested, accused of shooting 
girlfriend ﬁ  ve times after argument
Young
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Yoni Michanie, activist and Sgt. 1st Class in the Israel Defense Forces, talks with 
students Tuesday night after speaking in Little Hall.
PROTEST,  from pg. 1The speaking event was hosted by several pro-Israel groups
Wong said her North Miami practice 
tries to use a sliding scale to be accom-
modating for those who don’t have the 
ﬁ  nancial means to pay for medical mari-
juana on top of their insurance. 
Jenna, a 20-year-old UF student
After a long day of studying in the li-
brary or working on research, Jenna likes 
to go home, relax and hit her THC vape 
pen. 
Jenna, who asked to not have her last 
name published out of fear of retribu-
tion from employers, is one of the few 
in her friend group to receive a medical 
marijuana card from the state of Florida. 
After visiting a cannabis doctor in Janu-
ary, Jenna was approved and visits her 
local dispensary once a month. She pays 
about $40 for THC cartigrades and drops 
every visit.
Her mother received her own card a 
few months before Jenna’s and helped 
her daughter research the beneﬁ  ts it pro-
vides to alleviate anxiety and insomnia. 
Jenna’s method of choice? Vaporiz-
ing.
“It takes into effect quicker,” she said. 
“If I were to be in a stressful situation, 
I get my pen and it puts everything at 
ease.”
Despite legalization, Jenna believes a 
stigma still exists around medical mari-
juana, especially at her age. Although she 
said medical marijuana is the future of 
medicine, she knows it’s an uphill battle.
“If you could take the money that’s 
used in manufacturing prescriptions for 
Big Pharma and put it in research to-
wards natural methods that people have 
been using for years it would solve a lot 
of problems in healthcare,” Jenna said. Nikki Fried, Florida Commissioner 
of Agriculture and Consumer Services
When the audience at UM asked pan-
elists if they’d support a dispensary near 
or on a college campus, Commissioner of 
Agriculture and Consumer Services Nikki 
Fried looked back on her UF experiences. 
Fried said her parents talked about 
substances she would encounter in be-
fore she began her freshman year in 
1995. 
“They said, ‘We don’t want you to 
drink or smoke,’” Fried said. “‘But if 
you’re going to have to do one of them, 
we’d rather you smoke.’”
Fried said alcohol-driven violence is 
more prominent in college than violence 
associated with marijuana. The access 
to a safe substance may curb addiction 
problems when students are surrounded 
by bars, she said. 
“Obviously, we don’t want people to 
abuse [cannabis],” Fried said. “We want 
to make sure there’s an education com-
ponent also.”
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.orgWEED,  from pg. 1‘W e’d rather you smoke.’Ashley Lazarski / Alligator Staff
About 100 students hold a candlelight vigil outside Little Hall Tuesday night. 
The group walked out of Michanie’s speaking event in protest of the bombings 
in the Gaza Strip by Israel. 
Since 2017, 10 dispensaries have 
opened in Alachua County. 
Here’s where you can get legal 
marijuana. 
• Harvest House of Cannabis
• Fluent
• Curaleaf
• Alt Med MÜV 
• Trulieve
• Columbia Care
• Liberty Health Sciences
• Surterra Wellness
• Knox Medical
• GrowHealthyEditorialWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsLetter to the Editor
UF brushes aside sexual assault, again
We at National Women’s Liberation call for an end to 
all sexual assault and rape. One in three women at 
UF report being sexually assaulted, and we demand 
real action. UF President Kent Fuchs stated that “any 
occurrence of sexual assault is unacceptable” in his 
recent Alligator column that was a response to the Association of 
American Universities’ (AAU) 2019 Campus Climate survey re-
sults; and we agree. But what is he doing about it? Current “pre-
vention training programs” are unacceptable and don’t make a 
difference in student safety. Rapists must be held accountable.
Fuchs is a community leader, setting an example for UF stu-
dents and other universities with our top seven status. If men in 
power and influential positions refuse to hold violent men ac-
countable, they send the message that violence will be tolerated. 
Some men benefit from others evading punishment after raping 
women because it solidifies male supremacy. Sexual violence 
looms over women, a threat that forces them to consciously alter 
their lives to avoid danger. When Fuchs wrings his hands over 
rape and sexual assault statistics but does not condemn rapists 
outright, he is complicit in women’s oppression.
National Women’s Liberation recently coordinated with stu-
dent activists to demand emergency blue lights along Fraternity 
Drive, where 33 percent of campus sexual assaults take place. 
We gave Fuchs the opportunity to support us, but he did not 
even respond. He stated sexual assault is unacceptable, yet he 
refused to express support for a simple safety measure. His inac-
tion is complicity.
Justice Clarence Thomas will teach at UF’s Levin College of 
Law in Spring 2020. This teaches men like Thomas and Justice 
Brett Kavanaugh that they will not face consequences for sexual 
misconduct. This teaches women and survivors, like Anita Hill 
and Christine Blasey Ford, that they will face consequences for 
coming forward and reporting sexual misconduct. His presence 
reinforces UF’s real sexual assault policy — to silence survivors 
and embolden rapists. While UF protects this high-profile rap-
ist, they shield themselves from scrutiny over former professor 
Andrew Lotto, who was recently allowed to quietly resign after 
he  “allegedly assaulted or had inappropriate relationships with 
multiple women, some of whom were his students,” according to Alligator archives. Lotto, who is white, was allowed to quietly 
resigned while Thomas, who is black, faced immediate outrage 
and attempts to block him from campus. If UF was an anti-racist 
institution, white men in power would be held just as account-
able as men of color.
In 2017, UF alumnus and current Columbia journalism gradu-
ate student Champe Barton, conducted an Alligator series on sex-
ual assault at UF. He interviewed sorority women who were as-
saulted by men from different fraternities. Barton’s series revealed 
a troubling truth about UF’s so-called “sexual assault prevention 
training”: the fraternity brothers he interviewed did not even re-
member participating in it. UF’s prevention efforts are ineffective 
and lack accountability.
Furthermore, these “sexual assault prevention training pro-
grams” Fuchs highlights in his column place the responsibility 
for preventing sexual assault on everyone except rapists. They 
encourage bystanders to step in, but then blame the victim by 
telling women about safety precautions we should practice. 
Don’t tell women not to get raped; Tell men not to rape 
instead.
We demand that:
• UF reinstate former sexual assault advocacy groups, 
Campus Organized Against Rape (COAR) and Sexual As-
sault Recover Service (SARS).
• UF Law immediately rescind Thomas’ invitation
• UF abolish fraternities on campus.
• President Kent Fuchs resign.
We agree with Fuchs when he says, “In order for UF to be 
truly great, it must lead in eliminating sexual assault.” But we 
disagree with Fuchs on how we will get there. National Wom-
en’s Liberation demands stronger rape prevention, better sup-
port for victims and accountability from rapists and those who 
protect them. 
Join us at our next meeting, on Dec. 3, 7 p.m. in our office 
located on 200 NE 1st St, Ste 201 to learn more about our cause.
Alia DeLong is a UF graduate student and member of the 
National Women’s Liberation.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The age gap within 
the U.S. is getting 
out of hand. 
The internet is divided yet again, but this time it’s a battle 
between generations. It’s the old vs. new, or, millennials 
vs. boomers.
The conflict itself isn’t complicated, but what actu-
ally defines someone as a boomer or a millennial is a bit 
blurry because people are put into categories simply because of 
their age.
Baby boomers, individuals born between 1946-1964, are 
calling millennials ageist. “OK Boomer,” a meme that quickly 
dismisses some of the concerns of the generation, has grown in 
popularity and is widely used by younger generations. The ste-
reotypical boomer tends to have more conservative ideologies 
and fails to match the current times, or basically go against the 
stereotypical millennial. 
Millennials, those born between 1981-1996, are frustrated 
with the older generation and their inability to change. Along-
side the meme, millennials flooded Twitter with “advice” for 
boomers on Tuesday, addressing popular complaints boomers 
tend to have against the younger generation.
With boomers complaining about millennials ruining the 
things they love, and millennials complaining about boomers 
ruining pretty much everything in the past, it’s hard to believe 
they would have anything in common. 
Turns out, they actually do. 
Both generations have a higher approval rating for former 
President Barack Obama’s administration than President Don-
ald Trump’s. Of course, the difference in approval between the 
two administrations is higher with Millennials (64 percent vs. 
27 percent) than Boomers (54 percent vs. 44 percent), but it’s 
still nice to know both groups can at least (slightly) agree that 
our current president isn’t qualified for his job. 
However, this isn’t the only thing the two groups have in 
common. Many boomers were fighting for the same issues that 
millennials wish for today. 
Boomers were activists, too. Some of them are even in the 
presidential race now.
Both California Sen. Kamala Harris and Massachusetts Sen. 
Elizabeth Warren are considered boomers, but you don’t see 
their ideas being shot down by millennials.
The issue between the two generations doesn’t lie within the 
American age gap, but rather, the dominant political ideologies 
of each generation. It seems like the younger you are, the more 
democratic your vote is. Interesting enough, the Washington 
Post states this trend coincides due to the appeal of the Obama 
administration — and Obama just so happens to be a boomer. 
Not every boomer is a conservative, and not every millennial 
is a liberal. 
Tomi Lahren, Elliot Echols and Saira Blair are just a few ex-
amples of highly influential,  conservative millennials who have 
values that match the typical boomer. 
The generation you are born into isn’t the biggest factor 
determining your political viewpoints. At least when you are 
young, your family tends to be your biggest influencer. 
Millennials might not be able to change the viewpoint of 
boomers, but at least they have the ability to change the mind-
sets of the generation coming after them.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
mc chris to play at High Dive Sunday 
The rapper will be joined by Cartridge Carnage, 
Drew Love and Lunchbox. Tickets cost $15 and the 
show begins at 7:30 p.m.Gators men’s basketball searching for identity
The team is looking to recover from a slow start to the season at 
the Charleston Classic on Thursday Pg.11Moving from a professional 
dance company to her own self-
made stage, Bulgarian artist Ani 
Collier will share her talent as 
part of something more intimate 
this week.
Black C Art Gallery is show-
ing an adaption of the play, “The 
Stronger,” by August Strindberg. 
The performance art piece, direct-
ed by Lauren Warhol Caldwell, 
tells the story of two women who 
mirror and act as foils to each 
other. Caldwell’s piece will be 
performed on tonight and Thurs-
day at 7 p.m and tickets cost 
$11.83 for students and seniors 
and $17.09 for adults.
“The Stronger” is a one-act 
dramatic monologue production 
about two women, Mrs. X and 
Miss Y, and is only six pages 
long. Caldwell chose to expand it 
and allow the source material to 
inspire her, she said.  
She mixed forms of media in-
cluding ballet, original dialogue 
and selections from “Mistress of 
Many Moons,” a short story by 
Sylvia Brownrigg.  
The cast performed an excerpt 
from “The Stronger” at Etud Fes-
tival in Soﬁ  a, Bulgaria, this past 
summer and the crowd showed 
such interest they decided to bring 
the performance to Gainesville.
Collier, one of the two cast 
members, opened Black C Art 
Gallery about three years ago. 
The space was originally a tra-
ditional gallery space that show-
cased Collier’s and other featured 
artists’ work. Now, she and her 
team are transforming it into a 
small black box theater, she said.
“We’re treating it more like a 
performance artist space,” Collier 
said.
Collier said she enjoys having 
the structure of her gallery, but she 
also likes to use the space to ex-
periment with different art forms.Caldwell’s performance art 
piece is conducive to a black box 
atmosphere. A small space helps 
add intimacy and gives a similar 
feel to some of the small theaters 
found in Europe and in the Low-
er East Side of New York City, 
Caldwell said. 
“Really and truly, the only 
thing you need in the space is an 
actor,” she said. “The rest of it is 
icing on the cake. If somebody 
walks across the stage, you’ve got 
a play.”
Despite her expectations, gal-
lery production and stage man-
ager Lynne Loewenthal said she 
fell in love with both characters 
after viewing the performance. 
She looks forward to seeing and 
hearing about reactions from the 
audience.
“They’re very different, but 
they mirror each other,” Loewen-
thal said. “So, that’s where the 
surprise comes through.”
Audience members can ex-
pect an ambiguous ending to the 
performance that leaves them to 
draw their own conclusions. This 
approximately 45-minute version 
of the show will likely challenge 
viewers.
“It leaves the audience to 
think for themselves rather than 
me telling them the boat’s going 
down in ‘Titanic,’” Caldwell said. 
“We all know that’s going to hap-
pen.”
Once the performance ends, 
they intend on having a talk-back 
session, where audience mem-
bers will have a chance to con-
verse with the team and one an-
other about their experiences.
“It’s very edgy, a lot of fun and 
we’ve only just begun,” Caldwell 
said.
@samscribano98
samanthascribano@gmail.comBlack C Art Gallery to 
perform original adaptation 
of “The Stronger”
Art
T ommy Wolfe / Contributor 
Kevin Saurer, of the duo Hippy Sabotage, stands among the crowd Friday night at UF 
Student Government Production’s Quinn XCII and Hippie Sabotage concert.
THE EVENT CENTERED 
SUSTAINABLE LOCAL 
ART AND GOODS
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
The brisk winds on University 
Avenue did not deter dozens of 
Gainesville residents from gather-
ing to support local vendors Satur-
day.
Hosted in partnership with Con-
cord Coffee and The Magna Karta, 
the market was the ﬁ  rst of what Ta-
lia Starczewski, one of The Magna 
Karta’s creators, hopes will be re-
curring community events centered 
on small businesses and artists.
“I have been in the market 
scene for a while now, but have 
never been able to host an event 
myself,” Starczewski said.
The 21-year-old UF psychology 
senior has made artisan jewelry 
with her company for almost two 
years. Starczewski’s work uses 
cross-sections of pinecones and 
walnuts, some of which are deco-
rated with gem-grade crystals to 
accentuate the piece’s natural pat-
terns, and ﬁ  xed with a pendant to 
wear.
“Conscious consumerism is a 
priority to me,” Starczewski said. 
“Knowing the source of the prod-
ucts I purchase, the people in-
volved in the process and the level 
of care and integrity that is given to 
these products at each step.”
Starczewski, who is also a baris-
ta at the newly opened Concord 
Coffee, said working at the cafe has given her a place to express 
the values which her personal 
company focuses on, and she feels 
Concord’s fair-trade policy reﬂ  ects 
those views back to her.   
“Being able to share that space 
with others was a vision I had 
before I began working there, as 
I connected so deeply with the 
space,” she said. “Concord is also 
new to Gainesville, and I wanted to 
be able to introduce the community 
to this shop.”
Starczewski said while planning 
the weekend’s event, she made an 
effort to choose vendors whose ide-
als matched that of both Concord 
Coffee and The Magna Karta.
One such vendor was Jillian 
Howery, a 21-year-old UF adver-
tising senior who began making 
terrarium jewelry under the name 
Terra Fina Jewelry in July. She 
wore a prototype and decided to 
make more when others expressed 
interest. 
“I love nature, and I love tiny 
things, so the idea to put a little 
piece of nature in a tiny jar just 
came naturally,” she said. 
Saturday’s event was only the 
second market she has been to as 
a vendor. Howery said she liked 
the “intimacy” of the day’s event in 
comparison to The Florida Vintage 
Market held last week in Bo Did-
dley Plaza.
Starczewski’s brother, Marco 
Starczewski, was also one of the 
vendors participating in the day’s 
events. He traveled in from Tampa 
to sell upcycled clothing at his ﬁ  rst 
market appearance. “It started because I had to 
cover a stain,” he said of his work 
with a laugh while standing beside 
multiple clothing racks. They were 
ﬁ  lled with an assortment of repur-
posed clothing sporting hand-sewn 
patches and fabric.
He said he likes upcycling be-
cause it allows him to see the 
clothes he rarely wears in a new 
light, and he ﬁ  nds it more mean-
ingful than donating them. 
“I wanted to know I was mak-
ing something someone would 
use,” the upcycler said. 
He also said attending Satur-
day’s market and receiving positive 
feedback was giving him the con-
ﬁ  dence to start promoting his craft 
and growing it. 
“I want to run with it and create 
a business,” he said.
Other vendors who were at the 
market included Redeﬁ  ned Goods, 
Lion’s Den Creative and ofﬁ  cers of 
UF’s Food Science & Human Nutri-
tion Club, who were selling vegan 
desserts in a jar.
Although she isn’t sure when 
the next market will be, Starcze-
wski saids she hopes to continue 
fostering the values of Saturday’s 
event through local business.
“Anybody who was generous 
enough to support one of the ven-
dors, or to support Concord Cof-
fee, is a conscious consumer giving 
their resources to businesses that 
uphold values of sustainability,” 
she said. 
mgoldwich@alligator.org
@morgangoldwichConcord Coﬀ  ee hosts First Community Market
Lifestyle
HIPPIE SABOTAGE
THE PERFORMANCE ART PIECE IS THE CREATION OF 
LOCAL ARTIST LAUREN WARHOL CALDWELL
By Samantha Scribano
Avenue Staff Writer8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
THE PLAY IS SET TO DEBUT AT 
THE HIPPODROME FRIDAY
By Cassandra   Perez   
Avenue   Staff   Writer   
With the holidays right around the cor-
ner, The Hippodrome Theatre is already 
gearing to get their audiences in the Christ-
mas mood. 
“Scrooge in Rouge,” written by Ricky 
Graham and directed by Clint Thornton, 
tells the story of a theater crew afﬂ  icted 
with a bad case of food poisoning ahead of 
their performance of “A Christmas Carol,” 
leaving only three cast members to carry the 
show. The result is a raucous comedy full of 
bad puns, risque humor and foot-stomping 
song in the style of the British Music Hall. 
According to artistic director Stephanie 
Lynge, the show has been on the theater’s 
shortlist for four years. With their 42nd an-
nual rendition of “A Christmas Carol” set 
to premiere a week later Nov. 30, it worked 
well to pair the two together. 
“When we’re putting a season together, 
we try to have a wide variety of shows here 
because we have a wide variety of people 
who come and have different tastes,” Lynge 
said. “So after our last show, which was 
very naturalistic and very serious and dra-
matic, we thought, ‘Why don’t we just go 
180 degrees in the other direction?’”
It’s a unique set up in that viewers 
can get whatever their holiday needs are, 
whether that be the more meaningful expe-
rience offered by the classic tale or the laid-
back de-stressor provided by the spoofed 
version. 
“We could all use a good laugh for the 
holidays, and this show deﬁ  nitely delivers 
on that,” Lynge said. 
Actress Vesta Virile, portrayed by Kelly Atkins, is stellar in her 
role as Scrooge. She por-
tays the titular charac-
ter with enthusiasm and 
practiced ﬁ  nesse. Her 
fellow cast members Lot-
tie Obbligato and Char-
lie Schmaltz, played by 
actors Matthew McGee 
and David Patrick Ford 
respectively, deliver simi-
larly passionate perfor-
mances, playing a myriad 
of characters over the 
play’s two-act course and 
infusing them with their 
individual charm.
Accompanied by their 
trusty pianist Alfred Da 
Cappo, played by musical 
director Bryan Mercer, 
the three-person crew 
delivers an inviting per-
formance in spite of the 
challenges they are beset 
with.
The story’s premise 
means that some of the 
actors play quite a few 
characters, a feat that is 
difﬁ  cult despite the ease 
with which they switch 
between roles. This is the 
case for Ford, who ﬂ  its 
between a whopping nine characters over 
the course of the play.
“You kind of have to ﬁ  gure out where is 
this character — what do they want?” Ford 
said. “I really enjoy getting to stretch physi-
cally, as well as character-wise.”
While “Scrooge in Rouge” marks the ﬁ  rst 
time all three actors have worked together, 
their chemistry is palpable. Their comedic 
banter builds upon each other and lands with astounding accuracy, translating to a 
viewing experience that is sure to delight 
viewers and keep them on their toes. 
According to the actors, the demanding 
nature of “Scrooge in Rouge” — both in 
terms of character and costume change — 
allows them a great amount of artistic lib-
erty within their interpretation of the play. 
“It seems like every day we come in and 
we kind of create something a little bit dif-ferent,” Atkins  said. “Just discovering new 
moments and levels of things that we can 
play.” 
“Scrooge in Rouge” is scheduled to de-
but at The Hippodrome Theatre Friday 
night at 8 p.m. and will run through Dec.s 
22. Tickets can be purchased on the Hip-
podrome’s website. 
cperez@alligator.org
@cassandraperez0“Scrooge in Rouge” oﬀ  ers a refreshing twist on a classic tale
Courtesy of Allison Durham
Actors Matthew McGee, Kelly Atkins and David Patrick Ford take center stage in costume for 
their roles in the Hippodrome’s “Scrooge in Rouge. ”
THE AVANT-GARDE POP 
STAR’S SECOND ALBUM IS A 
CACOPHONY OF TENDERNESS.
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
On her long-awaited sophomore 
album, “MAGDALENE,” Twigs is 
desperate, born out of a desire to 
serve and be wanted. It’s an im-
portant step in breaking down the 
perception of herself as an avatar 
for pure power, someone who is so 
intensely in control of her art, her 
body and her life.
“MAGDALENE” pulls back the 
curtain on Twigs, or at least as much 
of her as she wants us to see. It’s 
hard to overstate just how pretty of 
an album “MAGDALENE” is. There 
are popping string arrangements, 
samples of church choirs and great 
big heaving breaths. Alongside 
a handful of outside producers, 
among them Nicolas Jaar and Arca, 
Twigs constructed sound designs 
worthy of Renaissance architecture.
She spends a lot of time on 
“MAGDALENE” examining what it means to share a life with someone 
and then not. Not too many people 
can relate to dating two world-fa-
mous celebrities, but most people 
understand the feeling that you’ll 
never ﬁ  nd love again. On “mirrored 
heart,” she looks at all those around 
her who have found their other 
halves. 
“And for the lovers who found 
a mirrored heart/ They just remind 
me I’m without you,” she sings, 
her voice cracking as she asks and 
answers her own devastating ques-
tions: “Did you want me all?/ No, 
not for life/ Did you truly see me?/ 
No, not this time.” 
Sexuality has become something 
more interior for Twigs on “MAG-
DALENE.” Before, she used it as a 
weapon. Now it is a respite to keep 
herself feeling safe. She treats femi-
ninity with a religious reverence — 
an orgasm is turned into hymnal 
coos on “daybed,” masturbation 
used as a method to block out the 
stressors of the outside world: “Ac-
tive are my ﬁ  ngers/ Faux my cunni-
lingus/ Dirty are my dishes/ Many are my wishes.”
The problems that Twigs sorts 
through in “MAGDALENE” are not 
necessarily average. In 2018, she 
opened up about her health compli-
cations: the six ﬁ  broid tumors that 
she had removed from her body, 
which on the album she likens to 
“apples, cherries, pain.” What she’s 
been less open about, though, is the 
last few years that she’s spent as 
tabloid fodder, a weird side hustle 
for an artist that has always present-
ed herself as deeply interior.
Her high-proﬁ  le relationships 
with Robert Pattinson and Shia 
LaBeouf have evidently had an ef-
fect on her, and not for the better. 
On album opener “thousand eyes,” 
she feels the public pressure to 
succeed in these attachments. “If 
you don’t pull me back, it wakes a 
thousand eyes,” she sings. On “cel-
lophane,” she pleads: “They wanna 
see us, wanna see us alone/ They 
wanna see us, wanna see us apart.” 
The paparazzi are outside her door, 
cameras waiting to catch a glimpse 
of unhappiness or dissatisfaction and waiting for her to fail, as if the 
failure of a relationship is the dam-
nation of her own self-worth.
Twigs ﬁ  nds a kindred spirit in 
Mary Magdalene, a follower of Je-
sus Christ believed by some to be 
his lover. Twigs identiﬁ  es with 
Magdalene, a woman who is only 
thought about through her relation-
ship with a man. But she also ﬁ  nds 
comfort in that sort of self-sacriﬁ  ce; 
she gives Magdalene agency of her 
own. “I can lift you higher/ I do it 
like Mary Magdalene,” she sings 
on the title track. “I’m what you 
desire/ Come just a little bit closer 
till we collide.” On “home with 
you,” she ecstatically gives herself 
up to the role of provider, to being 
the one to wait and serve. “I didn’t 
know that you were lonely/ If you’d 
have just told me, I’d be home with 
you,” she sings, the sound of her 
twinkling heels running down the 
hallway like a scene from your fa-
vorite A24 ﬁ  lm.
“MAGDALENE” is an effortless 
braiding of high-brow electronic 
art-pop, carnal soul music, and lu-rid modern dance. Twigs goes the 
extra mile in her work as a singer, 
producer, and performer, mixing 
and matching mediums to meet 
her tastes. The album’s downcast 
closer, “cellophane,” is like reading 
her diary. You see the most intimate 
aspects of her inner thoughts and it 
leaves you feeling invasive and very 
sorry for the singer. It’s inventive, 
sparse and effective production cou-
pled with her gorgeous and heart-
breaking vocal performance make 
“cellophane” one of the year’s best 
singles.
Matthew Stone designed the al-
bum cover, which is a hideously 
gorgeous Frankenstein-like cast of 
Barnett’s face. The proportions are 
all wrong, Twigs’ eyes are ﬁ  lled in 
with pastels and there is paint drip-
ping down her shoulders. She’s 
presented as a canvas in progress, 
photographed somewhere on the 
journey to becoming, and that’s 
exactly what “MAGDALENE” is: a 
rapturous in-between, from being 
wanted to being found.
Score: 8.5/10
ccann@alligator.org
@chrstophercannRate and Review: FKA Twigs “MAGDALENE”
MUSIC
TheaterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Today in history — 1889: Edwin Hubble, 
American astronomer who proved that there 
are other galaxies far from our own, born.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
★ ★ ★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★ ★ ★
Native Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. Table-top to 30 gal/10' tall. Open 
Nov 29, wkends thru Dec 22. 10am - 6pm. 
Kettle Corn popped on site for sale. Free 
pecans & sugarcane w/purchase 20926 NW 
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-
1885 www.bkcedars.com     12-4-6-10
Today in history — 1942: Joe Biden born.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
Today in history — 1945: Nazi war crime trials 
begin at Nuremberg, Germany.
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D1For Rent
furnished8 Electronics 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Gary Larson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/20/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/20/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, November 20, 2019
ACROSS
1 “Oh dear!”
5 Instant
9 Harry’s Hogwarts 
nemesis
14 Hay storage site
15 Puccini piece
16 Prepare for a 
bodybuilding 
competition
17 *Spot for a 
seaside stroll
19 Tax audit docs.
20 Jag
21 Wisconsin 
city on Lake 
Winnebago
23 Actor Vigoda
25 *Caller ID, 
maybe
29 __ onion
33 Brigham Young’s 
Utah settlement
34 Corrida cheer
35 Prime-time time
37 Hardly prudent
38 Overseas 
business abbr.
39 Hemingway’s 
1930s Florida 
home, and a hint 
to the answers to 
starred clues
43 UPS Store item
44 Broadway  
barber
46 Leave rolling in 
the aisles
47 Summer sign
48 Sets right
52 Title role for Gary 
Cooper and 
Adam Sandler
54 *Small computer
56 Tummy muscles
57 Like most 
customers
59 Opinion pieces
63 Charter
66 *Center stage
68 Respected  
figure
69 Document sent 
online
70 Hungarian wine 
region
71 7UP and Sprite
72 Comfy hangouts
73 Extinct birdDOWN
1 Clerical 
vestments
2 Stunt flier’s stunt
3 Not nigh
4 Water under the 
bridge, maybe
5 Shoot the breeze
6 OPEC member
7 Manicurist or 
secretary, at 
times
8 Minor document?
9 Hip-hop tops
10 Seismologist with 
a scale
11 European peak
12 Shorten, as hair
13 Covert doings
18 Prove false
22 22.5 deg.
24 Singer Brickell
26 Software giant
27 Settled in
28 Group with a 
common culture
29 Crooner Michael
30 Corrida snorter
31 Social website 
with “AMA” 
sessions
32 “__ takers?”36 Grossed-out 
sounds
40 Blight-stricken 
tree
41 “Water for 
Elephants” 
novelist Gruen
42 Bathroom brand
45 Like some diving
49 Cavs and Mavs
50 Cracker Jack 
bonus
51 Dirty53 Saw
55 Roast carver
58 Guy with the FBI
60 Waffle made 
without an iron
61 Batted but didn’t 
field, in MLB lingo
62 Texas MLBer
63 Guitar great Paul
64 “Evil Woman” gp.
65 Put in
67 Strait’s “All My __ 
Live in Texas”
By Susan Smolinsky and C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/19/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/19/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, November 19, 2019
ACROSS
1 Longstocking of 
kiddie lit
6 “Jason Bourne” 
star Damon
10 Shell rowers
14 Biting, as criticism
15 Sound reduced 
by carpeting
16 Hill worker
17 Earl Grey relative
18 Old Roman 
fiddler
19 Buttonlike earring
20 #1 in Major 
League Baseball 
career earnings
23 Puppy’s cry
24 Chaney of “The 
Phantom of the 
Opera” (1925)
25 Acidity nos.
28 1970s joint U.S.-
Soviet space 
flight
35 Function
37 Actors’ union, 
briefly
38 Remove from 
office
39 Fortified city of 
Castile and León
41 Diamond stat
43 “MASH” corporal
44 “Cape Fear” star
46 Spinning toy
48 Building bricks 
brand
49 Math class 
surprise
52 Arles article
53 Salad dressing 
ingredient
54 Sis or bro
56 Musical genre of 
Tito Puente and 
Dizzy Gillespie
63 “See ya!”
65 Acting 
independently
66 “For real!”
67 “Um, that’s fine”
68 Villainous
69 Par-three clubs, 
often
70 Route-finding app
71 Risqué message
72 Common teen 
phase
DOWN
1 Hemingway 
moniker2 Eur. island 
country
3 Chow kin, briefly
4 Voting substitute
5 Spanish airline
6 Darn
7 Asian PC brand
8 Really excite
9 “I can’t top that”
10 Job for a judge
11 Upscale hotel
12 LSU URL letters
13 Elope, say
21 They sometimes 
attract: Abbr.
22 Racing giant 
Bobby
25 Italian fashion 
house
26 Crude abode
27 David’s weapon
29 10-Across tool
30 Rainbow flag 
letters
31 National 
gemstone of 
Australia
32 Alpine melody
33 Customary 
practice
34 Binary system 
digits
36 Peace Nobelist 
Wiesel40 Ann __, Michigan
42 Debtor’s promise
45 Team nicknamed 
the Birds
47 Italian tower 
town
50 Niche
51 Alphabetically 
last flower on 
a list of familiar 
ones
55 Tennis great 
Borg56 All-inclusive, and 
a hint to 20-, 28-, 
49- and 56-Across
57 The Piltdown 
Man, notably
58 Operating system 
since the ’60s
59 Orion’s __
60 Sleep like __
61 Cab alternatives
62 Lemon peel
63 AAA service
64 “Eureka!”
11/18/19
Mega
maze10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
Bilingual student wanted for part-time work 
as Latin America inside sales rep for local 
software company. Local software company 
in Gainesville (around the corner from SFCC) 
looking for energetic University of Florida or 
SFCC student to help with sales and market-
ing efforts focusing on Latin America in this 
part-time independent contractor position. 
Must be fluent in English and Spanish. We 
offer flexible hours. Earn hourly pay plus 
commission. Email resume and 3 references 
to: GvilleSoftwareCo@gmail.com.    11-20-
7-14
Today in history — 1962: President John F. 
Kennedy bars religious or racial discrimina -
tion in federally funded housing.
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
How to MAKE EXTRA MONEY PLAYING
VIDEO GAMES explained.
Free E-book tells how at
www.vidgamerz.com
11-25-19-7-14
Today in history — 1967: U.S. census reports 
the population at 200 million.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Today in history — 1925: Robert F. Kennedy born.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Today in history — 2008: Dow Jones Industrial 
Average sinks to lowest level in 11 years in response 
to failures in the US financial system.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
Today in history — 1981: Microsoft Windows 
1.0 released.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Today in history — 1974: The United States files 
an antitrust suit to break up ATT.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Today in history — 1947: Princess Elizabeth (fu-
ture Queen Elizabeth II) marries Philip, Duke 
of Edinburgh, in Westminster Abbey.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 Rides
1. MUSIC: Who composed the "1812 Overture"?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What was the sixth 
gift in the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas"?
3. SCIENCE: What is the softest mineral?
4. GOVERNMENT: Which amendment to the 
U.S. Constitution abolished slavery?5. ENTERTAINMENT: Who are the only two 
people to receive an Oscar award and a 
Nobel Prize?
6. U.S. STATES: How many states border 
Oklahoma?
7. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel 
features a place called Shangri-La?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president's famous 
speech included the line, "Tear down this wall"?
9. GEOGRAPHY: Which country lies directly south of Venezuela?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Which filmmaker 
and author once wrote, "Don't you love New 
York in the fall? It makes me want to buy 
school supplies. I would send you a bouquet 
of newly sharpened pencils if I knew your 
name and address"?
answers below
 answersTrivia Test    
By Fifi Rodriguez
1. Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
2. Geese
3. Talc
4. 13th
5. George Bernard Shaw and Bob Dylan
6. Six: Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, New 
Mexico, Texas and Colorado
7. "Lost Horizon"
8. Ronald Reagan, urging Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev to destroy the Berlin Wall
9. Brazil
10. Nora Ephrontrviatest answers sudoku answersFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
www.alligator.org/sportsGators hold steady in CFP rankings
In the College Football Playoff's third week of rankings, which were an-
nounced Tuesday night, Florida came in at No. 11 ahead of No. 12 Wiscon-
sin and behind No. 10 Minnesota. The team enters a bye week prior to its 
regular-season finale against in-state rival FSU in Gainesville on No v. 30. Punter T ommy T ownsend was 
named a semifinalist for the 
Ray Guy Award, which is given 
annually to the nation's top 
punter. He's a semifinalist for 
the second year in a row. 
FOOTBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLBy Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
Florida has undergone a turbulent season in 2019.
It has seen dramatic comebacks, backup quarterback hero-
ics, a slew of injuries and disappointing losses. 
But as the season winds down, a hard truth must be ac-cepted by the UF fanbase: The Gators will not be contending for 
a National Championship this season.
That’s not to say they don’t have anything to play for. Flor-
ida still has its in-state rival in two weeks and possibly a New 
Year’s Six Bowl, though it will need help. But all that aside, it’s 
almost time for the coaches to begin planning toward next year 
for another championship try.
The question that will need addressing before the first game 
against Eastern Washington on Sept. 5, 2020, is who will be the 
starting quarterback? And there are plenty of candidates.
At the beginning of the season, Feleipe Franks was the sure-
fire frontrunner. He started all 13 games in 2018, threw for 
2,457 yards with 24 touchdowns and six interceptions using 
his strong arm and playmaking ability. But a gruesome ankle 
injury at the end of the third quarter against Kentucky on Sept. 
14 sidelined him for the remainder of the season after amassing 
just 698 yards and five touchdowns three games into his 2019 
campaign.
In stepped Kyle Trask, a career backup in his fourth season 
with the team who appeared in just four games last year.
Expectations were low, and the season appeared lost with 
Franks’ injury. Still, Trask stepped in and far exceeded those ex-
pectations from his first snaps, reviving a team down 11 points 
in the fourth quarter against Kentucky to a 9-2 record with its 
only losses being to two top-five opponents.
Since taking over Florida’s offense, Trask has a 66.5 comple-
tion percentage for 2,253 yards and 20 touchdowns as well as 
three rushing touchdowns. His quick release and quicker deci-
sion making has been a perfect fit for coach Dan Mullen’s quick-
hitting offensive scheme to move the ball effectively down the 
field better than any UF offense has this decade with the most 
yards through the air (3,215), touchdowns (28) and completion 
percentage (67.9) since the 2009 season.
Trask's one shortcoming, though, is that he lacks the mobil-
ity to extend plays and fully execute the system to its potential 
in a way Mullen’s past quarterbacks could.Luckily for Florida, a third quarterback on the roster suc-
ceeds where Trask fails.
Considered to be the quarterback-in-waiting, redshirt fresh-
man Emory Jones came to Florida a four-star prospect and one 
of the nation’s top dual-threat quarterbacks.
After playing in four games in 2018, he was redshirted. But 
he garnered more playing time in 2019, mostly in packages on 
obvious running downs in short-yardage situations, totaling 191 
rushing yards and four touchdowns on the ground so far this 
season. 
The few times Jones has been allowed to throw the ball, he 
has impressed with a 62.5 percent completion rate, 220 yards 
and two touchdowns. Against Missouri, he had just one throw 
that was completed for 48 yards to receiver Kadarius Toney and 
led the team in rushing with 39 yards on six carries.
“I think he’s really done a good job of being ready,” Mullen 
said after Saturday’s game. “I haven’t opened it up completely 
for him in the pass game fully, but I think it’s starting to build 
and build.”
The young quarterback has shown a unique toughness in 
the middle of the field, even with a 199-pound frame. His strong 
arm and big-play ability has UF fans dreaming of a Fun ‘n’ Gun 
Part 2 in the near future.
Jones’ increased playing time prompts the question of who 
exactly will take the first snap for the Gators in 2020.
Barring a transfer from any of the three, Mullen has a tough 
decision to make. He has two more meaningful games and a 
whole offseason to come to a verdict. It’s a good problem to 
have, but one he’ll need to start deliberating sooner rather than 
later.
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
 
The 2019-20 season for the 
UF men’s basketball team has 
had an ominous beginning not 
many (if any) expected just a 
couple of weeks ago.
Preseason hype and acco-
lades have disappeared, and the 
No. 6 ranking in the initial AP 
Poll awarded to UF coach Mike 
White and company is now a 
distant memory as the Gators 
now sit unranked after two 
early losses to Florida State and 
UConn.
Despite the slow start, UF 
has an opportunity to redeem 
itself sooner rather than later 
starting this week.
On Thursday, the Gators will 
be in South Carolina to begin 
their trek in the Charleston Clas-
sic. They’ll start the tournament 
with a matchup against Saint 
Joseph’s (2-2) for the first time 
since 2015.UF is one of eight teams play-
ing in Charleston, including two 
it has already faced in UConn 
and Towson, an in-state rival in 
Miami and the only ranked pro-
gram in the field, No. 18 Xavier.
 
Florida searching for answers 
on offense
Through four games, the of-
fensive side of the ball has yet 
to produce results needed to be 
successful.
While the defense has cer-
tainly played well to this point 
(allowing just 61 PPG), the of-
fense has been anemic. The 
team’s averaging 62.5 PPG, 
shooting 38.4 percent from the 
field, and are just 19-of-79 from 
three (24.1 percent).
With all of the talent and 
proven shooters on Florida’s 
roster, White is still trying to 
solve the problems that have 
surfaced when his team has the 
ball.
“We’ve been really good in practice offensively,” White said 
at Tuesday’s media availability. 
“I think that (in games) we’re 
a little rushed under the lights, 
on TV, facing a different team 
… we’re just very dysfunctional 
right now on offense, obvious-
ly.”
White admitted being frus-
trated, and rightfully so, but he 
also said that it’s early and the 
morale of the team is still high 
despite the disheartening start 
to the season.
“We’ve got really good kids, 
and I think they’re extremely 
receptive (to communication),” 
he said. “It’ll fall for us at some 
point, we’ve got too good of 
shooters. We’ve just gotta figure 
it out.”
 
Gators hoping quick stretch 
provides rejuvenation
A lot of times, the best way 
to work out of a shooting slump 
is with reps, and Florida will 
have plenty of those playing three games in just four days.
UF is in desperate need of a 
spark and Charleston may be 
the perfect place to capture that.
“We have three big opportu-
nities this week, and hopefully 
we can take advantage,” White 
said.
At 2-2, if the Gators can win 
out in Charleston and secure 
a marquee win against Xavier 
along the way, the perception of 
this team and the outlook of its 
season will change drastically.
“The best chance for our 
confidence to increase is not to 
go out there and jack one in the 
first minute and hope it goes 
in,” White said. “Let’s make 
sure our first one is really good, 
and if it goes, you have a great 
chance at settling in as a team.”
 
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org2020 starting quarterback showdown has begun 
Gators searching for identity heading into Charleston ClassicSamantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Emory Jones led the team in rushing 
against Missouri with 39 yards on six carries. 
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff 
The Gators are averaging 38.4 percent from the 
field and just 24.1 percent from three. 
12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - close“PITCH”er Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
with Karaoke!Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Junior outside hitter Paige Hammons is tied for second 
on the roster in kills (212) with Holly Carlton. 
VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALLBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
It took ﬁ  ve sets for Florida’s dreams of 
an SEC Championship title to turn into a 
nightmare. 
The Gators dropped the match — after 
taking a 2-1 set lead — to a then-17th-
ranked Kentucky. 
Now, No. 15 Florida (21-4, 12-2 SEC) 
will have to go against the current just to 
have a chance of sharing the conference 
title with the Wildcats by season’s end.
And it all starts with the Gators’ mid-
week matchup against the Auburn Tigers 
on the road Wednesday evening. 
Auburn’s record — a whole 6-19 on 
the season and 0-14 in SEC play — isn’t 
something that Florida should worry 
about too much, but, it’s this kind of 
match that can be underestimated and 
end up in a shock factor.
The Gators cannot waltz into AU’s ter-
ritory believing the match has been won before the whistle blows.
Florida’s loss to Kentucky on Sunday 
showed a good bit about this Gators ros-
ter. Despite the loss, sophomore Thayer 
Hall notched her 12th double-double 
on the season with 22 kills and 11 digs, 
while junior pin hitter Paige Hammons 
also notched a double-double — her ﬁ  fth 
on the year — with 12 kills and 14 digs.
And Hall stated it perfectly after the 
match.
“Obviously we went up there (on Oct. 
6) when they pushed, we didn’t push 
back,” she said after the loss. “And the 
same thing happened today. We did not 
push like I know we can.”
And pushing is the very thing Florida 
will need to do over the next four match-
es if it hopes to ﬁ  nish out on a high note 
as the Co-SEC Champion. 
Auburn is ranked 221 out of 335 in 
terms of RPI, which is a rating percent-
age index that accounts for strength of 
schedule in addition to wins and losses. 
Florida, on the other hand, is ninth out of all Division I teams, with Kentucky one 
spot ahead at eight.
The Tigers’ main threat comes from 
sophomore Tatum Shipes. The pin hitter 
has notched 220 kills on the season, 65 
kills ahead of Auburn’s next-best hitter 
in junior middle blocker Chesney McClel-
lan.
AU dropped a three-set match at home 
to the LSU Tigers on Sunday. 
Florida is highly ranked in three SEC 
categories on the season going into the 
matchup: second in hitting percentage 
(.278), third in opponent hitting efﬁ  cien-
cy (.180) and ﬁ  rst in blocks per set (2.55).
Where: Auburn Arena, Alabama 
When: Wednesday, 9 p.m. ET 
Watch: SEC Network / ESPN Live Stream 
Listen: ESPN 98.1FM/850AM WRUF
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org 
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Florida guard Kiara Smith had a forgettable 
start to Monday’s game against Presbyterian 
despite playing every second of the opening 
half.
Smith, who averages a team-high 13.5 
points per game, went into the break scoreless 
on 0-for-4 shooting from the ﬁ  eld.
But guards Ariel Johnson and Kristina 
Moore were there to help the Gators offen-
sively.
The duo shot a combined 7 of 15 from the 
ﬂ  oor and accounted for 16 of UF’s 30 ﬁ  rst-half 
points, lifting Florida’s women’s basketball team to a 60-46 victory over the Blue Hose at 
the O’Connell Center.
“That’s one of the beneﬁ  ts we have this 
year,” Johnson said. “With our team, all of us 
are pretty good, all of us can score.”
With Smith struggling to ﬁ  nd the bottom of 
the net, the Gators attacked the paint with for-
ward Zada Williams. 
The 6-foot-2 redshirt senior used her height 
to dominate the shorter Presbyterian defend-
ers in the paint, ﬁ  nishing the contest with 10 
points and nine rebounds.
Guard Lavender Briggs stepped up to shoul-
der the load, too.
She went just 4 of 12 from the ﬁ  eld, but that 
didn’t stop the freshman from pulling up when she had the space.
“I came out with the same mindset as be-
fore: just shoot,” Briggs said. “Coach kept say-
ing, ‘You can’t score if you don’t shoot.’”
Briggs tied Smith for a team-high 11 points 
against Presbyterian, with all of Smith’s points 
coming in the second half. 
The balance of Florida’s offense was evi-
dent in Monday’s triumph, as the Gators fea-
tured four double-digit scorers for the second-
consecutive game: Briggs (11), Smith (11), 
Johnson (10) and Williams (10).
The Gators were a force on the defensive 
side of the ball, as well.
They limited Presbyterian to just 40 points 
on 28.8 percent (15-of-52) shooting, including an eight-point fourth quarter that, ultimately, 
put the game out of reach.
UF’s active hands on defense forced the 
Blue Hose into 21 turnovers, which led to 14 
points for Florida on the other side of the court. 
This marked the second time this season that 
the Gators have caused 20-plus turnovers.
Florida’s depth on offense and feistiness on 
defense have propelled the team to a 4-0 record 
for the ﬁ  rst time under coach Cam Newbauer. 
And it will need both of those when No. 18 
Indiana steps foot inside the O’Dome Friday 
night.
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida with chance to rebound vs. AU
Balanced oﬀ  ense and feisty defense have Gators undefeated