We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gators Basketball can improve
Guard Jalen Hudson tied a season-high 15
points Saturday against T ennesse, pg.14
Boy in meme now a Gator
“David After Dentist” admitted to UF, pg. 4
SG elections are around the corner
UF Student Government parties release their campaign 
promises, pg. 10FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 57
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Cristian Cifers put down his $200 deposit 
less than an hour after he was accepted into 
UF.
The 18-year-old beamed upon learning 
he didn’t have to throw away a third of his 
closet.
“I couldn’t see myself wearing other schools’ colors,” he said. “You know, I bleed 
orange and blue.”
On Friday evening, Cifers became one of 
about 14,800 to be admitted into the univer-
sity’s class of 2023. 
More than 41,253 applicants applied, 
breaking last year’s record, said UF spokes-
person Steve Orlando. The university expects 
about 6,400 freshmen to accept. 
UF class of 2023’s student demographic data will not be publicly available until to-
day, Orlando said.
Cifers, who will graduate from Lake Mary 
Preparatory School in central Florida, ap-
plied as a business administration-manage-
ment major and will start at UF in the Fall, he 
said. His backup school was the University 
of South Florida because his sister graduated 
from there but knew UF is where he belongs.
Cifers remembers watching the 2008 Na-
tional Championship game with his parents, 
he said. His mom graduated from UF, and 
his dad brieﬂ  y taught as a guest lecturer for the College of Journalism and Communica-
tions.  
“It’s like a dream come true,” Cifers said. 
“I grew up being a Gator, and it’s just some-
thing that I’ve always wanted to be a part of 
one day.”
The number of UF applicants has in-
creased throughout the years, but there was 
a spike in 2017 when UF started accepting 
from the Coalition for College Access appli-
cation, in which applicants can enter their 
information and documents to send to mul-‘It’s like a dream come true:’ UF welcomes class of 2023
SEE 2023,  PAGE 4
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
One T eam
Nine-year-old Bailey Warner waves to a cheering crowd Friday during the Gators Link to 
Pink women’s gymnastics meet against the Auburn Tigers at the O’Connell Center. The 
gymnastics team added Warner to the team roster on Oct. 13, 2017, and supported Warner 
during her chemotherapy treatments for pilocytic astrocytoma glioma at the UF Health 
Shands Hospital. Warner successfully ended chemotherapy on May 23.
IT WILL COST $75,000 PER 
YEAR TO RENT
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
Albert and Alberta made a trip to 
the nation’s capital to take vacation 
selﬁ  es and see the opening of UF’s 
new Ofﬁ  ce of Federal Relations. 
This past week, university ofﬁ  -
cials celebrated the grand opening 
of the ofﬁ  ce in Washington, D.C., 
said Mark Kaplan, the vice president 
of UF Government and Community 
Relations.
The ofﬁ  ce had been in the works 
for the past year, and staff started 
working in the ofﬁ  ce last Fall. 
“It was a slow, gradual process,” 
Kaplan said.
The ofﬁ  ce will serve as a resource 
for students in D.C. and work to ad-
vocate for the university’s interests, 
said Sarah Mathias, the UF director 
of Federal Government Relations. 
Eventually, the ofﬁ  ce hopes to offer 
internships to UF students. 
Speciﬁ  cally, it will monitor and analyze legislation under consid-
eration and meet with policymak-
ers, Mathias said. It will also keep 
an eye on federal programs that 
support students and research and 
strengthen the connections between 
researchers at UF and federal agen-
cies.
“We’re the university’s eyes and 
ears and advocate in Washington,” 
she said. 
The new ofﬁ  ce will cost UF 
$75,000 per year to rent and is lo-
cated in the Hall of the States Of-
ﬁ  ce Building, near the U.S. Capitol 
Building, Mathias said. The building 
houses the Florida Governor Ofﬁ  ce 
as well as other universities’ federal 
ofﬁ  ces, including UF President Kent 
Fuchs’ alma mater Cornell Univer-
sity.
The ofﬁ  ce space will host four 
full-time staff members and will 
have a small conference room, she 
said. The university is still hiring 
staff members for the ofﬁ  ce. 
Thursday night, university ofﬁ  -
cials, including Fuchs, celebrated in UF opens office in 
Washington D.C. 
SEE WASHINGTON,  PAGE 4More than 41,000 appliedT oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
MONDAY
Authors at UF: Jennifer Rea
Jennifer Rea, a UF classics as-
sociate professor, will discuss 
her graphic novel “Perpetua’s 
Journey: Faith, Gender, & Power 
in the Roman Empire” at 3 
p.m. in Room 100 at Smathers 
Library. The book is set in 
Roman Africa in 203 CE and is 
about Christian martyr Perpetua. 
Passio Sanctarum Perpetuae et Felicitatis, also known as The 
Passion of Saints Perpetua and 
Felicity, is the first extant diary 
authored by a Christian woman. 
Vibia Perpetua was a mother who 
lived in Roman Africa and when 
she was 22, she chose to publicly 
proclaim her Christian faith. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  64°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Griton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Graham Marsh, 
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.   Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 57MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
february 11Start Photo Scavenger Hunt
Look for details at: facebook.com/STRIVEUF
february 13Reitz Union Rm 2330
7:00 - 8:30 PMSwipe right!
strive’s dating app workshop
february 14cupid’s consent fair!
Plaza of the Americas
10:00AM – 2:00PMfebruary 12We've Got Your Back 
Reitz Union Rm 2335
6:30 - 8:00 PMA panel discussion in collaboration with Phi Mu
and Women’s Student Association
YESMEANS
YES CONSENTIS
SEXYconsent
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By River Wells
Alligator Staff Writer
Richard Cole knew he wanted 
the legacies of his and his parents 
at UF to live on through more than 
just a degree.
He said he wanted to make a 
lasting change within the institu-
tion.
Cole achieved his goal when he 
gifted UF’s Levin College of Law 
a record-breaking grant for $20 
million, he said. The school an-
nounced the grant on Friday.
The grant, which was ﬁ  nalized in Fall 2018, is the largest in the 
college’s history. It surpasses the 
$10 million endowment given to 
the college in 1999 by Fredric G. 
Levin, which gave the college its 
namesake, said the college’s dean, 
Laura Rosenbury. 
The money will expand the 
school’s health law curriculum.
“Health law is a very broad 
category, and we’re excited to ex-
plore all aspects of it,” Rosenbury 
said.
Health law covers multiple ar-
eas in the college, such as health-
care, antitrust laws and biologics, and the grant will be used to im-
prove these aspects of the college, 
Rosenbury said.
The goals include hiring more 
faculty who specialize in health 
law, offering student scholarships 
to attract them to health law and 
funding conferences to host lead-
ers, scholars and hospital admin-
istrators, Rosenbury said.
Cole, who is a managing part-
ner for the law ﬁ  rm, Cole, Scott & 
Kissane, P.A. in Miami, originally 
wanted to remain anonymous 
when the agreement was ﬁ  nal-
ized, but Rosenbury convinced him otherwise.
“We thought it would be more 
powerful if people knew where 
the gift was coming from,” Rosen-
bury said. 
Cole, who received a degree 
in business administration at UF 
in 1970 and graduated from the 
university’s law program in 1974, 
donated the money toward the 
Robert B. Cole Health Law En-
dowment. His father created the 
endowment in 1995 to support the 
programs and research relating to 
health law at the college. 
“I graduated from there, my parents both graduated from 
there,” Cole said. “It just seemed 
like the right thing to do at the 
right time.”
His decision to donate $20 mil-
lion stemmed from the conversa-
tions he had with Rosenbury about 
how the college could improve its 
health law representation, he said.
“We certainly have seen that 
the issue of health law is kind of 
at the cutting edge right now, and 
I don’t see it changing,” Cole said. 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgUF Levin College of Law receives record-breaking $20 million grantRESOLUTION IDENTIFIES 
MENTAL HEALTH AS ISSUE
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Andrew Goren remembers teach-
ing Alyssa Alhadeff to roller skate 
during the summer of 2017 at camp. 
A year and a half later, Goren 
(Impact, District B) sat before the UF 
Senate Judiciary Committee to pres-
ent a resolution, a non-binding state-
ment of agreement, commemorating 
Alhadeff and the 16 other victims of 
the mass shooting at Marjory Stone-
man Douglas High School in Park-
land, Florida, last year on Feb. 14. 
The Senate Judiciary Committee 
met for two and a half hours Sunday 
morning in the Reitz Union to verify 
the constitutionality of legislation 
before it is voted on in the Senate. 
Eight resolutions were passed in-
cluding the Marjory Stoneman Doug-
las resolution, and four pieces of leg-
islation were tabled. 
Goren, who co-wrote the resolu-
tion with allocations chairwoman 
Katelyn Hernandez (Impact, District A), said while he knew Alhadeff per-
sonally, the resolution recognizes all 
of the victims and identiﬁ  es mental 
health as a key issue. 
Goren said he wrote the resolu-
tion to show support for movements 
like March for Our Lives, which 
hope to end gun violence.
“It’s going to happen again. It al-
ready has,” he said.
The committee also passed resolu-
tions that supports faculty on strike 
at Wright State University, renters’ 
rights, textbook affordability, Black 
History month, those affected by the 
polar vortex, legislation banning dis-
tracted driving and ﬁ  nancial aid for 
DACA students. 
Dylan Santalo, the chairman of 
Chomp the Vote, said UF students 
have met with both Republican and 
Democrat leaders in Florida lead-
ership to pass legislation granting 
ﬁ  nancial aid to undocumented stu-
dents.
“It’s a student issue. Not a parti-
san issue,” Santalo said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgSG committee passes legislation 
on Parkland shooting, victims
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF is just $200,000 shy of receiving $1 billion 
in yearly research spending. 
On Friday, the university announced the near-
ly 8 percent, or $63.6 million, increase from 2017, 
said Brian Harfe, the associate dean in the College 
of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The $865 million 
became a new record 
high in 2018. 
“We’re very ex-
cited about all the re-
search that is going to 
come out of the funds 
that are coming in,” 
Harfe said. “The mon-
ey has just arrived, so 
going forward we’ll 
see the results of what 
happens with all of this research money.” 
Of the $865 million of expenditures, life sci-
ences research totaled $656.3 million, federal 
research totaled $355.5 million, state and local 
research totaled $174.1 million, foundations re-
search totaled $44.3 million and engineering re-
search totaled $93.6 million.
The ultimate goal is to reach $1 billion, al-
though there is no deﬁ  nitive timeline of when that 
will be, Harfe said.
The real research begins during the years after 
the money has come in, Harfe said. The univer-sity takes time to hire staff and faculty to work on 
research projects, and the results of the research 
money arise in the following years. 
In 2017, the UF physics department received 
a $10 million grant to study quantum computing, 
Harfe said. Psychology professor Dorothy Espel-
age received a $1 million grant from the US De-
partment of Justice to study bullying in 2017. 
“Research expenditures is a good measure of 
the health of an in-
stitution’s research 
endeavors,” said UF 
spokesperson Steve 
Orlando.
Alex Smith, a 
20-year-old UF ma-
terials science and 
engineering junior, is 
currently working in 
a research lab that uti-
lizes spending on engineering in the development 
of materials. 
An increase in research spending provides 
opportunities for more equipment and materials 
needed to complete more projects, he said.
“I am proud of our university’s emphasis on 
research across departments and disciplines,” 
Smith said. “It shows our invested effort into ex-
panding upon scientiﬁ  c understanding.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgUF research spending reaches 
record high of $865 million
UF’S RESEARCH SPENDING OVER THE YEARS
2018: $856 million
2017: $804.1 million
2016: $791.3 million4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019tiple schools, Orlando said. In that 
year, applications grew from about 
34,000 to 40,000. 
Other factors leading to the high 
number of applicants include UF’s 
rising national profile and ranking, 
which the U.S. News and World 
Reports ranks eighth in the nation 
for public universities, Orlando 
said. 
The admission results are re-
leased on a Friday to give the ap-
plicants time over the weekend to 
process the information, Orlando 
said. 
“It is a big achievement to get 
into UF,” he said. “It’s a really ex-
citing time for us too.”
Jenna Dunakey, 18, received 
the news of her acceptance at 5:30 
p.m. Dunakey, who applied as a 
psychology major, will graduate 
from Lemon Bay High School in 
Englewood, Florida.
However, Dunakey is unsure yet 
of where she will attend college, 
and she’s waiting on her decision 
from her first choice, New York 
University, she said. If she gets into 
NYU, her choice will come down to 
the financials. 
“UF is the best school in Florida, 
and I know I’m definitely going to 
college now,” she said. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org2023,  from pg. 1Applications 
rose after UF 
became top 
public schoolSPOILER ALERT: HE’S NOT  
PURSUING DENTISTRY
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Anesthesia and personality made David De-
Vore an internet sensation in 2009.
“David After Dentist,”  which featured a 
perplexed, dazed 7-year-old DeVore in a Flori-
da Gators shirt received more than 138 million 
views — but also foreshadowed his future.
A decade later, the now 18-year-old De-
Vore’s attire came full circle when he was ad-
mitted into UF’s Innovation Academy on Fri-
day. 
“It was my number one school,” DeVore 
said. “UF is where I am meant to be.”
DeVore, who is from Lake Mary, Florida, 
and attends Holy Cross Lutheran Academy, 
was thrilled to find out he was accepted to his 
No. 1 school where his two aunts, uncle and 
grandfather attended. 
Growing up as an internet meme didn’t af-
fect DeVore’s day-to-day life besides occasional 
fan recognition. However, DeVore wrote about 
the video in his UF application essay, as he 
says it’s a big part of his life.
“I don’t want ‘David After Dentist’ to be all I’m ever known for,” DeVore said. “I just want 
to do more with my life, and UF gives me the 
tools to do so.”
Although he will not pursue a dental career, 
DeVore is ecstatic to come to UF in Spring 2020 
to study computer science.
DeVore is ready to begin the next chapter of 
his life and was taken aback when UF posted 
about his admission on social media.
“I didn’t realize it was going to blow up like 
it did,” he said. “It was just really cool to see 
that people acknowledge [my admission].”
When UF business administration junior 
and “David After Dentist” fan Patrick Murray 
heard about DeVore’s acceptance, the moment 
felt surreal.
“I would literally quote the video with my 
friends so being able to say that I go to the 
same school as him now has left me speech-
less,” the 20-year-old said.
Murray, who has watched the video at least 
15 times, advises DeVore to follow his pas-
sions, keep his morals in check and enjoy his 
college years.
“I hope his intensity for UF and the love that 
he has is just as strong as his hyperactivity all 
those years back,” Murray said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF welcomes viral YouTube meme
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Seven-year-old David DeVore in his viral online video “David After Dentist” 
next to himself at the age of 18 receiving his admission letter.
the capital with a reception on the rooftop of the office build-
ing, she said. At the celebration, they flew the UF flag on top 
of the building. 
“We’re just a brand-new program,” she said. “Right now, 
we’re a friendly place to come, to see if we can help in any 
way.”
UF will work with other universities with offices in D.C. 
that may also be affected by the legislature, she said. 
“We’re a member of many of the higher education associ-
ates,” she said. “What impacts UF students is likely to impact 
those at other big universities.”
At least four other Florida universities already have an of-
fice in D.C.
“We want to be a home away from home for students, fac-
ulty and alumni,” she said. “A place where Gators can come, 
get some Gatorade and share what we know.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgWASHINGTON,  from pg. 1The office may offer students future internships
Florida International University
University of California
New York University 
Arizona State University
Boston University 
Brigham Young University 
Carnegie Mellon University
Cornell University
Marquette University
Michigan State University
Ohio State University
Pepperdine University
Stanford University
Syracuse University 
T exas A&M universities
State University of New York at Brockport 
University of Georgia 
University of WisconsinPUBLIC UNIVERSITIES WITH 
PRESENCE IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,  
ACCORDING TO THE WASHINGTON POST
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Albert and Alberta Gator take a selfie outside of Capitol Hill.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
VICTIM WAS UNDER 16 YEARS OLD
A man already in jail for cocaine possession has been 
given additional charges for sending sexual messages on 
Facebook to a girl under 16 years old.
On July 24, the victim’s mother told deputies about 
a Facebook thread between the victim and Michael Av-
ery Hooks, 26, of Gainesville, according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
From July 1 to July 24, Hooks and the victim mes-saged about sexual encounters, the report said. The 
victim also sent photos of her vagina and a video that 
couldn’t be opened of her posing or dancing in shorts, 
the report said. 
Hooks told her multiple times to meet him, the report 
said. He asked to meet at Cynthia Moore Chestnut Park 
and Clark Butler Nature Preserve, at 2315 SE 35th St., 
and a shed in a backyard.  
Hooks admitted to deputies that she sent and re-
ceived sexual messages from the victim but did not have sex with the victim, the report said. 
He was charged with lewd and lascivious behavior 
with a victim aged 12 to 16 and promoting sexual activ-
ity to a victim less than 16, the report said. 
Hooks was sent to jail in February after he was ac-
cused of possessing cocaine and violating warnings to 
not contact his ex-wife, records said.
He remained in the Alachua County Jail Sunday in 
lieu of a $320,000 bond. 
HER BOND IS $159,000
Deputies arrested a woman Thurs-
day who is accused of hitting a woman 
with a metal baseball bat on the back 
and almost hitting an officer with a car. 
Densirate Davina Boyd, 29, of 
Gainesville, had two warrants for her 
arrest, according to an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office arrest report.
In October, Boyd reversed a car and 
almost hit an officer at Gardenia Gar-
dens Apartments, at 1727 NE 8th Ave., 
according to a Gainesville Police sworn 
complaint affidavit. She then ran into 
her apartment and escaped through a 
back window. 
In April 2016, Boyd was charged 
with aggravated battery for hitting a 
woman in the back with a metal base-
ball bat, according to another police 
sworn complaint affidavit.On Thursday at about 8:50 p.m., 
deputies were told Boyd was leaving 
the Maa and Paa Grocery Store, at 6410 
SW 8th Ave., according to an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office arrest report. 
Deputies found Boyd on Southwest 
62nd Avenue. and told her to walk to 
the front of the patrol car, the report 
said. 
When Boyd was asked what her 
name is, she told deputies her name 
was Ferneshia Perryman and gave 
them a wrong birthday, the report said. 
She gave her real name while being 
searched.
She was charged with resisting an 
officer without violence and giving 
deputies a false identification, the re-
port said. 
Boyd remained in the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail on Sunday in lieu of a $159,000 
bond.HE LIVED IN SAME COMPLEX
A man accused of breaking into a 
neighbor’s apartment and breaking a TV 
didn’t stop there. He proceeded to throw 
trash on her bed and clothing around the 
room. 
Gainesville Police arrested Garrett 
Lamar Drayton, 27, of Gainesville, on a 
warrant Saturday for breaking into the 
apartment on Dec. 2, according to an ar-
rest report. 
At about 12:01 a.m., Drayton forced 
the victim’s apartment door open while 
she was not home at Gardenia Gardens 
Apartments, at 1727 NE Eight Ave., the 
report said.  
Drayton went into the living room, 
threw the victim’s laundry all over the 
ﬂ  oor and knocked over her TV, the report 
said. He then grabbed multiple full trash 
bags from her front porch and broke 
them over her bed. 
Drayton also poured a bottle of MCT 
oil on her bed and TV, the report said. 
The TV was worth $200.
After, Drayton texted the victim, 
“Clean up yo house dat s--- a mess,” the 
report said. She rushed home and texted 
him she was going to call the police. 
When she went to her front porch, 
she saw Drayton outside his apartment in 
the same complex, the report said. Police 
found Drayton nearby. 
Drayton was charged with burglary of 
a residence, criminal mischief and resist-
ing an ofﬁ  cer without violence, the report 
said.
He remained in the Alachua County 
Jail Sunday in lieu of an $80,000 bond. Man accused of sending sexual Facebook messages to minor
ACSO: Woman hits another woman 
with bat, almost runs over deputyMan accused of throwing 
trash, laundry in apartment  Stories by Katherine Wallace-Fernandez   |   Alligator Staff Writer
 kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org   |   Twitter: @katwf98  The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
The 2020 election is 
breaking records already  
American women received the right to vote in 1920, and 
exactly 100 years later, the 2020 election is breaking re-
cords for women. Sen. Amy Klobuchar from Minnesota 
became the sixth Democratic woman to put in her bid 
for the Democratic presidential nominee when she an-
nounced her candidacy on Sunday. She follows Sens. Kirsten Gil-
librand, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, along with Rep. 
Tulsi Gabbard and author Marianne Williamson. Collectively, 
they’re making this upcoming presidential race the ﬁ  rst in history 
to have that many women running at one time for the Democratic 
presidential nomination.
This comes after a record-breaking number of 15 women 
were elected to the Senate in 2018, the most to ever serve at 
one time. There are currently 102 women serving in the House 
of Representatives. Of all of the women elected to Congress, 36 
of them are newly elected. 2018 was named “The Year of the 
Women” because of its unprecedented number of elections of 
women and movements like the #MeToo movement. In just the 
second month of 2019, records are already being broken in terms 
of women’s political involvement.
Women running for president is just a part of a bigger picture. 
A more diverse pool of presidential candidates is in store for the 
2020 presidential election. With six women, including Harris, the 
second black woman to serve in the Senate, there are four other 
Democratic men of varying ethnicities also in the race. However, 
it should be noted that according to an Iowa Poll, Joe Biden, who 
has yet to announce his predicted candidacy, led a poll in Decem-
ber for the Democratic presidential nominee with 32 percent of 
the vote.
Of course, the 2020 election outcome is unknown, but it 
shows that Democrats, especially Democratic women, are look-
ing for a change. Part of the reason there were so many newly 
elected women in the previous election cycle was due to the 
sheer number of women who ran for ofﬁ  ce. Many have said they 
felt compelled to run due to the current administration’s views on 
politics and health issues.
It’s no secret that America has always lacked diversity in 
terms of representation in Congress. However, the next year has 
the possibility of six women sharing the stage during a Demo-
cratic presidential debate; this would be another ﬁ  rst. There have 
never been two women in a televised debate in American his-
tory. With each new election cycle, the pool for more diverse 
candidates gets deeper. Just the possibility and the acceptance of 
these candidates having the potential to unseat President Donald 
Trump shows that the U.S. is moving toward a place where race 
and gender shouldn’t have be a part of politics. However, that 
doesn’t mean that these things still don’t play a big role.
In politics, women are often talked about in a different way 
than men are. Often their “likability” is measured by how they 
dress or in how “stiff” or “loose” their behavior is. Their person-
ality is often equated to their appearance. It’s understandable to 
disagree with the platform of a candidate, but women candidates 
are often judged on how they present themselves, more so than 
their male counterparts. That goes for all women, not just our 
Democratic candidates; even Melania Trump often makes news 
headlines for how she dresses, whether she knows this will be 
the result or not is debatable.
The political sphere is changing. A time will come when we 
don’t have to report on record-breaking numbers of diverse can-
didates because it’ll become the norm. We are in a time in history 
when there will no longer be “a year of the woman,” - it’ll just be 
a year. Moving toward a diverse crop of politicians allows us to 
accurately depict America as it’s supposed to be. The 2020 elec-
tion has the chance to show us how we’ve grown as a country, 
not only through our candidates but also in how we report and 
view those candidates. 
Conversion therapy must be banned in Alachua County
Gay rights have made tremendous strides 
in the past decade with gay marriage le-
galized as of 2015’s Obergefell v. Hodges 
decision and states banning discrimina-
tion based on sexual orientation. How-
ever, one issue still haunts the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity: conversion therapy.
Thankfully, Alachua County may soon put the 
issue to rest. The Alachua County Commission is 
considering a bill that will ban conversion therapy 
in the county. The effects of the bill are arguable 
(Gainesville, by far the biggest settlement in Alachua Coun-
ty, already banned conversion therapy in April, and ofﬁ  cials 
aren’t sure how many conversion therapy practitioners there 
are in Alachua County), but I applaud this measure.
For those who don’t know, conversion therapy refers to 
any procedure that attempts to change a person’s sexual ori-
entation from gay to straight. The American Psychological 
Association (APA) opposes conversion therapy, because it 
assumes homosexuality is a disease that can be cured rather 
than a normal expression of sexuality. Perhaps because of 
this, most conversion therapy is done by religious groups 
rather than any medical or scientiﬁ  c professionals.
The other reason the APA opposes conversion therapy is 
because there is no scientiﬁ  c evidence of its effectiveness. 
The APA “does not believe that same-sex orientation should 
or needs to be changed, and efforts to do so represent a sig-
niﬁ  cant risk of harm by subjecting individuals to forms of 
treatment which have not been scientiﬁ  cally validated and 
by undermining self-esteem when sexual orientation fails to 
change. No credible evidence exists that any mental health 
intervention can reliably and safely change sexual orienta-
tion; nor, from a mental health perspective does sexual ori-
entation need to be changed.”
A 2004 Families in Society journal article says conversion 
therapy was opposed by all the major professional groups of 
social workers, psychologist and psychiatrists, and the stud-
ies that have been cited by conversion therapy proponents 
have serious methodology problems that could question their validity. Another 2004 article in The Counseling 
Psychologist says that “attempts to ‘convert’ ho-
mosexuals to heterosexuality are of questionable 
efﬁ  cacy and are ethically compromised and heav-
ily reliant on misinformation and disinformation.” 
Finally, a 2018 Psychology Today article makes 
the case that conversion therapy is unethical, has 
no evidence backing it and can leave psychologi-
cal scars on clients.
Likely because of this evidence, there’s been 
a growing movement to ban conversion therapy, 
especially for children. The most recent example is New 
York, which in January passed a law banning conversion 
therapy for minors. The Nebraska state legislature is current-
ly considering a bill to ban conversion therapy for kids. The 
Canadian province of Alberta currently has a parliamentary 
working group that is considering how to ban conversion 
therapy. Even here in Florida, the city of Tampa passed an 
ordinance banning conversion therapy for minors, but the 
enforcement of it was halted by a judge. Therapies involving 
‘treatments’ like electroshock therapy are still banned, but 
for the time being, therapies involving talking can continue.
I’ve heard an argument that while conversion thera-
py should be banned for minors, adults should be able to 
choose conversion therapy on the basis that adults are doing 
it of their own volition and they should have the right to 
seek out therapy. However, that argument treats conversion 
therapy as some sort of experimental therapy or a different 
way of treating a problem, but that isn’t what conversion 
therapy is.
Conversion therapy should be banned. There is no 
evidence for its effectiveness. There is even evidence that 
it could be harmful to those who partake in the practice. 
Across the country conversion therapy is becoming illegal. 
These groups shouldn’t be allowed to trick people any lon-
ger, and I applaud the Alachua County Commission’s pro-
posal. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Hey Gators! As election day at UF gets 
closer and closer, there is always a certain 
amount of negative campaigning that takes 
place before students vote. With that said, 
Zachariah Chou’s mischaracterization of his 
record and criticisms of Student Govern-
ment go a step too far. 
On a website published by the Inspire 
Party this past Tuesday, Chou claims that 
SG delayed implementing live-streaming 
Student Senate meetings in order to avoid 
transparency with the Student Body. This 
claim could not be further from the truth. 
SG and the Impact Party have worked with 
SG Information Technology for the bet-
ter part of a year creating a live-streaming 
website and platform for students at UF to 
view Senate meetings. We even began the 
procurement process for a permanently 
installed ceiling camera, as well as front-
facing monitors for use during meetings. Ul-
timately, this will be a much less awkward 
implementation of Senate live-streaming 
than Chou’s current process on Facebook 
Live. 
Inspire campaign material goes on to 
criticize the past Impact Student Body Presi-dent for vetoing legislation that “will make 
your jaw drop.” Here, Inspire is, in fact, cor-
rect that the predecessor vetoed the “Stu-
dent Body Accessibility Act,” which would 
have required the executive branch to in-
clude closed captioning on all SG videos. 
What they failed to mention, however, was 
his reasoning for doing so — Inspire drafted 
an unconstitutional bill. Speciﬁ  cally, the 
legislative branch does not have the consti-
tutional authority to make rules and codes 
that the executive branch has to follow, no 
matter how noble the intentions. Beyond 
that, Inspire failed to mention that we, as 
the executive branch, were already includ-
ing closed captioning as well as transcripts 
on our videos and continue to do so to this 
day under my administration. 
Finally, Chou claims that he and his 
party are responsible for more street light-
ing around Inﬁ  nity Hall and 24/7 operat-
ing hours at Library West. Again, while 
his party is a strong supporter of these re-
sources, they mislead students on their in-
volvement. The project for increased street 
lighting around Inﬁ  nity Hall began when 
Student Body President Susan Webster or-ganized a nighttime lighting tour of the area 
surrounding Inﬁ  nity Hall. Webster picked 
up the Mayor of Gainesville, UF Chief Op-
erating Ofﬁ  cer Charlie Lane, and UPD Chief 
Stumpf in a GOTCHA car, and drove around 
the residence hall with a light gauge, show-
ing just how dark the streets got at night. 
As a result of this project, we now have the 
new lights you see today.
As for Library West, UF could always use 
more study space on campus as we strive 
to be a top ﬁ  ve public institution, but I 
disagree with Chou on how we should get 
there. Chou demanded we raise your stu-
dent fees to fund this priority, but with a 
little time and by fostering positive rela-
tionships with Provost Joseph Glover and 
other administrators, I was able to expand 
24/7 library hours for three years without 
raising student fees by even one cent. This 
represents a primary difference between the 
leadership of Impact and the leadership of 
Inspire, and I can say with conﬁ  dence that 
Chou’s online petitions actually made my 
decisions with administrators more difﬁ  cult 
as the petition was inaccurate and mislead-
ing. When I took ofﬁ  ce, I swore to be a Stu-
dent Body President to all Gators, includ-
ing SG ofﬁ  cers who aren’t afﬁ  liated with my 
party. I have met with countless students 
and Inspire senators who have reached out 
to me or have come to my ofﬁ  ce hours. In 
fact, those Inspire senators that met with me 
led to supported legislation on making UF 
more sustainable and the funding of a blue 
light pole system by Graham Hall. On the 
other hand, Chou has only met with me to 
mostly say that I was wrong and his short-
term Library West ﬁ  x was better than my 
long-term strategy. In retrospect, I wish that 
Chou would have been more of a collabo-
rator during my term like other Senators, 
instead of trying to cherry-pick the over 40 
initiatives my administration has been able 
to accomplish for the student body. 
Looking to the future, I hope that all 
Gators currently running to serve the stu-
dent body will campaign with respect and 
honesty. Even in the heat of an upcoming 
election, our students deserve better. 
Reg.Pol.Ad.T.Townsend
Ian Green is the UF Student Body President
The gym can be best 
described as difﬁ  cult 
to enter and easy to 
leave. However, the 
beneﬁ  ts of the result-
ing strength and self-conﬁ  -
dence you work for within 
the walls of Southwest Recre-
ation Center or Student Rec-
reation & Fitness Center fol-
low you long after you leave. 
Dieting works, and if you hold your-
self accountable for your meals, you will 
start to look and feel better. It’s torture 
to cut out bagels and brownies from your 
diet, and our current food market doesn’t 
make it any easier. In summation, ﬁ  tness 
is hard. It takes effort, determination and 
perseverance to succeed, and it will often 
feel as if all the energy you’re spending is 
in vain. It isn’t. The goal of ﬁ  tness is to be 
healthy and happy, and washboard abs 
are simply a welcome byproduct. 
All too often, we are led astray by the 
incredible bodies shown on magazine 
covers or featured on Instagram pages. 
We buy our groceries, go to the gym and 
step on the scale with the idea that The 
Rock will look back at us in the mirror. 
This is not a sustainable way of viewing 
ﬁ  tness, which is already a difﬁ  cult habit 
to nurture. Creating a warped body image 
can severely damage a person’s balance 
in life.
Another problem with ﬁ  tness is the 
advice that comes along with it — it’s 
given out easily and many times without 
consideration to everyone’s body types. 
Most of these diets are not inherently bad 
for you. In fact, each of them work and 
achieve different end results. The problem 
is, we are all unique. Each person is go-
ing to respond differently to each kind of 
diet, and the results will vary. Our tastes 
and preferences are unique as well, and 
they also play a large role in determining 
which diet we follow. Some people prefer 
a high-carb diet, while others prefer low. 
For this reason, ﬁ  tness seems more dif-
ﬁ  cult than it needs to be. Your ﬁ  t friends 
will all be stoked to see you’ve decided to join the “Gain Train.” They 
will supply endless advice 
and guidance, some of which 
you may even diligently ap-
ply. Despite all this, your diet 
may still fail.
So many people fall vic-
tim to their own insecurities. 
Far too many allow the small 
mean voice lurking behind 
their conscience to deter their 
progress. This process gains momentum 
with every failure. Each mistake or cheat 
day is another block removed from the 
Jenga tower of ﬁ  tness. The voice often 
wins out and the wooden tower crum-
bles, leaving you staring at the pieces that 
used to constitute your healthy life. They 
think, “It can’t work, I tried,” and they 
give up in a cloud of bitterness. 
It is difﬁ  cult to push through, but the 
strength of mind you develop in the pur-
suit of a healthy life is just as important 
as the strength of your biceps. These are 
the mental exercises that make ﬁ  tness 
truly difﬁ  cult: the strength to wake up 
and get to the gym, the strength to order 
a salad when your friends order a burger 
and the strength to chew gum at the mov-
ies instead of getting a popcorn and soda. 
Anyone can be ﬁ  t for a day when work-
ing out and eating well. The perseverance 
and dedication to transform your lifestyle 
really sets a person apart.
Fitness is hard. If it weren’t, every-
body would do it, which is certainly not 
the case. It is individually based on your 
time, energy and body. Fitness challenges 
your self-image and it takes perseverance. 
You can be successful if you are brutally 
honest with yourself and are aware of 
what works for you. If you stay positive 
and keep a happy, healthy perspective, 
your end goals will be in sight. You can 
reach your goals, and you will — you just 
can't give up.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English 
freshman. His column appears on 
Mondays.An open letter on the trials of health Column
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org Part of young adulthood is 
marked by a craving for 
intimacy and acceptance. 
You can see people forming 
connections, romantic or 
otherwise, anywhere on a college 
campus. Couples sit together in the 
library and new people strike up 
conversation in Midtown. It’s com-
mon to want to make new connec-
tions. But too often, there is a lot 
of emphasis on gaining validation 
from people whose validations are not particu-
larly remarkable. This is especially common 
among young women who are seeking valida-
tion from men.
Even the most empowered young women 
are easily affected by male attention or a lack 
thereof. Women are dominating men in col-
lege right now. Since the 1960s, women have 
had higher graduation rates than men. Almost 
10 percent more female high school students 
are enrolled in college than male students by 
the time they reach their high school gradu-
ation. Women are entering professions that 
were once entirely occupied by men. So why 
are women still looking to men to verify their 
worth?
As freshmen, my friends and I went to par-
ties and other social gatherings to have fun. 
We loved to dance, spend time together and 
meet new people. Now, it seems like the main 
point of going out is to talk to boys. Everyone 
lathers on makeup and squeezes their feet into 
tiny high heels, all to attract any bit of atten-
tion. Successful nights are determined by how 
conﬁ  dent you feel leaving them, and this is 
usually determined by how many men caught 
your eye or gave you a compliment.
When a night is unsuccessful by these 
terms, the entire event is deemed a bust. If we 
didn’t allure any males of interest, the func-
tion was pointless and we leave the night feel-
ing unfulﬁ  lled. My friends have forgotten how 
we used to be completely content just keeping 
each other company.
The sad part is that this kind of validation isn’t sustainable. At the end of the 
night, the makeup is washed away 
and the heels are slipped off. Voids 
that were ﬁ  lled with temporary rec-
ognition are emptied again. A vi-
cious cycle of loneliness can only 
be paused by another night and an-
other provisional companion starts 
all over again.
We are living in a period of histo-
ry when women are being listened 
to more than ever. The #MeToo 
movement opened the door for women to be 
part of a conversation about gender inequality 
and oppression that still exists so many years 
after the women’s rights movement.
We need to be more aware of how the pa-
triarchy prevails in little ways. Toxic mascu-
linity is contagious, and women fuel the ﬁ  re 
when they let men determine their value. We 
cannot give men the ability to manipulate our 
self-esteems. We must take that power back 
into our own hands and regain the ability to 
have a good time and retain our conﬁ  dence 
no matter who deems us interesting, pretty or 
worthy of their energy.
Regaining this power starts from within. 
The right partner and the right attention will 
come eventually, and we shouldn’t expect to 
ﬁ  nd him or her every time we leave our hous-
es. Healthy relationships are developed over 
time, and this is true not only for romantic 
connections but for friendships as well. If we 
focus more on strengthening bonds with our 
friends and the people that make us happy, we 
will ﬁ  nd a form of validation that is valuable 
and long-lasting.
There are so many places to ﬁ  nd support 
and happiness as a young adult. It is important 
to spend time with the people who support 
you, not on the ones who give you a glimpse 
of attention and never show interest again. 
Our true value comes from within ourselves.
Molly Chepenik is a UF journalism soph-
omore. Her column normally appears on 
Wednesdays.Validation shouldn't come from anyone 
else, it should be found in ourselvesColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
The Sound of Change
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Madeline Jarman, the bassist for the band Flipturn, performs Friday during the 
Changeville Music and Arts Festival at the High Dive in downtown Gainesville. 
Changeville, which began in 2016, is a festival that combines music, film and virtual 
reality to promote social change. 
Chris Day / Alligator Staff 
Alex Mayweather, a guitarist for Pool Kids, performs Friday at the High Dive 
in downtown Gainesville. Pool Kids opened for Japanese Breakfast, one of the 
headliners of the Changeville festival. 
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Itagui Correa, the lead singer for the Grammy-nominated band Locos Por 
Juana, belts out Thursday night at Bo Diddley Plaza. Hundreds of people 
watched the band perform.
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Dillon Basse, the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of Flipturn, plays the final note of 
“August” during Flipturn’s performance Friday night at the High Dive. The concert was 
sold out.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pm
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.SECOND OF THREE 
WORKSHOPS TO BE HELD
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville has about 20 years to reach 
its goal of becoming a zero waste city. 
On Thursday, Zero Waste Gainesville 
will host the second of three workshops 
discussing zero waste living at 6 p.m. at 
Library Partnership, at 912 NE 16th Ave. The organization is a zero-waste advocacy 
group. 
The workshop is about zero waste din-
ing and travel, and the ﬁ  nal workshop on 
Feb. 21 will discuss do-it-yourself cleaning 
products. Tickets are free but must be re-
served online. 
Attendees will learn tips for storing 
restaurant leftovers and composting, said 
Amanda Waddle, the organization’s zero 
waste and policy advisor. 
“You can be part of the solution because everybody who does even a little bit to re-
duce their waste is very helpful,” Waddle 
said.
Waddle taught the ﬁ  rst workshop last 
Thursday about a waste-free home. About 
55 people attended, and it sold out about a 
week in advance, she said.
Allison Bechtloff, 35, attended and was 
surprised to learn about what is not recy-
clable. She said learning about personal 
waste audits, which is examining your gar-
bage to see where your waste comes from, made her a more mindful consumer. 
Bechtloff manages Life Unplastic, a 
Gainesville store that sells sustainable, 
plastic-free products. She said the store 
aims to reduce packaging waste. 
“It takes looking at things up close 
and realizing how you’re being wasteful,” 
Bechtloff said. “I could be doing a lot more 
too.”
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgWorkshop series educates on zero waste living
By Victoria Vargas
Alligator Contributing Writer
Food insecurity is a problem 
that Gainesville residents have 
faced for decades. Now the city is 
looking for answers.
The city will hold a discussion 
on food inaccessibility and how to 
ﬁ  x it at a workshop from 5-8 p.m. 
Tuesday at the Alachua County 
Library Headquarters, at 401 E. 
University Ave.
The conversation will be the 
ﬁ  rst in a series to address issues of 
food security in Gainesville, said 
Mayor Lauren Poe. The number of 
workshops is unknown.
“The main goal for this meet-
ing is to give different people and 
different organizations who are 
dealing with the issue an oppor-
tunity to share their experiences,” 
Poe said.
The workshop is part of the 
city’s overall goals toward equity, 
he said. Food security has been  
an issue both nationally and lo-
cally since the 1990s.
In September, the Gainesville 
City Commission told staff to 
work with UF to create the work-shop, where residents can join a 
discussion around those issues, 
said Chip Skinner, the city’s 
spokesperson.
Skinner anticipates between 50 
to 80 people will participate. Free 
childcare for 20 children was of-
fered to parents. 
The commission budgeted 
$1,200 for the workshop at the 
Thursday commission meeting. 
The childcare service was given 
$350, and $850 was allocated for 
refreshments.
The workshop will begin with 
a presentation on the research UF 
and the city staff have compiled 
since September, Skinner said. 
It inform people about what the 
county is currently doing to ad-
dress the issue.
During the second half of the 
workshop, attendees will break 
into small groups to generate so-
lutions the city can implement on 
a smaller scale, Skinner said. The 
ideas from the workshop will be 
made into infographics and pre-
sented to the city commission on 
March 14.
Karen Woolfstead, the Bread of 
the Mighty Food Bank communi-cations and development director, 
said about 50,880 residents live 
with food insecurities in Alachua 
County.
“What the public doesn’t re-
alize is how many food insecure 
people there are,” Wolfstead said.
Tarver Shimek hopes to hear 
from members of the community 
who are not involved in organi-
zations currently addressing food 
insecurity, like her program at 
the UF Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences which educates 
residents on nutrition.
The UF/IFAS Extension Family 
Nutrition program, where Shimek 
is the extension program manag-
er, looks at policy, environment 
and system barriers to healthy 
food access, she said. Barriers can 
be transportation and bus routes, 
and not being within walking dis-
tance of a grocery store.
“I hope the city government 
gets some good ideas from com-
munity members and people fac-
ing those issues,” Shimek said. 
Alligator staff writer Karina 
Elwood contributed to this report. Gainesville holds ﬁ  rst of series on food inaccessibility
Victoria Vargas / Alligator Contributor 
Rana Hyder, 42, right, waits to purchase vegetables from Jones 
Family Farms Saturday at the Alachua County Farmers Market,  at 
5920 NW 13th St. The market offers Fresh Access Bucks that make 
it easier for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program recipients 
to purchase local produce.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 20191
BOTH PARTIES ADDRESS PARKING, 
GRADUATE STUDENTS AND  
ASIAN AMERICAN STUDENTS 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government elections are a little 
more than a week away, and Impact Party and 
Inspire Party released their campaign promises 
for the Spring. 
Impact Party released its 21-point platform 
first on Friday via Facebook. It features a com-
post program at dining facilities and an auto-
matic headshot photo booth.
“Our platform is a contract to the students,”  
said Emily Dempsey, a campaign manager for 
Impact Party. “The ideas on our platform come 
directly from the people that matter most: the 
students.”
Inspire Party released its platform on Face-
book three hours later. 
This platform is broken down into three 
questions: “Shouldn’t SG use your money ef-
fectively?”; “Shouldn’t every Gator count?” and 
“Shouldn’t SG serve our students?” Inspire Par-
ty’s platform addresses the expansion of free 
printing to locations such as Library West and 
Marston Science Library and the implementing 
online voting. 
Students will be able to vote in this semes-
ter’s election at various on-campus locations on 
Feb. 19 and 20 to fill the executive ticket and 50 
Student Senate seats by college and year.
Ashley Grabowski, the Inspire Party presi-
dent, said the 12 platform points were contrib-
uted by current senators, students and submis-
sions from an online idea generation form that 
had been up since last Wednesday. 
Both platforms include measures to improve 
parking, the graduate student experience and 
Asian American resources. 
No matter the outcome of the election, 
Grabowski said Inspire Party would work 
with Impact. She said the focus should be on 
how the parties address the problems on cam-
pus rather than the points themselves. Inspire 
wanted to focus on key themes that the elected 
officals can actually accomplish. 
“We aren’t in Inspire instead of Impact be-
cause we vehemently disagree with their plat-
form,” Grabowski said. “We’re here because 
we think they need to improve the way they 
govern.”
Fanni Szemkeo, a 21-year-old UF natural re-
source conservation senior, said each year she 
has seen different UF SG parties present a long 
platform but never follow up on their promises.
“It’s kind of easy not to be involved with the 
whole Student Government thing, especially if 
you have a lot of other things going on,” Szem-
keo said. 
Shannon Jones, a 19-year-old UF interna-
tional studies sophomore, said she’s passionate 
about political awareness and thinks SG is a 
good way for students to get involved. 
Jones, who is a member of the Gamma Phi 
Beta sorority, said there’s sometimes pressure 
in the Greek system to vote for the Impact 
Party, but she said her values align closer with 
Impact Party regardless. 
“We’re actually given like a lot of free choice 
to vote for who we want to vote for, and we’re 
encouraged to vote for whoever we feel best 
represents our interests,” Jones said.
 
               @hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgImpact and Inspire Party release platforms
• Bring a dockless scooter program to campus
• Provide mental health kiosks 
• Improve student parking by advocating for affordable decals and number of spaces available
• Update Aramark’s policy regarding cultural food exceptions for student organizations
• Encourage composting at all dining facilities on campus
• Implement a program for students to donate unused meal swipes
• Lobby to secure state funding for the new Data Science and Information T echnology Building 
• Bring Starbucks rewards to locations on campus
• Increase food and travel cap for student organizations in the SG codes 
• Advocate for improved graduate assistant compensation
• Bring an automatic headshot photo booth to campus
• Assist Asian American student leaders in advocating for the expansion of Asian Pacific Islander Desi resources on campus
• Expand parking garage capacity counters
• Advocate to expand resources for the Office of Victim Services
• Implement a Graduate Student Affairs Cabinet Director position
• Expand the program that allows students to make donations as payment for parking fines
• Continue advocating for the Dream Act
• Ensure that classes and exams that require computers are scheduled in rooms with enough outlets
• Advocate for an online request form for minor applications
• Create study cubicles in residence halls
• Provide scooter helmet rentals through the SG Bike Repair Shop
• Empower programs like Bridges to recruit members of underrepresented communities to attend and feel at home at UF
• Permanently fund more Counseling and Wellness Center mental health counselors, improve Disability Resource 
Center facilities and add more free menstrual hygiene product dispensers on campus
• Increase English-language resources for international students and invest in additional Asian and Asian American 
Studies faculty
• Allow unused flex bucks to roll over across all semesters and organize a recurring farmers market with diverse 
food options
• Reduce distribution of single-use plastics on campus to help UF go green by 2025
• Centralize resources for survivors of sexual assault and provide them with access to free rape kits
• Implement online voting to amplify student voices in SG elections
• Protect student dorm and scooter parking from the Transportation and Parking Services plan to replace it with 
faculty parking
• Expand free printing to convenient locations like the Weil Computer Lab, Health Science Library, Marston Science 
Library and Library West
• Cut red tape impeding funding for student organizations and audit SG to end wasteful spending
• Livestream SG meetings, send constituent listservs, and create an SG Accountability and Transparency Agency
• Reduce student fees for graduate assistants and ensure fair representation for graduate and professional stu-
dents on the local fee committee
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds 
to advertising use caution and inves -
tigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal informa -
tion or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYAUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/11- 
2/14 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.      2-11-19-4-20
New side-hustle alert!
Join www.Brands.Buzz and start earning 
with your social network…consistently, every 
day! Free to register. Join today!       2-20-
19-5-20
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SERVICE DOG - PTSD, AUTISM CERTIFIED
3 months old, AKC yellow lab, male. 
Comes with training. $1800. 352-472-6099. 
Volunteers needed.              2-18-19-5-24Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attem -
ted to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-
4903 2-08-7-25
By Joe Deeney
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/11/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/11/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, February 11, 2019
ACROSS
1 Org. whose 
product is 
measured in 
barrels
5 Pillar of Islam 
involving travel
9 School near 
Windsor Castle
13 Hugs-and-kisses 
symbols
14 Pacific island 
host of two 
“Survivor” 
seasons
15 Medical image
16 Analogy words
17 Modern John 
Hancock
19 Epithet never 
actually used by 
Jimmy Cagney
21 Angsty music 
genre
22 LAX posting
23 Elect (to)
24 Dressed down
28 Songwriter Porter
30 Frightening
31 Red wine choice
33 Fairy tale baddie
34 Be victorious
35 Was in debt to
36 WWII naval 
threat
38 Picnic invaders
39 Grass roll
40 Shopping 
complex
41 Go by, as time
43 They’re planted 
in snow while 
skiing
45 Civil rights icon 
Parks
46 Largest living 
bird
47 Emails a dupe to
48 Couture initials
51 Tapped-off cigar 
remnant
52 Hours for cuppas
54 Cord cutters’ 
reception aids
58 Air filter acronym
59 __ hop: gym 
dance
60 Infatuation
61 “I’ll take care of 
that”
62 Log splitters
63 Spade of 
handbags
64 Education 
support gps.DOWN
1 Nitrous __
2 Theorize
3 *Grade-boosting 
option
4 Crotchety oldster
5 Attacks
6 Got off a horse
7 XKE, for short
8 *Singer’s spouse 
who co-wrote 
“Ring of Fire”
9 Raves about
10 Play about 
Capote
11 Rowing tool
12 TV scientist 
whose show has 
won 19 Emmys
14 *Chess situation 
that forces a 
draw
18 Love, to Luigi
20 “Carpe diem” 
initials
24 Game Gear 
creator
25 Typical mortgage 
requirement, 
and what ends 
each answer to a 
starred clue
26 Gives off
27 Closely packed
29 Out-of-date30 Deceives
31 Meno __: not as 
fast, in music
32 Furry C-3PO 
worshipers
37 “Eww!”
38 Small batteries
40 Somewhat wet
42 Nowhere to be 
found
44 Practical jokes
47 __ and desist
49 Vintage photo 
tone50 Exams for 
aspiring judges, 
briefly
52 Item listed 
above “u-bolt” 
in a hardware 
glossary?
53 Blue-roofed 
eatery
54 Airport safety org.
55 __ populi: popular 
opinion
56 Blackjack half
57 Gun lobby org.
By Greg Johnson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, February 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 In honor of
6 Site with a Pill 
Identification Tool
11 Tried hard
12 More substantial
14 Sea of Azov 
peninsula
15 When many 
photos are taken
17 Some therapeutic 
applications
18 Didn’t get in the 
way of
20 Brand with an 
orange-and-
yellow bull’s-eye 
trademark
21 Conversation on 
the go
24 X or Z preceder
25 Stella Artois 
product
26 Waiters stand in 
them
28 Product of sugar 
and heat
31 Real go-getter
32 Retrieved at an 
airport carousel
33 Pet holdable in 
one hand
34 Critical sounds
35 Took turns
36 Energized
37 Cleanser 
compound
38 Saint, in Brazil
39 What you’d better 
have if you miss 
work
45 Highest Italian 
peak south of the 
Alps
47 Like yummy 
desserts, sooner 
or later
48 Fit to serve
49 Separate
51 Metaphors, e.g.
53 Homicide official
54 Event associated 
with a blue moon
55 Concrete-
reinforcing rod
56 Kind of question
DOWN
1 Heart chambers
2 Nonessential 
decoration3 Siberian 
industrial center
4 Big event lead-in
5 What John 
Wayne and Cary 
Grant weren’t
6 Dinner party 
amenity
7 Painter’s aid
8 A/C letters
9 Flavor that 
pairs well with 
chocolate
10 Appoint
11 Harbor hauler
12 Brand on Barbie 
boxes
13 Cashed in
16 Stretching 
muscle
19 Trimmed, in a 
way
22 Bay Area city
23 Female R&B 
group with the 
’80s hit “I Miss 
You”
27 MIT part: Abbr.
28 Of concern to the 
Weather Channel
29 Twelve-step 
helper30 Start the day
31 Requirement 
for statistical 
analysis
32 Tried to catch
33 Massive group
35 Fan
37 Flat-topped straw 
hat
40 Davis with a 
recurring role 
on “Grey’s 
Anatomy”41 Denver’s __ Field
42 Remove from 
the bulletin 
board
43 Take care of
44 Unchallenging
46 A football field is 
about 32% larger 
than one
50 Not take well
52 Female name 
that’s a body part 
backwards
1.  Annually 
1.  Vanilla ____5.  Matured
2.  Amid6.  Loon relative 
3.  Lamp7.  Verse, division
4.  ____ angleLEYYAR
GRTYUONWRGO
BEEGR
GTSMOAN
ANLNTERTAZASN
RCAEAMANSWERS: 1A-Yearly  5A-Grown  6A-Grebe  7A-Stanza
1D-Yogurt  2D-Amongst  3D-Lantern  4D-Camera  B-Strawberry2-11-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The garden ____ was first bred in 
Brittany, France, in the 1750s.
BONUS1. For which major-league team did 
Francisco Rodriguez save a record 62 
games in 2008?
2. Name the last team before the 
Minnesota Twins in 2016-17 to go 
from 100-plus losses in one season to 
a winning record the next.
3. In 2018, Kansas City’s Travis 
Kelce became the second tight end in 
NFL history to have three consecutive 
seasons of 1,000 or more receiving 
yards. Who was the first to do it?
4. When was the last time before 
2018 that the University of North Car -
olina’s men’s basketball team lost an 
NCAA Tournament game in the state 
of North Carolina? 
5. In how many seasons did Chi-
cago’s Bobby Hull lead the NHL in 
goals scored?
6. When was the last time before 
2018 that a U.S. athlete won an Olym-
pic medal in cross-country skiing?
7. Name the last time before 2018 
that Tiger Woods won a PGA event.
Answers
1. The Los Angeles Angels of Ana-
heim.
2. The 2008-09 Seattle Mariners.
3. Carolina’s Greg Olsen (2014-16)
4. It was against Pennsylvania in 
1979.
5. Seven times, with a high of 58 
goals in 1968-69.
6. Bill Koch won a silver in the 30 
km in 1976.
7. He won the WGC-Bridgestone 
Invitational in 2013.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 11, 2019King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Oliver Crawford and the men's tennis 
team defeated No. 15 TCU 4-3 on 
Sunday in Fort Worth, T exas.Gators dominated by Georgia on the road
The Florida women's basketball team fell to the Bulldogs 93-58 on Sunday in 
Athens. Guard Kiara Smith led the team with 15 points and seven rebounds, 
while guards Delicia Washington and Funda Nakkasoglu put up 12 points 
each.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s basketball team went face-to-face 
against the top-ranked team in the country on Saturday 
and came up short. It trailed for nearly the whole game 
against the superior Volunteers, but that doesn’t mean 
there weren’t encouraging signs for the Gators in the 73-61 
loss. 
The Gators (12-11, 4-6 SEC) may be teetering just above 
.500, but there are several reasons why fans should be cau-
tiously optimistic moving forward.
The Gators fought until the end
UF looked gassed in the second half of its 14-point loss 
to Auburn on Feb. 5, but that wasn’t the case against the 
Vols. UT shot 52.8 percent (including a mark of 59.3 per-
cent in the second half). Beating the best team in the coun-
try when it shoots like that is a near-impossible task, but 
Florida fought to make the end result respectable. 
Freshman Noah Locke’s 12 second-half points kept the 
Gators in reach for much of the second period. UF trailed 
by seven with just over 10 minutes to play in the game, 
but when the shots fell for Tennessee, the Gators lacked 
the offense to keep up. Despite trailing by 19 with ﬁ  ve 
minutes left, Florida narrowed that gap to 12 by the end 
of the contest. It may not be much consolation for a team 
desperate for wins, but UF showed it can respond when 
facing difﬁ  cult circumstances on the road.Gators have plenty to build on after loss to No. 1 Tennessee 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Jalen Hudson scored 15 points on 5-of-12 shooting in UF's 73-61 loss to T ennessee on Saturday.
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The SEC has its team to beat.
Two teams undefeated in conference 
meets walked into the O’Connell Cen-
ter on Friday, and it was the Gators that 
walked out with a victory over the Au-
burn Tigers. 
Florida retained its status of having 
never lost at the “Link to Pink” event — a 
meet to support breast cancer awareness 
— but more importantly, it began to show 
the improvement it was looking for over 
the course of the meet.
It had one of its best vault rotations 
yet, with three gymnasts hitting at or 
above the 9.9 mark. Florida’s score of 
197.85 was also its second highest of the 
season, showing its high score of 198.025 
against No. 1 Oklahoma last Friday wasn’t 
a ﬂ  uke.
There was another area of improve-ment on Friday: one of the team’s fresh-
men.
Savannah Schoenherr’s ﬁ  rst few vault 
routines in her collegiate career were 
rough. She placed with a 9.450 and a 
9.350 against Missouri and Kentucky, 
respectively, and she was a part of UF’s 
problem with its vault routines for the 
ﬁ  rst few weeks of the season.
Recently, that has changed. Schoenherr 
had the highest vault score of any Florida 
gymnast during the Gators’ meet against 
OU with a 9.900, and she replicated that 
score last Friday against Auburn. She also 
earned a spot on the ﬂ  oor unit, replacing 
fellow freshman Sydney Johnson-Scharpf. 
Schoenherr’s 9.850 in the event contrib-
uted to the team’s highest ﬂ  oor score of 
the season so far.
“I think I’ve really started to get all the 
jitters out,” Schoenherr said after the meet Schoenherr beginning to create 
a splash in Florida's lineupJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Fans of the NFL were disap-
pointed nearly a week ago be-
cause of that atrocity of a Super 
Bowl.
It was just bad all around. A 
terrible football game, a much 
worse halftime show -- I’m still 
mad about how Maroon 5 and 
Travis Scott did Spongebob 
wrong -- and the Patriots won. 
A recipe for disaster. 
But there I was a week later 
watching the Alliance of American Football. 
I haven't given up on football, and I was 
willing to give this new league a shot.
I was glad I did. The AAF just oozes fun. 
I’m always skeptical of new leagues at 
ﬁ  rst. I had heard the horror stories of the 
XFL — which is also making a comeback 
next spring — and how it had shut down 
after one season because it wasn’t really 
football. 
But something was different about the 
AAF. It took what was bad about the NFL 
and ﬁ  xed it to make it more appealing to fans.
It made football seem fun 
again. Here’s how it accom-
plished that:
Rule changes that make 
sense
Kickoffs in the NFL have 
become one of the most bor-
ing and pointless aspects of the 
game. Runners no longer take 
off when the ball is in the end 
zone because today’s kickers can now blast 
the ball farther. It has pretty much become 
a formality.
In the AAF, there are no kickoffs. The 
team just starts with the ball on the 25-yard 
line to avoid wasting everyone’s time. 
The same applies to extra-points. Teams 
have to go for two after every touchdown, 
which adds more excitement to the game. 
Field goals are still allowed.
You may be wondering how teams can 
attempt onside kicks if there are no kick-AAF is bringing the fun back to footballSEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE  16
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
TAMPA — Jordan Matthews 
watched with anticipation as two 
pitches hit the catcher’s mitt.
The bases were loaded with one out in the bottom of the seventh. 
NC State pitcher Sydney Nester de-
livered the 2-0 pitch and watched 
as Matthews lifted it high in the 
air and deep into right field. Pinch 
runner Haven Sampson tagged 
from third base and crossed home plate comfortably. 
“We all know Jordan is no 
stranger to walk-off hits,” senior 
pitcher Kelly Barnhill said. “It was 
a really deep fly ball, and it gave 
us exactly what we needed in that 
game.”
The walk-off sacrifice fly 
ended the first game of Flor-
ida’s Sunday doublehead-
er, 2-1, at the USF Softball 
Complex. The Gators turned 
around to beat host South 
Florida 7-1 shortly thereafter 
and improved to 5-0 to start 
the season. 
Taming the Wolfpack 
Florida put its first run on 
the scoreboard in the open-
ing inning thanks to a Dani-
elle Romanello RBI single up 
the middle that scored leadoff 
batter Hannah Adams. But 
the team couldn’t convert on 
scoring opportunities from 
that point. 
UF left 10 runners on base. 
Shortstop Sophia Reynoso left 
the bases loaded with a fly-
out to right field in the bottom 
of the fifth, and the Gators 
went 2 for 10 with runners in 
scoring position for the game 
and 1 for 7 later against USF. 
Stranding runners in 
scoring position is a small 
problem that has manifest-
ed during the USF Opening 
Weekend Invitational, as the 
Gators went 3 for 14 in a 6-0 
win against Michigan on Sat-urday. However, that game was 
closer than the score indicated, 
as UF went 1 for 10 with scoring 
chances before a four-run seventh 
inning. 
Pitcher Natalie Lugo started 
strong for Florida in the circle on 
Sunday. 
The sophomore struck out six 
and didn’t give up a run in four in-
nings of action. She allowed a triple 
in the first and a double in fourth, 
and UF coach Tim Walton decided 
to make the change to Barnhill to 
start the top of the fifth. 
“We wanted to see how long we 
could go with Natalie (Lugo) with 
the change-ups and keep them off 
balanced and then go with Kelly 
and change their bat plane,” Wal-
ton said. 
Giving up the long ball was an 
issue for the two-time All Ameri-
can last season, and she left one 
over the plate for the second NC 
State batter she faced. However, 
Barnhill held the Wolfpack hitless 
for the rest of the game, setting up 
the walk-off opportunity for her of-
fense in the bottom of the seventh.
Herding the Bulls
USF (1-4) scored in the first in-
ning this time. 
Barnhill got the start and gave 
up doubles to the first two batters 
she faced. Florida faced its first def-
icit of the young season. 
But UF responded with three 
home runs, the first a line-drive, 
solo home run over the left-field 
fence by Jaimie Hoover in the top of the second. The floodgates 
opened in the top of the fourth. 
Third baseman Hannah Sipos 
walked after a 14-pitch at-bat, 
bringing up Adams. The second 
baseman faced a 1-2 count with 
two outs and the bases loaded. She 
pounced on the next pitch and belt-
ed it over the tall fence in left field. 
The grand slam gave Barnhill a 
comfortable 5-1 lead to work with.  
“The key to the second game, 
to me, is Hannah Sipos’ at-bat,” 
Walton said. “(She faced an) 0-2 
(count), walks and then Hannah 
Adams hits the home run. So real-
ly, really good turn-it-over at-bat.”
Florida added two more insur-
ance runs off the bat of Romanel-
lo in the top of the seventh. She 
blasted her second home run of the 
weekend, a two-run shot over the 
wall in left-center.
Barnhill didn’t allow a hit after 
the first two batters. She struck out 
11 Bulls and allowed only five base 
runners in five innings of work. 
Freshman pitcher Elizabeth 
Hightower finished the evening in 
the circle. She finished with an im-
pressive no hits, no walks and four 
strikeouts in just two innings. 
“Elizabeth (Hightower) really 
started slow for us in the fall,” Wal-
ton said. “When she came back 
from Christmas break, she’s had 
a really nice month for us where 
she’s been pitching well… So really 
excited for her to get that going.” 
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.orgGators win both legs of a doubleheader, start undefeated 
LACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Gators’ lacrosse team is 
experiencing déjà vu heading 
into its second game of the 2019 
campaign.
It beat Colorado in the season 
opener last year 16-9, just like it 
did on Saturday. Then it hosted 
top-ranked Maryland and lost 
16-14, snapping a 102-game win-
ning streak when scoring at least 
14 goals.
Now, No. 6 Florida faces 
tied-No. 2 Maryland at home on 
Thursday in a rematch of 2018’s 
tightly contested game.
For the result to be different 
this time around, UF will need to:
Control the Draw
Florida’s first goal against 
Colorado came less than two 
minutes into the action thanks to 
sophomore midfielder Shannon 
Kavanagh’s draw control to start 
the game.
She outmuscled the opposing 
player to gain possession of the 
ball, which allowed senior at-tacker Lindsey Ronbeck to open 
the scoring.
Kavanagh, again, stepped up 
to the draw circle after senior 
attacker Alix Lopez scored the 
team’s second goal. Once more, 
she controlled the draw to give 
the Gators the ball.
Thirty-five seconds later, the 
Gators celebrated their third goal.
“We got off to a quick start 
at both ends of the field and that 
was in part to our draw perfor-
mance,” coach Amanda O’Leary 
said in a release after the game. 
“(Assistant coach) Taryn Van-
Thof has been working hard with 
our draw takers and it showed 
today.”
Both Kavanagh and sopho-
more defender Sabrina Cristode-
ro led the team in draw controls 
winning six and four, respective-
ly.
The Terrapins averaged 16.86 
draw controls per game last sea-
son, which was tied for second 
in the nation. UF, on the other 
hand, was tied for 18th in the na-
tion in draw controls, averaging 
14.95 per game.Kavanagh, Cristodero and the 
rest of the draw controllers will 
need to gain possession at mid-
field to ensure another fast start 
for Florida in its home opener. 
Execute in the Free Position
In Saturday’s game against the 
Buffaloes, the Gators scored sev-
en times off free-position shots.
Kavanagh, who was named 
Big East Freshman of the Year in 
2018, was 3-for-3 on free-position 
shots. Sophomore attacker Grace 
Haus followed suit with a free-
position mark of 2-for-3.
On the defensive end, UF held 
CU to just two goals on seven 
free-position shots.
Last season against Maryland, 
however, it allowed seven goals 
on 11 free-position attempts.
Florida must execute on both 
sides of the free position if it 
wants to avoid its first loss of the 
season against the Terps for the 
second year in a row.
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida’s win over Colorado serves as blueprint for success
Alligator File Photo
Florida attacker Lindsey Ronbeck scored four goals during UF’s 16-9 
road win over Colorado.Alligator File Photo
Florida pitcher Kelly Barnhill struck out 11 batters and allowed just 
two hits during UF’s 7-1 win over USF on Sunday at the USF Opening 
Weekend Invitational.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
The Gators played big
In Florida’s first matchup 
with the Volunteers, Tennessee 
won on the boards. Offensive re-
bounds turned into key second-
chance points as UT overpowered 
UF down the stretch.
The Gators’ size has been an 
issue all year, with 6-foot-9 Ke-
varrius Hayes being their tallest healthy player. This time around, 
however, Florida played much 
more physically under the basket.
It out-rebounded Tennessee 
33-31 and almost doubled it in 
offensive boards. Hayes had nine 
rebounds, while KeVaughn Allen 
came down with a season-high 
seven rebounds.
If this carries on, it will cer-
tainly boost Florida’s chances in 
upcoming winnable contests.Jalen Hudson is back?
Hudson entered the year 
poised to be the bell cow for Flor-
ida’s stable of sharpshooters, but 
instead, he has been largely an 
afterthought. Hudson’s minutes 
have seen an uptick since Keith 
Stone’s season-ending ACL injury 
in January, and he seems to be 
getting more comfortable on the 
court.
Hudson tied his season high in 
points with 15 against the Vols. He scored 15 previously against 
La Salle on Nov. 14, but doing it 
against an SEC foe — the No. 1 
team in the country, no less — 
should help Hudson regain his 
confidence. 
His effort was second on the 
team (behind Locke’s 17 points). 
He may have shot 0-for-5 from 
behind the three-point line, but 
the Gators will take it.
Hudson passed up a chance 
at the NBA last offseason, and based on the way his season has 
played out so far, that could have 
been a mistake. But with a hand-
ful of games left to make his mark 
in the Orange and Blue, Hudson 
hopes that his solid performance 
against Tennessee becomes the 
rule, not the exception.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Florida out-rebounded Tennessee 33-31 on Saturday in Knoxville
offs. The AAF has already thought 
of that. If a team is trailing by 17 
points, or there is less than five 
minutes remaining in the game, 
they can opt for a 4th-and-12 con-
version on their own 28-yard line. 
It does eliminate the fun a surprise 
onside kick can present, but it’s 
worth it to get rid of kickoffs.
The final change is that there 
is a sky judge referee that reviews 
plays and challenges so the offi-
cials on the field don’t have to.
What’s really cool about this 
is we, as fans, get to listen to the 
thought process that goes through 
overturning or confirming a call. 
Instead of guessing why the ruling 
went one way, we get to hear the 
explanation for ourselves.
These new rule changes alone 
help make the league seem more 
exciting while keeping the funda-
mentals of football the same.
The Promotion of the league, 
and football in general, felt fresh
I didn’t hear a lot about the 
AAF going into the weekend. There 
weren’t a lot of commercials about 
it, and there weren’t too many ad-
vertisements online.
Because of it, I was surprised to 
see NFL Hall of Fame quarterback 
Kurt Warner on the pregame show. 
I was equally astonished when for-
mer Pittsburgh Steelers receiver 
Hines Ward, now an Executive 
of Player Relations for the AAF, 
joined Warner on stage. 
It was cool to see these legends 
from my childhood appear on 
screen in promotion of this new 
league and, by association, football 
itself.
The way they set up the AAF 
was fun too. The rosters of the 
eight teams are comprised mostly 
of local college talent. 
For example, the Orlando Apol-
los have seven former Gators play-
ers, six from Florida State, five 
from UCF, and three from Miami 
and USF. Their head coach is Flori-
da legend Steve Spurrier. 
It makes it exciting seeing play-
ers you followed in college get to 
play at a professional level. It’s a 
fresh new take on America’s new 
pastime.
Jake Dreilinger is the sports edi-
tor of the Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @DreilingerJake and email 
him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
on Friday. “I think the first few meets and ev-
erything, I was overthinking it. I was thinking 
too hard about everything.”
With Schoenherr’s 9.850 on the floor beat-
ing any routine from Johnson-Scharpf this 
year, expect Schoenherr to contribute in that 
area for the foreseeable future while she hones 
her craft in her other two events.
“I’ve been working really hard in the gym 
to try and make the floor lineup,” Schoenherr 
said. “It’s the event that I’ve really wanted to 
compete in, because it’s the most fun.”
On top of her recent surge in success, 
Schoenherr also debuted a new dismount dur-
ing her bar routine in the meet against Au-
burn. Schoenherr had been begging to try it for 
weeks, but Florida’s trainers hadn’t deemed it 
ready until Friday’s meet.
“I’ve really been working my butt off in the 
gym to try and get that dismount and prove 
that I can hit it in a meet,” Schoenherr said. “I 
feel like I did that pretty well tonight.”
Coach Jenny Rowland is likely to continue 
her employment of the freshman throughout 
the lineup, and she was particularly impressed 
with Schoenherr’s overall performance on Fri-
day.
“Adding another event into the mix, and 
not only another whole event, but a new skill 
on bars,” Rowland said. “She had a lot more 
on her plate tonight, and she handled herself 
really well.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg 14Schoenherr scored a 9.850 on her first floor routine
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
UF freshman gymnast Savannah Schoenherr made her floor debut on Saturday against 
Auburn, scoring a 9.850. "I've been working really hard in the gym to try and make the 
floor lineup, " she said.
TUESDAY:
Softball vs. Japan. 6 p.m. SEC Network+
WEDNESDAY: 
Softball vs UNF. 6 p.m. SEC Network+
Men’s Basketball vs Vanderbilt. 9 p.m. ESPNU
THURSDAY:
Lacrosse vs Maryland. 7 p.m. SEC Network+
FRIDAY:
Track and Field @ JDL Invitational. All Day.
Men’s T ennis @ ITA National T eam Indoor Championships in 
Chicago. All Day.
Softball vs Illinois State @ The Littlewood Classic. 4 p.m. 
Softball vs Arizona State @ The Littlewood Classic. 9 p.m.
Baseball vs Long Beach State. 6:30 p.m. SEC Network+
Gymnastics @ Alabama. 8:30 p.m. SEC NetworkSATURDAY: 
Men’s T ennis @ ITA National T eam Indoor Championships in 
Chicago. All Day.
Women’s T ennis vs UNF in Jacksonville. Time TBA.
Women’s T ennis vs South Alabama in Jacksonville. Time TBA.
Men’s Golf @ Gator Invitational in Gainesville. All Day.
Lacrosse vs Scotland (Exhibition). 1 p.m.
Softball vs San Diego @ The Littlewood Classic. 1:30 p.m.
Softball vs Utah State @ The Littlewood Classic. 6:30 p.m.
Men’s Basketball @ Alabama. 2 p.m. ESPN or ESPN2 or ESPNU
Baseball vs Long Beach State. 4 p.m. SEC Network+
SUNDAY:
Men’s T ennis @ ITA National T eam Indoor Championships in 
Chicago. All Day.
Men’s Golf @ Gator Invitational in Gainesville. All Day.
Women’s Golf @ AllState Sugar Bowl in New Orleans. All Day.
Softball vs Central Michigan @ Littlewood Classic. 11 a.m.
Baseball vs Long Beach State. Noon. SEC Network+
Women’s Basketball vs South Carolina. 2 p.m. SEC Network+THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS