We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SG ﬁ  nally gets to work
Newly elected senators were conﬁ  rmed, pg 5
Wawa is coming to town
Five locations will open in Gainesville, pg 4SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGators look to contain Gamecocks
Florida’s defense will have to step up the trap 
game, pg 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 24
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
SPLASHING IN THE SUN
SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDED 
THREE YEARS 
AFTER HER DEATH 
By Marlowe Starling
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three years after a UF student’s 
sudden death, a scholarship in her 
honor will help her peers’ education.
Abby Daugherty was a 20-year-
old UF applied physiology and kine-
siology junior when she was killed 
on Oct. 28, 2016 by a garbage truck 
while crossing West University Av-
enue on her bike — one week before 
her 21st birthday on Nov. 3.
Daugherty’s family founded the 
Abby Daugherty APK Memorial 
Scholarship for juniors and seniors 
within the major who “show com-
mitment to their profession and their 
community,” said Anita Forester, 
Daugherty’s mother.
A yoga class at 6:30 p.m. today at Student Recreation & Fitness Cen-
ter will honor UF students who have 
died with a canned food drive to 
highlight Daugherty’s dedication to 
the Field and Fork Pantry, Forester 
said.
Daugherty divided her time on 
campus as a campus diplomat, Rec-
Sports yoga instructor and pantry 
employee, Forester said.
“I feel her spirit close to me when 
I’m doing yoga,” Forester said. “She 
loved it.”
Morgan Klein, a 21-year-old UF 
APK senior, will receive the ﬁ  rst 
$1,000 award in Spring. Klein wrote 
an application essay about her strug-
gles adjusting to college life as a 
freshman and her career aspirations 
in health care.
“It will go on after we’re gone — 
that’s what I love about the scholar-
ship,” Forester said. “It’s going to be 
something we hope goes on as long 
as UF is there.”D’ANDRA MULL WILL 
START IN JANUARY
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer 
After a six-month search, UF se-
lected a new vice president for stu-
dent affairs.
D’Andra Mull will begin the pos-
tion Jan. 13. She was selected from 
a list of three ﬁ  nalists, which was 
narrowed down from more than 
100 applicants.
“The search committee did ex-
tensive work and did a national 
search to ﬁ  nd a highly qualiﬁ  ed ap-
plicant pool and they were success-
ful in that regard,” said UF spokes-
person Steve Orlando.
Mull said she was excited and 
humbled when she was chosen for 
the position. 
“I talk a lot about comprehen-
sive excellence and the UF position 
spoke to that,” she said. “When I 
came to campus that’s what I saw.” Mull’s start 
will end Win 
Phillips’ interim 
time holding the 
position. Former 
vice president 
for student af-
fairs David Par-
rott was ﬁ  red in 
April following an investigation into 
misused administrative funds.
Mull has been The Ohio State 
University’s associate vice president 
for student life and dean of students 
since 2017. She was also assistant 
vice president for student life at the 
university.
UF President Kent Fuchs said he 
is pleased Mull will ﬁ  ll the position.
“She has considerable experi-
ence in supporting the academic 
mission and enhancing the student 
experience,” Fuchs wrote in an 
email. “Ohio State University has 
many similarities to UF, which will 
help Dr. Mull in learning about our 
university.”Mull earned her Ph.D at Ohio 
State in educational policy and lead-
ership.
Mull’s responsibilities will in-
clude leading student affairs, stra-
tegic planning, assessment and 
staff development, according to the 
search ﬁ  rm Spelman Johnson, the 
company that UF hired to ﬁ  nd a 
new vice president. 
“We’re there to make sure that 
the student experience is the one 
they need both inside and outside 
of the classroom,” Mull said. 
Parrott’s salary was more than 
$100,000, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
“Student Affairs at UF is an ex-
ceptionally strong organization,” 
Fuchs said. “And Dr. Mull’s addi-
tion as vice president makes an ex-
ceptional organization even stron-
ger.”
kwood@alligator.org
@KkylewoodUF STUDENT RELEASED 
FROM HOSPITAL 
AFTER ATTACK
By Melissa Hernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are searching for a 
man they said was involved in a Sept. 29 
attack, leaving a UF student “lying in a 
pool of blood.”
The day after the UF vs. Towson foot-
ball game, at about 2:20 a.m., several 911 
calls were received about a male victim 
lying in blood on the sidewalk in Mid-
town near Sushi Chao at 1620 W. Uni-
versity Ave., according to a GPD press 
release.
The victim, UF ﬁ  nance sophomore Ed-
ward Parkhill, was deemed critically in-
jured and taken to UF Health Shands Hos-
pital with a fractured skull, police said. 
Parkhill is a member of UF’s Kappa 
Alpha fraternity. A GoFundMe made for 
Parkhill’s medical expenses said he was 
walking home the night of the attack, and 
he was saved by a Shands nurse who wit-
nessed the incident.
A witness described the person of 
interest as a 6-foot-tall white man who 
weighed about 250 pounds. In a surveil-
lance video from The Social at Midtown, 
the suspect was last seen wearing an or-
ange and blue printed shirt, jeans and 
brown boots. Parkhill’s fraternity will host a cook-
out Thursday to beneﬁ  t Parkhill, the fra-
ternity announced in a Facebook post. 
All proceeds from the event will be do-
nated to him and his family. 
Anyone with information about this 
case or who can identify the suspect in 
the surveillance video can contact GPD at 
352-872-2101 or Alachua County Crime 
Stoppers at 352-372-7867.
@melissamh_
mhernandez@alligator.org
Scholarship, yoga class 
honor late UF student New UF student aﬀ  airs VP selectedGPD search for Midtown attacker
Mull
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Lillian Beech, 2, plays in the water at Depot Park Monday afternoon. Lillian’s father said he 
wished there were more children at the park to play with his daughter because it was not 
as busy that day. As she played, her father turned on the water for her so she would not 
lose interest and go play somewhere else.
SEE ABBY,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  60°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Haitian Studies Associaion 31st 
Annual Conference: Haitian 
Studies in Changing Climates 
When: Thursday to Saturday
Where: Reitz Union 
What: Join us to meet keynote 
speaker Edouard Duval-Carrié 
and distinguished professors 
during several academic sessions 
ranging from social to agricultural 
sciences. This year’s conference 
will address global issues and 
hardships as we are witnessing 
destructive events that have 
indelible impacts on Haiti and 
on Haitians in the Bahamas 
following Hurricane Dorian. 
There will also be a musical 
performance by RAM, known as 
“Haiti’s Preeminent Band” for 
more than 25 years. To register, 
visit HaitianStudies.org.
Science on Tap
When: Thursday, 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m.
Where: Cypress & Grove Brewing 
Co., 1001 NW 4th St.
What: The Florida Museum of 
Natural History and the UF’s 
Thompson Earth Systems Institute 
will host “Science on Tap: 
Sharks” as part of the series “Is Florida Trying to Kill Me?” The 
guest speaker is Tyler Bowling 
of the Florida Program for Shark 
Research. For more information, 
visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/sot-sharks or call 352-
273-2062.
Florida Museum celebrates 
LGBTQ+ community in STEM
When: Saturday, 1 to 4 p.m.
Where: Florida Museum of 
Natural History
What: Hear from LGBTQ+ 
panelists as they discuss their 
experiences in STEM fields and 
educate guests on how to be 
better allies to the community. 
Get a behind-the-scenes tour 
of the McGuire Center for 
Lepidoptera and Biodiversity, 
discover organisms in nature 
that have LGBTQ+ traits, make 
wearable buttons and more. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
lgbtq or call 352-273-2055.
Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
When: Friday through Sunday, 
7 p.m.
Where: Depot Park, 874 SE 
Fourth St.
What: Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
is a free music festival for people to celebrate the Gainesville 
native and music legend. Over 
20 local and national bands will 
perform on two stages at Depot 
Park. While tickets are free, 
interested guests can upgrade 
their experience with Petty For 
The People Packages to receive 
additional merchandise and 
support the local nonprofit 
program, UF Health Shands Arts 
in Medicine.
National DEA Drug Take-Back 
Day Event
When: Oct. 26, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where:  Alachua County Library 
Partnership Branch, 912 NE 16th 
Ave.
What: The Alachua County 
Health Promotion and Wellness 
Coalition are partnering with 
the Alachua County Sheriff's 
Office and the Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) to host 
an event to prevent abuse and 
misuse of drugs. The public 
are invited to anonymously 
drop off any expired or unused 
medications at any of the four 
specified locations: Gainesville, 
Archer, Micanopy and Alachua.  
The Gainesville drop off location 
is at the Alachua County Library 
Partnership Branch.
Let’s Talk: Living Above the 
Influence
When: Nov. 14, 6 to 8:30 p.m.
Where: Gainesville High School
What: The Alachua County 
Health Promotion and Wellness 
Center is hosting its annual town 
hall meeting. This year’s focus 
is the truth about alcohol and 
vaping among youth. The event 
is free and open to the public and 
will include a free meal.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 24
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Digital News Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Whitney Mecca, Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
mhernandez@alligator.orgMelissa Hernandez,
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org    
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
$6,602
$5,210
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Lt. Andrew Marsh, 32, and Ryan Rodriguez, 28, respond to a house ﬁ  re Tuesday evening on Southeast 
72nd Avenue. The cause of the ﬁ  re is under investigation.
Day in the life of a firefighter
Lily Strickland / Alligator Staff
Cpl. Scott Bertzyk, 45, stands guard near the kitchen of the 
Kirkpatrick Center with a fake training riﬂ  e during the shooting 
drill. There were multiple drills throughout the day with different 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters and law enforcement ofﬁ  cials participating.
4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482
to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE WORLD
ORGANICRAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 1222 
W. University Ave.Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its 
Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside 
the historic Gulf Oil building or outside under 
the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-
9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comDonut Connection:  World’s Best Coffee, 
Fresh donuts & pastries made on premises daily since 
1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-
375-0376. Your order will be ready when you arrive 
5205 NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open every-
day 5am — 7pm. Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale 
prices available. WE DELIVER WITH BITE SQUAD!Maude’s Classic Cafe:    Serving 
locally roasted coffee and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. 
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the 
Side Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, excellent 
wine selection. Open Late
Electric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!FIVE WAWA STORES WILL 
OPEN 2021
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
A Philadelphia-based conve-
nience store with a cult-like fol-
lowing is coming to Gainesville 
next year. 
Wawa announced Tuesday that 
it will begin construction on its ﬁ  rst 
stores in Gainesville, said Wawa’s 
public relations manager Lori Bruce. 
By 2021, ﬁ  ve Wawa locations will 
be open across Gainesville. The ﬁ  rst 
two stores — at 1614 W. University 
Ave. and 2372 SW Archer Road — 
are scheduled to open in April 2020, 
she said. 
“We are just thrilled and delight-
ed to kick off our plans,” Bruce said. 
Plans for Wawa’s expansion to 
Gainesville have been underway as re-
cently as March 2018. As of now, the 
closest Wawa store is located in Ocala.
The West University Avenue location will be Wawa’s ﬁ  rst store 
without gas pumps in Florida. 
Wawa will be opening two more 
stores with gas pumps at 4322 SW 
Archer Road and 1007 East Univer-
sity Ave. between summer and early 
fall 2020. 
A ﬁ  fth site is also scheduled to 
open in place of the former Rooms 
To Go spot at 2305 NW 13th St. in 
2021, Bruce said. 
Pryce Williams, an 18-year-old 
business administration freshman 
at UF, said Wawa was his go-to spot 
for a late night snack back home in 
Delray Beach. 
He said he’s looking forward to 
having his beloved Wawa Sour-
dough Melt here in Gainesville.
“Having open 24 hours hot food, 
that was always nice. And then here, 
you don’t really have something like 
that,” said Williams. “I feel like it’d 
be kind of a spot.”
@AlexLDeLuca 
adeluca@alligator.orgWawa kicks off construction for Gainesville stores
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
A pumpkin bought in Gainesville can help 
a child in the Bahamas.
The Gainesville Church of God, at 7003 
NW 39th Ave., will host its sixth Buy a 
Pumpkin Feed a Child for the rest of Octo-
ber to raise money for charity work in Guate-
mala, Venezuela and the Bahamas, said Kyle 
Greenwald, a 17-year-old church clerk and worship leader.
The pumpkin patch is open to all ages, 
and there will be stations to take family pic-
tures, a bounce house and a place to pick 
pumpkins, he said. 
Pumpkin bread and Guatemalan coffee 
will also be sold with the proceeds going to 
the church’s eight feeding centers in Guate-
mala and Venezuela as well as hurricane re-
lief in the Bahamas, Greenwald said. The church will also be accepting addi-
tional donations to the project.
Greenwald, who is also a volunteer for 
the pumpkin patch, said events like this give 
Gainesville residents a chance to give back.
He said buying a pumpkin for a good 
cause can make customers feel better about 
their purchase than if they were to buy 
pumpkins from a grocery store. 
“Here in America, we have way more re-
sources, and it also gives [customers] more 
conﬁ  dence in what they did,” Greenwald 
said. 
Ami Smart, a 19-year-old UF architecture 
sophomore, said Buy a Pumpkin Feed a Child is a way for students to have fun while mak-
ing a difference in underserved communities. 
“There are a lot of people in Gainesville 
who can buy pumpkins and it’s a good cause 
so I’d deﬁ  nitely go,” Smart said. 
@priya_dames
pdames@uﬂ  .eduLocal church’s pumpkin patch raising money for Hurricane Dorian relief  
Gainesville Church of God to donate 
100 percent of pumpkin patch proceeds
Jack-o’-lantern designs:
• Gator 
• Harry Potter 
• Skeleton hand 
• Headless horseman
• ElephantWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
FREE PARKING BY 
CAMPUS 4 CLASS!
Go to Parkonthefly.com
Homepage for FREE codes!Free parking for anybody  
who wants it this FALL!Daugherty was on her way to work at the 
Field and Fork Pantry when she was hit by the 
truck. There, she enjoyed helping serve food to 
not only UF students, but also anybody who 
needed a free meal, Forester said. “She saw it as being 
part of something that 
was giving back to the 
UF community,” Forester 
said.
As the ﬁ  rst recipient, 
Klein said she is humbled 
to receive the award.“It means so much to me that my name 
would even be associated with someone like 
that,” she said.
Klein said she sees a lot of similarities be-
tween herself and Daugherty, noting their 
shared interests in yoga, a career in health 
care, volunteering and “a passion for people.” 
“I think her and I could have potentially 
been really great friends,” Klein said. “I feel 
like my role in this is so small, and I just want 
her to be remembered, not me.”Forester said she discovers new people her 
daughter had an impact on each time she visits 
Gainesville — including the ﬁ  rst recipient of 
her award. 
“It makes me want to be better,” Klein said. 
“It makes me excited to carry on whatever 
small contribution I can make to her legacy.”
Donations are being accepted at UF Ad-
vancement’s website.ABBY,  from pg. 1‘It makes me want to be better’MORE THAN 40 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE 
MEETING
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County 
School Board proclaimed 
October as Head Start 
Awareness Month in Ala-
chua County Tuesday.
A crowd of Head Start 
parents and employees 
stood up and applauded 
after the motion passed 
unanimously.  
Alachua County Head 
Start executive direc-
tor Natalie Strappy read 
the proclamation, high-
lighting the aspects of 
the federally-funded 
program that provides 
educational and social services for children ages 
3 to 5 from low-income 
families.
Strappy thanked the 
Head Start community 
for attending the meeting 
and said the proclama-
tion was no “small feat.” 
“This work is deﬁ  nite-
ly a sacriﬁ  ce, and I ap-
preciate everything that 
all of you do,” she said. 
Head Start has 12 lo-
cal locations such as 
Kimball Wiles Elemen-
tary School, said LaTo-
nya Doby, a 34-year-old 
Head Start family liaison 
specialist and parent.
Doby’s 3-year-old 
daughter, Miracle, joined 
the free program two 
months ago. She said 
Miracle has improved her social, emotional 
and learning skills. Her 
daughter attends the pro-
gram Monday through 
Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 
2 p.m., except for early 
release at 12:30 p.m on 
Wednesdays.
“I didn’t think that I 
would be so excited for 
my child to go to a class-
room,” Doby said. “The 
teachers do a very good 
job maintaining the kids 
and making sure that 
each child’s needs are 
met.” 
@lina_ruiz48
Lruiz@alligator.org SERVICES SHOULD 
RESUME TODAY 
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s been two years since UF Stu-
dent Government began Uber Safe 
Rides, a service that hasn’t been 
working for students lately. 
In 2017, SG partnered with Uber to create Uber Safe Rides, a service 
that allows students to Uber in a 
designated zone — UF campus, Mid-
town, the outskirts of campus by 
Archer Road and close to downtown 
— with a discount. 
A new Uber Safe Rides code will 
reset on Wednesday night after stu-
dents reported the code wasn’t work-
ing, said Scott Fox, the UF transpor-
tation and parking services senior 
director. It remains unclear for how long the previous code didn’t work.
Students can typically use the 
promo code for discounts from 
Wednesday to Sunday every week. 
Leah Antovel, a 22-year-old UF 
public relations senior, said she 
hadn’t used the app since her sopho-
more year and doubted if it worked 
after unsuccessfully trying the code 
on Sunday. She asked on Twitter if it 
was working for other students.
“I was just curious,” Antovel said. “Do they still do it? Is there a 
new way to do it?” 
Antovel said the code failed and 
the latest information she found was 
a 2018 announcement on One.UF, 
which said the student discount was 
cut from 50 to 25 percent.
The promo codes are time sen-
sitive, Fox said. The codes periodi-
cally expire and are replaced, which 
hasn’t been done recently. 
Although Fox said the service is intact, students like Antovel are still 
concerned for their safety. 
“It doesn’t sit well with me,” An-
tovel said. “It was a safe way to get 
home at night, and Ubers are expen-
sive at that time because so many 
people request them. It sets students 
up for unsafe situations.”
emcavoy@alligator.org
@EmmaMcAvoy1
GATOR PARTY PRESIDENT 
VOTED AS 
SENATE PRESIDENT
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
About a month after elec-
tions, UF Student Government 
Senate will ﬁ  nally get to work. 
SG elected Gator Party Presi-
dent Emily Dunson as its new 
Senate president and SG Ju-
diciary Committee Chair Will 
Sandifer as its new pro-tempore 
after its certiﬁ  cation of the Fall 
2019 election results at Tuesday 
night’s Senate meeting.  
They weren’t the only stu-
dent politicians with new posi-
tions. All new senators elected 
in September were voted into 
their seats during Tuesday’s ﬁ  rst 
of two Senate meetings after a 
two-week delay. Four members-at-large were also elected.
The certiﬁ  cation was delayed 
because not enough senators at-
tended the Oct. 8 meeting. New 
senators were sworn in Tuesday 
because 52 Senate members 
attended and surpassed the 
51-person quorum.
The Senate president election 
vote was 48 to 36 and pro-tem-
pore was 45 to 35.
Dunson and Inspire Party 
Sen. Zachariah Chou were 
nominated for Senate president. 
Both said they will work toward 
bi-partisanship.
During her speech, Dunson 
said her goal is to dissolve party 
politics. Her platform focused 
on education, engagement and 
advocacy. 
“In a time when polariza-
tion has made itself so evident 
in our chamber, I’ve imple-
mented structures and created relationships that I believe have 
and will increase the efﬁ  ciency 
and the purpose of our Senate 
body,” Dunson said.  
The nominees for Senate 
president pro-tempore were 
Sandifer and Inspire Party Sena-
tor Kristen Jackson. Sandifer 
used to be an Impact Party sen-
ator, but there was no mention 
of his party afﬁ  liation as pro-
tempore.
Sandifer’s platform focused on 
one-on-one programs within Sen-
ate and greater communication. 
“It doesn’t matter if you’re a 
freshman on campus or a gradu-
ate student,” Sandifer said. “If 
you can prove your work ethic 
and be a productive senator, I’ll 
always support you.” 
@EmmaMcAvoy1 
emcavoy@alligator.org School Board announces October 
as Head Start Awareness Month UF students ask: ‘Does Uber Safe Rides still work?’
SG Senate conﬁ  rms election results, 
selects new president, pro tempore 
Daugherty
EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
The changes we need to make in U.S. transportation 
Society within the U.S. is structured 
around the use of cars, resulting in 
a higher number of cars on the road 
and a lower portion of the population 
taking advantage of public transpor-
tation. The prevalence of cars contributes to 
higher levels of carbon dioxide emissions and 
over-trafﬁ  cked roads. The increasing levels of 
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere contributes 
signiﬁ  cantly to global warming and the de-
cline of our environment. 
Public transportation is a convenient way 
to commute, create more jobs and is better for the en-
vironment. Many European countries have integrated 
public transportation systems in their cities, such as 
metros, trams, streetcars, trains and buses. All of these 
transit options lower the amount of harmful greenhouse 
gases output, according to a study by Inner City Fund 
International. So why aren’t we trying to adopt these 
more eco-friendly options? 
One of the main barriers blocking public transporta-
tion from becoming more widely used is the sheer size 
and layout of urban areas. Public transport best suits 
compact areas. During the rise of the automobile, most 
American cities’ constructions were more spread out 
in comparison to their European counterparts. Our cit-
ies simply weren’t designed with public transportation in mind, as the car was the most prominent 
method of transportation. 
While buses generally provide a cost-effec-
tive service to those without cars, they have 
cons, too. Bus services are unreliable and of-
fer limited hours and long wait times, accord-
ing to Vox. Many Americans ﬁ  nd this incon-
venient and consequently prefer cars. Public 
transportation has also garnered an unfortu-
nate association with lower economic classes, 
which discourages others from using it.
The few public transport choices we do 
have in the U.S. cut down on carbon dioxide emissions. 
Our limited system saves more than 1.4 billion gallons 
of gasoline per year, according to a 2007 study by the 
Inner City Fund. If we can design our transport systems 
to better cater to spread-out cities and create a more re-
liable, convenient and appealing bus system, we could 
adopt public transport into our infrastructure and way 
of life. We have many transport options so I recommend 
keeping the environment in mind next time you travel. 
We can reduce the number of cars on the road, leading 
to less crowding and higher commuting efﬁ  ciency and, 
most importantly, a lower emission of carbon dioxide 
into the environment.
Kelly Cavaliere is UF business administration sophomore.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Food aﬀ  ects your health, 
but it also impacts the Earth
All bodies are beautiful. Earth, on the other hand, 
hasn’t been looking so hot — unless you count 
global warming, of course. Whether it’s carbon di-
oxide emissions or the burning of one of the most 
diverse ecosystems on Earth, we’re making the 
world uglier every day. At this point, it seems we don’t re-
ally have a grasp on what’s important, especially when it 
comes to food.
We suggest staying away from certain food items as they 
might not be as eco-friendly as they seem.
Many people drink almond milk as a healthy alternative 
to cow’s milk. Almond milk may taste good, but it isn’t 
the best milk alternative as far as the environment is con-
cerned. Almonds take a lot of water to grow: nearly a gallon 
per almond. This should especially be concerning because 
they’re commonly grown in California, a state known for its 
long droughts, and the amount of land used for these farms 
doesn’t help either. 
Try oat milk instead. It’s better for the environment (al-
monds take about six times more water than oats to grow), 
tastes good and has pretty cute branding. 
Unfortunately, not every food product has a friendlier 
alternative like oats, and some pose a more dangerous risk 
to the planet — and even people. 
On Aug. 8, 19 people were found dead around the Mex-
cian city of Uruapan. The reason? Avocados. Within the 
Mexican state of Michoacán, the avocado industry brings in 
about $1.5 billion, which makes sense as Mexico produces 
45 percent of the world’s avocados. Apparently, the Jalisco 
New Generation cartel became upset that farmers were as-
sisting other cartels with avocado production.
It’s crazy to think about, but what we eat does have an 
effect on the lives of others. 
The situation sort of relates to our relationship with 
technology: we know where it comes from, we know about 
the conditions it was made in but we feel like we can’t do 
anything about it. We’ve become too accustomed to con-
venience and we quake at the idea of change, so it doesn’t 
seem like we’re going to take action anytime soon. The 
demand for avocados is still increasing, iPhone sales are 
surpassing expectations and almond milk companies are 
constantly expanding their available products and ﬂ  avors. 
Despite this, you shouldn’t lose hope. While there is little 
we can do about phone production, we can at least improve 
our food choices. Too many things are available throughout 
the year that naturally shouldn’t, but we have the ability to 
decide whether to  purchase them or not. Instead of buy-
ing strawberries this fall, try sticking with apples instead. 
There are a large variety of fruits and vegetables available 
in each season, and sticking to a “seasonal diet” may even 
beneﬁ  t your health. According to the Epoch Times, eating 
foods that are in season can provide you with nutrients that 
match that season. It makes sense when you look at citrus 
crops that grow in the winter: the vitamin C from the fruit 
makes up for the lack of sun during the season. 
Vitamin C isn’t the only beneﬁ  t of eating seasonal, 
though. Some sources state that it’s also good for weight 
loss, but most importantly, it’s good for the planet. It’s 
highly unlikely that just changing our diets will solve the 
world’s climate crisis, but it’s an easy way to start. 
What you eat matters. Not just for your own health, but 
the Earth’s too.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Kelly 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
The Forum to play at Hardback Cafe 
The local indie-rock band is performing with surf 
rockers Faze Wave and alt rockers T ake Lead on 
Saturday at 7 p.m.Gak injury, rough defense make up UF landscape
Assessing the current challeges of the Florida men’s basketball 
team as they prepare for the ﬁ  rst games of the new season. 
Pg. 12DACK JANIELS, SUAHN JOIN 
THE EDM ARTIST FOR HIS 
HOUSE OF GHOSTS TOUR
By Cassandra Perez
Avenue Staff Writer
While “spooky season” is only 
one month for the rest of the 
world, a quick glance through 
Dubloadz’s discography suggests  
the season is year-round for him. 
With track names like “Ghost 
Gang” and “Neon Phantom,” it’s 
no surprise Dave Nardolilli, the 
producer behind Dubloadz, has 
always been a fan of Halloween. 
He remembers when his mother 
bought him his ﬁ  rst devil mask 
and pitchfork for Christmas at the 
age of 10. 
“As I got older, the tradition of 
going all-out on Halloween only 
got stronger,” Dubloadz said. 
“People would drive from other 
towns to come see our decora-
tions on Halloween. I’d turn our 
basement into a haunted house 
and have people come through.”
The dubstep artist’s latest EP, 
“The House of Ghosts” is inspired by all things sinister and boasts 
three blood-pumping tracks cre-
ated in collaboration with artists 
Dack Janiels and SUAHN, whose 
real names are Tanner Chung and 
Mike York respectively. The EP 
was released on Oct. 4, ahead of 
the start of his tour. 
Dubloadz is set to make a stop 
in Gainesville at Simons Night-
club Saturday night. Tickets can 
be purchased on Eventbrite for 
$10 to $20. The doors will open at 
9 p.m. and the show is scheduled 
to start at 10 p.m. 
Dubloadz previously described 
his music as “savage wonk,” but 
he says his style has evolved in 
recent years. 
“I love wonky music, but to say 
most of my songs are that style 
at this point would be wrong.” 
Dubloadz said. “That being said, 
‘Holy Shmo,’ one of the new col-
laborations with Dack Janiels on 
the ‘House of Ghosts’ EP is prob-
ably the most savage wonk type 
song I’ve made in a while.”
Dubloadz collaborated with 
Dack Janiels on “Killer Instinct,” 
the ﬁ  nal track on the EP. A fore-boding intro paving the way for 
a killer drop makes this track the 
heaviest out of the three, tying off 
the EP on a high note and prov-
ing that this duo is not one to be 
reckoned with. 
The EP’s second track, “Dun-
geon Crawler,” utilizes the nostal-
gia of 8-bit video game sounds for 
a unique, bass-fueled experience 
that is sure to haunt listeners long 
after the song ﬁ  nishes. A collabo-
ration with up-and-coming pro-
ducer SUAHN, the track has been 
in the works for two years.
“Sometimes you write a song 
too early in your career span 
and you don’t have the produc-
tion knowledge necessary to get 
the track sounding the way it’s 
supposed to,” Dubloadz said. 
“Then a year or two later you’ve 
learned all new techniques and 
you open up an old project ﬁ  le 
and next thing you know, you 
have it sounding like you always 
wanted.” 
SUAHN said the song marks 
their second collaboration, and 
he hopes they can continue work-
ing together in the future. “It’s always amazing working 
with him because his brain works 
a million miles an hour, like 
mine,” SUAHN said. “The end re-
sult is always something unique 
and interesting and way beyond where it started in the best way 
possible.”
@cassandraperez0
cassieperez00@gmail.comDubloadz to perform at Simons Saturday
MUSIC
Courtesy of Jude Aotik
Dubloadz is coming to perform at Simons Saturday,  
following the release of his new EP , “The House of Ghosts. ”
THE THREE-DAY FESTIVAL IS 
A CELEBRATION OF PETTY’S 
LIFE AND LEGACY.
By Cassidy Hopson
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s the end of the third quarter 
and in usual fashion, fans in The 
Swamp are locked arm in arm, sing-
ing along to “We Are the Boys of Old Florida.” But, there’s another 
tradition Gator fans have become 
acquainted with.  
Since Oct. 7, 2017, Tom Petty’s 
“I Won’t Back Down” blares over 
the stadium speakers every home 
football game, with fans singing 
along to the Gainesville native’s hit 
song in honor of his passing.
But this was just the beginning 
of Gainesville’s tributes to the rock ‘n’ roll icon.
Jason Hedges, front man for the 
local Tom Petty and the Heartbreak-
ers tribute band Heavy Petty, orga-
nized the ﬁ  rst Tom Petty Birthday 
Bash on Oct. 20, 2017. Over 2,500 
fans gathered for the free six-hour 
music festival, showcasing exclu-
sively Petty’s songs. 
Now, the festival is entering its 
third year, with around 10,000 peo-
ple expected to attend. The event 
will be held this weekend at Depot 
Park, coinciding with Petty’s birth-
day.
Attendees will enjoy over 20 
live performances from artists such 
as Low Cut Connie, Sunkat and 
The High Divers. There will also 
be food trucks from vendors such 
as Humble Pie, Dank Cakes and 
Hoggetowne Creamery.
Sarah Hedges, wife of Jason 
Hedges and the marketing director 
for the Tom Petty Birthday Bash, 
sees the festival as a way to keep 
Petty’s music alive for generations 
to come.
“We invite local and national 
bands to come pay tribute to Tom,” she said. “It’s really important for 
us that they do play their original 
music and that all of the bands we 
have have either been affected by 
Tom Petty’s music or inﬂ  uenced 
and respect him.”
Sarah Hedges also said the event 
helps support and raise awareness 
for the local nonproﬁ  t, UF Shands 
Arts in Medicine program. 
“It’s a program that my husband 
Jason’s really involved with,” she 
said. “He’s been on staff there as a 
musician in residence for ﬁ  ve years 
and they actually bring music and 
art bedside to patients in the hos-
pital. So, they’re helping transform 
that hospital experience.”
This year’s Bash will also include 
Tom Petty memorabilia that will be 
on display, said Sarah Hedges. After 
the festival, the collectibles will be 
on display at the Matheson History 
Museum.
Pop-rock singer, Tristen 
Gaspadarek, who performs under 
the name Tristen, is one of the artists 
traveling to Gainesville to perform. 
She is visiting from Nashville, Ten-
nessee, to play a set Sunday evening.  Tristen began writing songs as 
a teenager and learned to play gui-
tar so she could perform her own 
music. She said writing music is a 
way to highlight our shared human 
experiences in a lighthearted way.
“I believe a spoonful of sugar 
helps the medicine go down,” Tris-
ten said. “I tend to take more seri-
ous ideas and make them feel good 
on a song. I think art, above all, has 
a purpose to heal our sorrow and 
connect us to each other, our ances-
tors or even to the idea we’ve cre-
ated of ourselves.”
The Tom Petty Birthday Bash 
will be the ﬁ  rst time she performs 
in Gainesville.
“I was asked to perform and I 
love Tom Petty,” she said. “It seems 
like a really cool festival and I can 
get 100 percent behind celebrat-
ing Tom Petty because he’s a great 
American songwriter.”
The Tom Petty Birthday Bash is 
open to people of all ages. Guests 
are encouraged to reserve a free 
ticket before attending the event, 
which can be downloaded on the 
Bash’s website.
@CassidyHopson
cassidyhopson@gmail.comTom Petty Birthday Bash returns to Gainesville
MUSIC
Courtesy of John Davvison
 Sarah and Jason Hedges perform during the 2018 T om 
Petty Birthday Bash at Depot Park.
THE BAND IS CELEBRATING 
THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THEIR DEBUT ALBUM
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
Irish-punk legends Stiff Little 
Fingers, the force behind undeni-
able anthems like “Alternative Ul-
ster” and “Suspect Device,” is com-
ing to Gainesville for their “40 years 
of Inﬂ  ammable Material” tour.
They will be running through 
their classic debut album “In-
ﬂ  ammable Material” from start to 
ﬁ  nish. The tour will be a trans-
Atlantic punk alliance with sup-
port from West Coast agitators, 
the Avengers. Stiff Little Fingers’ 
Nov. 3 set at FEST 18 will be their 
Gainesville debut. 
The group, which is comprised 
of frontman Jake Burns, guitar-
ist Ian McCallum, drummer Steve 
Grantley and bassist Ali McMordie 
are set to join Jawbreaker, Against 
Me!, AJJ and more at Gainesville 
FEST 18, taking place from Nov. 
1- 3.  
FEST is an annual music fes-
tival in Gainesville, Florida. It is 
a predominantly punk-rock and 
pop-punk festival, though there 
are also ska, indie rock, hardcore 
punk and meta artists who per-
form. Bands play across a variety 
of venues, from small bars to large 
concert halls in the downtown 
Gainesville area. 
Stiff Little Fingers is an inﬂ  u-
ential punk rock band from Bel-
fast, Northern Ireland. Groups 
like Green Day, Idles and Nirvana 
have mentioned Stiff Little Fingers 
as dominant inﬂ  uences on their 
music. 
Stiff Little Fingers initially 
formed in 1977 as a high school 
band. The group recorded a single 
at a local radio station; a cassette of 
the single “Suspect Device” landed 
in the hands of the great John Peel, who played it frequently on his 
BBC Radio 1 show. 
Stiff Little Fingers signed with 
Rough Trade records, which later 
went on to represent bands such 
as The Smiths, The Strokes and 
The Libertines. Stiff Little Fingers 
recorded their debut album, “In-
ﬂ  ammable Material,” within two 
weeks.
The album reached number 
14 in the UK Albums Chart and 
reached Silver status, selling over 
100,000 copies. Released in 1979, 
it was the ﬁ  rst independent album 
to chart in the UK. Forty years lat-
er, the band is bringing its bright 
and punchy punk-rock presence to 
Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time. 
Stiff Little Fingers have been on 
a unique tour. Ali McMordie, the 
bassist for Stiff Little Fingers, said 
this is by far the most extended 
tour they have ever done in the 
states, seeing new places like New 
Orleans, Nashville, and of course, 
many areas of Florida.
McMordie reﬂ  ected on what 
it is like to play these songs he 
helped write in his early twenties. 
“It was all done in less than 
two weeks from start to ﬁ  nish,” 
McMordie said. “What resulted 
is a completely blisteringly-angry 
recording. I listen back to it now, 
and it’s scary. It’s odd playing 
these songs now in a sense be-
cause sometimes I look back and I 
wonder who that person was that 
was in the studio recording this album. Who was this 19-year-old 
kid who didn’t really know what 
he was doing, now we are trying 
to recreate that — and we still 
don’t know what we’re doing, but 
we just get away with it a bit bet-
ter now.” 
McMordie also talked about the 
tour they are currently on and how 
grateful they are for their long-de-
voted fanbase. 
“The tour is going very well 
so far. We sold out LA, San Fran-
cisco, Boston, and attendance has 
been good considering that many 
of these shows are during the 
week. We are very much a week-
end band. I am very grateful to ev-
eryone that is showing us support 
on this leg of the tour. And they’re 
showing appreciation for us, cel-
ebrating 40 years of ‘Inﬂ  ammable 
Material.’ The title of which, I’d 
like to add, was my idea one of my 
small creative contributions to the 
process,” he said. 
McMordie also talked about 
why Stiff Little Fingers chose to play 
punk rock over every other genre. 
“If you like the word ‘Punk Pro-
test,’ that’s the way we saw punk  
a vehicle. It seemed to match our 
social and political situation per-
fectly. Music is way more than 
entertainment; it can change lives; 
it can change political direction I 
think it’s that strong.”
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.org8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
Courtesy of Shirley Sexton 
Stiff Little Fingers are coming to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time.
Stiff Little Fingers to perform 
“Inflammable Material” at FEST
MUSIC
THIS WAS HER THIRD 
SHOW IN GAINESVILLE 
THIS YEAR
By Morgan Goldwich
Avenue Staff Writer
Thirty people gathered at the Civic 
Media Center on Sunday for good mu-
sic and home-grown plants. 
The room ﬁ  lled with an eclectic ar-
ray of music from experimental punk-
electronic artist Farquaad, pop-punk 
band The Real You and Tampa-based 
singer-songwriter Charlene Joan.
Joan, 24, was accompanied by 
guitarist Joshua Gigantelli on The 
Beloved Tour, an 11-day tour across 
Kentucky, Louisiana and Florida, with 
Gainesville’s show being the ﬁ  nal one.
Joan said whether she’s playing 
her acoustic set or with her full band, 
which includes Gigantelli and two 
other musicians, she classiﬁ  es her 
sound as a combination of indie-pop, 
soul and bluegrass.
“The major themes I’ve articulated 
in my music are purpose, belonging 
and love,” Joan said. “And not love 
in the romantic sense, but in a bigger 
picture sort of way.”
Joan said she tries to relate to her 
audience and make them feel seen 
and loved.
“I hope that by being vulnerable 
for the 25 minutes I’m onstage, that 
someone will walk away feeling en-
couraged on inspired,” Joan said. 
“I hope that by sharing who I am 
through my music, it will spark a 
desire in someone’s heart to express 
themselves however they need.”
Twenty-one-year-old UF telecom-
munication major Paige Arneson was 
at the show because she was familiar 
with the other two acts of the night: 
punk-electronic artist Farquaad and 
pop-punk band The Real You.
“I had never heard of Charlene 
[Joan] before, but right when I heard 
her begin to cover the song ‘Paul’ by Big Thief she blew me away,” Arne-
son said. “Her vocal range is so in-
credible and her stage presence is so 
engaging.”
She said the show itself was “spe-
cial” despite all three acts having dif-
fering sounds.
“By the end of the night, it was ob-
vious [the performers] had formed a 
bond,” she said. “That’s the cool thing 
about music — its almost magical abil-
ity to always bring people together.”
The part of the night which stood 
out to Arneson was when some audi-
ence members began moshing during 
The Real You’s set.
“At shows like that, the crowds are 
super intimate,” she said, “So seeing 
strangers with shared interests come 
together is always a treat. And I’m 
sure it was super special for The Real 
You to see this as well … It’s obvious 
that doing live shows is something 
they love to do.”
Joan, who began performing her 
original music in 2017, also enjoys the 
sense of community live shows bring.
“I don’t think songs are meant 
to only be written in a dark room all 
alone,” Joan said. “They are gifts that 
are meant to be shared with the world. 
These songs are opportunities to re-
mind people that we are connected, 
that we’re not really all that different.”
Both Charlene Joan and The Real 
You were selling merchandise at the 
show, and Joan was giving away free 
home-grown plants to anyone who 
bought something from either artist.
“I grow succulents at home and 
propagate my plants,” she said. “I 
wanted to come up with something 
creative to add to my merch table be-
fore tour.”
Charlene Joan will be releasing a 
new single, which was previewed at 
Sunday’s show, in December.
Upcoming performances at the 
Civic Media Center can be found 
through its website.
mgoldwich@alligator.org
@morgangoldwichCharlene Joan closes 
out tour in Gainesville
MUSICSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Part-time bilingual office assistant (English/
Spanish) for law office. Please send your 
resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com.    10-21-
19-8-14
Drivers needed
for taxi company. 
Contact us at (352)777-9488.       10-28-19-
8-14
Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6DBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
answers  on page 10
answers  on page 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs a 
new sales team member! Looking for an 
honest, hard working, outgoing person who 
wants to work with sports and outdoor fans. 
Availability must include 1 day on the week-
ends. Stop in to pick up an application at 
1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF. No phone 
calls please.      10-16-19-3-14
SIMEDHealth is currently seeking Full Time 
Certified Medical Assistants for several of our 
clinics in our Gainesville, FL office location. 
Apply on our website at www.simedhealth.
com.      10-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15DLonely Blues got you down? 
Not a single friend in town? 
Your telephone won’t make a sound?
The Personals ill bring you ‘round!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/16/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/16/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 16, 2019
ACROSS
1 Give a little
5 Under-the-sink 
cleaners
9 Spherical
14 On the protected 
side
15 Ward of “FBI”
16 Author Zora __ 
Hurston
17 Ellington-
Strayhorn hit to 
which Johnny 
Mercer later 
added lyrics
19 Mistreat
20 “The Addams 
Family” cousin
21 Device for 
scratch removal?
22 Something found 
under a chest
24 Viagra 
competitor
26 Letter starter
27 Storied Alpine 
rescuer
32 Useful
35 Drop off
36 Motes may be 
seen in one
37 Two-time Indy 
winner Luyendyk
38 Two-__-one
39 Air Jordan 
company
40 Thing on a ring
41 Bodily fluids
43 Filled with 
wonder
45 Spot treatment
48 Senate helper
49 “I must be seeing 
things”
53 Reliable income 
source
56 Coll. aides
57 Feel poorly
58 Tablet download
59 Social networking 
service ... or an 
apt portmanteau 
for the starts 
of 17-, 27- and 
45-Across
62 Nary a soul
63 Snap, in ads
64 Radiation units
65 In good shape
66 Movie lab helper
67 Skip overDOWN
1 Pesto herb
2 Really excite
3 Hulu service
4 Opus __: “The 
Da Vinci Code” 
sect
5 ’60s “journey”
6 Coast Guard 
rank
7 Angled piece
8 Self-service food 
station
9 How some silly 
things are done
10 Spiritually 
awakened
11 Gale family 
creator
12 Otherwise
13 Cook Paula
18 Birth-related
23 “I’ve __ busy”
25 “It’s clear now”
28 Clock change hr. 
(though most do 
it sooner)
29 Nev. neighbor
30 Golf bunker tool
31 Like green hair
32 Symbols of 
strength
33 Fingerboard bar34 Casual greeting
38 Coffee shop 
amenity
39 DEA operative
41 Ate at the 
theater, say
42 Proof word
43 One who takes 
off a lot
44 High-scoring 
club?
46 Selfie stick 
attachment47 Decides one  
will
50 Sultan’s group
51 Marlins’ home
52 Title loc. in six 
horror films
53 Coin often left in 
a dish
54 Peek-__
55 “Are we there 
yet?” reply
60 Yule quaff
61 Miracle-__
By Michael A. Macdonald
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/15/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/15/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 15, 2019
ACROSS
1 Bloke
5 Tie, in chess
9 Rival of Elle
14 Punjabi prince
15 Personal energy 
field, some say
16 Black key wood, 
traditionally
17 Banned apple 
spray
18 Electric fan noise
19 Fix, as a loose 
shoelace knot
20 “Hell’s Kitchen” 
chef
23 Special or covert 
strategies
24 Trucker’s unit
25 Owns
28 Lorelei’s river
31 Risky low-lying 
area to build on
34 Long, long time
35 Post-WWI art 
movement
37 Affixed with a 
hammer
38 Unknown Doe
40 “Gymnopédies” 
composer
42 High-grade cotton
43 Barely make, as 
a living
45 Boots the ball
47 Serious no-no
48 Not someone an 
amateur should 
play poker with
50 Adidas 
alternatives
52 Everyday article
53 Second-tallest 
living bird
54 Burger holder
55 Narrative device 
that peeks at the 
future ... and a 
hint to the start 
of 20-, 31-, and 
48-Across
61 Camper’s craft
64 “English 
breakfast” drinks
65 Bear’s warning
66 Assumed name
67 Colored eye part
68 Prefix for 
objectors
69 Where to get 
dates
70 __ a one: none
71 Barely a sound
DOWN
1 Rugged cliff
2 Angelic ring3 Cracked open, 
say
4 Formal 
forgiveness
5 Occurs to, with 
“on”
6 German coal 
valley
7 La Scala number
8 Become fond of
9 Porch with a roof, 
usually
10 Give heed to
11 Obtained
12 Institute of higher 
learning, to Brits
13 Look at intently
21 Opinion piece
22 Oklahoma 
athlete
25 “Total patient” 
philosophy
26 Low-hemoglobin 
condition
27 Many taxis
28 Not accept
29 Pipe smoked in 
trendy bars
30 “Where are you?” 
response from a 
nearby room
31 Govt. regulator 
of dietary 
supplements
32 “I don’t have time 
right now”33 Nada
36 Inhaler user’s 
malady
39 Nonverbal okay
41 Really bug
44 Having no 
purpose
46 Cowboy boot 
attachment
49 “Keep __ Weird”: 
Texas city 
slogan
51 Open for 
Christmas54 Everycow
55 Whitecap 
formation
56 Olympian queen
57 Okay, but not 
great
58 Great
59 Part of APR
60 Plumbing 
problem
61 Upper limit
62 Phrase on a 
menu
63 Nada
10/14/19
1.  Getaway
1.  Commence, launch5.  Tropical tree
2.  Low-____6.  Beef ____
3.  Medieval farm worker7.  Resolve
4.  Disconcert PAEECS
ARMEBKAABLS
RSTAO
IEAOCLR
EATNAPSLSETET
ATLRTEANSWERS: 1A-Escape  5A-Balsa  6A-Roast  7A-Settle
1D-Embark  2D-Calorie  3D-Peasant  4D-Rattle  B-Baltic Sea10-16-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, 
Germany, Poland and Russia border the ____ ____. 
BONUS
answers  below
answers below
(SPOILER ALERT)
PUZZLE
SOLUTIONS
belowFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Men's basketball forward Kerry 
Blackshear Jr. was picked as 
this season's SEC Preseason 
Player of the Year at SEC Media 
Days on Tuesday. Gators hoops tabbed to ﬁ  nish 2nd in the SEC 
Florida's men's basketball team was picked by the media to ﬁ  nish second in 
the SEC behind Kentucky at SEC Media Days in Birmingham, Alabama, on 
Tuesday. FOOTBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The South Carolina State Fair is in 
Columbia this week across the street 
from Williams-Brice Stadium.
People will naturally ﬂ  ock to the 
skyscraping rides, eager for cheap 
thrills and motion sickness, and 
will stumble upon classic carnival 
games. Those games will appear 
simple to play and easy to win, but 
they are a trap. 
Balloon dart throws are usually 
rigged with dull darts, and free throw 
shots are typically made impossible 
by oval-shaped basketball rims.
The Gators ﬁ  nd themselves in a 
similar predicament. 
With their third potential top-10 
bout in four games fast approach-
ing on Nov. 2, it’s easy to look at 
the matchup with the Gamecocks 
as easy to win. But like the carnival 
games across the street, it’s also a 
trap.
On paper, UF’s matchup with 
South Carolina appears as easy as 
the balloon dart throw. But the dull 
dart luring Florida into a false sense 
of security comes in the name of Da-kereon Joyner, the redshirt freshman 
quarterback who began the season 
third on the depth chart and entered 
Saturday’s game against then-No. 3 
Georgia in the third quarter. He to-
taled 67 yards without a turnover in 
the defensive struggle to help secure 
South Carolina’s ﬁ  rst win against 
a ranked team since Tennessee in 
2016.
UF appears to have an easy free 
throw shot. But it may not see the 
oval-shaped rim that is the Game-
cocks defense, which held the Bull-
dogs to their lowest point total of the 
season and intercepted quarterback 
Jake Fromm three times, more than 
he had thrown in his last 12 games 
combined dating back to last season.
To win, Florida’s own defense 
will need to show up.
In all six of UF’s wins, the defense 
held opposing offenses to 9.5 points 
per game and 276.3 total yards a 
game. But LSU’s 511 yards and 42 
points scored — including three 
rushing touchdowns — resulted in 
the team’s ﬁ  rst loss of 2019.
Florida can still win the SEC East if 
it wins out, but the defense will need 
to be better if it hopes to achieve that 
goal with just ﬁ  ve games left.The most glaring area of improve-
ment will need to be stopping the run 
game. Though Florida’s run defense 
was lacking against the Tigers, it was 
without two of its top playmakers — 
edge rusher Jonathan Greenard and 
defensive lineman Jabari Zuniga — 
to plug the holes for much of the 
contest.
“It affects us when we’re missing 
somebody who makes a difference 
on the team,” defensive lineman 
Adam Shuler said Monday. "But 
we believe in the next man. We got 
players and guys who can ball, so 
you got to be ready when your name 
is called."
Having both Greenard and 
Zuniga back would restore aggres-
sion and a push at the line that the 
Gators lacked against LSU. However, 
coach Dan Mullen was unsure after 
the game if either will be ready to go 
against the Gamecocks.
The trouble against the passing 
game last week, though, was an ex-
pected issue.
Read the rest online at 
www.alligator.org/sportsDefense will be key in South Carolina trap game
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Adam Shuler said that missing Jonathan Greenard and Jabari 
Zuniga hurt the Gators against LSU, but he has faith in their depth. 
If something controversial happens and no one is around to tweet about it, 
did it still happen?
The short answer is no, at least in the eyes of the American public. For 
months, protests have shaken Hong Kong in response to a proposed bill that 
would allow extradition to mainland China. The bill has since been with-
drawn, but the demonstrations continue.
The situation remained out of the eye of many Americans until Houston Rock-
ets general manager Daryl Morey ﬁ  red off a seemingly innocuous tweet in sup-
port of the protestors. 
Morey, a high-proﬁ  le executive for a team with deep ties to China due to the 
heritage of hall of famer Yao Ming, angered the Chinese government.
So the NBA, which does millions of dollars’ worth of business in China — the largest 
nation in the world and a growing basketball market — had to choose between dollars and 
democracy, and you can guess what it chose. It was cruciﬁ  ed for its decision, and rightly so.
The talk of basketball and China had largely died down until last night, when LeBron 
James spoke on the matter.
And for what we have come to expect from James, he blew it.
He had a week to formulate a well-thought-out take on what the league should have, or 
could have done, and he offered a paltry response, which was correctly called out for being 
uncharacteristically weak. So much so that he had to take to Twitter — where all geopoliti-
cal crises begin nowadays — to clarify his comments, saying that he and his team had been 
through a difﬁ  cult week and that he wished Morey had tweeted what he did later. He pre-
sumably said the last part because James’ team, the Lakers, and other NBA teams were in 
China for preseason exhibition games in the days after.
There’s not all that much nuance to the situation. James and the NBA had the most to lose 
in the extreme case where China embargoes basketball, and with it the shoe deals, television 
rights and massive market. So they walked back the comments of one of their own and abid-
ed by the oh-so-ignorant “stick to sports” command, which is what I thought people wanted.
The Ringer’s Ryen Russillo put it best on his podcast:
“There is nothing easier than being the moralist when you’re telling the other person what they should do, when they’re the person in the conversation that has something 
to lose and you have nothing to lose.”
The NBA has millions to lose in China. So does James. It didn’t want to 
compromise that, and that’s the hill it was willing to die on. But what’s more 
American than sacriﬁ  cing morals for money?
Why does a social stance have to come on command only after it was brought 
up in Western media because a millionaire tweeted about it? Protests began in 
Hong Kong long before Morey tweeted his support, and they’ll likely continue 
long after this exits the news cycle. 
Now I’m sure everyone with a stern tweet directed at James, or those in his 
realm — like Steve Kerr and Greg Poppovich — is thoroughly educated on the 
Hong Kong protests that Morey tweeted about in the ﬁ  rst place, right? They’re all just pro-
democracy history buffs who absolutely couldn’t stand the fact that China is infringing on the 
people of Hong Kong’s rights and, like Morey, have supported the protests.
Or maybe their fake outrage just ﬁ  ts their agenda. You didn’t agree with James, Kerr, 
Popovich or Stephen Curry when they said they didn’t like the president or spoke out on a lit-
any of other issues, so now is the chance to ﬁ  guratively dunk on your least favorite basketball 
activist. They didn’t stick to sports and now you have your chance to put them in their place.
This what-about-ism is an exhausted take. James didn’t have to have a take on China, 
but he did, and he most certainly didn’t have the most noble one. That doesn’t diminish all 
the times in the past that he spoke out, was right, and was still told to shut up and dribble.
Disingenuous outrage is a fraudulent attempt to latch onto the celebrity status of a promi-
nent ﬁ  gure and drag them down. James said Morey should have educated himself more on 
the impact his comments may have. I think some people need to read up on the situation 
before throwing their hat in the ring as well.
James should have thought more when he spoke and when he tweeted his clariﬁ  cation, 
but let’s not hold athletes to a higher standard than our elected ofﬁ  cials.
The NBA isn’t the only brand that bends the knee when it affects their bottom line, so 
don’t just get outraged when it’s convenient.Fake outrage is not going to solve controversy between NBA and ChinaKyle's Files
Kyle Wood
Twitter: @Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeMEN’S BASKETBALL
 By River Wells
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s basketball 
team is just 21 days away from 
its ﬁ  rst game of the season 
against North Florida, and it has 
been busy acclimating its large 
roster of newcomers to the pro-
gram. The Gators have high ex-
pectations coming into this sea-
son, but already they’ve faced 
two difﬁ  culties that they’ll need 
to overcome to start the season 
strong.
Gorjok Gak injured 
Junior center Gorjok Gak was 
hoping to have a bounce-back 
year after missing the entirety 
of last season recovering from 
knee surgery in the offseason.
Coach Mike White an-
nounced on Thursday, howev-
er, that Gak would have to wait 
longer.
Gak suffered a dislocated 
shoulder in practice, and accord-ing to White, there is currently 
no timetable for the Australian 
native’s return to the court.
“I just feel horrible for 
(Gak),” White said. “He’s been 
playing really well.”
With Gak out, once again, 
Florida will look to its other 
young bigs in freshmen forward 
Omar Payne and center Jason Ji-
toboh to step up in his absence. 
Sophomore Andrew Nembhard 
stressed, however, that Gak’s 
injury shouldn’t have to be the 
catalyst for the team’s forwards 
to work on their game.
“They’re going to have to 
step up regardless,” Nembhard 
said. “Try to give anything they 
can to the team, whether that is 
on the offense or defensive side 
of the ball.”
Despite the injury, White and 
the rest of the team hope that 
Gak could make a return later 
in the season. If he does manage 
to get healthy, the Gators would 
be well-served by a player that White believes has been playing 
some of his best basketball since 
he arrived at UF.
“He’s probably got a really 
strong argument to be the ﬁ  rst 
guy off the bench,” White said. 
“It’s part of life, I guess, and 
hopefully he’ll be back at 100 
percent sooner than later.”
  
Offense wins games but…
Defense wins champion-
ships, as the old saying goes, 
and White’s outlook on that side 
of the ball was grimly blunt.
“We’re not very good defen-
sively right now,” he said. 
White has long been a be-
liever that defense is the key 
to success on the court, and he 
cited a lack of experience and a 
“lack of interest” from Florida’s 
freshmen as two culprits for a 
squad that he insisted was fur-
ther along offensively.
“Having a lot of new guys, 
they have to adjust to coach 
White’s style of play on the de-fensive end,” Nembhard said. 
“That will come in time, and 
even with game experience, 
too.”
With just four returners to 
the team with Gak’s injury, a 
large part of the Gators’ ros-
ter has had to take some time 
to learn the system, and that 
includes Kerry Blackshear Jr. 
He has been adjusting to UF’s 
gameplan after arriving from 
Virginia Tech, but still has con-
ﬁ  dence that the team can pull 
together a strong defensive unit.
“(We need to) just keep 
working together, trust in the 
defensive principles that we 
have set in place,” Blackshear 
Jr. said. “I think with time, 
we’ll be a really good defensive 
team as (we) have been in years 
past.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGak injury, rough defense make up current UF landscape
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Center Gorjok Gak dislocated his shoulder in 
the offseason. He missed all of 2018-19. 
VOLLEYBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer 
Gators volleyball returns home 
to face unranked South Carolina on 
Wednesday. No. 13 Florida is com-
ing off a successful weekend where 
it swept Arkansas on Friday and 
rallied in a ﬁ  ve-set match to defeat 
Texas A&M on Sunday. 
The Gamecocks (11-7, 3-3 SEC) 
come into Gainesville after an odd 
start to SEC play. 
Here are two things to know 
ahead of this match:The Gamecocks haven’t won a set 
against a ranked opponent
South Carolina has played against 
three ranked teams: then-No. 12 
Pittsburgh (now No. 3), then-No. 9 
Wisconsin (now No. 6) and then-No. 
15 Kentucky (now No. 16). 
And it has been swept in all three 
matches. 
The Gamecocks have done well 
against the likes of Charlotte, Ken-
nesaw State and Albany but have 
struggled against much better com-
petition. In their three matches 
against ranked opponents, they haven’t hit above .170. Defensively, 
they were a sieve, allowing each op-
ponent to hit over .300. 
Defense has been an issue for 
South Carolina all season, as it sits 
outside of the top-130 teams in op-
ponent hitting percentage. 
Lauren Dooley: SEC Defensive 
Player of the Week
Sophomore middle blocker Lau-
ren Dooley has been a revelation for 
the Gators this season.
Dooley was named SEC De-
fensive Player of the Week for her performances against Arkansas and 
Texas A&M. She had a combined 17 
blocks in the two matches, and her 
1.28 blocks per set this season are 
second in the SEC.
Dooley was expected to sit be-
hind senior Rachael Kramer and 
redshirt junior Darrielle King this 
season. However, once Kramer 
was injured early in the season, 
Dooley was trusted with a lot more 
playing time. 
A 14-kill performance to rescue 
the Gators in a dramatic ﬁ  ve-set 
victory against Long Beach State quickly showed that Dooley be-
longed as a regular contributor. 
Since then, she has replaced 
King in the rotation and has re-
ceived signiﬁ  cant playing time 
since Kramer’s return. 
“She has progressed so much this 
season and just fully embraced her 
role,” outside hitter and fellow soph-
omore Thayer Hall said. “It’s just 
been really cool to see her succeed 
and smile on the court.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators take on South Carolina in midweek matchup