We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators face oﬀ   with No. 4 Syracuse
Coach Amanda O’Leary and the UF lacrosse team 
takes on the Orange in Gainesville at 7 p.m., pg. 15Thinking outside the box
A UF architecture lecturer is helping make a home out of old 
shipping containers, pg. 3
Another store closure
A store at The Oaks Mall is having a ﬁ  nal sale, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 67
SIXTEEN PROGRAMS 
MOVED UP
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF made signiﬁ  cant rises in law 
and business in the U.S. News and World Report’s 2020 rankings of 
graduate schools nationwide.
The report released Tuesday 
ranked graduate schools in busi-
ness, education, engineering, law, 
medicine and nursing and has sub-
rankings under each category, said 
UF Provost Joseph Glover. UF is pleased with how it stood 
in the 2020 rankings, Glover said. 
Graduate rankings are important to 
UF because they can draw in facul-
ty and graduate students, as well as 
validate the university’s progress. 
“The fact that we’re ranking 
well, and that we’ve been on an upward trajectory over the past 
several years is telling people that 
you get a real quality experience,” 
he said.
In total, the university has 28 
programs ranked in the top 30 of 
their category, which is eight more 
than UF had two years ago, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
Of those, seven are in the top 10 
of their category, and 17 are in the 
top 20.  
Warrington College of Business 
Administration’s full-time MBA 
leaped from No. 34 to No. 25 and UF graduate programs increase standing in national ranking
SEE GRAD,  PAGE 4
INVESTIGATION FOLLOWS 
ALLEGATION UF MISUSED 
MORE THAN $2 MILLION 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF ofﬁ  cials have found no mis-
use of spending from an internal 
investigation after allegations that 
the university had not complied 
with state funding regulations. 
The investigation comes after 
reports of a complaint that alleged 
the university misused funds in the 
UF student affairs group, according 
to a statement from the university.  
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
provided a statement that said the 
investigation was in response to 
a request the Board of Governors 
sent last September.
As part of the internal investi-
gation, UF ofﬁ  cials reviewed ev-
ery construction project that  cost  
more than $2 million in the past 
decade, according to the state-
ment. The investigation found all the 
projects to be in compliance with 
Florida law and long-standing 
Board of Governors guidance, ac-
cording to the statement. The 
statement went on to emphasize 
that UF did not misuse any Edu-
cation and General Expenses from 
the operating budget or carry for-
ward funds. 
Despite these ﬁ  ndings, the in-
vestigation is still ongoing.  
“The University of Florida plac-
es the highest value on transpar-
ency, integrity and accountability 
to the public that it serves,” the 
statement read.
This investigation comes after 
UCF’s president offered his res-
ignation in response to criticism 
from misspent funding. 
The Alligator requested a com-
plaint record from the Florida 
Board of Governors but has been 
unable to secure it due to the ongo-
ing status of the investigation. 
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgUF ongoing investigation 
ﬁ  nds no misuse of funds
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
The Reitz Union will most likely remain as 
an early voting location for citywide elections 
despite social media rumors saying it may 
cease to continue if turnout numbers are low.
The Reitz and other voting locations in 
Gainesville’s citywide elections are chosen by 
the city commissioners, not the Alachua Coun-
ty Supervisor of Elections, City Commissioner 
David Arreola said. 
As of now, the commission plans to keep the Reitz as an early voting location, but the 
commission has the power to change that if it 
decides the cost or turnout is not favorable.
This is the ﬁ  rst year the Reitz is an early 
voting location for a citywide election.
“Because the Reitz Union was authorized 
as an allowable voting location last Novem-
ber, we decided we wanted to try it out for the 
spring elections this year,” Arreola said.
As of Tuesday, 154 people voted in the Re-
itz Union, and 1,246 voted early overall in the 
Gainesville city elections for mayor, District 4 
city commissioner and the charter amendment to create a City Charter Review Commission, 
according to the Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections. About 3,000 people voted by mail.
UF was on Spring Break from March 2 to 
March 9, during the start of the early voting.
During the 2018 midterm elections, 
Gainesville voted to switch citywide election 
cycles to follow a statewide election cycle, 
which occurs every two years, Arreola said.
The Reitz Union became an early voting lo-
cation last year for the midterm elections due 
to a lawsuit ﬁ  led to allow supervisors of elec-
tions to consider on-campus locations for early voting.
Megan Newsome, a 22-year-old UF astro-
physics alumnus and co-plaintiff in the law-
suit, said UF led the pack in university cam-
puses with early voting locations in the 2018 
midterm elections.
While the Reitz Union will remain an early 
voting site for now, Newsome said it is still im-
portant to vote.
“It took a ﬁ  ght to get it. Therefore, it can 
always take a ﬁ  ght to get it again,” she said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgReitz Union likely to continue as early voting location despite rumorsChris King  / Alligator Staff
Florida hammers Seminoles
Shortstop Brady McConnell rounds third base in UF’s 20-7 win over FSU on Tuesday night. He was 
one of six Gators with two or more hits and one of nine with an RBI, read the story on pg. 14.
T oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
THURSDAY
RPB Presents: 'Bohemian 
Rhapsody' on the Lawn
When: 7:30-9:45 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union North 
Lawn
What: The Reitz Programming 
Board will present the movie 
“Bohemian Rhapsody” on the 
lawn. Students are welcome to 
bring a blanket and watch the 
movie outside. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  77° LOW  58°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sarah DeVoe, Hope Hathcock
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn JonesMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Shelby Smith, Blake Trauschke
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Wednesday, April 
3rd. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Friday, April 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, April 12th at 1 p.m. Applicants must be 
degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:Correction: 
In an article titled "UF's universi-
ty-wide commencement proves 
costly" that ran in Monday's edi-
tion, colleges received reimburse-
ments from centralized funds for 
venues and security. The Alligator 
reported differently.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.   Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 67WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
Robert DiPiazza lives in steel shipping 
containers.
He says his three-story reddish-brown 
home was born out of tragedy. A tree tore 
through the roof of his previous home in 
St. Augustine during Hurricane Irma in 
2017.
The damage left the home that DiPiazza 
and his family lived in for more than 30 
years destroyed.
“It’s not to say that I look at the tragedy 
aspect, I see it more as rebirth,” he said.
Out of this, the Prince Road Container 
House, originally the Prince Road Phoenix 
House, was built, DiPiazza said. The name 
is a metaphor for a phoenix rising from the 
ashes or a rebirth.
In August, DiPiazza 
and Stephen D. Bender, a 
UF architecture lecturer, 
teamed up to begin DiPi-
azza’s new home, which 
is made entirely from old 
shipping containers.
The home has about 
1,900 square feet of ﬂ  oor 
space and includes three bedrooms and 
two bathrooms, Bender said. 
The pair applied for permits in July, and 
the foundation for the house was laid in 
August. By December, the containers be-
gan to be placed on the property.Each shipping container costs about 
$1,600, and the complete construction is 
estimated to be $200,000, which is about 
$100 per square foot, Bender said. It will 
also have a kitchen and open space for liv-
ing and dining.
The choice of utilizing containers as 
building material depended on more than 
just the industrial aesthetic design, Bender 
said.
“It’s very sustainably sound. The con-
tainers have been used, and we are upcy-
cling them to a newer use,” Bender said. 
“It’s also about durability. If a tree falls 
next time, it’s less likely to cause him a 
headache.”
The pair ﬁ  rst met during their business 
partnership to bring a pop-up shipping 
container market to St. Augustine’s main-
land side, Bender said. After DiPiazza’s 
home was destroyed, he said DiPiazza 
approached him with the idea to design 
and to help him construct his new home 
instead.
To some, shipping containers may feel 
too cold and industrial, DiPiazza said.
In order to combat this idea, DiPiazza, 
an avid street art collector, and a Barce-
lona-based artist known as Cane painted 
a mural about the home’s journey on the 
side of one of the containers since its de-
struction resulted from Hurricane Irma.
“He deﬁ  nitely tells a story in his paint-
ings. I decided to have it tell the story of losing the house,” DiPiazza said. 
DiPiazza is mainly relying on his own 
manpower to complete the project, and 
he said he will hopefully ﬁ  nish the home 
within the next four months. He said the 
struggle is more mental rather than physi-
cal.Constructing something out of atypical 
material like containers isn’t usually with-
in a person’s comfort zone, but it is worth 
it in the end, DiPiazza said. 
“But knowing when the structure is set 
and completed, then it becomes this space 
that you simply built up,” he said.Boxed in: UF lecturer helps construct house made of shipping containers
It is projected to cost about $200,000
Bender
Courtesy to The Alligator
Robert DiPiazzas’s unusual home will be finished in about four months after 
finishing touches like flooring and window placements are added.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner 
any day of the week. Come in and check out 
one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out 
nothing but goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for 
lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgWORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven tandoor 
cooking for succulent Halal beef, chicken, lamb, 
and goat made fresh daily for tikka masalas, 
vindaloos,  kormas, and paneers. Vegetarian 
and vegan available too! Daily lunch specials 
include rice, naan, appetizers, salad, desserts. 
Open Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, Sunday noon - 9. 
Delivery through Bite Squad. Order ahead www.
kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 13th St. 
352-792-6764.BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your 
order will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th 
Ave. Drive-thru available Open everyday 5am -7pm  
Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUTLevin College of Law moved up from 
No. 41 to No. 31, Orlando said. UF’s 
Doctor of Nursing Practice program 
moved up four spots to No. 24.
The Levin College of Law Dean 
Laura Rosenbury said she was 
thrilled with the results because it 
validated their strategy of high selec-
tivity in faculty and students of the 
college that was implemented three 
years ago.
“It’s great to see the strategy ﬁ  nal-
ly paying off,” Rosenbury said. 
The director of UF’s Doctor of 
Nursing Practice program, Stacia 
Hays, credits the program’s success 
to the school’s response to the ever-
changing health care system. 
“Our ranking deﬁ  nitely demon-
strates that we have been able to 
respond appropriately and provide 
leadership for health care,” she said.
Initiatives such as aiming to hire 
500 new faculty members, as well as 
the goal of moving from the rank of 
eighth to a top ﬁ  ve public university in the nation on the U.S. News and 
World Report, can be factors into the 
improved rankings, Orlando said.
Excelling in the rankings can raise 
the national proﬁ  le of a university 
and can impact the pull of potential 
students and other stakeholders, Brit-
tany Wise, director of communica-
tions for the Florida Board of Gover-
nors, wrote in an email.
“It is an independent recognition 
of Florida’s success offering high-
quality education at an affordable 
cost,” Wise said.
UF jumped from No. 65 last year 
to No. 53 for medical schools for pri-
mary care, now tied with the Univer-
sity of Southern California at Keck, 
according to the report.
Other programs, however, saw 
a slight decrease in their standings. 
For graduate research, UF College of 
Medicine now comes in at No. 43, 
tied with the University of Minnesota, 
according to U.S. News and World 
Report. This is a drop from UF’s spot 
at No. 41 last year. 
The Herbert Wertheim College of 
Engineering dropped in its place from No. 43 last year to No. 45 this year in 
the overall engineering category, now 
tied with the University of Rochester, 
according to the report. 
The College of Education’s gradu-
ate ranking also dropped in the over-
all education category from No. 24 to 
No. 25. Last year, UF was tied with 
the University of California at Irvine, 
which is now No. 23 in this category. 
Dean Hasan, a UF doctor of phar-
macy candidate graduating in May, 
said ranking was a priority in his 
search for a pharmacy graduate pro-
gram.
The UF College of Pharmacy is cur-
rently ranked at No. 9, Orlando said. 
Hasan applied to the top 10 phar-
macy schools at the time, in addition 
to UF, which was then ranked No. 14, 
he said. He sent in his application to 
UF because of its in-state location.
“A ranking tells me that I’m get-
ting my money’s worth,” Hasan said. 
“If they’re in the top 10 percent, even 
the top 20 percent, they’re doing 
something right.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgGRAD,  from pg. 1Some programs decreased in rankings
Business
Full-Time MBA No. 25
Part-Time MBA No. 32 
Accounting No. 17 
Finance No. 35 
Marketing No. 19 
Education
Overall No. 25
Elementary Ed. No. 16
Special Ed. No. 7 
Counseling No. 3 
Curriculum No. 18 
Law
Overall No. 31
Dispute Resolution No. 24
Clinical Training No. 90
Environmental Law No. 21
Health Care Law No. 64
Intellectual Property Law No. 77
International Law No. 71
Legal Writing No. 94
Trial Advocacy No. 34
Tax Law No. 3Medicine
Research: No. 43 
Primary Care: No. 53
Health School Specialties
Health Care Management No. 33
Public Health No. 37
Physician Assistant No. 21
Veterinary Medicine No. 9
Engineering
Overall No. 45
Aerospace No. 24
Agricultural No. 3 
Biomedical No. 33
Chemical No. 32
Civil No. 26
Computer No. 28
Electrical No. 31
Environmental No. 35
Industrial No. 18
Material No. 16
Mechanical No. 29
Nuclear No. 16UF Graduate Programs Rankings 
in the U.S. News and World ReportWEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
SALES OF 25-40 PERCENT 
OFF TO CONTINUE 
By Christina Mouttet
Alligator Contributing Writer
Charlotte Russe in The Oaks 
Mall, along with all its stores na-
tionwide, will close its doors after 
the company declared bankruptcy 
in February.
There is no set date for when 
the women’s clothing store will 
close, said assistant manager Grace Fernandez. 
Sales of 25-40 percent off will 
continue until the location sells 
out of products, Fernandez said.
Ninety-four stores nationwide 
have already shut down, Fernan-
dez said. This is about 20 percent 
of the total number of stores, 
which is more than 500. 
The company has been more 
than $50 million in debt for years 
because of less customer trafﬁ  c in 
stores, Fernandez said. 
“The bottom line is that online stores are getting the best of in-
person retail,” Fernandez said. 
Fifteen people are employed 
at the Gainesville location, which 
opened in September 2014, Fer-
nandez said.
“We were lucky to have that 
forewarning and not be a part of 
those ﬁ  rst 94 closed stores,” Fer-
nandez said. “It gave us enough 
time to start thinking about new 
jobs.”
Since the sale started on March 
7, the store has earned about $14,000 per day, surpassing its 
goal of about $6,000, Fernandez 
said.
Melanie De Las Salas, a 22-year-
old UF elementary education se-
nior, was checking out sales when 
she heard the store was closing.
“My real concern is what’s go-
ing to happen to Oaks Mall. Why 
are all the stores closing?” she 
said.
Angie McCann, the senior gen-
eral manager of Oaks Mall, de-
clined to comment. Shutdown of Charlotte Russe at Oaks Malls in limbo
SALE!  
(will continue until 
products sell out):
T ops - 25% off
Jewelry - 25% off
Jackets - 40% off
Shoes - 30% off 
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
20-year-old man on attempted 
murder and a robbery charge after 
they say he attacked a homeless 
man Sunday who refused to give 
him $10.
The homeless man was seen 
covered in blood and crawl-
ing toward 2600 NE 39th Ave. in 
Gainesville at about 5:30 p.m., according to a Gainesville Police 
arrest report. He was taken to UF 
Health Shands Hospital and had 
life-threatening skull and facial 
fractures.
He told police that Jared Park-
er, 20, of Gainesville, came to his 
tent at about 4 p.m. asking for 
money, the report said. When he 
declined, Parker became upset. An 
hour later, the man said he woke 
up to Parker beating his face with 
an object and taking his wallet con-taining $10. The man said he was 
beaten in and out of consciousness. 
He then crawled to the street for 
help after Parker stopped beating 
him, the report said. 
Parker initially denied the man’s 
allegations and said he would nev-
er hit a homeless man. He told po-
lice he did not hit the victim ﬁ  rst 
but could not prove it, the report 
said. A witness saw Parker later 
that night, who told them he killed 
a man.Parker later told police the two 
men got into an argument after the 
homeless man gave Parker $5, the 
report said. When Parker asked for 
more cash, the man tried to take 
back his money because he did not 
want to give Parker more.
Parker conﬁ  rmed he told the 
witness he had killed a man, the 
report said. 
Parker told police he had been 
bullied throughout his life and 
was tired of that treatment, so he became upset and began to hit the 
man. He told police, “I hit him too 
hard,” “I thought I killed him,” 
and, “I thought he was dead,” ac-
cording to the report.
Parker apologized to police and 
said, “I’m not that way when I’m 
not on drugs.”
He remained in the Alachua 
County Jail Tuesday in lieu of a 
$300,000 bond. 
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgBy Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
A man’s charges of killing two men and 
kidnapping a woman at an apartment com-
plex last year will remain on hold after the 
Alachua County Circuit Court found him in-
competent to stand in trial. 
On March 7, the court ordered Cedric Tre-
maine Plummer, 25, of Gainesville, to a treat-
ment facility designated by the Department 
of Children and Families, according to court 
records. This came after doctors appointed by the defense and state evaluated him to be in-
competent for trial in February.
Plummer was facing the death penalty by 
State Attorney Bill Cervone in April. 
On Feb. 13, 2018, Plummer had an ap-
pointment with Jude Onyegbulam Osuji Jr., 
28; Robert Earl Brumbaugh, 61; and the of-
ﬁ  ce manager in the leasing ofﬁ  ce of Summer 
Place Villas apartment complex, at 3316 SW 
41st Place, according to a Gainesville Police 
arrest report. 
Plummer had an ongoing argument with 
the apartment complex’s management for damaging his apartment and not letting them 
ﬁ  x it, the report said. Police had been called 
at least three times because of his aggressive 
behavior.
When he entered the leasing ofﬁ  ce, Plum-
mer shot both men and took the ofﬁ  ce man-
ager to her car at gunpoint and forced her to 
drive to Georgia, the report said. A Georgia 
police ofﬁ  cer arrested him after noticing the 
car from an announcement given to several 
police departments.
William Miller, Plummer’s defense attor-
ney, said the court made the only decision they could concerning the circumstances.
The State Attorney’s Ofﬁ  ce will decide if it 
wants to continue pursuing the death penalty 
when Plummer is ruled competent, said Darry 
Lloyd, the Eighth Circuit State Attorney’s Of-
ﬁ  ce spokesperson. 
“If somebody doesn’t truly understand the 
process, that does not beneﬁ  t the commu-
nity,” Lloyd said. “You can’t hold somebody 
accountable for something if they don’t know 
what they did.” 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.org
‘I thought I killed him’: 20-year-old accused of beating homeless manCourt ﬁ  nds man accused of apartment murders incompetent for trialThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsIf you’re anything like us, your cleaning habits have im-
proved considerably over the past few weeks – and we 
have Marie Kondo to thank. Kondo is a Japanese best-sell-
ing author who recently came out with a show on Netflix 
called “Tidying Up With Marie Kondo” on Jan. 1. It’s quite 
possibly the most relaxing show since the days of Bob Ross. In 
each episode, Kondo shows people fundamental skills that al-
low them to clean up their lives both physically and mentally. 
The common theme throughout the show is to be thankful 
for your surroundings and what you have. It’s a sweet remind-
er that isn’t commonly found in reality shows in which bitter 
fighting is the biggest selling point. However, reality shows 
like “Queer Eye” and “The Great British Bake Off” focus solely 
on human connection and positivity rather than conflict, as 
does Kondo’s show. More often than not, the lessons learned 
in those shows can be taken into the real world. 
Sure, Kondo teaches us life skills like how to fold a fit-
ted sheet, a feat we’ve previously deemed impossible, but she 
also teaches more valuable skills like how to figure out “what 
sparks joy” in our lives. It’s a skill that doesn’t really sound 
like a skill. We know what brings joy to our lives, right? May-
be not. Joy is an instant feeling that can’t really be described, 
but to Marie Kondo, it can be summed up by the feeling we get 
from holding an old T-shirt or a battered photo. Figuring out 
what sparks joy in our lives is a way to figure out what to hold 
on to and what to let go of. It’s a valuable life skill that can be 
used in our day-to-day lives.  
As young adults, most of us are in a constant state of un-
certainty. We’re often living in different places, changing jobs 
or being thrown into different groups of people, which makes 
it hard to hold on to and let go of things. So, we’re left to deal 
with the clutter that is our lives, not knowing what needs to be 
let go. Figuring out what sparks joy in our lives doesn’t only 
apply to a pair of jeans; it can apply to a career choice or even 
a class. What gives us joy is the path we should follow. We 
recently heard a phrase that stuck with us: “When is the last 
time you felt genuine joy in your life?” 
Maybe it was simply sitting outside in the sun, or it was be-
ing surrounded by friends. It doesn’t really matter where, but 
it matters why. When we figure out what in our lives gives us 
that rush of happiness, then we can allow ourselves to make 
decisions that can positively affect us. Why were you happy 
at that moment? And how do you apply it to other aspects of 
your life? These are questions only you can answer for your-
self, but they are something to think about when you’re hav-
ing trouble with a decision. 
We are nearing the end of the semester, a time when many 
of us will graduate and move to a different city. Before you’re 
off making serious life decisions, think about what makes you 
happy now and how to keep that feeling in your life. Don’t 
let yourself follow some path you think is the best for you be-
cause someone told you it was. Let go of the things in your life 
that are keeping you stagnant, and follow the things in your 
life that are creating sparks. Marie Kondo may be small, but 
her advice has a big impact. Marie Kondo can 
teach us more than 
just how to fold
The gender gap is about a lot more than just a paycheck
Think gender gaps exist only in the work-
place? Turn on the symbolic bedroom 
lights. You’ll see it exists in sex as well. 
In recent years, feminists have called 
for the end of the wage gap. Naturally, 
the next step: lessen the orgasm gap. 
When it comes to heterosexual encounters, 
women reach climax less often than men. How 
do we know? The National Survey of Sexual 
Health and Behavior found that 91 percent of 
men said they reached orgasm during sexual 
encounters compared to 64 percent of women. If you find 
this surprising, you may be in the same mindset as the 
85 percent of men who said their recent sexual partners 
had reached climax, which is way higher than the percent-
age of women who said they reached climax in the same 
study. The numbers don’t line up, meaning that men think 
their sexual partners had orgasmed when they probably 
had not. 
These findings run parallel with the jokes and cultural 
understanding we have with the term “faking it.” Usually 
exclusive to cisgender women (men can’t exactly fake an 
orgasm), faking it makes men think they have done a good 
job, but they actually haven’t even clocked in, so to speak. 
The concept of faking an orgasm may stem from not want-
ing to hurt a man’s ego or not making someone’s partner 
feel bad. Whatever the reason, faking it may be hurting 
more than helping. It may be why the orgasm gap exists in 
combination with the historical taboo of female pleasure 
and lack of knowledge of the female anatomy.
When it comes to sex, it seems that female sexuality 
and pleasure is an afterthought. Take a trip down memory 
lane and reminisce during the pubescent times of preteen 
and high school years. Usually, boys outwardly talked 
about sex, while girls kept quiet about their affairs. This 
difference may not seem like much, but it sets us up for the way we think about sex and its purpose. When 
female sexuality is not taken seriously, the 
purpose of sex shifts toward a male-dominated 
approach. In health class, ejaculation is framed 
as the end of sex. There’s nothing much to say 
for the sake of women. Once again, this may 
seem like such a small detail, but it shapes the 
way we think about sex when we are first be-
ing introduced to it. If the sex storyline being 
taught is told in terms of the male’s endgame, 
it is hard for women to see their pleasure as 
equally important. 
Lack of knowledge of female anatomy may be another 
part of the orgasm gap. Almost everyone knows the joke 
of, “Where is the clitoris?” But, these jokes have good rea-
son with nearly 30 percent of college-aged women who 
are unable to label the clitoris if given an anatomy test. To 
close the climax gap, it would be helpful to know the fe-
male body part with the sole biological purpose to produce 
sexual pleasure with its 8,000 nerve endings. 
The way we teach and talk about sex matters because 
it sets up societal norms individuals sometimes use as a 
starting point for sexual encounters. In recent years, there 
has been a surge of talk about orgasm equality and what 
can be done to reach it. Jokes surrounding “faking it” and 
“can’t find the clitoris” are funny, but they also bring to 
light the issues that people might have been too afraid to 
talk about in recent years. Now, these topics are starting 
to come out in the open. Talking about orgasm inequal-
ity and what can be done to lessen it reframes the way 
we think about sex, which will be helpful to everyone in 
future generations where, hopefully, the orgasm gap does 
not exist.
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Throughout my three semesters as an ex-
ploratory major at UF, I was criticized and pa-
tronized for not knowing the exact path I want-
ed to follow. I had notable skills and traits, but 
no one ﬁ  eld of study stood out to me as “the 
one.” It seemed like taking a variety of class-
es to see what I was passionate about would 
make sense, but to those around me, it didn’t.  
My roommate would make remarks to me, 
like “how much free time and little stress” I 
had as an exploratory major. What she failed 
to see were the countless hours I invested into 
clubs and organizations, researching careers 
and trying to put together a class schedule that 
simultaneously tracked for seven majors and 
four minors. I tried to ﬁ  nd meaning in micro-
economics and Greek mythology within the 
same semester, spending one period learning 
about the history of the radio and the next on 
how to plan weddings; it was mentally ex-
hausting.
Every conversation I had seemed to be cen-
tered on whether I had chosen a major, even 
though the answer was no every day for a year and a half. The follow-up statement would be, 
“Surely you have to be leaning toward some-
thing.”
I became so entangled in trying to ﬁ  nd a 
major, I forgot to enjoy the classes I was tak-
ing. I walked into every class with the mindset 
that I had to ﬁ  nd my lifelong passion within 
the next 50 minutes. Although “exploratory” 
was an option on UF’s website, it felt like it 
wasn’t treated as a legitimate option.
Why does such a negative stigma exist 
around a seemingly positive option: allowing 
young adults to explore their passions? Accord-
ing to The New York Times,  80 percent of stu-
dents at Penn State who declared a major felt 
uncertain in their decision, and 50 percent are 
likely to switch majors. When we don’t allow 
students to explore majors freely, we are cre-
ating an environment where impressionable 
teens are locking themselves into a lifetime of 
wondering “What if?” NBC reports selecting 
the wrong initial major leads to students being 
less likely to graduate on time and increases 
the chances of dropping out of college. These are errors in our society that can be changed by 
allowing people to explore themselves and the 
academic world around them without feeling 
the constant stress of not ﬁ  tting into a socially 
desirable timetable.
I faced judgment from peers, advisors and 
family members, making it hard to relate to 
those around me. I couldn’t discuss classes 
and career goals when I didn’t have a decided 
path. However, it was ultimately the right de-
cision for me to remain exploratory for three 
semesters.
In a way, having to be my own advisor 
and to plan semesters full of differing classes 
allowed me to see that I was proﬁ  cient at or-
ganizing and prioritizing tasks. I was self-moti-
vated and could think creatively.
A BuzzFeed quiz told me I should be an 
event planner. So on a whim, I joined an event 
planning club my freshman year. It allowed 
me to further pursue this potential dream. The 
advice from existing members, many event 
management majors, allowed me to get an in-
side perspective. With this gained knowledge, I was able to take a few more event manage-
ment classes as an exploratory major to test 
out the ﬁ  eld and ultimately decided to declare 
it during my sophomore year.
Without being an exploratory major, I 
wouldn’t have been able to home in on my ex-
isting skills, cultivate them in an experiential 
club setting and pursue the interest from there. 
Without being an exploratory major, I would 
have spent the next three years wondering if 
I had made the right decision. Without being 
an exploratory major, I wouldn’t be who I am 
today.
College students have enough to worry 
about: living on their own for the ﬁ  rst time, 
completing seemingly endless assignments 
and dealing with plenty of negative peer pres-
sure. The push to declare a ﬁ  eld of study with-
out feeling ready doesn’t need to be on our 
plates as well. 
Kathryn Kirchman is a UF sophomore tour-
ism, event and recreation management major. There is a stigma around exploratory major students and it needs to end 
This semester has been hec-
tic and stressful, so going 
home for Break was a good 
decision for me. I needed a 
change from the constant re-
sponsibilities I have at school. It al-
lowed me to get back on track for the 
rest of the semester and spend time 
with family. Here are some ways to 
maximize relaxation and recharge 
even after Spring Break is over. 
The ﬁ  rst thing I did on Spring 
Break was take a much-needed hia-
tus from social media. It was the 
perfect time to unplug because I 
didn’t need to be updated on events 
and things to do. It’s really tempt-
ing to spend lazy days scrolling 
through Instagram and Snapchat, 
but it won’t help you actually relax. 
If I had stayed glued to my phone, 
I would’ve been preoccupied with FOMO and thoughts of “Why didn’t 
I go somewhere cool for Spring 
Break?”  If you’re feeling stressed at 
the end of this semester, it’s a good 
habit to take a much-needed break 
from social media and give yourself 
some downtime as I did over Spring 
Break.
I was also really excited to spend 
time with my family and loved ones. 
It’s hard to ﬁ  nd the right days to go 
home during the semester, especial-
ly when you don’t live very close. 
When I have gone home on random 
weekends in the past, I can never 
seem to fully relax. I would be think-
ing about the work I could be doing 
and the work I have to do the next 
week instead of living in the mo-
ment. However, for times during the 
semester when you’re missing your 
family, FaceTime is a good way to catch up and see a loved one’s face. 
It’s a reminder that there are only a 
few more months until summer and 
more time spent with family. 
One of my favorite parts about 
going home is realizing a new-
found appreciation for where I grew 
up. This break, I enjoyed walking 
around my neighborhood, running 
errands and eating at my old favor-
ite restaurants. It’s important to ﬁ  nd joy in the little nuances of what feels 
like a past life at home in order to 
be fully content. I took my home-
town for granted before I moved to 
Gainesville, and I didn’t know how 
much I loved it until I came back for 
the ﬁ  rst time. Appreciating the dif-
ferences between home and school 
makes me love both places so much 
more. Feeling homesick is one of the 
worst feelings during the semester, 
but ﬁ  lling your walls with photos 
from home or trying to recreate your 
favorite hometown dishes is a great 
way to make Gainesville feel a little 
bit more like home.
Spring Break was a great time to 
get healthy and cleanse yourself. It 
is hard to get a full night’s sleep at 
school sometimes. We stay up late 
completing assignments and hang-
ing out with friends. I spent a lot of my free time sleeping and increasing 
my energy. With my extra time, I 
also want to cook yummy, healthy 
food and go to the gym regularly. 
When you’re back at school, think 
about meal prepping healthy meals 
and scheduling your time properly 
for gym visits. As for sleep, turning 
off your phone at night is a good way 
to ensure you’re completely discon-
nected and able to sleep.
Self-care and a little R&R is so vi-
tal in making it through the last half 
of this semester. It’s important to do 
your best to implement the same 
self-care techniques you did over 
Spring Break to allow for a healthy 
and happy ﬁ  nish to the year. 
Molly Chepenik is a UF journal-
ism sophomore. Her column appears 
on Wednesdays.Spring Break is a way to get back on track and to stay on track this semester
The dreaded day comes for all of us, usu-
ally sooner than expected. We spend 
our whole lives trying to escape it, but, 
alas, each of us must meet our match 
at some point. When people open up 
the mailbox and the white envelope with the 
big red letters is there, it makes most people 
roll their eyes in defeat. Your government has 
summoned you for jury duty. 
I received my jury summons at the tender 
age of 18. I consider myself considerably civi-
cally engaged. I keep up with politics; I know 
most of the important people in government 
and read the news daily. When I got my jury 
summons, even I groaned at the simple and 
powerful papers, though. I’d heard the stories 
of long lines, miserable hours and slow days. 
Everyone told me I should try to get out of it 
immediately. I admit that I blindly followed the 
masses when forming my initial opinion on 
jury duty; even so, I postponed my duty for as 
long as the Orange County government web-site allowed.
However, jury duty gets a bad 
rap it simply doesn’t deserve. I un-
derstand missing a day of work or 
school is a pain, and the process 
of serving on a jury can be bor-
ing. I think this all comes from the 
wrong mindset. My experiences as 
a jury member taught me perspec-
tive is key to understanding and 
appreciating jury duty. 
I met new and exciting people from all dif-
ferent backgrounds when I served on a jury. Af-
ter living in Orange County for nearly 10 years, 
I was conﬁ  dent I knew the people of my com-
munity. Yet again, however, I was so wrong. 
These people were kind-hearted and smart, 
all in different ways. One of the women in my 
group was the most intelligent, free-spirited 
person I’d ever encountered, yet still set in her 
opinions. Another man was retired from a long 
and successful career. He was a humble, natu-ral leader who gave off a sense of 
power. I was able to interact with 
these people and talk about seri-
ous issues with perfect strangers 
in a way that wouldn’t come up 
in any other scenario. I was able 
to hear the unﬁ  ltered thoughts 
and opinions of my neighbors in a 
refreshing and unique way. Hear-
ing the intelligent and thoughtful 
opinions of my neighbors instilled in me a new 
sense of faith in my community. 
I also learned about current events in my 
community I’d missed. I served on a case about 
a man who was run over and dragged 30 feet 
by a van and survived; he is actually doing sur-
prisingly well. The jury was to determine how 
much money the van’s company owed the 
man. That’s the kind of thing you would only 
hear about on the news or in movies. Hearing 
this man testify in real life was, frankly, awe-
some. My point is that crazy things happen just around every corner, and we often miss them. 
Serving on jury duty gives you a ﬁ  rst-hand 
taste of some of the action in your community. 
The most important part of my experience 
was the fact that I learned the importance of 
serving as a juror. My decision to report for 
service changed a family’s life. We rewarded 
people over a million dollars. It is vital to serve 
as a juror because it is your job as a citizen. 
If I were run over by a van, I wouldn’t want 
a bunch of grumpy people on the jury who 
would sloppily put together a verdict. We need 
people to appreciate the importance of jurors in 
our civic system and to take their jobs serious-
ly. If we can’t appreciate our duty as citizens 
of our country, at least we can understand our 
jobs as fellow humans. Jury duty provides the 
opportunity to help ensure justice is served.
Chasity Maynard is a UF journalism 
freshman. Her column normally appears on 
Fridays.Jury duty gets a bad rap, it's all about serving justice and making connectionsColumnColumn
Molly
Chepenik
opinions@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
UF graduate presents original play: ‘From 
Colored to Black’
Check out Brittney Caldwell’s play showcasing 
Florida’s role in the civil rights movement, pg. 10Anousha Shankar comes to Gainesville
Read about the Grammy-nominated artist who will perform at 
the Phillips Center Monday, pg 9By Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
Growing up, Mira Lowe watched her 
mother work as a successful nurse in Brook-
lyn, New York. Sure of her plans, she began to 
study at Brooklyn College as a pre-med student 
to become a doctor. 
She realized during her sophomore year the 
medical ﬁ  eld wasn’t for her. 
So she decided to take a leap of faith: She 
switched to journalism. 
She is now UF’s Innovation News director.
When Lowe began her career, the ﬁ  eld was 
dominated by men. 
Since there were not many female reporters 
on television — especially colored women — 
she found a few role models she looked up to.
Her professor at Brooklyn College, Sister 
Camille D’Arienzo, a nun and a broadcaster, 
ﬁ  lled the void.
Lowe describes Sister D’Arienzo as dynam-
ic, funny, smart and compassionate.
“That’s how I got interested in journalism 
in college,” she said. “I worked at the newspa-
per, I worked at the radio station, I worked at 
the TV station, and that kind of propelled me 
to pursue the profession.”
After getting her masters in journalism at 
Columbia University, she began her profes-
sional career at The Register, a small newspa-
per in Shrewsbury, New Jersey, in 1988.
After nine months working as a copy editor, 
she was laid off because the paper decided to 
print weekly rather than daily.Instead of feeling devastated, Lowe felt that 
this taught her to be resilient.
“I’ve learned that if something like that 
happens to you, as long as you’re persistent, 
there’ll be another opportunity,” she said.
In April 2009, Lowe became the ﬁ  rst 
woman to manage the No. 1 African Ameri-
can newsweekly, JET magazine, in Chicago as 
editor-in-chief. 
Growing up reading JET magazine, she 
never thought she would have the opportunity 
to run it.
“To be able to have have experienced 
them [JET] in my childhood and then to be 
able to lead them as an adult was remark-
able,” she said.
As editor-in-chief, Lowe met a variety of 
celebrities, including Stevie Wonder, John Leg-
end, Dwayne Wade and Queen Latifah.
“That was an exciting time to be able to 
meet these people and write about them,” 
Lowe said.
After JET, she worked as a senior editor 
at CNN Digital in Atlanta. She managed and 
planned various projects across the globe. She 
also led the features team, overseeing the en-
tertainment, lifestyle, tech, travel and health 
sections for the CNN website and mobile.
Lowe also had success in ﬁ  nding love. 
Twenty years ago, she married successful 
journalist and professor Herbert Lowe. Now, 
the couple is known as the journalism school’s 
power couple. 
When they were informed of the open posi-
tions at UF, the two saw this as an opportunity to ﬁ  nally work and live in the same city after 
being apart for approximately 10 years.
Ever since, the couple has worked together 
molding the minds of students.
“If you want to be told how you should 
do it, you come see me,” he said. “Do you 
want to feel loved, and get the same advice? 
Go see her.”
When Herbert ﬁ  rst met Mira in December 
1997, they began to talk about their favorite 
basketball teams, hers being the New York 
Knicks and his the Philadelphia 76ers, which 
were facing off two days later.
He proposed a bet: Whoever’s team lost 
would have to call the other.
On Dec. 7, 1997, the 76ers beat the Knicks 
93-78. 
“She called three days after that game, and 
I haven’t been able to get rid of her since,” he 
said jokingly. 
The couple ﬁ  nds it quite easy to understand 
how demanding the job is. If breaking news 
occured on a date night, the two understood 
what needed to be done. 
“She’s still my most trusted copy editor,” 
he said. “Generally, I’m not putting anything 
out into the public sphere without her looking 
at it ﬁ  rst.”
Not only does her husband recognize her 
hard work and success, but her colleague, Har-
rison Hove, multimedia news manager at UF, 
describes Mira as a strong, calm, inclusive and 
empowering woman.
“Students will meet with Mira often for one-
on-ones,” he said. “She has helped numerous students that have gone on to be industry lead-
ers. She has a great track record of elevating 
others through her mentorship and guidance.”
@AlexCamargo95
acamargo@alligator.orgInspirational woman of Gainesville: Mira Lowe
Lifestyle
Courtesy to The Alligator
Dwayne Wade is one of the many 
celebrities Lowe interviewed during 
her time at JET magazine.
The Innovation News director broke barriers in a male-dominated ield
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Going through puberty during 
middle school can make it the hard-
est years of your life. Thankfully, 
comedians Maya Erskine and Anna 
Konkle have decided to relive their 
formative years with a comedic 
twist. 
Hulu’s new comedy “Pen15” fol-
lows the lives of Maya and Anna 
who play 13-year-old versions of 
themselves in the year 2000 trying to 
survive as adolescent outcasts. 
The 10-episode series, which pre-
miered on Feb. 8, deals with typical 
issues that plague and traumatize a 
middle schooler, but have the added 
comedic presence of these 30-some-
things playing teens who are at the 
bottom of the social ladder. 
Many have praised the series 
for its openness without becoming 
crude or obscene. Issues like fe-
male masturbation or drinking are discussed as naively 
as they would be 
among any group of 
preteens, despite the 
adult audience. 
One episode 
in particular that 
sparked a large reac-
tion from audiences 
dealt with prejudice 
and racism among 
kids. 
In the episode, 
Maya and Anna are 
placed in a group to 
make a video about 
osteoporosis preven-
tion. 
As the true 2000s 
kids they are, the kids decide to play 
old Spice Girls who need milk to 
help their bones and give them the 
ability to dance again. 
Erkine’s character Maya Ishii-
Peters is half-Japanese and was 
deemed the ugliest girl in the grade earlier that season for reasons that 
seemed to just be petty middle 
school drama. However, the thought 
behind those sentiments became 
more clear when the rest of the 
white peers in her group, aside 
from her friend Anna, force Maya to 
play Scary Spice and be the servant who brings the girls 
milk. When she asks 
why, one replies, 
“Because you’re dif-
ferent from us — 
you’re, like, tan.”
In an article in 
Vulture, Erskine dis-
cussed the episode 
and said what she 
and the show writers 
thought would be 
something very fun-
ny ended up becom-
ing quite traumatic. 
“When I was 
in middle school, I 
didn’t have anyone 
I could identify with 
race-wise. It was, like, a lot of white 
Jewish kids, or there was a small 
group of Korean kids who came 
from Korea to be at the school. I 
didn’t have anywhere to ﬁ  t in, so I 
clung to the popular girls. And once 
we hit middle school, I wasn’t as pretty; I wasn’t as rich, and I sort of 
got left behind,” Erskine said. 
Outside of just highlighting race, 
the show bravely tackles the idea 
of the “white savior” role, when 
Anna, understanding that something 
doesn’t feel right but can’t quite ﬁ  g-
ure it out, goes home to research rac-
ism all night. 
“It’s like a white person being 
like, ‘I’ll ﬁ  x it! I know what’s best for 
you!’” Konkle said. 
The entire show does a great job 
of laying out adolescent issues with-
out making them too exaggerated to 
relate to. 
Overall, the series has been very 
well-received from audiences and 
critics alike. However, there is no 
word yet on whether the show will 
be picked up for another season ex-
ploring the lives of Maya and Anna. 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgSeries Review of the Week: Hulu’s ‘Pen15’
Courtesy to The Alligator
This series  has such unﬂ  inching honesty that  it’s 
difﬁ  cult not to both laugh and cringe.
CELEBRATE ST. PATRICK’S DAY 
DANCING TO THE INDIE BAND
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
This St. Patrick’s Day, Gainesville is 
getting lucky with STRFKR’s ﬁ  rst time 
performing in the city. 
The band is touring the U.S. and will 
make six stops in Florida, from as far 
north as Pensacola to as south as Miami.  
Their music can be described as in-
die dance music. With electric elements 
paired with dreamy high-ranging vo-
cals, the music ﬁ  ts perfectly in a place 
like Arcade Bar or a hipster house party. 
The band started in 2007 with their song 
“Rawnald Gregory Erickson the Second” 
being the hit that most people know 
them for. 
“I love how light and airy the at-
mosphere of the songs are, while still 
broaching pretty serious and sometimes 
existential themes,” said self-proclaimed big fan, Livvi Anne, 28. The UF biomedi-
cal sciences doctoral student has never 
seen the band perform but has been a 
supporter since 2011 and is excited to ﬁ  -
nally see them live.
Pat Lavery, High Dive owner, is 
also excited for STRFKR’s ﬁ  rst show in 
Gainesville. 
“Like Gainesville, STRFKR is a ﬁ  rmly 
independent artist with a style all their 
own,” he said. 
Lavery expects tickets to sell out. 
Tickets can be bought online for $20 or 
at the door for $22. 
The event is 18 and older, but those 
under 21 will be charged a $3 fee at the 
door. 
Attendees can enter through Beer 
Garden an hour before doors open at 8 
p.m. For those in the St. Patrick’s Day 
spirit, green Jell-O shots will be readily 
available. 
@jackiefef7
jdefreitas@alligator.orgGRAMMY-NOMINATED SITAR 
PLAYER WILL TAKE THE PHILLIPS 
CENTER STAGE MONDAY
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer
The ﬁ  rst Indian artist to perform on the 
Grammy stage will soon be gracing a stage in 
Gainesville. 
Rooting in Indian classical and world music, 
sitar player and composer Anoushka Shankar 
will perform at the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts on Monday. The show will be-
gin at 7:30 p.m. with tickets for UF students 
priced at $10 and regular 
population prices starting 
at $25 with an increase 
based on seating arrange-
ment.  
Shankar started study-
ing music at age 9 un-
der her late father Ravi 
Shankar, the founder of 
National Orchestra of In-
dia. By 13, she made her 
professional debut as a 
classical artist and just 
seven years later received 
her ﬁ  rst Grammy nomi-
nation. 
It was in 2005 that she 
released her ﬁ  rst self-pro-
duced album, “Rise,” for 
which she earned another 
Grammy nomination. 
In her bio, Shankar 
describes her music as a 
reﬂ  ection on her spiritual 
and musical journey. 
Her most recent high-
lights include creating 
a Tagore Festival at the 
famous Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre in London and creating her most 
recent album, “Land of Gold.”
The album released in spring 2016 is Shan-
kar’s personal response to the many people 
in the world ﬂ  eeing conﬂ  ict and poverty from 
their home countries. 
“‘Land of Gold’ is the culmination of my 
journey to the interior, channelling my distress 
at the situation in a constructive way, exploring 
the stories of the voiceless and dispossessed,” 
she said. “I believe that art can make a differ-
ence – it connects us to our hearts, bringing 
us back to what really matters. Music has the 
power to speak to the soul.”
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Courtesy to The Alligator
Anoushka Shankar learned from the best. Her father is largely 
credited with introducing Indian music into western culture. 
Her half-sister is Grammy award-winner Norah Jones.
Courtesy to The Alligator 
The band started in Portland in 2007 and is touring the country for 
“Being No One, Going Nowhere, ” the album it released in November.
Anoushka Shankar comes 
to Gainesville 
MUSIC
STRFKR at the High Dive
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
On Saturday and Sunday, 
Gainesville residents are invited 
to witness North Central Florida’s 
hidden history come to life in 
“From Colored to Black.”
“From Colored to Black” ex-
amines North Central Florida’s in-
volvement in the civil rights move-
ment. The play highlights historical 
ﬁ  gures who were not necessarily 
famous at the time but played im-
portant roles in shaping Florida’s 
integrative history. 
Playwright Brittney Caldwell 
used interviews and archives of the 
time that would have otherwise 
been forgotten.
A recent graduate of the MFA 
Acting Program, Caldwell created 
a story that reﬂ  ects on how sys-
temic racism impacts not only the 
social welfare, but also the physical 
health of the black community. She 
links mechanisms of the past to the 
circumstances of the present. This is the ﬁ  rst full-length play she has 
written.  
“I never thought I would like 
writing, but I totally fell in love 
with it,” Caldwell said. “I feel like 
this play serves the black commu-
nity in a time where people need to 
understand each other.” 
The play features ﬁ  ve charac-
ters in the present at a cookout 
who share ideas and opinions on 
racism in Florida and how it has 
evolved since the civil rights move-
ment. These discussions allude to 
vignettes of the past. The vignettes 
present real events and people 
from the civil rights movement in 
Florida.  
These people, according to 
Caldwell, were never famous for 
their accomplishments in pushing 
towards integration and breaking 
down barriers in North Central 
Florida. Frank Butler, for example, 
established the ﬁ  rst “blacks only” 
beach in Florida, which, according 
to Caldwell, started the civil rights 
movement in St. Augustine. Caldwell portrays the role of 
Cora Tyson, who acted as a host to 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. when 
he came to visit his headquarters in 
St. Augustine. She transforms her 
own creative vision from her script 
to the stage through a careful study 
of the woman’s interviews.
“It’s important for me to play 
her truthfully and not to make a 
caricature of her,” Caldwell said. 
“She seems so resilient and bright. 
Her spirit is so warm, and that is 
exactly what I use to portray her.”  
Caldwell also examines events 
that occurred in Gainesville, such 
as the history of Lincoln High 
School, an exceptional black high 
school, according to Caldwell. 
“Once they were forced to in-
tegrate, it began to dissolve,” 
Caldwell said. “We’re able to bring 
up discussions on education, hous-
ing quality standards, public poli-
cies and link all of these disparities 
to a poor health outcome.” 
Caldwell discusses how there is 
a constant thread between the past and present, showing how the is-
sues of the past are still very pres-
ent in today’s day and age.   
“We use a Brechtian feel for the 
show,” Caldwell said. “There’s no 
separation, there’s no fourth wall.” 
The actors onstage discuss the 
issues of race with the audience as 
well as with each other in the plot.  
She aims to bring this rich hid-
den history to life in a story that ex-
amines not only the past and pres-
ent but also the concept of racism 
and how it has evolved over time.  
Caldwell’s inspiration for the 
play came from a short vignette 
she wrote for an internship presen-
tation at the Harn Museum of Art, 
supervised by her current co-direc-
tor Jeffrey Pufahl. She developed a 
captivating story that Pufahl saw 
potential in, and he encouraged her 
to expand on the short story into a 
full-length play.
Pufahl has played a large role in 
the process as co-director and su-
pervisor. He and Caldwell spent a 
year working on the script togeth-er. “From Colored to Black” gives 
a multifaceted perspective on the 
evolution of racism and how its 
hierarchy has impacted the health 
outcomes of the black community, 
he said.  
“We’ve decided that we have 
to come at this sensitive subject 
from both points of view so that 
the play has a uniquely authentic 
voice,” Pufahl said. “We’re trying 
to break down barriers and create 
discussion. What is systemic rac-
ism? How does it function?” 
“From Colored to Black” will be 
playing at the Squitieri Studio The-
atre at the Phillips Center for Per-
forming Arts on Saturday at 2 p.m. 
and 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Caldwell wants audiences to 
leave the play with a healthy curi-
osity and a hunger to start making 
changes in their own community 
and their own life. 
@emmamcavoy1  
emcavoy@alligator.orgUF graduate presents original play: ‘From Colored to Black’   TITLE ARTIST
Be
Love Myself
Love Language
House of Glass
Fluctuate
Cruel World
Jackie and Wilson
Wildﬂ  owers
Sweet But Psycho
Eastside
Almeda
Lo/Hi
wish you were gay
Nobody
Vintage
Trip
When Am I Gonna Lose You
Sunﬂ  ower
Monte Carlo (feat. WET)
Party Zute / Learning to Love
NobodyHozier
Olivia O’Brien
Kehlani
Cage the Elephant
Catﬁ  sh and the Bottlemen
Lana Del Ray
Hozier
T om Petty
Ava Max
benny blanco (w/Halsey & Khalid)
Solange
The Black Keys
Billie Eilish
Mitski
NIKI
Ella Mai
Local Natives
Vampire Weekend
T oro y Moi
LA Priest
Mac DeMarcoSONGS THE AVENUE CAN’T 
STOP LISTENING TO:PlaylistWHAT DOES MERCURY BEING IN 
RETROGRADE MEAN FOR YOUR SIGN?
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Aquarius: This Mercury in retrograde may be 
testing your self-control when it comes to spending 
your hard earned money as passionate Mars comes 
close to your money planet, Neptune. What will 
make this all the more challenging is Mercury in 
retrograde makes money matters unclear, so stay 
strong and hide your credit card. 
Pisces: Communication is key for you as Mercu-
ry works against your career planet of Jupiter this 
week. Don’t be afraid to reiterate your ideas and 
plans in your work environment, so those around 
you are on the same page as you and your career 
goals. Mercury in retrograde causes miscommuni-
cations, so make sure you get your message clear 
to avoid trouble at work. 
Aries: Fiery Aries may be immune to Mercury’s 
retrograde as Saturn, your career planet, feeds off 
the fervent energy from your ruling planet, Mars. 
This will keep you on task and focused on any as-
signments due soon. But if Mercury’s movements 
get your plans all mixed up, calm your ambitious 
ﬂ  ame and wait it out. 
Taurus: Like a bull in a china shop, Mercury 
affects the monetary planet of Jupiter. The retro-
grade ends April 16, which may seem far away, 
but stand your ground and keep your eyes on the 
prize. 
Gemini: Mercury in retrograde may do you 
some good, Gemini. As your ruling planet, Mer-
cury moving backwards sends you into a reﬂ  ective 
phase that may have you looking inward. Think 
about your ambitions and relationships as the ret-
rograde slows everyone else down, giving you time 
to catch up mentally. 
Cancer: You may be feeling a little slowed 
down as this year’s ﬁ  rst retrograde comes into its 
second week. Jupiter, your planet of luck, works 
against Mercury later this week in a position that 
may give your communication some edge and not in a good way.
Leo: You need to watch your spending habits 
this retrograde, too. Mercury rules your ﬁ  nancial 
zone, so make sure your rent, electricity and other 
bills are paid for to avoid paying unwanted late 
fees. This is especially important because you 
might be feeling conﬁ  dent and lucky as your rul-
ing planet, the Sun, works against Jupiter. 
Virgo: Just like Gemini, Virgo’s ruling planet is 
Mercury. But unlike the air sign, you must com-
municate what you want to others during this ret-
rograde. Your ruling planet of pleasure, Saturn, 
meets up with Mars, making now the perfect time 
to speak your truth to others to ﬁ  nd happiness 
within yourself. 
Libra: A sign with admiration for harmony and 
details, now is the time to put those to work on 
yourself instead of others. You are known for be-
ing the diplomat of the signs, using your balancing 
energy to appease everyone you meet. But with 
this retrograde, it may be time to tidy up your per-
sonal life and pay attention to the details of your 
own life instead of others’. 
Scorpio: This retrograde cannot slow you 
down, Scorpio. Watch out for ﬁ  nancial troubles, 
but besides that, you should be in the clear as one 
of your ruling planets, Mars, meets with dreamy 
Neptune to allow you to release the creative en-
ergy to let any of your ideas come alive. 
Sagittarius: Mercury’s retrograde works hard, 
but Sagittarius works harder. Combat this retro-
grade’s tendency to making your home messy by 
going full Marie Kondo and tidying up your clutter. 
Your planet of action, Mars, meets with your rul-
ing planet of domestic life, Neptune, to put the ﬁ  re 
under your butt to get stuff done.  
Capricorn: Mercury’s retrograde may have you 
tripping over your own and others’ words. Jupiter 
rules your faith, and as it works against Mercu-
ry, you may feel as if everything everyone says is 
about you. Just remember that not everyone is out 
to get you, and this will end. 
@jackiedef7
jdefreitas@alligator.orgHoroscopes 
MUSICBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no 
responsibility for injury or loss 
arising from contacts made through 
advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the 
sincerity of the advertiser before giving 
out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
3-29-19-85-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDSAY, MARCH 13, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Part Time / Temporary
Clerical worker needed.
Student
Must have knowledge of Excel.
10 Hours/week
Between: Tuesday & Friday. 8am & 5pm
Minimum wage pay rate.
Please email: elight@alligator.org
No phone calls please.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    3-15-19-10-14
Wanted. Driver w long-bed pickup
to take king bed frame and its owner
to Hollywood, FL on 3/16/19.
Call 352-359-3787.      3-15-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the international word (NATO 
phonetic alphabet) for the letter “O”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which U.S. city 
lies further west: Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, or Reno, Nevada?
3. MUSIC: Which Latin rock band 
had a hit with the 1999 album “Super -
natural”?
4. LITERATURE: Which 19th-cen-
tury author wrote a book of short sto-
ries called “Twice-Told Tales”?
5. LANGUAGE: What does the 
phrase “fifth column” refer to?
6. ANATOMY: What part of the 
human body is referenced by the 
adjective “hepatic”?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was the 
name of President Bill Clinton’s fam-
ily cat?
8. NICKNAMES: Which West Coast 
city’s nickname is “Emerald City”?
9. ORGANIZATIONS: How many 
countries are members of Interpol, an 
international police organization?
10. MOVIES: Who played the char -
acter “Iceman” in the 1986 movie 
“Top Gun”?
Answers
1. Oscar
2. Reno
3. Santana
4. Nathaniel Hawthorne
5. A group of spies or traitors within 
your own defensive line
6. The liver
7. Socks
8. Seattle
9. 194
10. Val Kilmer
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 11, 2019King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 18 PersonalsWEDNESDSAY, MARCH 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"MAKE $100,000 - $1 Million
before you graduate!
Great Crypto Trading & Investment 
Education program!
FREE info at www.ExpWealth.info     3-15-
19-3-20
LEARN HOW TO MAKE an extra $500
per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to:  www.collegeopportunity.today     
3-15-19-3-20
Learn how to make an extra $400
a week filling out surveys as a student.
Go to uniopportunity.club       3-20-195-20Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsDesignated drivers are the greatest
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Ed Sessa
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/13/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/13/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, March 13, 2019
ACROSS
1 Cascades peak
7 Cap’n’s aide
11 Classic British 
sports cars
14 Character 
builder?
15 __ Domini
16 Vein contents
17 Not yet proven
19 __ drop
20 After 18-Down, 
actor/golfer 
combo
22 Wrestling duo
25 Innocent
26 Charlottesville 
sch.
27 Like a cool cat
30 Edible root
31 Depended (on)
35 Sunlit lobbies
37 After 34-Down, 
crime writer/poet 
combo
42 Worthy of a 
standing O
43 Pay for one’s 
crime
44 Suisse peak
47 Sisters, say
48 Spam holder
49 “American Horror 
Story” actress 
Paulson
51 Contents of a 
teacher’s key
55 After 50-Down, 
president/novelist 
combo
59 TV buying 
channel
60 Host of a Friars 
Club event
64 One of a comic 
trio
65 Invite feedback?
66 Nissan sedan
67 18-, 34- __ 
50-Down
68 Votes for
69 Oppressive ruler
DOWN
1 Minded the kids
2 “What the?!”
3 Pigged out, say
4 Little pig
5 Yankee manager 
before Girardi6 __ rock: Queen 
genre
7 Attend to a 
leaking boat
8 How some data 
is stored
9 Sound made 
using two fingers
10 “The Dark Knight 
Trilogy” director 
Christopher
11 Family nickname
12 Mourn
13 It’s not for 
everyone
18 Generic guy
21 Canadian 
brewery
22 Steak metaphor 
seen on menus
23 State with 
conviction
24 Charity event
27 Wears
28 “There’s more” 
letters
29 Jab to keep them 
dogies rollin’
32 Slacks measure
33 Prefix with car
34 Generic guy
36 “How was __ 
know?”38 Maneuver 
through moguls
39 Flier on a string
40 Mideast mogul
41 Strong desires
44 Bronchial 
disorder
45 “The Far Side” 
cartoonist Gary
46 Tended to topiary
50 Generic guy
51 Germane
52 Desert wanderer53 Like many bad 
jokes
54 Bridge positions
56 Bridge position
57 Vena __: major 
blood line
58 Sacred symbols 
on pyramid walls
61 Reward for 
waiting
62 Confessional 
music genre
63 Maze scurrier
By Gary Larson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, March 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 “We burger as 
good as we 
pancake” chain
5 Ring-shaped reef
10 www code
14 The “M” of MSG
15 Greek played by 
Anthony Quinn
16 Badly damaged 
Asian sea
17 *Wall-hidden 
sliding portal
19 Food truck snack
20 Prepared 
(oneself), as for a 
difficult task
21 Planned with little 
detail
23 Thanksgiving Day 
Parade sponsor
25 Pedaled in a 
triathlon
26 Trowel wielder
29 Remove the rind 
from
32 Letter-routing 
abbr.
33 “The Bathers” 
painter
35 Suppositions
38 Feb. follower
39 *Serve, as stew
40 Old Prizm maker
41 Sports drink suffix
42 Wedding venues
43 Back in the day
44 Writer 
Hemingway
46 Like craft shows
47 Sean who played 
a hobbit
49 Reef explorer’s 
gear
52 Split, as the loot
55 Oyster season, 
so they say
59 “Would __ to 
you?”
60 Together, and a 
hint to both parts 
of the answers to 
starred clues
62 Above
63 Gladden
64 “My treat”
65 Wood cutters
66 Meal with matzo
67 “Downton Abbey” 
employeeDOWN
1 Rascals
2 Laugh-a-minute
3 __ and for all
4 Critters hunted 
in a 2016 mobile 
app
5 Ancient Mexican
6 Hot spiced drink
7 “__ y Plata”: 
Montana motto
8 Wall St. deals
9 Small songbird
10 McDaniel of 
“Gone With the 
Wind”
11 *Fixture on a 
ceiling rail
12 Papier-__
13 Frank __ Wright
18 Panache
22 Movie critic 
Roger
24 Broad-brimmed 
beach bonnets
26 Cry from a crib
27 Just barely
28 *Google Maps 
option
30 American-born 
Jordanian queen
31 Name of 12 
popes33 Really anger
34 Appraisal amts.
36 Professional 
charges
37 PlayStation 
maker
39 “__ Boy”: Irish 
song
43 Narrow window
45 Mississippi and 
Missouri
46 “It’s __!”: nursery 
cry47 Pablo’s parting
48 Thriller writer 
Daniel
50 Minos’  
kingdom
51 “Raw” pigment
53 Applications
54 Heap
56 Singer Turner
57 Port on many 
TVs
58 Start of a flower
61 Family man
1.  Joey ____
1.  Type of jacket5.  Separated
2.  ____ cat6.  First-class
3.  Silhouette7.  Choose
4.  Cut in two equallySPOBHI
ZRABLEATRAP
LETEI
SEIASEM
UTIOELNCLESTE
CIBSETANSWERS: 1A-Bishop  5A-Apart  6A-Elite  7A-Select
1D-Blazer  2D-Siamese  3D-Outline  4D-Bisect  B-Nobel Prize3-13-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The first ____ ____ was awarded in 1901.
BONUS
19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & Found
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators earn national awards in track and ﬁ  eld
Florida jumper Yanis David won USTFCCCA National Women's Indoor 
Field Athlete of the Year, while sprinter, hurdler and jumper Grant Holloway 
was named Men's Indoor Track Athlete of the Year. Coach Mike Holloway 
was dubbed Men's Indoor Coach of the Year.Florida diver Brooke Madden 
earned two invites to the NCAA 
Championships over two days at 
the NCAA Diving Zones. She placed 
fourth in the 3-meter dive and 
second in the 1-meter dive.
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The streak was in jeopardy.
Florida had won eight in a row over 
Florida State, but it trailed 6-0 heading into 
the bottom of the ﬁ  fth inning.
Once it started scoring, it didn’t stop.
The Gators rallied from behind with a 
ﬁ  ve-run ﬁ  fth inning and an eight-run sixth 
inning to punctuate their ninth-straight 
victory over the rival Seminoles, spoiling 
FSU coach Mike Martin’s ﬁ  nal game in 
Gainesville.
Florida only scored in three innings 
but defeated Florida State 20-7. The No. 5 
Gators (14-5) and No. 10 Seminoles (13-2) 
both made a slew of mistakes, uncharac-
teristic of a top-10 matchup.
Florida State jumped on Jordan Butler 
early. He allowed a leadoff double to Mike 
Salvatore and another double to Drew 
Mendoza later in the ﬁ  rst inning that put 
FSU ahead 1-0. The Seminoles built on that lead in the third inning when star freshman 
Nander De Sedas took Butler deep to left 
ﬁ  eld for his ﬁ  fth home run of the season.
Florida’s closer Nolan Crisp was called 
upon earlier than usual, and he did not re-
spond well to the change. J.C. Flowers hit a 
grand slam off Crisp to put FSU ahead 6-0.
Crisp had let up one run all season, but 
allowed three on Tuesday. He also had yet 
to walk a batter on the year, but walked 
three in the win.
It was FSU’s mistakes that let UF back 
into the game, but the Gators’ bats secured 
the win.
Every scoring inning for UF involved 
Kendrick Calilao. Florida loaded the bases 
for the freshman cleanup hitter in the ﬁ  fth 
inning, and he delivered with a two-RBI 
single to put the Gators on the board.
Nelson Maldonado scored on a wild 
pitch by Clayton Kwiatkowski during Jud 
Fabian’s at-bat. Then, Calilao scored on 
another wild pitch.BASEBALL
 Gators blow out Seminoles 
behind two-inning rallyMEN'S BASKETBALL
Staff Report
Kentucky
Most observers of college basketball 
would say that Tennessee and Kentucky are 
the two best teams in the country, and, in 
terms of consistency, they’re right.
Attempting to differentiate these two is 
a bit of a challenge. Why? Because their re-
sumes are nearly identical at this point.
The Vols ﬁ  nished the regular season one 
game better than the Wildcats, but UK cur-
rently sits one spot higher than UT at ﬁ  fth in 
the NET rankings. Both teams ﬁ  nished 15-3 
in league play, and they split their season se-
ries against each other, with the home team 
taking each matchup.
However, by virtue of both teams los-
ing their lone matchup with LSU, the Tigers 
won the regular season title, forcing Tennes-
see and Kentucky into the same side of the 
bracket.
They will presumably meet in the semiﬁ  -
nals, and Kentucky — behind the excellent 
play of P.J. Washington and Tyler Herro — 
will eke out a win en route to a title game 
victory over Auburn to take its seventh tour-
nament title in nine years.
But what of No. 1 seed LSU?
The now Will Wade-less Tigers will en-
ter the tournament helmed by interim coach 
Tony Benford after Wade’s indeﬁ  nite sus-
pension. This came just in time to catch the 
eighth-seeded Gators coming off an opening-
round win over Arkansas.Florida is on the easier side of the brack-
et, and with all the uncertainty surrounding 
LSU’s program, UF will accomplish what it 
couldn’t on its home ﬂ  oor and knock off the 
Tigers in Nashville, Tennessee, before falling 
to Auburn in the semiﬁ  nals.
It should be more than enough to propel 
Florida into the NCAA tournament.
—Tyler Nettuno
Tennessee
A highly motivated Tennessee team will 
enter Bridgestone Arena in Nashville on Fri-
day.
The Volunteers spent four weeks ranked 
No. 1 during the regular season. Their 27 
regular-season wins were the most since the 
2008-09 season.
Despite a historical season, a brutal 
schedule that saw them ﬁ  nish 4-3 in their ﬁ  -
nal seven games left the Vols at No. 8 in the 
AP Top 25 and out of conversations for a No. 
1-seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
Tennessee is still a top-three team in the 
SEC Tournament behind LSU and Kentucky, 
and it has all the necessary tools to make a 
run and win it all.
The Vols got a much needed double-bye 
to start the tournament, along with LSU, 
South Carolina and Kentucky. They have the 
advantage of two veteran ﬁ  rst-team All SEC 
players in guard Admiral Schoﬁ  eld and for-
ward Grant Williams.
Williams was named SEC Player of the Predicting which team will win the SEC Tournament
Mark My Words / Opinion
Edge rusher Jachai Polite 
made headlines during the 
NFL Combine and not for 
positive reasons. 
He measured in at 258 
pounds, 16 pounds heavier than 
listed on the 2018 Florida roster.
He ran a rather slow 4.84-sec-
ond 40 yard dash (17th among 
EDGE prospects) and claimed he 
had a lingering hamstring injury. 
He pulled out of the remaining combine events. 
Polite said his interview with the Rams was 
his best because they “didn’t bash” him. 
“Everyone else picking at my game,” he 
said.
Setting all of that aside, the 20-year-old 
should’ve stayed for his senior season because 
of the depth of pass rushers in this draft. 
Three EDGE players will go in the top 10: 
Ohio State’s Nick Bosa, Kentucky’s Josh Allen 
and Mississippi State’s Montez Sweat. Other 
ﬁ  rst-round locks include Florida State’s Brian 
Burns, Michigan’s Rashan Gary and Clemson’s 
Clelin Ferrell.  
All of these players have more prototypi-
cal size for NFL edge rushers than Polite. He’s 
dropped to a late ﬁ  rst-round or second-round 
pick in many mock drafts. With his question-able combine performance, some 
draft analysts have Polite slipping 
out of the second round. 
That’s a potential loss of tens 
of millions of dollars. 
You can’t blame Polite for leav-
ing. He’s one of the quickest edge-
rushing prospects and a great 
hustle player. These attributes 
are clear on ﬁ  lm from his fantas-
tic 2018 season. But he could’ve 
waited another year to develop his body, study 
ﬁ  lm (he said he doesn’t watch much ﬁ  lm on 
himself) and ﬁ  ne-tune his game. 
Mullen said Sweat improved signiﬁ  cantly as 
a senior last season. 
“A year and a half ago, me and Todd 
(Grantham) sat down (with Sweat) and said 
'it’s probably your best interest, you really 
should stay one more year,'” Mullen said. “He 
went from a guy that was a mid-round draft 
pick... to a guy that they are talking to be one 
of the top picks in the draft.”
Polite would have avoided one of the deep-
est pass-rusher drafts in recent memory. A 
rough combine would matter less if his value 
among pass rushers was higher.Jachai Polite should’ve stayed at UFSEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16The Associated Press
Kentucky coach John Calipari and the Wildcats enter the SEC T ournament as the No. 
2-seed, where they will play the winner of Ole Miss and Alabama on Friday.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The No. 7 Gators (22-4) are look-
ing to rebound after a series loss 
to Tennessee at home to open SEC 
play. UCF is 5-1 in its last six games 
ahead of Wednesday’s game and sit 
at a 17-8 record ahead of its first road 
game of the season. 
Here are three numbers to know 
about this matchup:
1-5: 
The Knights’ record against 
ranked teams.
UCF has played then-No. 1 FSU 
twice, No. 5 Washington and a 
trio of fringe teams in No. 21 Min-nesota, then-No. 24 Ohio State and 
then-No. 25 Mississippi State. UCF 
has been outscored 34-11 in its six 
ranked matchups and hasn’t scored 
more than three runs in any of those 
games. 
It relies on junior Alea White and 
freshman Breanna Vasquez in the 
circle. Its 1.84 team ERA is ranked 
30th in the country, though the re-
sults against ranked teams this sea-
son have been much worse. 
White has started four of UCF’s 
games against ranked opponents, 
and she has been inconsistent, sport-
ing a 3.40 ERA in those games. Her 
best appearance was against FSU on 
March 3, when she pitched seven in-
nings and didn’t give up an earned run despite allowing eight hits and 
four walks. 
Vasquez, on the other hand, 
struggled in her two starts against 
ranked teams, losing both games 
and giving up eight runs in 7.1 in-
nings.
Wednesday’s matchup brings 
an excellent opportunity to reignite 
a Florida offense that struggled in 
the first two games against Tennes-
see before an eight-run explosion on 
Sunday. 
28: 
The number of games played by 
Florida in only 33 days. 
It’s been an exhausting schedule 
for the Gators. The team has had very few days off, and the days they 
did have off were for travel. Florida 
has played less than half of its sched-
ule at Katie Pressly Seashore Sta-
dium, and it has traveled across the 
country twice already. 
Throw in the renovation of its 
home stadium, and it has been a dif-
ficult and demanding slate of games 
for the Gators. 
“I think we’re prepared for it,” 
outfielder Jade Caraway said. “It’s 
fun. I like it. I like coming out and 
playing.”
1-0: 
The score of the UCF-UF game 
last season. 
UCF catcher Kassady Brewer’s RBI single in the first inning stood as 
the winning run in a 1-0 victory over 
the Gators. 
White started that game and only 
allowed one hit in a complete-game 
shutout, though she only struck out 
one batter. 
The Gators put 27 balls in play, 
but they couldn’t manage to turn 
that contact into offensive produc-
tion, much like Saturday’s game 
against Tennessee. 
“We didn’t play very well last 
year against them in the middle of 
the week,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“They pitched really well and got 
enough timely hits.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgThree numbers to know ahead of UF’s matchup with UCFMEN’S TENNIS
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer
Then-freshman Oliver Crawford clinched 
the Florida men’s tennis team’s 4-3 upset 
win over then-No. 1 Wake Forest in Win-
ston-Salem, North Carolina, last season. 
Crawford (now a sophomore) and the 
rest of the team will look to prove that last 
year’s victory wasn’t a fluke. 
The No. 8 Gators and No. 2 Demon Dea-
cons face off on Wednesday at 5 p.m. at 
the Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville. 
Despite last year’s loss to the Gators, the season still turned out well for the Deacons 
as it defeated Ohio State 4-2 to win its first 
national championship.
This season hasn’t been any different for 
Wake Forest. It’s off to a 15-2 start, and 
it’s currently undefeated in ACC play. It has 
won nine out of its last 10 matches, and 
the only loss came against the top-ranked 
Ohio State Buckeyes at the ITA National 
Indoor Team Championships. The Demon 
Deacons are 7-2 against nationally ranked 
teams, but do come into the match strug-
gling. They barely squeezed by No. 48 UCF 
4-3 in their last match and lost the doubles point.
The Gators (9-2) come into this match 
on a high. They are coming off their big-
gest win of the season on Sunday against 
No. 10 Mississippi State. After losing the 
doubles point on Sunday, UF won its next 
five points on the way to a 5-2 win. Florida 
has won three in a row and are undefeated 
in SEC play. It has yet to lose a match at 
home this season and has won 10 games in 
a row in Gainesville.
Looking at the rankings of the players, 
one can see how much talent is on these 
two top-10 teams. Both Florida and the Wake Forest have four players ranked in 
the ITA singles Top 90. The Demon Dea-
cons are led by No. 2 Petros Chrysochos. 
UF does have the advantage in doubles, 
though, as it has four doubles pairs ranked 
in the top 80 while the Deacons only have 
one: No. 35 Chrysochos and Bar Botzer.
The Gators lead the all-time series 
against Wake Forest 13-6. The last time 
they met in Gainesville was on Jan. 29, 
2012, a 6-1 win for the Gators.
 
@noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgFlorida hosts defending champions Demon DeaconsLACROSSE
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
The Florida’s women’s lacrosse team has 
not played at home since Feb. 14 when it lost 
to No. 2 Maryland 17-12.
A four-game road stretch ensued, with loss-
es to then-No. 17 Loyola and Navy in Mary-
land followed by victories over Elon and High 
Point in North Carolina.
Now, the Gators (3-3) return home to host 
No. 4 Syracuse on Wednesday at 7 p.m.
“I think we gained some resilience with 
some close games,” coach Amanda O’Leary 
said about the 2-2 road trek. “We learned how 
to fight through every 60-minute session.”
UF’s toughness will be put to the test 
against the Orange (6-2) with the only two 
losses coming against No. 1 Boston College 
and No. 2 Maryland.
“This is a huge rivalry game for us,” 
O’Leary said. “It’s just a real pleasure for us to 
play a team as good as Syracuse.”
Attackers Emily Hawryschuk and Nicole 
Levy lead a high-powered Syracuse offense 
with 26 goals and 16 goals, respectively. Three 
other players have notched 14 goals apiece.
On the defensive side of the ball, the Or-
ange allow an average of 9.75 goals per game 
and have caused 100 turnovers through eight 
games.
Florida’s offense benefitted from the emer-gence of its underclassmen during away 
games.
Sophomore attacker Kassidy Bresnahan re-
turned to the starting lineup against Elon and 
High Point after freshman attacker Hannah 
Mardiney replaced her following the defeat to 
the Terrapins.
Bresnahan recorded a season-best in points 
(3) and goals (2) against High Point on Sat-
urday.
“I think I’ve been doing well,” Bresnahan 
said. “I just remember to work hard and do 
everything I’m told to do.”
Sophomore midfielder Eddy Shoop missed 
the first four games of the season with a hand 
injury but was cleared to play against Elon and 
High Point, scoring a goal in each.
“Eddy (Shoop) is playing lights out,” 
O’Leary said. “She’s worked really hard to get 
back, and I think you’ll see a lot of her tomor-
row evening.”
The Gators have a difficult slate of games 
coming up, playing three top-10 opponents in 
a span of six days.
However, all of them are in the friendly 
confines of Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
“We’ve been on the road for a significant 
amount of time,” O’Leary said. “So it’s abso-
lutely great to be home.”
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.orgGators host fourth-ranked Syracuse after month long road trip
Alligator File Photo
Florida coach Amanda O’Leary (pictured) and the Gators lacrosse team return to 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium to face their fifth ranked opponent of the season.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSGators defensive end Jabari Zuniga 
decided to stay. He’s a couple inches 
taller and naturally a little bulkier than 
Polite. 
Zuniga could’ve surged into this 
draft’s ﬁ  rst round with an impressive 
combine and pro day, but he elected to 
try next season after another year of de-
velopment.
Mullen praised Zuniga’s decision to 
stay and said he took in a lot information 
and listened to a lot of good advice. 
“Well, (Lamical Perine and Zuniga) 
could have left,” Mullen said. “As you’re 
seeing right now with some guys, it’s not 
as cut and dry as they think it is.”
Mark Stine is assistant sports editor 
of the Alligator. You can follow him on 
Twitter @mstinejr or contact him at 
mstine@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Year after he led the conference in scoring with 
19.3 points per game, averaging 7.7 rebounds 
and three assists. 
They’ll face either No. 11-seeded Texas 
A&M, No. 14 Vanderbilt or No. 6 Mississippi 
State in the quarterﬁ  nals on Friday. The Bull-
dogs are the biggest threat of the three, and 
Tennessee beat them by 17 on March 5.
From there, it’ll likely face Kentucky in the 
semiﬁ  nals, who they split the regular-season se-
ries with, and then — probably — LSU in the 
championship on March 17. 
If it plays out that way, a distracted LSU 
team will meet a well-prepared, experienced 
Tennessee team fueled by a drop in rankings. 
All that equals a 2019 tournament win for Rick 
Barnes’ Volunteers.
— Alanis ThamesLSU
LSU enters the SEC Tournament as the top 
team. It went 26-5 during the regular season — 
16-2 in conference play — and ended the year 
on a ﬁ  ve-game win streak. 
The Tigers still aren’t getting the respect 
they deserve. Everyone points to Tennessee 
and Kentucky to win it all, teams that dominat-
ed the regular season and were usually placed 
near the top of the polls. 
But they won’t win it. LSU will, especially if 
it escapes its ﬁ  rst game. Here’s why. 
It’s the only team in the SEC to have beaten 
every other team.
It only lost to two teams in conference play: 
Florida and Arkansas. And both of those teams 
are facing off on Thursday, with the winner tak-
ing on the Tigers on Friday at 1 p.m.
But they also played both the Gators and the 
Razorbacks a second time each and won those contests, effectively avenging those losses.
As for the tournament, LSU has the easi-
est path to the championship game. It has a 
double-bye, meaning it doesn’t have to play in 
the ﬁ  rst two rounds. Then, assuming it beats 
Florida or Arkansas, it would play either No. 4 
South Carolina, No. 5 Auburn, No. 12 Missouri 
or No. 13 Georgia for a spot in the ﬁ  nals. 
Tennessee and Kentucky will have to play 
each other, barring any upsets, to make it to the 
championship. 
A player to look out for is guard Tremont 
Waters. He is agile and has a quickness to him 
that could exploit some of the conferences big-
gest players at the basket. He averaged 15.3 
points per game this season, shot 43.6 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld and 33.3 percent from beyond the 
arc.
A Waters-led LSU team could be dangerous 
in the tournament.
— Jake DreilingerMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14LSU defeated every other SEC team this seasonFabian drew a walk, and then came 
around to score on a Kirby McMullen RBI 
single. Even after what seemed like a miracle 
comeback, UF still trailed 6-5.
FSU got a run back in the top of the sixth 
inning on a Salvatore RBI single.
Florida responded with a six-hit, eight-run 
inning. Calilao hit an RBI single after Brady 
McConnell and Maldonado were both hit to 
begin the inning. Wil Dalton tied the game up 
at 7 in the next at-bat with a single.
Austin Langworthy’s attempt to move the 
runners over worked better than he expected. 
On his sacriﬁ  ce bunt attempt, FSU pitcher 
Austin Pollock overthrew the ﬁ  rst baseman, 
allowing Langworthy to advance to third and 
Dalton and Calilao to score.
The Gators took their ﬁ  rst lead on the 
botched play and did not relinquish it.
Pollock threw 2.1 innings but allowed 
nine hits and eight earned runs. UF held a 
13-7 lead heading into the eighth inning, and 
Calilao again led the charge. Maldonado hit an RBI single to load the bases for Calilao.
This time around he delivered a grand 
slam, his second of the season and his third 
home run. Calilao went 4 for 6 at the plate, 
scored three runs and ﬁ  nished with 6 RBIs. 
He now has 25 on the year to lead the team.
Blake Reese followed with a two-run hom-
er to give the Gators 20 runs, the second time 
they’ve hit that mark this season after scoring 
28 against Winthrop on March 3.
Florida ﬁ  nished with 17 hits and seven 
walks in yet another strong offensive show-
ing, this time against a likely postseason 
team.
Despite the win, O’Sullivan is already 
looking ahead.
“The runs we scored tonight mean nothing 
on Friday,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “I’m 
excited for the guys and yeah they battled and 
they did what they needed to do and they put 
up three big innings, but at the end of the day 
we need to do some things better.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14UF had 17 hits, seven walks
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida outﬁ  elder Wil Dalton went 2 for 4 in UF's 20-7 win over Florida State on 
Tuesday night at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium. 
