We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Florida updates Amber Alert
It was the ﬁ  rst update in 17 years, pg 4
Gainesville celebrates Veteran’s Day
Check out the coverage on, pg 3SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperTakeaways from UF’s successful 
weekend
The Florida volleyball team earned two more 
SEC wins least weekend, pg 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 34
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
HAYES-SANTOS AND JOHNSON 
OPTED OUT
By Lina Ruiz 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two city commissioners opted out 
of publishing their professional emails 
Thursday. 
Commissioners Adrian Hayes-San-
tos and Gail Johnson said during a 
Gainesville City Commission meeting 
they preferred their city emails not be 
published on the city website. The por-
tal to view Hayes-Santos and Johnson’s 
emails is currently unavailable, accord-
ing to the website.
All commissioners’ emails public re-
cord and are available upon request, in 
accordance with the Florida Sunshine 
Law. 
However, the commission unani-
mously passed a motion Thursday which 
allowed commissioners to choose if they 
want their emails published, posted a 
disclaimer informing citizens emails sent 
to commissioners may be available on-
line and established a seven-day publish-
ing delay.
Hayes-Santos told The Alligator the emails were previously uploaded to the 
portal every night, which has caused pri-
vate information to go public in the past.
At the meeting, he said most cities 
release commissioner emails exclusively 
through public records requests and the 
board should change its policy to do the 
same. Commissioners can control which 
emails they want published, which pro-
motes “fake transparency,” he said. 
“There could be thousands of emails 
that are taken out of there that were nev-
er published,” Hayes-Santos said.
Johnson suggested the option for com-
missioners to opt in or opt out of publish-
ing emails online and said she preferred 
to not have hers published. Johnson 
wrote in a text message to the Alligator 
Tuesday that many of her constituents 
don’t want their emails available online.
“Personally, I have had multiple nega-
tive experiences that exposed conﬁ  den-
tial information of my family, as well as 
people that have emailed me.” Johnson 
wrote. “Our current process is risky and 
a disservice to my constituents.” 
No members of the public commented 
on the motion, but Commissioner Da-
vid Arreola voiced disagreement toward Two city commissioners pull 
public emails from online  
SEE EMAILS,  PAGE 4
VETERANS DAY
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Svetlana Scalise, 6, places a ﬂ  ower on the grave of a veteran Monday in Evergreen Cemetery. Her 
father said she had the day off and wanted to spend it giving ﬂ  owers to veterans.SENATORS, STUDENTS 
DEMANDED HIS 
RESIGNATION LAST WEEK
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer
A week after about 11 people 
called for Student Body President 
Michael Murphy’s resignation dur-
ing Senate, an SG senator emailed 
Murphy a resolution for his im-
peachment and handed it to him in 
his ofﬁ  ce Tuesday.  
Inspire senators Matthew Diaz, 
Ben Lima, Colin Solomon, Claudia 
Tio and Zachariah Chou co-ﬁ  led a 
resolution demanding Murphy’s re-
moval from his position for “abuse 
of power” and “malfeasance,” 
which is wrongdoing by a public 
ofﬁ  cial. 
The resolution was ﬁ  led Tues-
day in light of released emails be-
tween Murphy and Caroline Wren, 
a national ﬁ  nancial consultant for 
Trump Victory, the president’s 2020 reelection committee, to bring 
Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle to campus Oct. 10. 
Murphy did not respond to 
calls, texts or emails to comment. 
Diaz, who emailed the resolution, 
didn’t comment on Murphy’s reac-
tion to the resolution.  
Among the 107 who signed the 
resolution are people afﬁ  liated with 
Inspire, Gator Party, people not in-
volved in SG, UF alumni and stu-
dents who used to be afﬁ  liated with  
Impact, the former majority party.
Students and SG senators de-
manded Murphy’s resignation at 
the last Senate meeting and called 
him out for his actions. Inspire 
senators submitted the “Resolution 
Condemning the Use of Students’ 
Activity and Service Fees to Host 
Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle at the University of Flor-
ida” on Oct. 2 after the announce-
ment that Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle 
would speak at UF. SG Senators email Murphy
impeachment resolution   
ABOUT 400 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED, 20 
PROTESTED OUTSIDE
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Staff Writer
Last month, hundreds pro-
tested Donald Trump Jr. and 
Kimberly Guilfoyle’s speaking 
event because they deemed 
their rhetoric as racist. Tues-
day night, at least a hundred 
more gathered to protest con-
servative activist Charlie Kirk 
because they said his rhetoric 
wasn’t racist enough. 
Kirk, founder of Turning 
Point USA, a conservative 
nonproﬁ  t, and Graham Allen, 
creator of the “Dear America,” 
Facebook video series, gave a 
presentation Tuesday night at 
the University Auditorium as 
part of Turning Point USA’s 
“Culture War Tour.” 
About 400 students and 
Gainesville residents attended the hour-long presentation, fol-
lowed by a 30-minute Q&A ses-
sion. While many applauded his 
values, protestors inside and out 
disagreed with his message. 
Kirk is known for tweeting 
conspiracy theories and rheto-
ric widely viewed as inﬂ  amma-
tory. Tuesday afternoon, hours 
before the event, he tweeted 
that Christine Blasey-Ford 
“made a fortune” after testify-
ing against Supreme Court Jus-
tice Brett Kavanaugh, which is 
not true.
Several people, many wear-
ing Make America Great Again 
hats, booed Kirk on mention 
of his “relaxed” stance on LG-
BTQ+ conservatives and mass 
immigration. Kirk said the con-
servative movement should not 
alienate LGBTQ+ members 
and the U.S. should take “hard-
working,” “intelligent” legal 
immigrants. 
Protestors yelled back that 
all immigration should be 
banned. Anthony Leonardi, the me-
dia director for UF’s Turning 
Point USA and a 22-year-old 
UF political science senior, said 
the protestors were white su-
premacists who are following 
the rhetoric of Nicholas Fuen-
tes. Fuentes, a 21-year-old con-
servative, is famous for making 
YouTube videos for his “Amer-
ica First” brand. 
“Their objective is that we 
have failed some sort of obliga-
tion to be conservative,” Leon-
ardi said. “Turning Point is a 
fusionist organization that has 
values that it wants to stand up 
for.”
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time a 
conservative speaker has been 
heckled by the same group. 
Monday night at the Univer-
sity of California Los Angeles, 
Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle were 
booed during their stage event 
by Fuentes’ followers, accord-
ing to the Washington Post.
Outside the auditorium, Turning Point USA founder 
speaks, gets heckled at UF
SEE KIRK,  PAGE 5SEE IMPEACH,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  59° LOW  50°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
UFSG Constitution Revision
When: Thursday, 2 p.m.
Where:  Reitz Union room 2325
What: The UF Student 
Government Constitution 
Revision Commission will be 
holding a public hearing for the 
purpose of receiving public com-
ments regarding the current SG 
operating constitution and any 
recommendations to that docu-
ment.RPB Presents: VanJess
When: Thursday, 8 p.m.
Where: Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom 
What: VanJess is a Nigerian-
American 90's style R&B duo com-
posed of sisters Ivana and Jessica 
Nwokike. The duo has been grac-
ing us with their YouTube covers 
since 2010, and recently released 
their own debut album “Silk 
Canvas.” This event is free for UF 
students with a valid Gator 1 I.D. 
No tickets are required.First Magnitude beer launch 
for butterflies
When: Friday, 5 to 8 p.m. 
Where:  First Magnitude Brewing 
Co.
What:  The Florida Museum 
of Natural History and First 
Magnitude Brewing Co. will host a 
fundraiser to help support butter-
fly conservation. First Magnitude 
will release a new Belgian witbier 
style brew called “Florida White,” 
highlighting the Florida white 
butterfly. The suggested donation 
of $10 includes $1 off all beers; 
$15 includes a signature glass and 
$1 off all beers. Merchandise will 
also be available for purchase. All 
proceeds will directly support im-
periled butterfly recovery efforts 
in Florida. For more information, 
visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/fl-white or call 352-
273-2022.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 34
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Elizabeth TubbsTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Vieo, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
NOTICE
APPLICATION FOR
CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TO THE
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
ORGANIZATION FOR THE GAINESVILLE 
URBANIZED AREA
     The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area invites interested persons to apply for its 
Citizens Advisory Committee.  The Citizens Advisory Committee 
reacts to planning proposals and provides comments with respect to 
the concerns of various segments of the population in regard to their 
transportation needs.  The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area has also outlined 
additional functions of the Citizens Advisory Committee as defined in 
its bylaws.  Citizens Advisory Committee members usually serve a 
three-year term.  At its December 16, 2019 meeting, the 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will make five appointments to fill vacancies on its 
Citizens Advisory Committee.
     The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area, composed of the Mayor and six City of 
Gainesville Commissioners and the five Alachua County 
Commissioners, is responsible for the continuing, cooperative and 
comprehensive transportation planning program for the Gainesville 
Metropolitan Area.  
     Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, 
national origin, sex, age disability, familial status, religious status, 
marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity.
     Applications and/or additional information may be obtained by 
writing or calling: Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, 2009 NW 67 Place, Gainesville, 
Florida 32653; telephone 352.955.2200; or from its  website at 
www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo.  Applications must be received no later than 
Monday, December 2, 2019.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
ABOUT 100 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE 
UNVEILING 
By Hannah Phillips
Contributing Writer
Mayor Lauren Poe faced a 
crowd gathered along the side of 
Eighth Avenue. His microphone 
buzzed, but his message was 
clear: In times of war, Gainesville 
advocates for peace. 
About 100 people attended the 
unveiling of two historical mark-
ers Monday afternoon. The mark-
ers commemorate Memorial Mile, 
the mile-long stretch of road on 
Eighth Avenue where volunteers 
arrange thousands of tombs in re-
membrance of veterans who died 
in Afghanistan and Iraq every 
year. 
“The cost of war is paid in the 
lives of the daughters and sons of 
our community,” Poe said. 
Douglas Bernal, a member of 
Veterans For Peace, proposed the 
idea for Memorial Mile to City Commissioner Harvey Ward last 
June. Ward passed it along to the 
commission, where it was unani-
mously approved. 
The stretch of road between 
Northwest 31st Drive and North-
west 23rd Street was chosen for 
Memorial Mile because of its prox-
imity to the public parking and re-
strooms at the Loblolly Woods Na-
ture Park, said Jim Zimmerman, 
a member of Gainesville Veterans 
for Peace. The road is straight and 
narrow, which allows for com-
plete visibility of the 6,900 white 
polystyrene tombs lining the road. 
Scott Camil, president of the 
VFP Gainesville chapter, said he 
hopes Memorial Mile will help re-
mind the community of the great 
human loss that results from war. 
“This weekend is about re-
membrance,” he said.  
The Gainesville VFP chapter 
began putting up tombs along 
the road on Memorial Day 2007. 
Weather permitting, it is a tradi-
tion that has occurred almost ev-
ery year since, he said. 
The tombs contain the name, age, service unit and date of death 
of all those who have died serv-
ing in wars in Afghanistan or Iraq, 
he said. Some contain the names 
of soldiers from Gainesville. Vol-
unteers spend around eight hours 
erecting the tombs, and another 
eight hours taking them down af-
ter Memorial Day. 
Families come from all over the 
country to visit the tombs, said 
Paul Ortiz, a member of VFP and 
professor of history at UF. They 
are meant to memorialize the cost 
of war without glorifying it, he 
said. 
Speaking from personal experi-
ence, Ortiz said he served in Cen-
tral America in the 1980s with the 
U.S. Army’s seventh special forces 
group. After returning to the U. S., 
Ortiz said his feelings about Vet-
eran Day had drastically changed. 
“To hear politicians talk about 
how exciting war was — how it 
strengthens our country — that 
was horrifying. It was despicable.” Local veterans commemorated with Miracle Mile signs
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Members of the organization Veterans for Peace look at the newly 
unveiled Memorial Mile marker on NW 8th Avenue Monday. 
During Memorial Day weekend each year, the organization places 
tombstones marking the names of every U.S. service member who 
has died in Iraq and Afghanistan.
ABOUT 140 VETERANS, 
FAMIL Y MEMBERS 
ATTENDED
By Eli Rosen
Contributing Writer
Veterans and loved ones joined 
together in silence among the graves 
to honor the veterans in their own 
community. 
More than 140 people gathered 
in the Evergreen Cemetery Mon-
day afternoon to attend “A Veter-
ans Day Remembrance,” an event 
honoring U.S. military veterans in 
Gainesville and around the world. 
The 163-year-old cemetery houses 
the graves of more than 1,000 mili-
tary veterans from as long ago as 
the Second Seminole War in 1835.
The ceremony began with the 
cry of the Eastside High School 
Navy junior ROTC’s bagpipes, fol-
lowed by remarks from speakers 
William Marcanetel, a U.S. Air 
Force veteran; Robert Wilford, a 
U.S. Navy veteran; Gainesville cul-
tural affairs manager Russell Etling; 
City Commissioner Gigi Simmons; 
Ronna Jackson, director for the Mil-
itary Support Group of Alachua and 
Chief Chaplain Melvin Lane.
Wilford began the commence-
ment by thanking veterans and 
reminding  attendees to not forget 
those who are serving at home and 
overseas.
“Our rights are safeguarded by 
those who serve the country,” Wil-
ford said. “A country that steadfast-
ly remains a beacon of freedom for 
the rest of the world.”
Wilford, a retired Navy Seal, 
said Veterans Day is an important reminder of the sacrifices of those 
who serve and the pain that fami-
lies of veterans endure.
“The scars of battle are just too 
deep for so many,” Wilford said. 
“Let us never forget our military 
families.”
Attendees were encouraged to 
help prepare care packages for those 
serving in the military through a 
program organized by the Military 
Support Group of Alachua County. 
These care packages are filled with 
nonperishables, toiletries, station-
ary items and a letter of encourage-
ment.
The Military Support Group of 
Alachua County has shipped more 
than 20,000 care packages to the 
U.S. military since it began in 2004, 
Etling said. 
Besides the speakers and care 
packages, the event also included 
poster displays.
Children enrolled in after school 
programs had the opportunity to 
participate in a patriotic poster con-
test. The winners of this contest 
were on display at this event, Etling 
said. 
Art Campbell, a Navy and Coast 
Guard veteran, attended the cer-
emony.
Campbell said he joined the mili-
tary because it just felt natural, es-
pecially since his father served in 
both world wars. Four of his grand-
children are also serving in the mili-
tary and his brother served in the 
Navy.
“We’re proud to be a military 
family,” he said.Military families, veterans remember fallen at cemetary
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Svetlana Scalise, 6, hugs Jay Koester, a 55-year-old Air Force veteran. Koester, who served from 
1982-1992, said it felt good to be recognized for the service and sacrifice that many men made. He 
said Svetlana’s gesture was extremely touching.
,4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
FRIDAY WAS THIRD ANNUAL 
FIRST-GENERATION 
COLLEGE DAY
By Paola Chavez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF celebrated students who are the 
ﬁ  rst in their family to go to college Friday 
on National First-Generation Day. 
In honor of ﬁ  rst-gen students, a new 
garden was planted at the Field and Fork 
Pantry gardens, and events were hosted 
in collaboration with Field and Fork, 
First-Generation Student Success and the 
First Generation Organization, said Anna 
Prizzia, director of the pantry.
As a former ﬁ  rst-generation college 
student, Prizzia said she knows the value 
of being supported.
“I’ve been excited about the ﬁ  rst-gen 
students reaching out,” she said. “We 
want the garden to be a diverse place for 
students to feel welcome.”
About 22 percent of UF students are 
ﬁ  rst-generation, according to a UF enroll-ment website. 
Brian Fernandez, First Generation Or-
ganization treasurer and 22-year-old UF 
history and political science senior, co-
ordinated the event with Richard Blake, 
First-Generation Student Success assis-
tant director and a UF marriage and fam-
ily counseling master’s alumnus. 
Fernandez’s grandparents immigrat-
ed from Cuba to Miami. He’s the ﬁ  rst in 
his family to attend college.
“First-generation, to me, really means 
that you’re a pioneer in your family,” 
Fernandez said. “You pave the way for 
future generations to come.”
Earlier that day a picnic was hosted 
for ﬁ  rst-generation students on Plaza of 
the Americas, where students lined up 
for free pizza, games and green “I Am 
First!” T-shirts.
The event featured several campus 
organizations including the Machen 
Florida Opportunity Scholars Program 
and the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Academic Support.
The program was created by former 
UF President Bernie Machen in 2005 to cover expenses for low-income ﬁ  rst-gen-
eration students at UF and has helped 
about 5,000 students, said Leslie Pendle-
ton, MFOS senior director.
“Being ﬁ  rst-year means you’re a trail-
blazer,” she said. “Being able to develop 
a strong base and network of support 
here at UF is helpful for ﬁ  rst-gen stu-
dents.”
Over the summer, the Florida Pre-
paid College Foundation and UF pooled 
nearly $1 million for 30 four-year schol-
arships for ﬁ  rst-generation students start-
ing as freshmen this semester. 
Julianna Panton, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology sophomore, is one of this 
semester’s 1,200 MFOS scholars, Pendel-
ton said. 
She said the biggest challenge she 
faced was being unable to go to her Ja-
maican family for college advice.
“I think being ﬁ  rst-gen is a way to 
break the barrier within my family and 
set expectations for future generations to 
come,” she said.UF pays homage to ﬁ  rst-generation students
NEW CRITERIA INCLUDES 
ENHANCED MISSING CHILD ALERT
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time in almost two de-
cades, Florida’s Amber Alert system is 
getting an upgrade. 
The Florida Department of Law En-
forcement announced Friday it has up-
dated the criteria for Florida’s Amber 
Alert in collaboration with Florida’s 
AMBER Review Committee. 
The new Amber Alert criteria has 
adopted the criteria for an Enhanced 
Missing Child Alert. This means that 
Amber Alerts may now be issued if au-thorities believe a child is facing immi-
nent danger, regardless of whether he 
or she was abducted, said FDLE com-
munications director Gretl Plessinger. 
“One of the reasons that we want-
ed to update our Amber and Missing 
Child Alert criteria was because the 
last time it was updated was in 2002,” 
she said. “As you know, technology 
has changed signiﬁ  cantly since then.” 
Plessinger said the update was an-
nounced just two days after an Amber 
Alert was issued for a missing Jackson-
ville child, making this the ﬁ  rst case in 
Florida to employ the new system.
Five-year-old Taylor Williams was 
reportedly last seen on Nov. 6. At 
the time, authorities issued a Missing Child Alert. Following the criteria up-
date and indication that Williams was 
in imminent danger, law enforcement 
asked to upgrade the case to an Amber 
Alert, Plessinger said.
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
public information ofﬁ  cer Art Forgey 
said this upgrade gives authorities an-
other tool to work on cases involving 
missing and endangered children.
“You know, we work different 
crimes, homicides and everything,” he 
said. “But I think the biggest scare that 
any of us have is a missing child and 
Amber Alerts.”
@alexldeluca
adeluca@alligator.orgFlorida’s Amber Alert system upgraded after 17 yearsAmber Alert changes:
Old Amber Alert:
• Child must be under 18 years of age
• Issued when authorities have a clear indication that 
a child has been abducted.
• There must be a detailed description of child, abduc-
tor and/or vehicle to broadcast to the public.
• The local law enforcement agency of jurisdiction 
recommends activation
New Amber Alert (which now includes Enhanced 
Missing Child Alert criteria):
• Child must be under 18 years of age
• Issued when authorities have a well-founded belief 
that a child is facing imminent danger
• Issued when authorities have a clear indication that 
a child has been abducted
• There is a detailed description or photograph of the 
child to broadcast to the public
• The local law enforcement agency of jurisdiction 
recommends activationhis two colleagues, citing that city ofﬁ  cials are already 
overwhelmed with public records requests. 
“To add more of those [requests] when they can 
simply log on right now and read the emails I think is, 
again, creating more problems than it’s worth,” he said.  
Mayor Lauren Poe said he has no problems with the 
current email system and the city commission should 
“manage our communications the way we see ﬁ  t.” 
“I get that there’s a potential beneﬁ  t to having a 
uniﬁ  ed email policy amongst all commissioners, but, 
honestly, it’s our email,” Poe said. “I am perfectly okay 
with every commissioner deciding what works best for 
them.”  
@lina_ruiz48 
lruiz@alligator.org EMAILS,  from pg. 1Emails are public recordWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
Pain removal at once.
40% off. Opening Promotion
(352)283-3637  |  oneacu.comBack, Neck, Shoulders, Knees, etc.
Q Acupuncture & Herb Clinicabout 20 protestors from Gainesville 
Antifascists, Young Democratic So-
cialists of America at UF and UF 
Graduate Assistants United huddled 
under blankets in the 50-degree 
weather to picket the event. 
The organization also printed out 
a large poster of Kirk’s head, ﬁ  lled 
his eyes out with a black marker and 
wrote “C**T” on his forehead. 
Unlike Trump Jr., Kirk was not 
paid using student funds. Turning 
Point USA rented out the auditorium 
at a reduced rate, according to the 
University Auditorium Rental Policy 
Manual. 
Kirk discussed Turning Point 
USA’s three main points: the U.S. 
is the greatest country in the world,  
the Constitution is the greatest politi-
cal document in the world and free-
market capitalism is the best, moral 
economic system.
Although he can’t pick his No. 
1, Kirk said that UF’s Turning Point 
chapter is one of his favorites.
“Go Gators, I guess,” he said. 
@aescalante22
aescalante@alligator.org
Hope Dean contributed to this report. KIRK,  from pg. 1About 20 demonstraters protested event outside auditorium 
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Charlie Kirk and Graham Allen discuss immigration issues and policy Tuesday night in University Auditorium.
Lima said the Student Body Stat-
utes and rules do not designate a 
committee to review impeachment 
resolutions. Instead, impeachment 
resolutions go straight to the Im-
peachment Body, which is senators 
elected in Spring. If the Impeach-
ment Body votes to impeach, Mur-
phy would be suspended from of-
ﬁ  ce. 
The Trial Body, which is sena-
tors elected in Fall, vote on removal. 
If the body votes against removal, 
his suspension would end. 
“Our course of action is really to hold President Murphy account-
able,” Tio said. “He directly violated 
the 800 codes, which state that Stu-
dent Government… activity and ser-
vice fees are not allowed to be used 
on expenditures supporting any po-
litical party or candidates.” 
Tio and Diaz said the team of 
senators had precedent from a 2009 
resolution calling for the impeach-
ment of Student Body President 
Kevin Reilly. They followed the for-
mat used then, which requires the 
resolution be formated in a different 
way than typical SG resolutions. 
“The goal, as I see it, is to repre-
sent students’ interests in whatever way that comes,” Diaz said. “At the 
end of the day, the senators were 
elected to represent a portion of the 
student body, so I have faith that 
they will act as representatives of 
the people.”  
Diaz said the team of senators 
submitted the resolution to Senate 
President Emily Dunson, who the 
SG 300 Codes for legislation outline 
as the impeachment body chair. 
Alana Rush, a Gator senator and 
member at large, did not say if she 
is for or against impeachment, but 
said the situation is difﬁ  cult to deal 
with. 
“It was wrong to use student fees for political purposes,” Rush said.  
Caroline Pope, a 21-year-old UF 
sociology senior and Inspire Party 
volunteer, said she wanted to sup-
port the resolution after reading it. 
“With everything that’s been go-
ing on our campus, especially with 
the use of our funds, that was kind 
of the ﬁ  nal push for me,” Pope said.  
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.org
 Alyssa Feliciano contributed to 
this report. IMPEACH,  from pg. 1Impeachment of Student Body president is rareTIMELINE
July 4: Wren and Murphy met at 
Wren’s house
Sept. 10: Wren emailed Murphy
Sept. 11: Murphy responded to 
Wren’s email
Sept. 20: Murphy contacted 
Sanders
Sept. 22: Sanders’ team declines 
Murphy’s invitation 
Oct 10: Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle 
speak at UF
Oct. 30: Emails posted online
Nov. 5: During public comment, 
people demanded Murphy’s 
resignation 
Nov. 12: Inspire senators 
released a resolution calling for 
Murphy’s impeachmentEditorialWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Letter to the Editor
The stories our father told
When you grow up in a house of journalists, 
you are born into a world of stories ﬁ  lled 
with villains, heroes and impossible twists 
of fate. In his 40-year career in journalism 
that started at The Alligator, our father Barry 
Klein accumulated too many stories to count. He is re-
tiring this week, and to demonstrate his commitment to 
critical journalistic values, we ﬁ  gured it’s time to tell a 
couple of his tales.
Our dad’s career in journalism began with a series 
of bold, unconventional decisions. Decisions to take his 
National Merit Scholarship and use it to attend the Uni-
versity of South Florida. Then to drop out of USF after 
a semester and drive north until his car broke down in 
North Carolina. He had to work in a Burger King to pay 
for his return home. It took several lonely months of 
that freezing, burger-ﬁ  lled existence for our dad to ﬁ  -
nally make a sensible decision: to follow in his brother’s 
footsteps and attend UF and become a reporter for The 
Alligator. 
That alone didn’t satisfy his bold tendencies. Two 
years into his time at The Alligator, the UF adminis-
tration forbade The Alligator from attending a meeting, 
threatening criminal trespassing charges. Barry stormed 
into the meeting anyway, becoming the ﬁ  rst Alligator 
reporter to be arrested for doing his job. 
Some parents quietly help shape the world for their 
children. Our father never does anything quietly — he was dragged out of the meeting in handcuffs.
A story also demands serendipity alongside boldness, 
a twist of fate or a critical encounter inspired by pure 
coincidence. Dad’s story didn’t become his story un-
til he stumbled into an encounter with our mom. After 
obliviously circling each other in various bureaus and 
cities, Marlene Sokol and Barry Klein ﬁ  nally crossed 
paths at the St. Petersburg Times, known as the Tampa 
Bay Times today.
On many occasions our mother recounted a night 
when our ﬁ  dgety father spilled wine on his tie and then 
desperately tried to salvage it with her blow dryer. She 
always says that moment made her realize she had fall-
en in love. 
A good story demands that we ask ourselves what 
would have happened if that wine had been water, if he 
hadn’t been running late or if he hadn’t worn a tie. But 
luckily it wasn’t water, he was late and he did wear a 
tie. Mom laughed at him and his damp, wine-soaked tie, 
and they were married a few years later.
Barry Klein told stories for a living, participating 
in a noble industry that barely exists in this country 
anymore. Growing up, we watched our parents dedi-
cate long hours to work that they feel is important. We 
watched our parents tell bold and miraculous stories to 
a world that seems to no longer wants to hear journal-
ist. Dad, your stories always had an audience. We were 
always listening. And we always will be.
Aaron Klein is a UF political science graduate student. 
Sarah Klein is a UF alumna and software developer for 
The New York Times.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Northwestern’s apology 
wasn’t great, but Twitter’s 
reaction was even worse
As upcoming journalists, many of us are aware of the difﬁ  cul-
ties involved in the craft. Our work is expected to inform the 
public in an objective way, but when respecting the feelings 
of the public comes into play, things can get confusing. 
On Nov. 10, The Daily Northwestern, the student 
newspaper at Northwestern University, released an apology ad-
dressing their coverage of a protest against Attorney General Jeff 
Sessions, even though they followed standard procedures in con-
tacting individuals and taking photos in a public space.
The students who were involved in the protest were at risk 
of being disciplined by Northwestern as the university does not 
grant amnesty at such events. For this reason, The Daily North-
western was put in a situation where they had little control. Stu-
dents pushed their concerns towards the newspaper instead of 
the true source of their problems: the university. Alongside this, 
many individuals felt uncomfortable with the coverage and felt 
they were reliving traumatic events. 
Unsurprisingly, Twitter blew up. The apology was criticized for fo-
cusing on saving face. It overlooked the work journalists do in order to 
get news to the public by inadvertently saying methods, like reaching 
out to students for comment, are wrong.
The apology might have undermined the importance of journal-
ism, but the harsh responses against it overlook an issue many jour-
nalists face as well as the mistakes that actually harm the profession.
The article was written by college students, and it’s unreason-
able to expect perfection all the time from people who typically 
make mistakes as they learn — especially when the reasonings 
behind the apology are understandable. 
The students at The Daily Northwestern were faced with a 
dilemma many professionals struggle with today. In the battle 
between informing the public and making sure the public feels 
respected, one must make the decision to prioritize one over the 
other. In this case, the newspaper took the apology a step too far. 
Journalism is meant to be jarring and the emotions created 
are meant to invoke change. The importance of a protest can’t be 
displayed without proper coverage. 
Northwestern is considered one of the best universities for 
journalism in the country, so the newspaper’s mistake was very  
unexpected. However, respected professionals in the ﬁ  eld have 
made harsher mistakes against the integrity of journalism. People 
within the profession shouldn’t focus on one student newspa-
per’s problem, they should work on preexisting problems in jour-
nalism.
Remember when The New York Times released an editorial 
against Sarah Palin that was based on a conspiracy theory? How 
about when Rolling Stone ran a story about a gang rape that 
turned out be false? These mistakes cost millions of dollars in 
lawsuits, but both publications are still held in high regard.  
We should look deeper into the problems in the industry to-
day. Over the past few years, the credibility of news outlets have 
been suffering, and these cases certainly don’t help.
Right now, the public has trust issues. According to a report by 
the Gallup, only 41 percent of Americans trust what they see in 
mass media. Fewer people are believing in the news, and under-
mining the feelings of the public doesn’t seem like it will solve this.
The apology from Northwestern shouldn’t be viewed as some-
thing so negative. In reality, it represents a problem in journalism 
that might be one of the greatest factors killing the craft. Despite 
undermining the importance of objective reporting, the newspa-
per’s publication at least tried to connect with the community its 
supposed to help and inform in the ﬁ  rst place.
Instead of focusing on the mistakes of beginners, maybe we 
should address what actually affects the importance of jour-
nalism: public opinion.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORWhat comes in pairs, is beloved by 
babies, but hated by the media? 
Nipples! In the age of the #MeToo 
movement and feminism, women 
are taking ownership over their 
bodies, including their nipples.  
When females’ breasts begin to grow, they 
are expected to strap on a bra to hide them. More 
speciﬁ  cally, girls are expected to hide their nip-
ples. 
As a woman, I can conﬁ  rm bras can be un-
comfortable. After wearing them over and over, day after 
day, sometimes when you just want to give your breasts 
a break. People view the protruding outline of women’s 
nipples as overly sexual. However, there’s no issue with the 
outline of men’s nipples. 
I tried thinking of a male equivalent of the bra. I tried 
doing some research. The closest equivalent I could ﬁ  nd 
are jock straps, which are not worn by the majority of men.
Growing up, I can recall occasionally having male teach-
ers wearing shirts that were tighter on the skin, making the 
outlines of their nipples apparent. 
Yes, I noticed. No, it was not a distraction. No, it did not 
have an impact on my learning environment. Yes, it begs 
the question as to why men can get away with showing 
nipples without batting an eye when women are considered 
scandalous and provocative for the same thing. 
Last year, school ofﬁ  cials gave one 17-year-old girl 
wearing a baggy shirt without a bra at school Band-Aids 
to cover up her “distracting” nipples. In an interview 
with Buzzfeed News the girl’s mom said, “It’s a disgust-
ing example of a double standard and shows how our 
culture body-shames women. If a boy was staring at her nipples that long why was he not spoken to or 
punished?”
And this is just talking about when shirts are 
kept on. 
Instagram, famous for its restrictive laws 
against showing female nipples in photos, has 
received backlash for its double standards.  
In its community guidelines, it says, “We 
know that there are times when people might 
want to share nude images that are artistic or 
creative in nature, but for a variety of reasons, 
we don’t allow nudity on Instagram.”
The company said these include everything 
from genitals, fully nude buttocks, to some 
photos of female nipples. 
Amber Heard recently called out Instagram’s guide-
lines for its gender bias. The social media company re-
moved a photo of Heard showing slight nipple cleavage.
In response, Heard posted a picture of her “Aqua-
man” co-star Jason Momoa photoshopped in her place. 
The actress called Instagram’s guidelines “rigorous” 
and “strict.” 
Miley Cyrus recently challenged these guidelines by 
posting a mirror-selﬁ  e wearing a transparent white tank-
top in which her nipples shined through. Instagram has 
not taken the photo down, despite Cyrus’ photo reveal-
ing more than Heard’s photo. 
Bras should not be thrown away all together, as some 
bras augment conﬁ  dence. They can make you feel ready 
for the day. For women with larger breasts, going braless 
may be more uncomfortable than wearing bras. Howev-
er, no one should be forced to wear bras on the premise 
that going without one is not socially acceptable. 
Gender equality means nipple equality. 
Lauren Rousseau is a UF journalism sophomore. The stigma of going bralessColumn
Lauren 
Rousseau
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Meet UF linebacker Diabate
The true freshman notched three sacks and a forced 
fumble on Saturday. He’s a part of a young core of 
playmakers UF has for the future, Pg. 11John Paul White to play at Heartwood Tuesday
The singer-songwriter will be performing material off his 
newest album “The Hurting Kind. ” Tickets cost $15-25 and the 
show begins at 8 p.m.OVER 50 LOCAL VENDORS 
CAME TOGETHER FOR 
THE EVENT
By Cassidy Hopson 
Avenue Staff Writer
Stephon Brown has been a business 
owner since he was a senior in high 
school. 
He had been hand sewing his own 
pants, hoodies and shirts when people 
started to take interest in his unique style. 
Brown, 21, decided to turn his hobby 
into a business, which has been in opera-
tion since 2015. The clothing he creates 
is inspired by older brands and trends. 
“I like Louis Vuitton, a lot of their 
‘90s apparel that they came out with and 
Tommy Hilﬁ  ger of course, they were the 
main thing in like the ‘90s and ‘80s,” 
Brown said. “So that’s what I kinda draw 
my inspiration from, throwback stuff.” 
This was the third time Brown and his 
company, Vintage Living, attended the 
Florida Vintage Market in Gainesville. 
The Florida Vintage Market hosts a 
variety of vendors selling vintage cloth-
ing, artwork, jewelry and handmade 
goods. Brown joined more than 50 ven-
dors on Bo Diddley Community Plaza Sunday for the event.
New to the event and Gainesville was 
Your CBD Store, which sells health-ori-
ented CBD products. 
Items they sell include CBD gummies, 
CBD-infused creams and CBD oil. All of 
their products are third-party lab tested, 
employee Elizabeth Plant said. 
She said all of their products have a 
QR code customers can scan to access 
an online report form which discloses 
the amount of CBD in the product. The 
codes let customers verify that the prod-
ucts actually have CBD, since fraud is a 
problem in the industry.
“There is a lot of fraud on the mar-
ket when it comes to CBD,” Plant said. 
“People can slap a label on it since it isn’t 
regulated when in all actuality it’s prob-
ably just hemp seed oil, which doesn’t 
contain any active ﬂ  avonoids.” 
Relax Salt Rooms, set to open the 
doors to their spa in January, was at the 
market selling their Himalayan bath salts 
and edible salts.
Owner Megan Forcey said she want-
ed to bring salt therapy to Gainesville af-
ter going to a salt therapy spa for the ﬁ  rst 
time three years ago. 
“I did my ﬁ  rst treatment three and a 
half years ago up in Ashville at a differ-
ent salt room and I walked out… and I said to my husband ‘I kinda wanna do 
this for the rest of my life, that was life-
changing,’” Forcey said. 
She said the spa will be offering salt 
room yoga, crystal healing and sound 
therapy once it opens. 
Skincare company Oh Hunni was at 
the event selling their natural and home-
made skincare products.
Owner Shanna Gilliard said she was 
inspired to start her company after mak-
ing her own skincare products for her 
and her family. 
“Starting a company was mores to 
combat my son’s really dry skin, and I 
have very sensitive skin, so I’m very 
wary of what I put on it,” Gillard said.
All of her products are made with 
locally-sourced honey, with her most 
popular product being the Beastly Beard 
Balm. 
“My full-time job is a project manager 
for an advertising agency,” Gillard said. 
“So, this is my baby, this is my passion 
project.” 
The ﬁ  nal Florida Vintage Market of 
the year will return to Bo Diddley Plaza 
next month on Dec. 1 from 12 to 5 p.m. 
@CassidyHopson
chopson@alligator.orgBusiness owners gather downtown 
for Florida Vintage Market Kat Antunes / Alligator Staff
Deacon sweats over an assortment of MDMI controllers and a kaleidoscope of knobs and buttons 
Saturday night in The Atlantic.
MUSIC
LIFESTYLECassandra   Perez   
Avenue   Staff   Writer   
Home to nine musicians who have been inducted into 
the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, Gainesville boasts a rich 
musical history that extends far beyond its borders. But 
what is it about the city that breeds legends? 
The Matheson History Museum’s newest exhibition seeks 
to answer just that question. Titled “Tom Petty’s Gainesville: 
Where Dreams Began,” the collection honors the musician’s 
40-year career by going back to his roots. Showcasing a wide 
range of memorabilia from his early days in Gainesville, all of 
which were borrowed from Petty’s local friends and family, 
the exhibit provides an intimate look at the well-loved icon 
and his far-reaching legacy. 
The exhibition debuted Friday in the Mary Ann Cofrin Ex-
hibit Hall with a members-only reception at 6 p.m. followed 
by a general public reception from 7 to 9 p.m. The occasion 
marked the museum’s ﬁ  rst time offering members the oppor-
tunity to view its newest exhibits early. The exhibit will be 
open to the general public free of charge until Jan. 11, 2020. 
“It was a way for us to sort of give another beneﬁ  t to peo-
ple who support us all year long,” Executive Director Dixie 
Neilson said. “It may be surprising to some, but the Matheson 
is supported solely by donations and grants that we write. 
We’re not connected with any state or city organizations.”
According to Neilson, the Matheson has been working on 
the exhibit for about four months. They originally wanted to 
debut the exhibit during last month’s Tom Petty Weekend, 
but many of the items they intended to display were being 
used for the festivities. 
The Matheson typically starts working on an exhibit a year 
in advance of its debut. 
“It was deﬁ  nitely challenging working on such an abbrevi-
ated schedule, and this exhibit was particularly challenging 
because there were so many different working pieces,” cura-
tor of collections Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney said. “Trying to get 
everybody on the same page was deﬁ  nitely difﬁ  cult, but it all 
worked out and it all came together.” 
At the exhibit, visitors can peruse handwritten lyrics to Pet-
ty’s numerous hits, instruments and equipment used by his 
early band Mudcrutch, and a map of Gainesville highlighting 
places that comprised the backdrop of Petty’s formative years.
“The thing that I’m most proud of about the exhibit is 
the way that it is really from the community,” Hof-Mahoney 
said. “We had people come together and either loan or donate 
items to the museum for this exhibit who were Tom’s friends 
— his fans.” 
Petty’s exhibit is expected to be the ﬁ  rst in a series that 
delves into Gainesville’s rich musical history, marking a new 
direction for the museum. 
Looking toward the future, Neilson suggested residents 
can expect anything from more exhibitions on Petty, perhaps 
revolving around the later years of his career or his relation-
ship with Elvis Presley, or other home-grown musicians like 
Bo Diddley, whose family still resides in Gainesville. 
“We’re really excited to start collecting things from mu-
sicians and musical groups and people who have achieved 
fame that are from Gainesville because there are so many of 
them,” Neilson said. “We’re trying to ﬁ  gure out how this all 
happened — how did they all happen to come from this area? 
That’s a question we look to explore in the future.” 
cperez@alligator.org
@cassandraperez0Matheson History 
Museum debuts Tom 
Petty exhibition  
LIFESTYLE
 MUSIC
MUSIC
About 170 people came out to The Atlantic Saturday night 
for Dan Deacon’s show. Deacon brought his experimental 
electronic music and signature interactive performance. 
Deacon instructed the audience through various dancing 
games, including a human tunnel that snaked outside to 
Main Street and then back inside the club.
THE EXHIBIT FEATURES MEMORABILIA FROM 
THE ROCK ICON’S LOCAL FRIENDS AND FAMIL Y8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
THE DUO IS MOVING 
TO LOS ANGELES TO 
CONTINUE THEIR MUSIC
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Paris-born pop duo Pearl & The 
Oysters are saying goodbye to Flor-
ida and hello to California.
The band, made up of musi-
cians Juliette Davis and Joachim 
Polack, will be performing a fare-
well party Nov. 16 at The Wooly 
in light of their upcoming move to 
Los Angeles, where the two will be 
pursuing greater opportunities for 
their musical careers. 
The farewell party will be pre-
sented by Tonight’s the Night 
GNV, featuring fellow local bands 
Room Thirteen, Edmondson and 
The Dewars. Tickets are available 
on Showclix for $7 and doors open 
at 8 p.m. with the music beginning 
at 9 p.m.
The duo ﬁ  rst came to Gainesville 
nearly four years ago, when Polack decided to attend UF for his doc-
torate. Davis followed Polack to 
Florida, having met him in high 
school. They shared similar pas-
sions for music and began produc-
ing and performing music as Pearl 
& The Oysters after arriving in 
Gainesville.
Pearl & The Oysters have re-
leased two albums since beginning 
their careers. They released their 
self-titled debut album in 2017 and 
their second album, “Canned Mu-
sic,” shortly after in 2018. Their 
third album, the name yet to be 
revealed, will conclude what they 
call their “Florida trilogy.”
The band, which features a nos-
talgic ‘60s and ‘70s pop sound, tries 
to capture the landscape of Florida 
with their music, Davis said.
“There’s a lot of synthesiz-
ers that are actually imitating the 
sounds of nature,” Davis said. 
“Florida, particularly North Flori-
da, was also quite an inﬂ  uence for 
our sound.”
The duo’s move to Los Angeles 
is the next step in their musical ca-reer, as the band hopes to do more 
tours, reach a larger audience and 
hopefully take part in some col-
laborations.
Polack, who hopes to complete 
his dissertation this coming fall, 
hopes that the new landscape will 
help the band reach professional 
heights.
“I think it could become a more 
legitimate thing,” Polack said. “I 
think it would be nice to be able to 
experience this atmosphere of mu-
sic being concentrated in a sort of 
Mecca, and let that push us to try 
to be better.”
As a band so heavily inﬂ  uenced 
by their environment, Pearl & The 
Oysters said they’re not sure how 
California will manifest itself in 
their sound.
“It will be our ecosystem,” Da-
vis said. “Maybe we’ll stay in Flor-
ida in our hearts.”
Polack and Davis said the 
Gainesville community is the best 
audience in the world, and the duo 
expects saying goodbye will be 
deeply emotional.“[Gainesville] has been very 
special, and very unexpected,” Po-
lack said. “We came from a place 
in France where we didn’t feel that 
relevant and that adequate to the 
music scene, and Florida really made us feel like what we were do-
ing mattered and touched people.”
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgFrench duo Pearl & The Oysters bid adieu to Gainesville
MUSIC
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
Music reverberates through nearly every 
crevice on most college campuses. “Can you 
make me a playlist?” and “Is the venue 21-
up?” are frequent questions heard through 
dorm room walls or across dining hall tables. 
The way students discover music has 
evolved and would now be unrecognizable 
to those who once relied on college radio for 
new music. Students’ options today are lim-
itless, and this has had an effect on the way 
students listen to and discover music. 
College radio stations previously main-
tained the supreme status of the “cool” place 
to discover new music recommended by in-
the-know students. 
Genevieve Curtis, an adjunct professor 
of screenwriting and ﬁ  lm production at UF, 
can relate to this sentiment. While attending 
the University of Central Florida, she was a 
songwriter in a punk band. 
Curtis said WPRK, a college radio station 
owned and operated by Rollins College, was 
a great source of local and independent mu-
sic for the greater Orlando area. 
“There was a big music scene that 
would travel up and down I-75 and through 
Gainesville,” she said. “The local radio sta-
tion there would feature a lot of the music 
coming out of this scene.”
Curtis talked about the meaning of college 
radio and how it created and facilitated mu-
sic scenes. Bands would record their demos, 
college radio stations would play them and 
kids would like it and come out to the shows. 
College radio spawned location-based com-munities, which is very different from the 
fandom or hatred internet forums common 
today.
GHQ, a Futuri-partnered radio station, 
is UF’s central student-run radio station on 
campus. It aims to be an all-encompassing 
music listening experience. Unfortunately, 
even the most popular radio stations on XM 
cannot introduce to the masses new music in 
the way a viral meme can. Just ask Denzel 
Curry or Lil Nas X. 
While the ways students consume and 
share music has changed from physical mix-
tapes to online playlists, Curtis said the best 
way to discover new music has always been 
by meeting different types of people. 
“What I would say to anybody who wants 
to ﬁ  nd good music is start hanging out with 
artists,” she said. “Artists are where the mu-
sic is, so start going to shows, art galleries 
and poetry readings because people that are 
looking to be inspired travel in packs.”
Amie Kreppel, director of the European 
Union Studies program, graduated with a 
doctorate from the University of California, 
Los Angeles in 1998. Kreppel talks about a 
time gone by when sneaking large micro-
phones into venues to tape a live show was 
par for the course. She listened to UCLA’s 
prominent college radio stations along with 
famous stations like KROQ. 
“Music was just very omnipresent in 
Berkeley,” she said. “Music was all what 
you heard live, and what you could record 
through a cassette tape so most of it was live. 
It was all so much harder, and therefore ev-
erything was more valuable.”
Kreppel, like many others, is conﬂ  icted about whether streaming services have an 
overall positive or negative effect on music 
consumption when compared with the previ-
ous rule of college radio stations.
“By not having college radio, you don’t 
have someone curating and going out and 
ﬁ  nding something that you might not already 
know about,” Kreppel said. “It requires a 
much more proactive work on the part of the 
students to ﬁ  nd the music. But I think you 
also really lose the community that college 
radio had. It used to be quite the community 
to the point that you would try to ﬁ  nd music 
that you could send to the college radio sta-
tion and get them to play it — even if it was 
your own band.” 
The evolution of music consumption 
has been everything but gradual. Every ﬁ  ve 
years since the dawn of Napster in 2000, a 
new addition to the modern world adds to 
this current climate where algorithms and 
lifestyle marketing rule the average music 
listener, such as the iPhone, MP3 players, 
Spotify, Apple Music and Pandora. 
Kreppel made the point that artists are 
freer today than ever before. They can cre-
ate, produce and release music without the 
need for gatekeeper approval. If the music is 
good, people will notice. On the other hand, 
Curtis brings the argument that musicians 
today are hindered by streaming services 
and their encouragement for artists to com-
modify themselves. 
Each student at UF has their own taste, 
formed like a sculpture being steadily chis-
eled by thousands of hit-or-miss songs and 
artists. Streaming services like Spotify, Apple 
Music and Tidal exacerbate this process by 
curating daily mixes, which collect a sub-
scriber’s recently played songs and dump 
them into an algorithm-formulated playlist.
Taylar Jorquera, a 21-year-old UF phi-
losophy and history senior, talked about her 
relationship with college radio and radio in 
general. 
“I don’t listen to radio at all,” she said. 
“At least for me and for people that I know, we don’t listen to radio because you just 
have everything in an app.”
Jorquera said she ﬁ  nds the experience of 
listening to music as much more individual-
ized with every new app or technology point-
ing in the direction of mobilization like ear-
buds, social media and streaming services. 
Michael Miller, a 21-year-old UF biochem-
istry and English senior, discussed how he 
ﬁ  nds new music.
“Almost all of the new music that I ﬁ  nd 
is recommended to me by friends, but occa-
sionally, I’ll use the Discover Weekly Spotify 
playlist and ﬁ  nd something,” he said. 
Unlimited artists, albums and song choic-
es are available to every student with a Wi-Fi 
connection. The majority of music scenes are 
no longer location-based, but this also frees 
listeners from the restrictive handcuffs of 
their area code. BROCKHAMPTON and Su-
perorganism are two groups that are prime 
examples of the beneﬁ  ts that come with to-
day’s online social interactions. 
Social media, along with streaming ser-
vices, have had a Big Bang-like effect on the 
music world. Kreppel said this combination 
can either break people free from once-cu-
rated options or keep them insulated in their 
echo chambers. 
“The internet and the accessibility to mu-
sic is freeing, but it also loosens communi-
ties, and what I have found with steaming 
music is that they just keep giving me more 
of what I like, just like Facebook gives me 
more posts that align with my political be-
liefs,” Kreppel said. “So you just continue in 
your bubble, except now your bubble is you 
alone with a computer as opposed to you 
and a record store with a bunch of people. 
So maybe it is a bad thing. I don’t know.”
In a world where you can ﬁ  nd everything 
online, the best way to discover new music 
may still be recommendations from your 
friends.
@chrstophercann
ccann@alligator.orgFrom mixtapes to algorithms
MUSIC
Finding new music has 
become increasingly digitizedPhoto Courtesy of Ian Clontz, illustration by Manon David
Pearl & the Oysters are leaving behind the Florida swamps 
for Los Angeles, where the Paris-born duo plans to pursue 
more musical opportunities for the band.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
1 BR APT $700/MO
Very clean, very quiet. Conveniently located. 
Call anytime. ★ 352-642-5000 ★      11-18-
19-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Today in history — 1789: Benjamin Franklin 
writes "Nothing... certain but death & taxes."
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6DSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Today in history — 1907: French cyclist & engi -
neer Paul Cornu flies 1st helicopter.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Today in history — 1931: Hattie Caraway (D-AK) 
appointed first US woman senator.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-141For Rent
furnished7 Computers 13 WantedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Gary Larson
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/13/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/13/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, November 13, 2019
ACROSS
1 Big name in wax 
museums
8 Surpasses
14 Worldwide law 
enforcement 
group
16 Eradicate
17 *Place for an 
eruption in Hawaii
18 Supreme 
Egyptian god
19 *Place for 
memorabilia 
about the 44th 
President
21 Eight British kings
24 Disney doe
25 Middling mark
26 Cries of pain
27 Lab work
30 Sondheim’s 
“Sweeney __”
31 “Robinson 
Crusoe” novelist
34 Shooting star
36 Money ... and, in 
three parts, a hint 
to the answers to 
starred clues
39 Like some dress 
shirts
40 Digital video files
43 Part of P.R.
46 Dix plus dix
48 Agua, across the 
Pyrenees
49 Smart-whip link
50 Saigon New Year
51 Badger at the 
comedy club
54 *Place on 
“Desperate 
Housewives”
58 Put in a pyramid
59 *Place for a 
space cadet
63 Treeless tract
64 Monty Python 
member
65 Like many a 
salad
66 Record 
collection?
DOWN
1 Allen of TV’s 
“Last Man 
Standing”
2 Spanish “a”3 Name spelled 
with an alphabet 
sequence
4 Tijuana title
5 Sheikdom of 
song
6 Batting ninth
7 Ruination
8 Compact cars?
9 Latin dance
10 Car service app
11 Mediterranean 
gambling mecca
12 Sounded content
13 Hung around
15 A.L. West team, 
on scoreboards
20 Allowing
21 Mortar carrier
22 Wool coat wearer
23 Brief warning 
accompanying 
a link
28 Academic 
retirees
29 Stitch into place
30 Mouth, in slang
32 Cry of woe
33 Fair-hiring abbr.
35 Omega, to an 
electrician
37 Area between 
banks38 Vichyssoise 
veggie
41 “Wonder 
Woman” actress 
Gadot
42 Seek damages
43 Least refined
44 Has a passion for
45 Social strata
47 Name shared by 
a Grace and a 
Muse
50 Phoenix neighbor52 Put on the books
53 Salsa singer 
Cruz
55 Surpasses
56 Smithwick’s brew
57 Fat used in 
baking
60 Free-app 
interrupters
61 Div. won by the 
Braves in 2019
62 City of Lions and 
Tigers: Abbr.
By Joe Deeney
(c)2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/09/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/09/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, November 9, 2019
ACROSS
1 Jacket whose 
earliest version 
was created for 
pilots
7 Saw the sites?
13 “The Conduct of 
Life” essayist
15 Players on the 
road
16 Place to park a 
whirlybird
18 Even though
19 More than is 
prudent
21 If-then-__: 
programmer’s 
construct
22 Factor in club 
selection
23 Catches on the 
range
24 Drilling org.
25 First of a box 
set
28 DVR button
29 Crooked
30 Privileged group
33 Sign of fall
34 Comedy of 
errors?
35 “Speak up!”
36 Some smoke 
detector 
batteries
37 Spruce (up)
41 “Over here!”
42 Groom carefully
44 Surly sort
45 Is in Spain?
46 Michigan 
national park
49 Sat on a sill, 
perhaps
51 Avoided a tag at
52 Minolta partner
53 Boards with a 
jump
54 Cunning
55 V11 vacuums, 
e.g.
DOWN
1 Take in
2 1978 horror 
sequel
3 Free-for-alls4 Many a theatre 
attendee
5 Gulf Canada 
alternative
6 Whirlybird part
7 Halts
8 Business card 
letters
9 “I Spy” actor
10 They usually 
have higher 
flash points than 
kerosene
11 Dispatch
12 Discover
14 Baby shampoo 
product line
17 Auditors’ follow 
them
20 Air freshener 
option
26 PBS cooking 
show hosted 
by Mary Ann 
Esposito
27 Pricey bar
29 Celestial ovine
31 Pinch
32 More than 
displeasure33 Singer at 
Woodstock with 
his “Family”
34 Big wind
35 Iotas
38 “Just you watch!”
39 Atlanta’s county
40 Trademarked 
halocarbon 
products
42 March 14, 
mathematically43 Asked too much
47 Jazz singer 
Anita whose 
stage name is 
pig latin for a 
slang word for 
“money”
48 Performance 
anxiety
50 Luther 
opponent 
Johann __
11/08/19answers on page 1010   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
Bilingual student wanted for part-time work 
as Latin America inside sales rep for local 
software company. Local software company 
in Gainesville (around the corner from SFCC) 
looking for energetic University of Florida or 
SFCC student to help with sales and market-
ing efforts focusing on Latin America in this 
part-time independent contractor position. 
Must be fluent in English and Spanish. We 
offer flexible hours. Earn hourly pay plus 
commission. Email resume and 3 references 
to: GvilleSoftwareCo@gmail.com.    11-20-
7-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
How to MAKE EXTRA MONEY PLAYING
VIDEO GAMES explained.
Free E-book tells how at
www.vidgamerz.com
11-25-19-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Today in history — 1942: Minimum draft age 
lowered from 21 to 18 in the US.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
Today in history — 1956: US Supreme court rules 
race separation on buses in Alabama unconstitutional.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
Today in history — 1971: Mariner 9, 1st to orbit 
another planet (Mars)Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the 
classifieds to find trip arrangements or show 
off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Today in history — 1986: US President Reagan con-
fesses weapon sales to Iran.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Today in history — 2018: Kristine E. Guillaume 
becomes first black woman to head Harvard 
student newspaper "The Crimson."IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
 FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M-R, from 
5:00 - 7:00 p.m. on 11/18 - 11/21.  Verbal 
on M&W, Math on T&R.   To register and 
learn the room location, go to the TC web-
site www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click 
on “Tutoring" then "Standardized Test Prep,” 
then "GRE Reviews."     11-18-19-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Today in history — 1982: Vietnam Veterans 
Memorial opens in Washington D.C.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
Today in history — 1927: New York–New Jersey 
Holland Tunnel, 1st twin-tube underwater tunnel, opens.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
1.  Narrative song
1.  Cow or buffalo5.  European river
2.  Nighttime tune6.  Smoke ____
3.  Florida neighbor 7.  Twirl, spiral
4.  Frustrate, hinderLALBDA
OIBEVNGOVAL
RAAML
AYULBLL
BLAMAAAYGTERA
IMSTYEANSWERS: 1A-Ballad  5A-Volga  6A-Alarm  7A-Gyrate
1D-Bovine  2D-Lullaby  3D-Alabama  4D-Stymie  B-Volleyball11-13-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This has been a part of the official program of 
the Summer Olympic Games since Tokyo 1964.
BONUS
1. GEOGRAPHY: In which two U.S. states is the Gila River located?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin suffix Ðarium mean?
3. LITERATURE: Which 19th-century novel begins with the line, "For many days we 
had been tempest-tossed."
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: In what year did President Richard Nixon resign from office?
5. MUSIC: Who had the 1970s hit "Paradise by the Dashboard Light"?6. MEASUREMENTS: How long is a span, as mentioned in the Bible?
7. HISTORY: What was the code name of the Allies' invasion of North Africa in 
World War II?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Which organization did Juliette Low found in 1912?
9. PSYCHOLOGY: What abnormal fear is represented in the condition called 
atychiphobia?
10. TELEVISION: What was the number of the mobile hospital unit in the TV 
drama "M*A*S*H"?Trivia Test     By Fifi Rodriguezanswers below
PUZZLE 
SOLUTIONS1. Arizona and 
New Mexico
2. A place 
associated with a 
specific thing, such 
as planetarium.
3. "The Swiss 
Family Robinson"4. 1974
5. Meat Loaf
6. About 9 inches
7. Operation Torch
8. Girl Scouts
9. Fear of failure
10. 4077thtrivia testWe travel, some of us forever, to seek 
other places, other lives, other souls.
—Anais NincryptoquoteFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
New York Mets ﬁ  rst baseman 
and former-Gator Pete Alonso 
won the National League 
Rookie of the Year award. 
Alonso had 53 home runs and 
120 RBIs last season.Pair of Gators take SEC Player of the Week honors
Edge rusher Jonathan Greenard and linebacker Mohamoud Diabate were 
named SEC Defensive Lineman of the Week and Co-Freshman of the Week,
respectively, for their roles in the shutout victory over Vanderbilt.Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Mohamoud Diabate had three sacks on Saturday.
One of the ﬁ  rst things I did as a UF 
student was buy season tickets for 
football.
It was the summer of 2017, a 
couple months before the start of 
my freshman year. The Gators, led by third-
year coach Jim McElwain, were coming 
off back-to-back SEC East titles and looked 
poised to take the next step. The prospect 
of big-time college football down the street 
from my new home was tantalizing.
Of course, UF’s hopes of taking that next 
step died quicker than my own hopes of 
maintaining a 4.0 GPA.
The 2017 season was an unprecedented disaster, on 
and off the ﬁ  eld, that cost McElwain his job. I skipped 
plenty of games that year, but I did go to the ﬁ  nale, a 
lifeless 38-22 loss to Florida State.
I distinctly remember FSU players showering their 
coach, Jimbo Fisher, with Powerade after the ﬁ  nal 
whistle. FSU had also taken a step back that year, but 
was still a program on its way to a bowl game with a 
national championship-winning coach. Florida, on the 
other hand, was in shambles. I was fully resigned to the 
idea that my four years at UF would be spent in football 
purgatory.
Less than two years later, however, FSU is in the 
process of hiring yet another new coach. The Gators 
are on the verge of their second-straight New Year’s Six 
Bowl appearance. The man to thank?
Dan Mullen.
He wasn’t UF’s ﬁ  rst choice to replace McElwain, and 
he probably wasn’t the second, either. Scott Frost and Chip Kelly were two names that we often 
debated in the Alligator newsroom.
Mullen was, however, the best choice.
His record (18-5) after inheriting a pro-
gram in disarray speaks for itself. Perhaps 
an even greater testament to his coaching 
aptitude is the development of individual 
players like Kyle Trask, who went from a 
career backup to the quarterback with the 
third-most touchdown passes in the SEC 
this year.
Frost and Kelly, meanwhile, both missed 
bowl games last season and are on the verge 
of doing it again this year at Nebraska and UCLA, re-
spectively.
Those two are still employed, at least, unlike Willie 
Taggart (FSU) and Chad Morris (Arkansas), who were 
both ﬁ  red this month.
Other coaches in their second year? Jeremy Pruitt, 
who has been a disaster at Tennessee (10-12, 5-9 SEC). 
Mullen’s successor at Mississippi State, Joe Moorhead, 
hasn’t fared much better (12-10, 6-8 SEC). Fisher has 
had some success in his new gig at Texas A&M, but the 
Aggies currently sit outside the top 25.
Mario Cristobal at Oregon is the only second-year 
coach who has had a similar level of success to Mullen. 
He’s a great coach who led the Ducks to a solid season 
last year and who has them in the College Football Play-
off conversation this year.
But when I think back to that day in 2017 — Fisher 
soaked in Powerade, Florida stumbling to a 4-7 record 
— I’m reminded that there’s no other second-year coach 
who has done quite the incredible job Mullen has.Mullen stands alone among 2nd-year coachesGreen Eggs and SamMEN'S BASKETBALL
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The UF men’s basketball team 
likely had plenty on its mind after 
dropping its sixth-straight game to 
the Florida State Seminoles on Sun-
day. It was unlikely that any of it 
was positive.
The No. 15 Gators, who started 
the season as one of the nation’s 
most hyped-up teams at No. 6, 
faced what graduate transfer for-
ward Kerry Blackshear Jr. referred 
to as a “wake-up call” with a rough 
63-51 loss against the Seminoles. 
On Thursday, Florida will try to put 
the past behind it as it plays the last 
game of its homestand against the 
Towson Tigers at 7 p.m., where the 
Gators need to ﬁ  x the problems that 
have plagued them before they hit 
the road for the ﬁ  rst time this week-
end. 
Everything but net
The Gators have laid a lot of eggs 
over the past two weeks, but they’re 
still looking for a basket to put them in.
Over the past two games, UF 
has shot a paltry 36 percent from 
the ﬁ  eld. The long, drawn out “For 
three!” call over the O’Connell Cen-
ter speakers after a Gator drains a 
trey is well known to fans through-out Gainesville, but in UF’s ﬁ  rst two 
regular season games, those fans 
have only heard it seven times total: 
The Gators are currently shooting 19 
percent from the three-point line.
Florida currently sits at 62.5 
points per game for its scoring of-
fense. It’ll have to ﬁ  nd a way to put 
the ball in the basket, and coach 
Mike White said after the FSU game 
that lagging behind offensively to 
start the ﬁ  rst half led to desperation 
from the UF offense.
“Getting off to the horrid start 
we got off to offensively, it certainly 
doesn’t help the cause,” White said. 
“We didn’t go through a lot of reads 
there after we got off to a tough start.”
Unfortunately for Florida, offense 
isn’t its only problem.
Communication on defense has 
been an area that coach White—and 
numerous players—have pinned 
down as one that needs improve-
ment. White stressed after the FSU 
game that the defense gave up nu-
merous wide-open shots due to a 
lack of communication, and the 
players agreed.
“It was a different level of noise 
in the building, so obviously it was 
something we had to adjust to,” 
sophomore guard Andrew Nemb-
hard said after the FSU game. “I think we just have to talk more, talk 
louder.” 
Earning their stripes
A winning streak can be over in a 
golden ﬂ  ash.
Towson dropped its ﬁ  rst game of 
the season to the Kent State Gold-
en Flashes on Monday after start-
ing the year 2-0, losing a closely 
contested game 84-80. The Tigers 
have put up impressive numbers 
so far, but their schedule hasn’t 
been the most rigorous: Their two 
wins come in the form of a 72-58 
victory over A-10 school George 
Washington, and their second was 
an evisceration of Division III Bryn 
Athyn 100-31.
Guard Brian Fobbs — who put up 
20 against Kent State — will be the 
player UF will most need to contain, 
as he has 42 points, 15 rebounds and 
six assists on the year.
Fobbs pairs nicely with guard Ja-
son Gibson, who has 41 points and 
eight assists on the year. Defensively, 
the Tigers are likely to hinge on for-
ward Charles Thompson, who has 
15 defensive rebounds, ﬁ  ve blocks 
and four steals so far this season.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFSU loss gives UF plenty to work on
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The game seemed well in hand.
Vanderbilt's offense had 
amassed 18 total yards in the ﬁ  rst 
half, and Florida was ﬁ  nally ﬁ  n-
ishing drives. But down 28-0, the 
Commodores put together a prom-
ising drive midway through the 
third quarter. 
Vanderbilt quarterback Deuce 
Wallace took the snap from UF’s 
10-yard line and looked right. But 
to his left came an untouched de-
fender, a blue blur. Wallace never 
saw him. Hit from the blind side 
on his windup, the ball spurted out 
and into the hands of edge rusher 
Jonathan Greenard, who strolled 
his way down the ﬁ  eld for the de-
fensive score.
While Greenard high-stepped 
down the sidelines, Wallace turned 
to see who made the big play. He 
saw the 6-foot-2 freshman who had 
pressured him all game and just 
made his third sack — Mohamoud 
Diabate.
“We were just trying to do what 
we do: get sacks, get to the quarter-
back, affect the quarterback, and 
what happened just happened,” he 
said after the game. “I feel like we 
got our edge back.”
Wallace may not have known 
who Diabate was before the game, 
but he did after. Those who fol-
lowed Diabate since high school 
were unsurprised to see the fresh-
man take advantage of the oppor-
tunity.
“I think I was asked probably 
a couple of weeks ago about him, 
and I talked about his accelera-
tion, burst and speed and athletic 
ability,” said defensive coordina-
tor Todd Grantham, who recruited 
him to UF. “That kind of showed 
up in the game in the sense of he 
has the tools to have explosive type plays, impact kind of plays.”
In his ﬁ  nal two years of high 
school, Diabate made 117 tackles, 
30 tackles for loss and 17 sacks. He 
was named a ﬁ  nalist for Class 7A 
Lineman of the Year in 2017 and 
selected to the 2019 U.S. Army All-
American Bowl his senior year.
Recruited as a four-star outside 
linebacker and pass rusher, Dia-
bate was offered scholarships from 
top schools like Alabama, Texas 
A&M and his hometown Auburn 
but opted for Florida instead and 
enrolled early in January to get a 
head start on learning the program.
Though he showed potential 
in camp, Diabate was limited in 
the spring game, making just one 
tackle. The lack of playing time 
bled into the fall as the freshman 
watched from the sidelines for 
most of the season. 
His ﬁ  rst meaningful snaps came 
nine weeks into the season against 
Georgia. He made four tackles from 
the edge and was given the start-
ing spot against Vanderbilt, where 
he recorded three sacks and forced 
fumble on just 19 plays.
“He was just waiting on his mo-
ment, being ready, being prepared 
and going hard as he can when he 
gets his opportunity,” defensive 
lineman Adam Shuler said.
Diabate was a big reason for 
UF's third shutout of the season, as 
all his sacks came on third down.
He's one of seven true freshmen 
on defense who has made a tackle 
this season, and he feels he's get-
ting the chance to show what he 
can do
“I always felt like I had the tal-
ent,” Diabate said. “I just had to 
mature and get the opportunity to 
do so.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgGet to know Diabate
Sam Campisano
Twitter: @samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pmPitcher Perfect
WEDNESDAYS
$5 Yuengling Pitcher
$5 Liquor Pitchers
ON THE ROOF
10pm - 2am$5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty) $6.99Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
$2 Bud Light Bottles7pm-12am7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCKOpen 
Thursday, 
Friday, & 
Saturday 
Nights
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
LIVE DJ 9pm - closeVOLLEYBALL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators volleyball team continues 
to roll in SEC play. 
No. 11 Florida (20-3, 11-1 SEC) has 
been a machine against conference foes, 
winning its last nine matches. The Gators 
have dropped just 11 sets in their 12 con-
ference matches and have swept six op-
ponents.
Florida took a road trip to Mississippi 
last weekend and came out with two vic-
tories against Ole Miss and Mississippi 
State. Here are three takeaways:
Both good and ugly against Ole Miss
The Gators’ play against Ole Miss on 
Friday night wasn’t their best. Needing 
ﬁ  ve sets to beat a middle-of-the-road Reb-
els squad isn’t a good look, even on the 
road.  
Florida’s offense struggled all night. 
Aside from a .244 showing in the ﬁ  rst set, 
the Gators struggled to hit above .200 un-
til they exploded in the shortened ﬁ  fth set. 
Most of the Gators’ struggles boiled down to errors.  Florida committed 33 er-
rors and 6.6 per set, both season highs. 
In the third set alone, the Gators had 10 
errors, four more than Ole Miss in a set 
decided by four points. 
Florida is unlikely to hit that badly 
very often, but it is concerning given Ole 
Miss ranks fourth in the conference in 
opponent hitting percentage. The Gators 
will face stiffer defenses in a potential 
postseason run, and another performance 
like that would likely mean an early exit. 
Defensively, though, UF was solid. 
After a rough ﬁ  rst set where it allowed 
Ole Miss to hit over .400, Florida’s de-
fense, which is second in the conference 
in opponent hitting percentage and ﬁ  rst 
in blocks per set, stiﬂ  ed the Rebels. Ole 
Miss had a negative hitting percentage in 
two of the next four sets and ﬁ  nished at 
.109 overall. That was the lowest ﬁ  gure 
a team hit against Florida since Oct. 11, 
when Arkansas hit .097. 
The Gators also amassed a season-
high 17 blocks. Redshirt junior Holly Carl-
ton led the team with seven. 
Taking the bite out of the Bulldogs
After escaping the Ole Miss match 
with a win, the Gators’ road trip through 
Mississippi stopped in Starkville against 
a dismal Mississippi State team with just 
two wins in conference play. 
Florida dominated from start to ﬁ  n-
ish against the Bulldogs in an easy 3-0 
sweep. The offense returned to form, and 
its .402 hitting percentage on Sunday was 
its second-highest mark this season. The 
Gators’ tandem of senior Rachael Kramer 
and sophomore Lauren Dooley at middle 
blocker combined for 18 kills and only 
one error on 24 swings. 
Simply put, this was the match that 
Florida needed after a bizarre match 
against Ole Miss. The Gators’ perfor-
mance against Mississippi State was 
exactly what you would expect out of a 
top-15 squad against a conference cellar 
dweller. Other than a tight third set, Flor-
ida was in control. 3 takeaways for Florida following another 2-0 weekend
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Graham Marsh 
Sports Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time since 2016, Florida women’s 
basketball has won its ﬁ  rst two games of the sea-
son. 
A lot has changed since then. No players from 
that team still play for the Gators, and only Serena 
Lamar remains on staff.
It is no secret that Florida has struggled in re-
cent years on the court. In the 2016-17 campaign, 
the Gators ﬁ  nished 15-16, followed by 11-19 and 
8-23 seasons, respectively. 
But this season does bring UF its best start since 
then, albeit against weak competition like Gram-
bling State and Longwood, both of which are 0-2 
to tip off the year. For perspective, Grambling State 
faced No. 2 Baylor three days after losing to the 
Gators 72-65. The Tigers got embarrassed by the 
Bears, losing by 74 points, with a ﬁ  nal score of 
120-46. 
But, nevertheless, UF is 2-0. In those two con-
tests, Florida progressed as the game wore on. 
Against GSU, the Gators only scored 10 points in 
the ﬁ  rst quarter. But then they went on to score 20 
in the second, and 21 in the third and fourth. 
Against Longwood, Florida turned the ball over 
nine times in the ﬁ  rst quarter alone and was down 
19-11 at the end of that quarter. Then, the turn-
overs dried up, and the points came falling. In the 
second quarter, UF had its highest point total in 
a quarter so far through two games with 24, and then had 23 more in the third. 
“(We) just want to be more aggressive to make 
plays in the post,” coach Cam Newbauer said. 
“(The slow starts are) kind of par for the course 
when you have eight freshmen and sophomores.” 
This team’s youth has shown its inexperience 
at times, like the nine-turnover quarter. But it has 
also showed its talent at times as well. Freshman 
guard Lavender Briggs had 16 points against Long-
wood, a 10-point increase from her six-point out-
ing against GSU. 
“You look at our backcourt and the only upper-
classman is Kiki (redshirt junior point guard Kiara 
Smith),” Newbauer said. “That’s just the growing 
pains you’re going to have with a young team.” 
But the obvious difference so far this season is 
those growing pains have not overcome the score-
board. The ﬁ  rst game of last season, UF lost its 
home-opener to Gardner Webb and then suffered 
through six straight losses before the season’s ﬁ  rst 
win. 
Heading into the weekend, the Gators face a 
Samford team at home that is 1-1 on the year. The 
Bulldogs beat Montevallo 81-60 to tip off the sea-
son and lost to Kennesaw State 60-55 last Satur-
day. Florida can commence a season 3-0 for the 
ﬁ  rst time since that 2016-17 squad, and that would 
be the best start in Newbauer’s tenure. 
@GrahamMarshUF
gmarsh@alligator.orgUF boasts unbeaten startTougher challenges on the horizon
Currently, the Gators are in a good spot. 
They’re ranked No. 11 in the country, sixth in 
RPI and sit atop the SEC standings. They have a 
major opportunity to improve those ﬁ  rst two things 
and maintain the latter this weekend with matches 
against LSU and No. 17 Kentucky at home. 
Florida swept LSU on the road earlier this sea-
son, but the Tigers could still be a threat. Its star 
right side hitter, junior Taylor Bannister, is one of 
the best in the conference and punished the Gators for 20 kills in that match. The Tigers also just beat 
then-No. 25 Texas A&M. 
But the bigger match lies on Sunday, when Flori-
da faces Kentucky for SEC supremacy. The Wildcats 
edged Florida in ﬁ  ve sets at home. It also could be 
UF’s last chance to beat a team in the current top 25, 
something it still hasn’t done this season. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker Rachael Kramer has 
26 kills in the last two games.
