We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 58
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
There Can Only Be One
Nabil Hassani, a 38-year-old Gainesville resident, competes in Gainesville’s Best Bartender 
Competition at Sidecar Gainesville, at 115 SE First Street, Monday. Competitors were given 
alcohol and a surprise ingredient each round, and each competitor used those ingredients to make 
a drink for judges. Hassani lost in the third round where the mystery ingredient was Wyatt’s cold 
brew coffee. “I’m an engineer by trade, so this is what I do for fun on the weekends, ” Hassani said.
HE WAS UNABLE TO 
PERFORM AT GRAMMY 
AWARDS
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
21 Savage is out of immigration 
custody, but it’s still unclear if he 
will perform at UF. 
After he was detained by Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement 
in Atlanta on Feb. 3 due to over-
staying his visa, rapper She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph 
was released 
from custody on 
bond Tuesday, 
according to a 
statement from 
his legal team at 
Kuck Baxter Im-
migration LLC. 
The 26-year-old is scheduled 
to perform at UF on Feb. 27 at the 
O’Connell Center, which is being 
organized by Student Government 
Productions and the Black Student Union. The rapper is contracted to 
receive $110,000 to perform a one-
hour set. There is no back-up artist 
in place. 
Andrew Kelly, the chairman of 
SGP, did not respond to questions 
about UF paying 21 Savage or tick-
et refunds.
Kelly is waiting on an update 
from 21 Savage’s legal team in 
regards to the UF performance. 
He said he will let students know 
when there is further information.
“We still don’t know how this information pertains to the show 
at UF,” Kelly said.
The rapper’s attorneys spoke 
with ICE over the nine days he 
was in custody to clarify where he 
stands legally, his eligibility for a 
bond and to provide evidence of 
his contributions to society, ac-
cording to the law firm’s state-
ment.
“He will not forget this ordeal or 
any of the other fathers, sons, fam-
ily members and faceless people 
he was locked up with or that re-main unjustly incarcerated across 
the country,” the statement said. 
21 Savage was also scheduled 
to perform at the 61st Grammy 
Awards on Sunday but was unable 
to due to his detainment. He was 
nominated for Record of the Year 
and Best Rap/Sung Performance 
alongside artist Post Malone for 
their hit single “Rockstar” but lost 
in both categories.
@dcassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org21 Savage released on bond; UF performance unconfirmed
21 Savage
HE WILL NOT BE PAID 
TO SPEAK AT SPRING 
COMMENCEMENT
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
One of the world’s bestsell-
ing authors will join Gator grad-
uates in The Swamp this Spring.
James Patterson will make 
a 15-minute speech for free at 
the university-wide Spring com-
mencement ceremony on May 
4 in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, 
said Stephanie McBride, the 
UF director of commencement. 
Patterson has sold more than 
375 million copies of his books 
worldwide, including titles 
“The President is Missing” and 
“Along Came a Spider.” He also 
donated $3 million to UF’s Col-
lege of Education last year.  
At the ceremony, Patterson 
will also receive an honorary 
degree to acknowledge his in-
volvement with the university, 
McBride said. 
“It’s a name people know, and he has a connection to UF 
and to Florida, which is super 
important to us,” McBride said.
UF selected him because of 
his connection to improving 
child literacy rates, which his 
donation to the education col-
lege aimed to help, McBride 
said. 
Bringing big-name speakers 
with a UF connection to com-
mencement was one of the rea-
sons the university transitioned 
to a university-wide graduation 
ceremony last Spring, McBride 
said.
Paige Fitzpatrick, a 22-year-
old UF early childhood educa-
tion master’s student, is a re-
cipient of the James Patterson 
Teacher Education Scholarship. 
She will graduate in May and 
will speak alongside Patterson. 
“I am honored to speak 
alongside the person who made 
my dreams in education pos-
sible,” Fitzpatrick said. 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.orgAuthor James 
Patterson to  
come to UF Patterson
T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
VALENTINE’S DAY
No Thank U, Next
The Boot the Braids UF 
Campaign will write 
Valentine’s Day cards to UF 
President Kent Fuchs demand-
ing the end of UF’s relationship 
with Wendy’s from 11 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas. Students will then 
gather at 1 p.m. on the Plaza of 
the Americas to walk together 
to Tigert Hall to deliver them 
to Fuchs. The Boot the Braids 
UF Campaign works alongside 
the Coalition of Immokalee 
Workers to call on Wendy’s to 
join the Fair Food Program.
 
A Valentine's Night at the 
Museum
 At the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, attendees can 
play trivia and go to the ex-
hibits from 7-10 p.m. Tickets 
for the event are $30 and 
can be purchased until noon 
Thursday. The fee includes 
admission to the "Permian 
Monsters" exhibit, coffee and 
a dessert bar.
Wine Lovers - Wine Tasting
For $15 a person, attendees 
can try six wines with cheeses 
and chocolates from 6:15-7:30 
p.m. at the Downtown Wine 
and Cheese, at 113 N. Main 
St. There is also happy hour 
on $5 glasses of wine all night. 
Tasters also get 20 percent off 
all bottle purchases. Advanced 
tickets can be purchased at 
downtownwineandcheese.
com. 
Start Time Window: 6:15-7:30 
p.m. (Tasting is at your own 
pace.)
Valentine’s Day Flower Sale 
Pop-Up
The second annual pop-up 
flower sale is presented by 
Sweet July Design and hosted 
by Pascal’s Coffeehouse, at 112 
NW 16th St. The sale starts at 
9:30 a.m. Wednesday and ends 
at 4:30 p.m. Thursday. 
Valentine’s Day Cookie and 
Beer Tasting
Swamp Head Brewery, at 3650 
SW 42nd Ave., will host a 
cookie and beer tasting paired 
with some of the brewery’s Valentine’s Day-inspired beers 
from 4-10 p.m. Potential at-
tendees should RSVP with the 
brewery.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Race, History and Political 
Participation in America
UF professors Paul Ortiz and 
Sharon Austin will discuss 
their books on race, history 
and politics from 6-7 p.m. to-
day at the Bob Graham Center 
for Public Service. A book sale 
will follow the public talk. 
Their recently released publi-
cations, “The Caribbeanization 
of Black Politics: Race, Group 
Consciousness, and Political 
Participation in America” and 
“An African American and 
Latinx History of the United 
States,” examine the impact, 
struggles and development of 
minority politics in America.
Alachua County Library District 
African-American Read-In
Attendees can discover 
books and stories by African-
Americans. Refreshments will 
be provided.
When: 2-3:15 p.m. Saturday
Where: Hawthorne Branch, at 
6640 SE 221 St.
Black History through the Arts
Attendees can celebrate black 
history with musical and 
dance performances, poetry 
readings, and lectures. The 
keynote speaker will be John 
Gay, the past president of 
the Orlando Chapter of the 
Tuskegee Airmen.
When: 3-4 p.m. Sunday
Where: Archer Branch, at 
13266 SW State Road 45
Tasty History
Children ages 5-11 can cel-
ebrate Black History Month 
and the invention of the potato 
chip.
When: 3-4 p.m. Tuesday
Where: Cone Park Branch, at 
2801 E. University Ave.
African American Read-In
Attendees, including commu-
nity leaders, will read passag-
es, poems and stories by black 
authors.
When: 2-4 p.m. Feb. 24
Where: Alachua Branch, at 
14913 NW. 140 St.MORE
Santa Fe Adjunct Professors 
Will Speak About Their 
Union Campaign
Santa Fe College Adjunct pro-
fessors will speak about their 
unionization campaign at 
Santa Fe at the Alachua County 
Labor Coalition monthly gen-
eral meeting at 6 p.m. Feb. 26 
at the Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, at 1236 NW 18th 
Ave. Professors will talk about 
their almost two-year push 
for living wages, better work-
ing conditions and a union. 
Refreshments will be provided 
at 6 p.m.
Theater Trivia Fundraiser
The Hippodrome State Theatre, 
at 25 SE Second Place in down-
town Gainesville, will host a 
theater-themed trivia night in 
Y-Not Theatre’s annual fund-
raiser from 6-9 p.m. Feb. 23. 
The local nonprofit supports 
playwrights and actors across 
North Central Florida. Tickets 
are $25 before Friday; after that, 
tickets will be $35. Sababa, a 
Mediterranean restaurant, will 
serve a buffet. The Gainesville 
Improv Guild will perform a 
show at intermission. 
Student Government Elections
From 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
next Tuesday and Wednesday, 
UF students can vote in the SG 
election.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  74° LOW  49°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
  Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Ellen Bausback, Marianna Colon, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesAllison Gosser, Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Sabrina Conza, Sarah DeVoe,
Lily Girton, Hope Hathcock,Madison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Ashlyn Jones, Shelby Smith,  
Blake TrauschkeVOLUME 113 ISSUE 58WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Gators,  
let’s get  
consensual!
Each year, STRIVE hosts a variety of  
activities for UF students throughout  
the week of Valentine’s Day that 
teach about consent.   
We share what consent is, what it isn’t, and  
how to navigate uncertainties, all while you’re 
having fun. We want to emphasize that con -
sent is for everyone – not just those in intimate  
relationships!
Today, February 13, join us for “Swipe 
Right!” STRIVE’S Dating App Workshop. 
Learn about consenting relationships in the 
age of Tinder, Bumble, Her and Grindr. This  
event is at 7 p.m. in Reitz Union room 2330.
The centerpiece of the week is Cupid’s Con -
sent Fair, which will take place on Valen -
tine’s Day from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. in the Pla -
za of the Americas. The fair is an amazing 
opportunity to learn about consent, hear 
from diverse organizations and take home 
some Valentine’s Day health behavior tools. 
Students who visit a majority of the tables 
at the fair will earn a consent campaign 
t-shirt (while supplies last), as well as many
other goodies you won’t want to miss.
Look for information about these and  
other events (like our Scavenger Hunt  
Kickoff!) on our Facebook page:  
www.facebook.com/STRIVEUF.
Handbook for 
TEAMS/USPS  
staff updated
UF Human Resources has announced 
the adoption of a new TEAMS/USPS 
Employee Handbook.  
The handbook will be a helpful tool for 
onboarding new employees and a useful 
reference for supervisors when they need 
to coach employees on general perfor -
mance and conduct expectations. 
A digital copy of the handbook will 
be emailed to all TEAMS and USPS  
employees and may be found on the 
UFHR website under “Working at UF .”  
If you would like your own hard copy,  
email humanresources@ad.ufl.edu with 
“Employee Handbook” in the subject line.Wednesday, February 13, 2019
   To keep up on all things UF, get social:    To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by 
UF COMMUNICATIONSJoin the conversation!  
As the University of Florida seeks its place 
among the top public universities in the nation, 
UF Human Resources is committed to offering 
benefits programs that are competitive, valu-
able and meet the needs of the UF community.
This spring, UFHR is exploring opportunities 
to modernize what paid time off looks like for 
faculty and staff at UF .
UF’s new office in DC is a home away 
from home for visiting faculty and for 
Gators working to build awareness and 
garner support for Florida’s flagship  
university.
Last week celebrated the grand opening event 
of this new space and Albert and Alberta were  
on hand to join in the fun.
The UF HR Building (903 West University 
Ave.) will be undergoing renovations this 
spring. Beginning in mid-February, you 
will be able to find the following HR teams 
in these locations:
Training & Organizational Development (as 
of Feb. 9): East Campus, 2046 NE Waldo Road
Employee Relations – Education & General 
(E&G) team (as of Feb. 15):  Yon Hall, 1908 Sta -
dium Road, Fourth Floor, Room 423
Workers Compensation office (as of Feb. 15):
Facilities Services/Business Affairs HR Office, 
Building 701 in the Facilities Services compound, 
3274 Radio Road
HR Service Center, Vice President’s Office, 
Benefits and Leave Administration, Recruit -UF provides a variety of leave programs based 
on an employee’s salary plan, including vacation, 
sick leave, holidays, personal leave days and 
family medical leave. The scope of this project’s 
focus is on vacation and sick leave, parental/
medical leave and FMLA.
As with UF salary compensation plans, leave 
plans for employees in a bargaining unit are sub -
ject to union negotiation, and UFHR will work 
with the unions to reach agreement for covered 
ment and Staffing (as of March 1): 720 Build-
ing (formerly known as Ayers Medical Plaza), 
720 SW 2nd Ave., Fifth Floor
Most training courses will be held at East Cam -
pus, but please be sure to confirm the location 
when you register and/or when you receive What do you think of UF’s leave programs?
We’ve  
planted the 
Gator Nation 
flag in our  
nation’s  
capital
Human Resources relocated temporarily 
due to renovationsemployees prior to implementing any new plan.
We hope you will take a few minutes to provide 
your insight on what works well and what we 
could do better in regards to paid time off at UF . 
To share your thoughts and ideas, please com -
plete the feedback form found here:
https://ufl.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_5u3FT -
cAZ04AIAdL
If you have questions or additional comments, 
please email HRInitiatives@hr.ufl.edu. 
your reminder emails. Background screenings 
will be conducted on the fifth floor of the 720 
Building. Please visit our website at hr.ufl.edu 
for updates and more information in the weeks 
to come.
Need to reach us? Email humanresources@ufl.edu.
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
GYMNASIUM, 
TWO GARDENS,
 50 SUITES INCLUDED
By Ana Escalante
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s revamped rehabilitation 
center will open its doors Feb. 19.
On Tuesday, about 50 employ-
ees attended the ribbon-cutting 
of UF Health and Select Medical’s 
newly renovated 57,306-square-foot 
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital, 
at 2708 SW Archer Road. 
The one-story facility will in-
clude more than 50 private suites 
to care for patients recovering from 
spinal cord injuries, stroke, brain 
injuries and other neurological con-
ditions, said Suzanne Questell, the 
director of business management for UF Health.
The rehabilitation hospital was 
moved from 4740 NW 39th Place 
to treat a growing number of pa-
tients with more space, said Edward 
Jimenez, the chief executive ofﬁ  cer 
of UF Health Shands Hospital.
“This is an enormous deal for 
us,” Jimenez said. “When we think 
about what happens in a rehab hos-
pital, we start with our people.”
After six years of planning be-
tween UF Health and Select Medi-
cal, renovations for the new facility 
began a year and a half ago, Jimenez 
said. This includes construction of 
the new 17,339-square-foot wing of 
the hospital.
“When the opportunity arose to 
partner with Select Medical, and 
move to a new facility, we believed 
that we have a chance to plan for a wonderful future,” he said. 
Jimenez said he did not know 
the cost of the facility. After several 
attempts, UF Health could not be 
reached for the cost of the facility. 
Krista Merkel, a spokesperson for 
Select Medical, wrote in an email 
that she is unable to disclose the 
cost.
The center expects about 30 
patients to move in on the open-
ing day when the center begins its 
full operations, Questell said. Once 
more patients arrive, the rehabilita-
tion center is looking to take care of 
60 patients. 
About 250 staff members and 
nurses of both new employees and 
staff that worked at the previous 
rehabilitation hospital are expected 
to transition to the new facility, 
Questell said.
Amenities include a gymnasium, two gardens and a home simulation 
where patients can readjust to tasks 
in their daily lives like washing 
clothes or cooking on a stovetop, 
Questell said. 
It is important for patients to 
begin transitioning back into their 
daily routines, which most people 
take for granted, she said.
“Setting up dinner, opening a 
mailbox, getting out of your car can 
all be things these patients ﬁ  nd dif-
ﬁ  cult to do,” Questell said.
The facility is the second collab-
oration between UF Health and Se-
lect Medical, said David Chernow, 
the president and CEO of Select 
Medical. 
The ﬁ  rst collaboration between 
the two medical providers was a 
critical illness hospital, or a long-
term care acute facility, at UF Health Shands which opened De-
cember 2017.
“It’s wonderful when you have 
a vision, and you go on this jour-
ney of over six years and you can 
see that it’s reality now,” Chernow 
said.‘An enormous deal’: New UF Health rehabilitation center to open
Features of the new 
UF Health Shands 
rehabilitation hospital:
An equipped gymnasium
Two gardens
50 private suites 
About 250 staff 
members and nursesWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
STADIUM WILL COST 
ABOUT $65 MILLION
By Evan Lepak
Alligator Staff Writer
Eleven honorees with baseball 
bat-shaped shovels commenced the 
building of the new UF baseball sta-
dium as they began digging Friday.
About 150 people, including 
baseball donors, former UF baseball 
players and families, gathered at the 
groundbreaking of UF’s new base-
ball stadium at a former UF Institute 
of Food and Agricultural Sciences 
research property near Ronald A. 
Dizney Stadium.
The baseball team will continue 
to play the next two seasons at Al-
fred A. McKethan Stadium while the 
new ballpark is being constructed, 
said Dan Apple, a sports information 
director. 
The stadium will cost about $65 
million and is scheduled to be ﬁ  n-
ished in June 2020, Apple said.
There is no name for the stadium 
yet.
IFAS will receive new facilities in 
the future for the stadium to be built 
on the research's property, said UF 
President Kent Fuchs.
“We’re very fortunate that the university had the land,” Fuchs said 
at the groundbreaking.
Construction is planned to begin 
in coming weeks, said Scott Stricklin, 
the UF athletic director.  
“We have a national champion-
ship program and national champi-
onship-caliber fans,” Stricklin said. 
“They deserve a ballpark to go along 
with that.”
In the past decade, the team has 
made eight College World Series 
appearances, including a national 
championship in 2017. 
The new ballpark will feature 
shaded structures and a 360-degree 
concourse, Apple said.
McKethan Stadium has 5,500 
seats, including about 2,500 chair-
backs, Apple said. The new stadium 
will seat a projected 10,000, includ-
ing more than 4,000 chairback seats.
Players will have access to a pri-
vate nutrition area, team lounge,  
team meeting room, expanded lock-
er rooms and indoor pitching and 
batting cages in the new stadium.  
“There is not a day that goes by 
that I don’t pinch myself,” said Kevin 
O’Sullivan, the baseball coach.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgUF baseball will get new ﬁ  eld
FEWER APPLICANTS 
WERE ADMITTED ON-
CAMPUS
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Staff Writer
UF held the class of 2023 to 
higher standards. 
The university recieved a re-
cord amount of applications at 
more than 41,000, which result-
ed in a more competitive class. 
The test scores and GPA of stu-
dents admitted into the new class 
proved to be higher than previous 
years.
The more than 14,000 students 
who were admitted for Summer B 
and Fall had an average GPA of 
4.45, average SAT score of 1388 
and average ACT score of 31, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando said.
Last year, the admitted class of 
about a similar size had an aver-
age GPA of 4.4, SAT score of 1364 
and an ACT score of 30. 
For Summer B, UF admitted 
about 3,000 applicants, and about 
11,000 for Fall, Orlando said. 
The Innovation Academy, 
which holds class in the Spring 
to let students pursue outside op-portunities in the Fall, admitted 
about 500 for Spring 2020, com-
pared to about 650 last year, he 
said. 
The Pathway to Campus En-
rollment, also known as PaCE, 
which requires students to start 
their UF degree online and tran-
sition to campus after completing 
60 credit hours, admitted about 
3,100 students this year, an in-
crease from about 2,200 last year. 
The difference is where stu-
dents were admitted, with fewer 
applicants admitted to the main 
campus and more admitted to the 
Innovation Academy and PaCE, 
Orlando said. UF admitted more 
students for these remote pro-
grams to account for the higher 
number of students it accepted 
traditionally on campus last year. 
UF expects about 6,550 stu-
dents to enroll for Summer B and 
Fall, 250 for Innovation Academy 
and 750 for PaCE, he said. 
“UF is committed to increas-
ing access while ensuring that all 
students have an excellent educa-
tional experience,” Orlando said. 
Elisabell Velazquez, 18, said 
she worked hard at Armwood 
High School in Tampa to achieve 
her dream of attending UF. She maintained a minimum 4.5 GPA, 
earned a 29 on her ACT and re-
ceived 1290 on her SAT. 
Velazquez is also active in her 
high school as the senior class 
president, National Honor Soci-
ety vice president and Key Club 
treasurer, among other academic 
extracurriculars. She also plays 
varsity tennis and participates in 
mentoring programs outside of 
school. 
“I have always wanted to go to 
UF since I was little,” she said. “I 
have worked hard throughout all 
of my years in high school to keep 
my grades up.”
Velazquez, who is Cuban 
American, attended UF’s 2018 
Summer Media Institute, where 
she said she fell even more in love 
with UF after staying in the dorms 
and meeting UF professors. She 
plans to study journalism with an 
interest in broadcast news. 
“I will never forget the day I 
was accepted to UF, it is still sur-
real to me,” she said. “I cannot 
wait to begin my journey at the 
University of Florida and be part 
of the Gator Nation.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.orgGPA, ACT scores in new UF class riseBy April Rubin and
 Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writers
The class of 2023's GPAs and test scores not 
only broke records but also set a new standard 
for future applicants.
In terms of race for the admitted class of 
2023, Asian students make up 9 percent, His-
panic students make up 19 percent, American-
Indian students make up less than 1 percent, 
multiracial students make up 4 percent, white 
students make up 50 percent and African 
American or black students make up 7 per-
cent, wrote UF Spokesperson Steve Orlando in an email.
About 500 students didn’t report their race, 
Orlando said.
After multiple requests, The Alligator was 
not able to get demographic data to compare 
to the class of 2022.
UF enrollment data states that UF is about 
50 percent white and 14 percent Hispanic. 
Black and Asian students are both 7 percent.
UF is not allowed to consider race or ethnic-
ity in admissions, Orlando said.
“What you see in the demographic break-
down is a reﬂ  ection of the holistic approach 
that we use,” Orlando said.
Admissions staff consider more than just test scores, Orlando said. They look at things 
such as extracurricular activities and the appli-
cation essay.
 Fabine Michel, a 20-year-old UF theatre 
sophomore who is black, said she wishes more 
people at UF looked like her. 
“Since we’re in 2019, there shouldn’t be an 
issue with the lack of diversity at UF,” she said. 
UF admitted 9,100 females and 5,817 males, 
Orlando said.
Slightly more than 2,000 who were admit-
ted are from single-parent families, about 2,000 
are low-income applicants and more than 
4,000 are minorities, Orlando said.
The number of admitted students who were 
in the top ﬁ  ve percent of their classes was just 
over 1,700. The number of admitted legacy 
students, which is students with family mem-bers who went to UF, was about 3,000.
It’s evident to anyone who walks on campus 
that UF is a predominantly white institution, 
said Catherine Dos Santos Alves, a 21-year-old 
UF international studies and women’s studies 
junior.
She said the state should create and im-
prove minority student programs, make sure 
minority students have equal resources and let 
them know that college is a viable option, as 
the number of minority students outside of the 
Hispanic community seemed low.
“I do not think [the class of 2023] strays 
very far from the current UF population, which 
is deﬁ  nitely saddening,” Dos Santos Alves said. 
arubin@alligator.org
dcassidy@alligator.orgA look into the class of 2023: Demographic breakdown
19 percent are HispanicThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
Face it:  
It’ll happen again 
Despite our best efforts, life after the Park-
land shooting hasn’t changed for the major-
ity of us. 
Dear readers, on Valentine’s Day, while 
your sweetheart gives you flowers and a 
card, many of us will stand for 17 minutes of si-
lence: a minute for each person who died in the 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting 
a year ago, and, frankly, that’s probably the only 
thing you will do. 
If you didn’t go to MSD or personally know one 
of the victims, you don’t care. Not that much, re-
ally. Don’t act like you do. 
You posted #NeverAgain in your bio. Maybe you 
held a sign during March for Our Lives. You wore 
an orange or yellow wristband or dyed a strip of 
your hair teal in honor of one of the victims. You 
may have even made this shooting more about how 
you were personally affected by it because you met 
that one victim that one time in passing.
But in reality, you know you’re complacent. You 
cried after kids were shot at Sandy Hook Elemen-
tary School in 2012. You thought to yourself, “Our 
politicians ought to do something.” They didn’t. 
And when the same thing happened to 49 LGBTQ+ 
people in Orlando, you thought the same. And 
when the same thing happened to 58 more people 
who were killed in Las Vegas, you thought it, again. 
And our legislators failed us, again. 
It’s because we just don’t care anymore. 
With every bullet that kills another one of us, 
instead of rioting, we grow more numb. So we just 
let Tallahassee politicians pass gun control legis-
lation only when they know they’re campaigning 
soon and know they probably will not get reelected 
if they don’t acknowledge the blood on our class-
room walls. Yes, Rick Scott, Keith Perry and Chuck 
Clemons, that’s about you. But thanks, we guess, 
for passing basic gun control. While we appreciate 
the steps forward, it’s not far enough. 
For those of you who are voting in every elec-
tion, organizing and calling your representatives, 
thank you. We need you. 
Let us not forget, though, that this isn’t just 
about mass shootings or when white people die of 
gun violence. It’s also about the 16-year-old black 
boy who got caught up in an inner city gang be-
cause his dad was locked up for a petty crime, his 
mom was working 12-hour days and his school was 
stripped from extracurriculars. It’s also our fault 
when he’s shot dead on the street by a rival gang 
member. Conservatives cry black-on-black crime 
and gang violence, but they don’t call on the clear 
systematic racism that is the root of the problem. 
Chicago’s guns come from its neighboring conser-
vative states, anyway. 
It’s not guns. It’s mental health, you may say. 
And, you’re right, kind of. It’s not one or the other. 
Gun violence doesn’t have an A, B or C solution. 
Things A through Z need to change before gun vio-
lence stops, and safer gun laws and mental health 
are only two of those things. 
So when you bow your head in silence on 
Thursday and remember those beautiful 17 lives 
that were lost, remember: If you’re just numb, you 
helped cause the next one.
Letter to the Editor
It seems that our Student Body President Ian Green funda-
mentally misunderstands a lot of things about our Student 
Government and campaign climate. Ian’s most recent letter 
to the editor is filled with mistakes that effectively demon-
strate this.
Mistake 1: Ian wrote, “ On a website published by the 
Inspire Party this past Tuesday, Chou claims…”
First of all, Zachariah Chou didn’t claim  anything on In-
spire’s website: I did.
My name is Ashley Grabowski, and I wrote the content that 
apparently riled up our Student Body president. Although I’m 
flattered that Ian spent time at our URL, I hope he enjoyed 
listening to Spoon’s “The Underdog.” I think it’s dangerous for 
powerful people to spread information that isn’t true. Whether 
a matter of incompetence or maliciousness, it’s unacceptable, 
and I’m here to set the record straight.
Mistake 2: Ian wrote, “...Chou claims that  SG delayed 
implementing live-streaming Student Senate meetings in 
order to avoid transparency with the Student Body.”
Our website doesn’t claim that Impact-affiliated Senate lead-
ership intentionally delayed implementing livestreaming to 
avoid transparency with the Student Body. Ian filled in those 
gaps himself, and he thought Zachariah’s Facebook Lives were 
awkward.
If it takes SG over a year to figure out how to livestream Sen-
ate meetings, we probably need different people in leadership.
Mistake 3:  Ian wrote, “Inspire failed to mention that 
we, as the executive branch, were already including 
closed captioning as well as transcripts on our videos and 
continue to do so to this day under my administration.”
Young Leaders Conference, a Student Government Agen-
cy under Ian and his administration, posted a video without 
closed captioning or a transcript on their Facebook page on 
Feb. 7 (three days before Ian’s LTE was posted). The legislation 
Ian is referring to would have required closed captioning and 
transcripts for all SG videos.
Impact Party’s video from this campaign cycle doesn’t have 
closed captions, either. Inspire Party’s video does, if you’re cu-
rious.
Mistake 4: Ian wrote, “The project for increased street 
lighting around Infinity Hall began when Student Body 
President Susan Webster organized a nighttime lighting tour of the area surrounding Infinity Hall. Webster picked 
up the Mayor of Gainesville, UF Chief Operating Officer 
Charlie Lane, and UPD Chief Stumpf in a GOTCHA car, and 
drove around the residence hall...”
I forwarded a chain email to  The Independent Florida Al-
ligator  with this LTE: The emails are of a conversation between 
Zachariah Chou and representatives of the city of Gainesville, 
and they prove Zachariah’s role in securing street lights for the 
area around Infinity Hall, but I hope Susan enjoyed her car ride.
Mistake 5: Ian wrote that “As for Library West, UF could 
always use more study space on campus as we strive to be 
a top five public institution, but I disagree with Chou on 
how we should get there. Chou demanded we raise your 
student fees to fund this priority.”
This is the first I’ve heard about this; as Inspire Party’s presi-
dent, I’m pretty sure I’d have noticed if Zachariah demanded to 
raise student fees to fund a 24/7 library.
Let me fill you in on what actually happened: Ian’s admin-
istration was comfortable designating Newell Hall as UF’s sole 
24/7 study space until Inspire organized a petition and a public 
debate  during Senate supporting a 24/7 library with access to 
textbooks and computers. We had to remind Impact that not 
every student has access to a quiet place to study or a comput-
er of their own, making a 24/7 library an important academic 
resource. This isn’t the first time that Inspire had to remind 
Impact about what’s important. If Impact has to look to us in 
order to figure out what students want, that’s not a good sign.
Ian’s LTE preaches transparency and honesty with the pub-
lic, but it’s filled with errors that will mislead readers. He fin-
ishes his letter by talking about what students deserve; I’ll end 
mine in a similar fashion.
Students deserve a Student Body president who uses his 
voice to make a difference rather than to sling mud at oppo-
nents who intimidate him; students deserve representatives 
who don’t take credit for work that is already being done by 
someone else; students deserve representatives who are hon-
est, resilient and dedicated to doing what’s right. That’s why 
I’m proud to run a campaign supporting Zachariah Chou for 
Student Body president.
If you’re looking for a song to listen to as you walk to the 
polls, I recommend you give Spoon’s “The Underdog” a try. 
     
    Ashley Grabowski is the Inspire Party president. The missteps of Ian Green as told by the Inspire president
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITORWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7 Letter to the Editor
Last Tuesday night during our weekly Student Govern-
ment Senate meeting, I abstained from voting on a reso-
lution to recognize the installment of Juan Guaidó as the 
interim president of Venezuela. Not too long after, one of 
my friends called me out on Facebook. Then, Student Body 
Vice President David Enriquez did so similarly in a letter 
to the editor published in The Alligator titled “Stand Up for 
Students.”
This letter is adapted from my response to my first 
friend and has been edited to also address the concerns of 
my second friend, David.
I did not take abstaining on the resolution lightly. When 
making my choice, I considered two issues that greatly 
weighed on my mind.
My first issue with the resolution is that it has Student 
Government wading into complex geopolitics. The issue 
was not with the content of the resolution but instead the 
actor/medium SG. I feel like in this realm, I have been 
validated in the court of public opinion since my decision. 
The Alligator’s SG reporter asked on Twitter if respondents 
believe SG should get involved with international politics. 
Out of the 184 who responded, 84 percent said no. I stand 
with the stance taken by the resolution, but I find myself 
uncomfortable with SG as an institution having interna-
tional political beliefs.
However, in a moving display of collective action, well 
over 100 of the most affected UF students stood together in 
solidarity before the Senate to express their support for this 
bill. Thus, despite my disposition to avoid taking stances 
on complex issues of geopolitics, I was compelled by the 
voices who spoke out and decided not to vote against their 
interests.
My second issue with the resolution is that this was an 
issue that I am not intimately familiar with. Yes, I know 
Nicolás Maduro is trash, but I know very little about the 
Venezuelan constitution and the circumstances leading up 
to the present situation in Venezuela, which are critical 
aspects of the bill. I could not make a very informed deci-
sion. That is partially the reason I spoke very little during 
that meeting.
As an Asian-American student, I have been frustrated 
when people outside my community speak on issues rele-
vant to it without proper knowledge and investment. I em-
pathize with the Hispanic/Latinx community when it also 
faces these issues, but I feel as if I am not in a place where I 
should be trying to debate this complex issue. It only made 
sense to me to let people who knew more and had a per-
sonal connection to the issue speak; I like to speak up, but 
I don’t think I deserved the microphone that night.
When I realized that I would have to make a difficult 
choice, I messaged one of my most trusted friends who is 
Venezuelan and knew a lot more than I did on the issue 
and had a much deeper vested interest.
She mentioned to me that she also considered the reso-
lution largely symbolic and would support me regardless 
of the way I voted since “no one on this [redacted] campus 
has any pull in maduro’s gov anyway lmao.” I’m not say-
ing one person can speak for an entire community, but I 
would like to share that I considered the issue an extremely 
difficult one and reached out for help from a Venezuelan 
friend who knew more than I did and who helped me come 
to my decision and continues to support my decision to 
this day.
Finally, David calls me out saying I can be seen “laugh-
ing and mocking remarks made by those speaking during 
public debate.” I re-watched my livestream. Of course I gri-
mace and laugh when a speaker says something absurd or 
does something cringe-worthy. But then I watched myself 
as David spoke. I don’t laugh or smile or mock his remarks. 
I focus on making sure the livestream is perfect for him. I 
shift the camera and microphone to accommodate him and 
his community. In my mind, I am giving him a platform by 
instantly streaming his passionate declaration to dozens of 
people watching online.
It is of my most sincere desires not to have caused any 
needless angst or grief over my actions — and if I did, then 
I am sorry. Finally, it is my hope that this letter clarifies the 
context of my actions.
Zachariah Chou is the UF Inspire Party presidential 
candidate. Chou used to be a columnist for The Alligator.As a kid, filling out the “to” and “from” 
section of small cardboard Valentine’s 
Day cards from CVS gave me a rush. 
The best part was folding the piece of 
paper in half and diligently attaching 
the heart sticker to keep the card from reveal-
ing the sender. Those little Valentine’s Day 
cards told my classmates I cared and made my 
third-grade heart happy. But now I am much 
older and barely any wiser, and I realize that 
1) the “rush” was probably from sugar and 2) 
we spend way too much money on Valentine’s Day.  
In the name of love, we spend billions of dollars try-
ing to show people we care. An expected $20.7 billion is 
going to be spent this year for Valentine's Day, according 
to the National Retail Federation. Of course, the positive 
energy spread on this day is praiseworthy. In a world in 
turmoil, a day dedicated to love is a necessity. On the 
other hand, don’t feel as if Feb. 14 is an obligatory gift-
giving day.
Part money-spending trap, part Hallmark holiday, Val-
entine’s Day is celebrated by the masses with exchanges 
of candy, cute stuffed bears and, if you’re lucky, jewelry 
or fancy leather goods. Although some believe the day is 
only for showboating and heart-eyed couples, the magic 
of marketing somehow manages to encapsulate the popu-
lation of people who might be safe from this holiday: sin-
gles. Galentine’s Day, the unofficial singles celebration 
the day before Valentine’s Day, grows in prominence 
each year. Scan your calendar and every month or so 
there seems to be a holiday that calls for gift-giving. 
I’m no conspiracy theorist, but it seems as if busi-
nesses have tricked us into thinking all these holidays 
are about presents and candy. For example, how did 
tradition lead us to the Easter Bunny, the Tooth Fairy 
and Santa Claus? These characters have more to do with spending rather than giving. Their origin is so 
far off than what they are now, it’s hard to see 
how we even got to this point where almost 
every holiday calls for a gift.
It may be that we have associated gift-giv-
ing with a sign of gratitude. For some, presents 
are how they like to be shown love, which is 
fine. But for those not so materialistic, don’t 
feel pressured to buy useless stuffed animals 
or freshly cut flowers. If you are only buying 
something because of a Valentine’s Day tradi-
tion, think about saving your money. Taking the time 
and energy to go out and purchase a present for someone 
is nice, but it’s not the only way to show you care.
For those who choose to partake in the love fest, try 
taking part in an old tradition that doesn’t require falling 
for the marketing scam that is Valentine’s Day. Write 
a love letter to your mom, dad, significant other, best 
friend or whomever you think needs to know how much 
you admire them. A handwritten note reminding the 
reader of everything you adore about them and memo-
ries you two have shared is more meaningful than any 
box of chocolate. 
It’s hard to remember Valentine’s Day is about love, 
especially when everyone posts about the presents their 
“boo” gifted them. Think about all the other holidays 
that claim to be about love, yet they also call for a pres-
ent exchange. There are so many other times throughout 
the year that have us rushing to the mall to pick up the 
goodies we “need” to give to someone. If there is any 
holiday that is not the time for presents, it’s Valentine’s 
Day, a day when celebrating love is the most important 
part.
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Valentine’s Day should be about love, not giftsColumn
As Valentine’s Day looms, a lot of us 
find ourselves fending off feelings of 
distress, frustration and loneliness. 
It’s not hard to be single the other 11 
months of the year, but February of-
fers a unique blow to the self-esteem of lonely 
hearts everywhere. 
I mean, does Target really need to turn its 
entire store into an homage to love? And why is 
every purchasable item all of the sudden in the 
shape of a heart? Maybe I liked my Dove chocolate pieces 
in the shape of squares. An unpopular opinion: I don’t 
think everything that was once neutral-colored needs to 
be dyed red or pink. 
Around this time of the year, it is easy to get caught 
up in the cloud of pink fog wafting through the air and 
believe everyone is happy and in love except for you. In 
reality, this couldn’t be further from the truth — espe-
cially on a college campus.
I know, I know. It seems like everyone around us is 
dating. Your Instagram feed is full of pictures of your 
friends kissing their partner’s cheek. Every Snapchat 
story you see is a photo someone took of their partner 
from across a candlelit table, accompanied by the ironic 
caption, “First date, kinda nervous.” But, big surprise, 
social media is seriously distorting the reality of the dat-
ing world.
It turns out, only half of college women have been 
asked on six or more dates in college by men, accord-
ing to an article from the Institute for American Values. 
This means that not everyone is hooking up like you may 
think. And about a quarter of college seniors are actually 
virgins, according to sociologist Paula England of Stan-
ford University. So, no, not everyone is dating. And no, 
you’re not an anomaly if you are not going to graduate 
with one of those corny pictures of you and your partner 
kissing behind a graduation cap.Despite what television shows like “Greek” 
or “Saved by the Bell: The College Years” 
showed us, college just isn’t a great time to be 
in a meaningful relationship. We spend half of 
the week sitting in classes, the other half in the 
library doing homework and somewhere on top 
of that we manage to participate in clubs, hold 
part-time jobs, exercise and maintain at least 
some friendships. This doesn’t leave much 
time for date nights or to deal with the emo-
tional stress of dating someone long-term. Dating in col-
lege isn't always going to be the best idea for everyone. 
It is true that a lot of college students do get lucky 
and meet their soulmate at the ripe old age of 18 in the 
hallway of their freshman dorm and never look back. 
But what fun is that? Sure, you feel safe and loved and 
you are able to relish in the stability you feel having met 
“your person.” But is it really worth it?
College is the time when you’re supposed to make 
mistakes and feel free to do what you want without the 
added pressure of another person and their needs. You 
are able to grow and gain life experience as you learn 
what you do and don’t want out of a partner. You have a 
chance to find yourself and genuinely enjoy who you are, 
before you find someone to share yourself with. 
If you find yourself with someone to call your valen-
tine on Thursday, congrats to you. But, for the rest of us, 
just remember that you’re not alone, and there is nothing 
wrong with you. Valentine’s Day is about all love — not 
just romantic love. So celebrate your love for yourself, 
your friends and your family. 
And if you’re still sad about being alone on V-Day, 
remember that candy will be half-off on Friday.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and journalism 
senior. Her column normally appears on Mondays.Dating in college isn't as common as you thinkColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgWhy I did not riseWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Dating Sim Games
What to play if you’re lonely on Valentine’s Day. Pg 9Best Romantic Comedies
Check out the movies that make us swoon. Pg 10THE SINGLE LADIES’ 
ALTERNATIVE TO 
VALENTINE’S DAY
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Whether you decide to 
shower your gal pals with sweet 
candies or rich chocolates, Ga-
lentine’s Day is a chance for 
women to cherish their friends 
while channeling their inner 
“glorious female warrior,” as 
“Parks and Recreation” charac-
ter Leslie Knope would say. 
If you’ve never binge-
watched the light-hearted com-
edy show, Galentine’s Day is a 
holiday invented by Leslie as a 
way to get her friends together 
and show them how thankful 
she is for their constant support. 
Since the release of the 
“Parks and Recreation” episode 
in 2010, women all over the 
world spend Feb. 13 spoiling 
their female friends with kind 
gestures and treats.
It doesn’t matter if you’re 
single, taken, in a long-distance 
relationship or in a complicated 
one, anyone can celebrate Gal-
entine’s Day.
Madeline “Maddie” Harlow, 
21-year-old UF journalism se-
nior, is already planning with 
her friends the perfect Galen-
tine’s party consisting of treat-
yourself snacks like McDonald’s 
fries, wine and maybe a char-
cuterie board. 
Harlow said her Galentine’s 
Day inspirations come from 
Danielle Tullo, lifestylist and se-
nior editor of Her Campus, who 
is known for having cute party 
favors like prosecco bottles with everyone’s names labeled. 
With most of her friends be-
ing single or labeled the dreaded 
“it’s complicated,” Harlow de-
scribed the unofﬁ  cial holiday as 
a great opportunity to show you 
don’t need to be in a relation-
ship to prove you are enough.
Harlow said she would rath-
er celebrate her friends and their 
accomplishments. 
Not sure what to do with 
your best friends on Galentine’s 
Day? Harlow recommends 
watching romantic comedies 
or baking brownies as possible 
activities. 
“It’s kind of nice to show 
your friends that they can be 
your valentine, too, and you 
care about them,” Harlow said. 
For others, Galentine’s Day 
is a way to support friends who 
might not be able to celebrate 
Valentine’s Day with their sig-
niﬁ  cant other.
Katie Parker, a 19-year-old 
UF economics sophomore, is 
in a long-distance relationship 
with her boyfriend who lives in 
Palm Beach Gardens.
The four-hour car ride, his 
hectic work schedule and Park-
er’s school commitments make 
it extremely difﬁ  cult for them to 
see each other, so Parker relies 
on her girlfriends, especially on 
Galentine’s Day.  
“I love celebrating Galen-
tine’s Day because that’s just a 
different kind of love that you 
experience with the girls who 
are really close to you and have 
gone through a lot of things with 
you in your life,” Parker said.
Parker will also be celebrat-
ing Valentine’s Day with Sister 
Support Ambassadors (SSA), 
a UF Panhellenic organization 
committed to supporting and 
spreading awareness about 
sexual assault on campus. She 
is Assistant Director of Ambas-
sador Relations for SSA. 
This Valentine’s Day, SSA is 
partnering with One Love Foun-
dation, which is an organiza-
tion that raises awareness about 
what healthy and unhealthy 
behaviors in a relationship look 
like. Together the organizations 
will be tabling from 12-2 p.m. 
Tuesday on Turlington Plaza, 
Wednesday in Newell Hall and 
Thursday on the Plaza of the 
Americas.
“We want people to know 
that they are loved,” Parker 
said. 
@vanessablankie
Vblankenship@alligator.Galentine’s Day
CELEBRATE
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Staff Writer
Cancer and Scorpio: If you know 
anything about astrology, you know 
this is the combination to beat. The 
connection between these two is al-
most psychic, like Raven-Symoné gaz-
ing into the future. As a double water 
sign combo, Cancer and Scorpio un-
derstand each other’s emotions while 
also ﬁ  lling in the gaps the other might 
be missing. 
Aquarius and Gemini: This duo 
walks the border between best friends 
and lovers.  Both air signs value in-
dependence and mental stimulation. 
If you eavesdrop into a Gemini and 
Aquarius’s conversation, you’ll hear 
them discussing their latest ﬁ  ndings in 
support of a conspiracy theory. As a 
couple, these two ﬁ  nd joy in the ﬁ  ner 
things in life, such as long walks down-
town, sipping on ﬁ  ve-dollar wine and making each other feel at ease. 
Libra and Leo: What’s one of the 
essential elements to fuel a ﬁ  re? Air. 
That’s exactly why this ﬁ  re sign and 
air sign work so well together. Known 
as the balance of the zodiac, Libra 
counteracts Leo’s extravagant tenden-
cies. Leo’s high energy combined with 
Libra’s desire for harmony creates a 
couple that charms anyone with their 
hypnotizing love. 
Aries and Sagittarius: These ﬁ  re 
signs may be intense but they deﬁ  nite-
ly still get along. Both known for be-
ing high-energy signs that can’t be tied 
down, Aries and Sagittarius feed off 
each other’s exploratory energy. You 
can ﬁ  nd this pair riding bikes in the 
forest and trying out the newest food 
craze that others are too scared to try. 
Virgo and Capricorn: Detail-orient-
ed Virgo and workaholic Capricorn 
come together to bring us the power couple who always hit up the library 
on Saturday mornings and run mara-
thons as their ideal date. Virgo and 
Capricorn both value hard work and 
ﬁ  nd comfort in coming home to some-
one who appreciates all the hours they 
spent axe-to-the-grind. When this pair 
isn’t planning for world domination, 
catch them watching HGTV and hand 
drawing architect-level blueprints for 
their future home together.  
Pisces and Taurus: Opposites at-
tract when this whimsical and head-
strong pair comes together. Dreamy 
Pisces inspires Taurus to let loose and 
forget about all needless distractions, 
while practical Taurus brings Pisces 
back down to the real world. This 
couple is known for hosting the warm-
est house parties in all the Zodiac, with 
Pisces offering emotional attention to 
each guest and Taurus making sure 
everyone’s cups and stomachs are full. 
Jdefreitas@alligator.org
@Jackiedef7Pairs made in astrological heaven
THINKING OF GOING OUT 
SOMEWHERE WITH YOUR 
SIGNIFICANT OTHER THIS 
VALENTINE’S DAY? 
By Sara Han
Avenue Staff Writer
Love is in the air in Gainesville!.
Met a cutie in your class, on Tinder or 
out in The Swamp and want to move 
things forward? Here’s a suggestion: 
Take them on a date. 
If you’re thinking of going out 
somewhere with your signiﬁ  cant other 
this Valentine’s Day, there are plenty 
of go-to local date spots in our lovely 
college town. Whether during the day 
or night, here are ﬁ  ve of the best lo-
cal places to check out with your spe-
cial someone and make unforgettable 
memories.
Curia on the Drag
This coffee and tea shop, located at 
2029 NW Sixth St., looks like it comes 
straight out of an indie ﬁ  lm. The interi-
or of the shop contains an artistic ﬂ  air 
to it with its original decorations, while 
outdoor seating is both under a porch 
and uncovered. The relaxed setting is 
a perfect opportunity to talk with and 
get to know your signiﬁ  cant other.
Besides serving a variety of cof-
fee and tea, Curia offers tasty vegan-
friendly food from their plant-based 
menu. Featured items include a jack-
fruit quesadilla and mac ‘n’ jack. Curia 
on the Drag is open from 7 a.m. to 12 
a.m. Monday through Friday and from 
9 a.m. to 12 a.m. on the weekends. 
There’s also a daily happy hour for their beer and wine selection.
Union Street Farmers Market
Fall in love at the Union Street 
Farmers Market, an ideal place for a 
casual date. Located at 111 E. Univer-
sity Ave. and recurring every Wednes-
day from 4-7 p.m., the Union Street 
Farmers Market is a popular hotspot 
in downtown Gainesville. Listen to 
live music, browse the food trucks and 
fresh locally grown produce kiosks 
and eat a light dinner on the grassy 
lawn of Bo Diddley Community Plaza. 
With so much to do and see, you and 
your signiﬁ  cant other will surely not 
get bored on this date.
Dragonfly Sushi & Sake Company
Dragonﬂ  y is a classic choice of res-
taurant for a romantic date night. This 
restaurant is unique in that it takes a 
modern and creative approach to su-
shi. Located in downtown Gainesville 
at 201 SE Second Ave. #104, it is also 
a great place to stroll the shops be-
forehand or get dessert afterwards. 
Share your Japanese tapas-style dishes 
with your partner and complement it 
with any of the drinks from Dragon-
ﬂ  y’s sake selection for an even better 
experience. If you’re in the mood for 
your own meal, there are also plenty 
of dishes to choose from. Although 
pricey, the hip ambiance and fresh, 
quality sushi make Dragonﬂ  y worth it. 
Hippodrome State Theatre
Enjoy a night of storytelling with 
your SO at the one and only iconic 
cultural landmark in downtown 
Gainesville — the Hippodrome State 
Theatre, also known as the “the Hipp.” 
The Hippodrome, located at 25 SE Sec-ond Place, showcases live plays, ﬁ  lms 
and even art year-round. 
Butterfly Rainforest 
Searching for something interest-
ing and outdoorsy to do? Explore the 
lush landscape of the Butterﬂ  y Rain-
forest with your special someone. The 
Butterﬂ  y Rainforest, located at 3215 
Hull Road, is conveniently on campus 
inside the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. Admission is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards, and 
non-UF students can tour the rain-
forest for $12 each. The museum is 
open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday 
through Saturday and from 1-5 p.m. 
on Sunday. Who knows? Your heart 
might just ﬂ  utter as much as the but-
terﬂ  ies do when you’re at the exhibit 
with your date.
@sarahan921
shan@alligator.orgFive great date spots in Gainesville 
Curtesy to The Alligator
Allison Hellier (left) and 
Michelle Poolnyy (right) are 
SSA codirectors.
Curtesy to The Alligator
The Butterﬂ  y Rainforest in the 
Florida Museum of Natural 
History is perfect for a date.
Which sign was made for you?WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be publishing 3/4-3/8, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 11th is 
Friday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pmBy Alex Camargo
Avenue Staff Writer
Valentine’s Day is centered 
around one theme: love. It’s some-
thing almost every human being 
craves. Whether it be at a bar, in 
class or swiping through the latest 
dating apps, everyone is looking for 
some sort of connection.
For all you single readers out 
there this year, you no longer have 
to swipe your life away looking for 
a valentine. Instead, your perfect 
valentine is waiting for you in one 
of these top ﬁ  ve dating simulator 
games you can play this year.
“Dream Daddy:
 A Dad Dating Simulator”
“Dream Daddy” is the perfect 
game for those players who have the 
“daddy kink” and can’t get enough 
dad bods. 
The game was developed and 
published by Game Grumps, and 
was later re-released with the ex-
tended “Dadrector’s Cut” on Play-
Station 4 and PC.
“Dream Daddy” is an interactive 
visual novel with mini games and 
multiple endings. 
Players can choose among seven 
fathers to romanticize. Players will 
play as a lonely single father who 
just moved to Maple Bay with his 
daughter, Amanda. His cul-de-sac 
is ﬁ  lled with single fathers who are 
ready to mingle. 
Overall, the game is cute and 
ﬁ  lled with dad jokes. Going on dates 
can be so much fun, but say the 
wrong thing and the player might 
ﬁ  nd himself or herself friend-zoned 
or rejected. Players will instantly fall 
in love with all of these hot dads, 
but they can only be with one. 
Available on: PC, Mac and Play-
Station 4.“Hatoful Boyfriend”
“Hatoful Boyfriend” is a great 
game for players who love to go bird 
watching and fall in love with birds. 
The game was originally devel-
oped by PigeoNation Inc., and was 
later internationally remade by Brit-
ish developer Mediatonic.
Set in a version of Earth popu-
lated by sapient birds, players will 
play as a teenage girl who is the ﬁ  rst 
human student to be accepted at the 
prestigious St. PigeoNation’s Insti-
tute, a school for talented birds.
Yes, birds.
As players roam the halls and fall 
in love between classes, they must 
make decisions to determine which 
of the game’s multiple endings they 
receive. With eight different love 
interests, players will deﬁ  nitely be 
able to ﬁ  nd their perfect feathery 
valentine. Most of the characters are normally represented with pictures 
of birds, but players can toggle on 
the ICPSS (Intra-Cerebral Playback 
Synchro System) feature at the start 
of the game allowing each possible 
love interest to be represented with 
a human version of the character.
The game may seem odd at ﬁ  rst, 
but after a few hours of gameplay, 
players will begin to wonder if birds 
can really be this romantic. 
Available on: Android, iPhone, 
PC, Mac, PlayStation 4 and PlaySta-
tion Vita.
“Coming Out On Top”
Developed by Obscurasoft, 
“Coming Out On Top” is its ﬁ  rst gay 
dating simulator/visual novel. 
Players will play as Mark Mat-
thews, a college student who came 
out to his two roommates, Ian and 
Penny, before the start of his ﬁ  nal 
year. Based on the decisions made, players will be introduced to Mat-
thews’ multiple love interests. 
Players will begin by ﬂ  irting with 
multiple guys, but midway through 
the game, all other interactions will 
fade away while the strongest is 
pursued.
The game does have porno-
graphic elements with explicit im-
ages of Matthews performing sexual 
acts with another character. This 
may surprise the player at ﬁ  rst, but 
in the end, sex is part of being in an 
adult relationship.
“Coming Out On Top” is a great 
way to pass the time this Valentine’s 
Day. Sure Matthews’ lack of con-
versation may urge players to step 
into the game and slap sense into 
him, but with its great sense of hu-
mor and expertly written dialogue, 
“Coming Out On Top” will not dis-
appoint.
Available on: PC and Mac.
“HuniePop”
“HuniePop” is an erotic tile-
matching dating simulator adult 
game created by American devel-
oper HuniePot.
Players will attempt to swoon 
their love interest by talking to them 
and giving gifts. Doing this will re-
ward players with “Hunie,” an in-
game currency that can be used to 
upgrade the player’s stats. Stats al-
low players to earn more points dur-
ing dates, increasing their chance of 
success.
Players must take their poten-
tial life partner on dates in order to 
progress in the game. During these 
dates, players will play a tile-match-
ing game where they must match 
three or more of the same tokens. 
They must earn enough points to 
complete the date before they run 
out of moves. However, each date 
has a speciﬁ  c token they like or dis-like. Match the right tokens, and the 
player will earn more points. 
“HuniePop” may be considered 
pornography, but like many dating 
simulator games, some are dirtier 
than the rest. It may feel like an R-
rated Bejeweled, but “HuniePop” 
is visually pleasing with solid voice 
acting and amusing characters.
Available on: PC and Mac.
“Nekopara”
“Nekopara” is a series of visual 
novel video games with six volumes 
and was developed by Neko Works.
Unlike most dating simulators, 
players don’t have the power to 
make decisions or inﬂ  uence the sto-
ry. This is unusual for most dating 
games, but it ensures players will all 
get the same ending.
In volume one, players will play 
as Kashou Minaduki, an aspiring 
chef who moves away from home to 
open his own dessert shop, La Soleil. 
While unpacking, Minaduki 
discovers two of his family’s cats, 
Chocola and Vanilla, followed him 
by hiding in cardboard boxes. After 
the two sneaky cats convince him to 
let them stay, the three of them work 
together to run his shop. 
“Nekopara” is a cat lover’s para-
dise. With plenty of ﬂ  irtatious dia-
logue and risqué implication, “Neko-
para” is a delightful game to play.
Available on: PC, Nintendo 
Switch and Playstation 4.
These are just a few of the dat-
ing simulator games players can 
play this Valentine’s Day. There are 
many more erotic, odd and fun-ﬁ  lled 
games out there, but if players have 
yet to dive into the world of dating 
simulators, prepare to be surprised 
because this list is nothing compared 
to what’s out there.
Acamargo@alligator.orgBest dating simulators to play if alone on Valentine’s Day  
Courtesy to The Alligator
“Dream Daddy: A Dad Dating Simulator” is our 
recommendation for anyone fond of dad bods and jokes.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner 
any day of the week. Come in and check out 
one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out 
nothing but goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for 
lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3  
dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years as an 
alternative to alcohol used for ceremonial, 
political, medicinal, and social purposes. 
Come try our Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other 
teas in Downtown Gainesville. Open weekdays 
12pm-12am, weekends 12pm-1am and Sundays 
12pm-5pm.  17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.
com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & pastries made 
on premises daily since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. 
Drive-thru available Open everyday 5am -7pm  
Free wi-fi, senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
INDIAN
Kabab House
Kabab House has authentic clay oven tandoor 
cooking for succulent Halal beef, chicken, lamb, and 
goat made fresh daily for tikka masalas, vindaloos,  
kormas, and paneers. Vegetarian and vegan 
available too! Daily lunch specials include rice, naan, 
appetizers, salad, desserts. Open Mon, Wed-Sat 11-10, 
Sunday noon - 9. Delivery through Bite Squad. Order 
ahead www.kababhousegainesville.com   604 NW 
13th St. 352-792-6764.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUTBy Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s Valentine’s Day week and ev-
eryone is in the mood to add a little 
bit more love to their lives. Whether 
you’re in a relationship or not, roman-
tic comedies are an integral part of our 
media consumption. So, as you decide 
how to spend time with the people that 
you care about the most, including 
yourself, watch a good movie or two 
about love and life. 
“The Proposal”
Any Sandra Bullock movie really is 
great, but “The Proposal” is an interest-
ing take on a romantic comedy because 
it plays on the idea of not being in love 
with someone that you’re with for an 
extended period of time. The prem-
ise of the movie is simple — a tough 
career-focused woman is faced with 
deportation and must quickly marry 
before being sent back to Canada. Her 
only option is to marry her devoted as-
sistant, played by Ryan Reynolds. 
“50 First Dates”
Nothing says “I love you” more than a ﬁ  lm completely dedicated to some-
one getting another person to fall in 
love with them repeatedly. Main char-
acter Henry Roth (Adam Sandler) lives 
in Oahu, Hawaii, and meets a sweet 
and beautiful young woman named 
Lucy Whitmore (Drew Barrymore). To 
his sad surprise, the next day she has 
no recollection of their meeting and his 
existence. Once Henry is made aware 
of her situation, he vows to win her 
love every single day.
“How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days”
Nothing screams “rom-com” more 
than a movie about falling in love 
with the person you’re trying to get 
rid of in the end. In this movie, Andie 
(Kate Hudson) is a magazine colum-
nist tasked with coming up with the 
next great idea. While at a network-
ing dinner, Andie comes up with the 
idea of creating a dating advice column 
on how to lose a guy in 10 days. At 
that same party, resident serial dater 
Ben (Matthew McConaughey) bets his 
friend that he can get a girl, who be-
comes Andie, to fall in love with him 
in ten days. Thus, both end up in a spiteful relationship at odds with each 
other, but along the way learn the true 
character of the other person and fall 
in love. 
“500 Days of Summer”
In this odd take on a romantic ﬁ  lm, 
rather than having two characters fall 
in love, viewers learn about the past 
of the main characters while they were 
“dating” and initially fell in love. Then, 
we look at the relationship of the two 
main characters and how they got to 
where they are now. 
“Pretty Woman”
What is sometimes referred to as 
the modern Cinderella, this classic ﬁ  lm 
is the tale of two people from differ-
ent worlds falling in love. While on a 
business trip in Los Angeles, Edward 
(Richard Gere), picks up a hooker, Viv-
ian (Julia Roberts).  After Edward hires 
Vivian to stay with him for the week-
end, the two get closer and try to be-
come people that can ﬁ  t in the other’s 
world. 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.org Rom-coms for the most romantic and hilarious Loving the feeling 
or feeling the love?
A PLAYLIST FOR CELEBRATING THE 
LOVE OF PARTNERS AND FRIENDS  
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Girl Power Galentine’s Day 
“Run the World (Girls)” by Beyoncé
“thank u, next” by Ariana Grande
“Me & My Girls” by Selena Gomez
“Unfoolish” by Ashanti 
“Don’t Cha” by The Pussycat Dolls
“Jumpin’ Jumpin’” by Destiny’s Child 
“You Don’t Own Me” by Grace feat. G-Eazy
“No Scrubs” by TLC 
“Oops!...I Did It Again” by Britney Spears
“I Don’t Need A Man” by The Pussycat Dolls
Young Love Valentine’s Day
“Adorn” by Miguel
“Best Part” by Daniel Caesar feat. H.E.R.
“Just the Way You Are” by Bruno Mars
“Save Me from Myself” by Christina Aguilera 
“Ain’t No Other Man” by Christina Aguilera 
“Thinkin Bout You” by Frank Ocean 
“If I Ain’t Got You” by Alicia Keys
“I Just Called to Say I Love You” by Stevie Wonder
“Beneath Your Beautiful” by Labrinth feat. Emeli Sandé
“No One Else Comes Close” by Joe 
@manertt
tmaner@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-259-2020     3-1-19-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds 
to advertising use caution and inves -
tigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal informa -
tion or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1.695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
2-27-19-75-2
One Bedroom spacious apartment
with Balcony- 2nd Floor.
Walk to Oaks mall and Restaurants-
Call 404-323-9338      2-18-19-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Copytalk Business Services
GET PAID TO TYPE ($8.50-$13+/hr)
Financial transcription positions available.
We'll train you!
Apply at ctscribes.com         4-12-19-31-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre -
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer camp pro -
gram. For a complete listing of positions visit 
www.oakhall.org/about-ohs/employment-
opportunities
Interview process begins February 23rd.     
2-22-19-12-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Wanted Dog and house sitter
needed May 27-June 14
Must be able to spend nites at the house
Pay $1,000 McIntosh Fl 16miles from G'ville
352-207-2717 for interview      3-25-19-21-14
Sr. International Marketing Analyst 
(SharpSpring Technologies Inc -
Gainesville, FL) 
Research, analyze int. mktg. strategies for 
marketing automation sw.
Assoc. Deg. in Mktg. or rel. w/coursework in 
Mktg. Comm., E-Mktg + 2 yrs. exp.  as Mktg. 
or Sales Specialist or sim. in IT ind. req. 35 
hrs/wk; 
Email  resume to jobs@sharpspring.com     
2-13-1-14
Learn today,
how to make an extra $400 per week
completing surveys as a student!
Go to www.collegeopportunity.cc     2-18-19-
3-14
1. MEDICAL: What is the medical 
name for joints that pop and crack?
2. LITERATURE: What is the name 
of the annual award for the best sci-
ence fiction or fantasy writing?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What was the 
Secret Service’s code name for Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy?
4. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the girl gang in the movie “Grease”?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which top college’s motto is “duty, 
honor, country”?
6. PERSONALITIES: In which state 
was author Tennessee Williams born?
7. FOOD & DRINK: Which popu-
lar liquor is made from fermented and 
distilled sugar cane juice or molasses?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of parrots called?
9. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the detective agency in the 
1980s comedy “Moonlighting”?
10. HISTORY: How wide is the 
Korean Demilitarized Zone?
Answers
1. Crepitus 
2. The Hugo Award
3. Lancer
4. The Pink Ladies
5. U.S. Military Academy at West 
Point
6. Mississippi
7. Rum
8. A pandemonium
9. Blue Moon Detective Agency
10. 2.5 miles wide
© 2019 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 11, 2019King Features Weekly Service
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR    13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
New side-hustle alert!
Join www.Brands.Buzz and start earning 
with your social network…consistently, every 
day! Free to register. Join today!       2-20-
19-5-20NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: February 25, 2019 at 3:00 
p.m.
PLACE: John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our web -
site at www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67 th Place, Gainesville, Florida. 
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.     
2-13-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SERVICE DOG - PTSD, AUTISM CERTIFIED
3 months old, AKC yellow lab, male. 
Comes with training. $1800. 352-472-6099. 
Volunteers needed.              2-18-19-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND
UF 2017 neckstrap keychain at stadium 
South side. Saw it fall from a bicycle attem -
ted to call out to you. work in the Hub 273-
4903 2-08-7-25
1.  Withdraw, diminish 
1.  Newbie 5.  ____ space
2.  ____ cheese6.  Fossil resin 
3.  Lasting 7.  Trickery
4.  Middle East city DEERCE
KIROEOERUOT
BMRAE
GACTEOT
UELABDRDCITEE 
UEITBRANSWERS: 1A-Recede  5A-Outer  6A-Amber  7A-Deceit
1D-Rookie  2D-Cottage  3D-Durable  4D-Beirut  B-Ecuador2-13-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The national tree of ____ is the cinchona 
tree, which produces quinine.
BONUS
By Blake Slonecker
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/13/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/13/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, February 13, 2019
ACROSS
1 Lamb bearers
5 Common Vegas 
hotel room 
amenities
10 Tea holders
14 Herod sent them 
to Bethlehem
15 Full of energy
16 __ Day: Bayer 
vitamin brand
17 Faction
18 Cook’s reply to 
37-Across?
20 Nightmarish 
street of film
21 Gimlet garnish
22 Dr. Reid in 
“Criminal Minds,” 
familiarly
23 Librarian’s reply 
to 37-Across?
26 Double Stuf treats
27 “That’s __ to me”
28 “__ and the Real 
Girl”: 2007 film
30 Operatic solos
32 Spook
34 Animal house
37 Insomniac’s 
lament
40 Canadian singer 
DeMarco
41 Of help
42 Slugger Barry
43 Big fusses
44 Remnant
45 Buffalo NHL 
player
48 Trainer’s reply to 
37-Across?
53 Photographer 
Alda married to 
Alan
55 Prefix with pit or 
pool
56 Classic auto
57 Auditor’s reply to 
37-Across?
59 Flamboyant Dame
60 Word spoken con 
affetto
61 Arroz con __: 
chicken dish
62 Horseback rider’s 
control
63 Globes
64 Cake raiser
65 Wilson of Heart 
et al.
DOWN
1 Arson evidence, 
perhaps2 Pixar film robot 
who falls in love 
with 8-Down
3 Vanity case?
4 [Not my bad]
5 Misters, in old 
India
6 Texas tourist 
spot
7 The cops
8 Robot who falls 
in love with 
2-Down
9 Old salts’ haunts
10 Complexion aids
11 Ridiculous
12 Wafer maker
13 Sushi bar brews
19 Some exercise 
tops
21 Torts enrollee
24 Actor James or 
singer Jimmy
25 1971 Sutherland 
title role
29 Chilean year
30 Intent or intend
31 Nipper’s label
32 Bank job
33 NHL’s  
Thrashers
34 Meditation setting 
with rocks and 
gravel35 Exhaustive ref.
36 Black __
38 Sporty ’60s 
Pontiac
39 MGM mogul 
Marcus
43 Stadiums
44 Totalitarian 
leader
45 Vanzetti’s partner
46 Like Times 
Square on New 
Year’s Eve47 Book jacket  
entry
49 Swift Northeast 
train
50 Ship stabilizers
51 Red Square 
honoree
52 34-Down 
teaching aids
54 Athlete’s  
award
58 Row maker
59 Pitcher’s stat
By Roland Huget
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, February 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 Enjoys 
Breckenridge, say
5 Cries out loud
9 “If I Had a 
Hammer” singer 
Lopez
14 In the past
15 Geometry 
calculation
16 Pay by mail
17 Metered work, 
usually
18 Duck that lends 
its name to a 
color
19 Word from the 
wise
20 100-mile-an-hour 
fastball, often
23 Vent opening?
24 Stein filler
25 Classy neckwear
33 Total confusion
34 Made public
35 Summer Games 
org.
36 Admission of fault
37 Less clumsy
38 Back up a step, 
as in an app
39 “__ is me!”
40 For all to hear
41 Good feature
42 Bike storage 
bags, e.g.
45 Partner of to
46 22.5 deg.
47 What a plus 
sign indicates 
on a golf match 
scoreboard
55 Pick up gradually
56 Crafted, as a tale
57 Keep for later
58 Wonderland cake 
message
59 Morales of 
“NYPD Blue”
60 Express line unit
61 Jacket material
62 Bakery product
63 Fiddling emperor
DOWN
1 Soaks (up)
2 Wood 
imperfection
3 Cake finisher4 Part-time players
5 Glossy fabric
6 Layered Nabisco 
treat
7 Belle’s 
counterpart
8 Basic food 
preservative
9 Was behind in 
the match
10 Herbal brew
11 Apple since 1998
12 Soon to happen
13 Suffix with urban
21 Songwriter 
Kristofferson
22 School research 
assignment
25 Slap the puck 
toward the goal
26 Get to the point?
27 Cameroon 
neighbor
28 Prepare for a 
bodybuilding 
competition
29 Middle Corleone 
brother
30 Salon procedure
31 Rich ore deposits
32 Many a clan 
member33 Farm moms
37 “Take __ at this!”
38 Signals the 
arrival of, as a 
new era
40 Dressed like a 
chef
41 Embarrassing 
spots
43 Typical chalet
44 Launch, as a 
new product47 Side with a 
sandwich
48 Head of Haiti
49 Vessel with a 
spout
50 Ho-hum
51 Avocado shape
52 Canapé spread
53 Say with certainty
54 San __, Italy
55 “__ it?”: 
“Comprende?”16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida and UConn agree to home-and-home series
The Gators men's basketball team will face the UConn Huskies twice in the 
next two seasons. The first matchup will take place on Nov. 17 in Connecti-
cut, while the second game will be played during the 2020-21 campaign.Senior jumper Yanis David (pictured) 
earned SEC Field Athlete of the 
Week, and junior athlete Grant 
Holloway was named the SEC Men's 
Runner of the Week.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida men’s basketball coach 
Mike White will continue say-
ing it until he is blue in the face: 
Vanderbilt is a lot better than its 
0-10 SEC record shows. 
That’s true, to an extent.
The Commodores are currently 
averaging 73.6 points per game, 
which is No. 11 in the confer-
ence. They are near the bottom in 
field goals made, but are close to 
the top in three pointers and free 
throws made.
“They have a lot of talent...,” 
White said. “Our guys will find 
that out in the first few minutes 
of the game, if they’re not already 
convinced.”
The Gators will find out if 
White is right when they play 
Vanderbilt on Wednesday at 9 
p.m. at the O’Connell Center.
The Commodores are a team 
White hasn't taken lightly in his 
time at UF. They have won all but 
one game against the Gators over 
the past four seasons.
“Vandy has gotten the better 
of the Gators the last few years,” he said. “They’ve got some very 
talented players. (Simisola) Shittu 
is one of the most talented guys 
in our league. (Aaron) Nesmith 
is one of the most talented fresh-
man in our league. Saben Lee we 
couldn’t guard last year, and he’s 
gotten better, and he’s gotten 
more experienced.”
Those players could be a prob-
lem for Florida. 
Shittu is one of the SEC’s top 
rebounders, tied for eighth in the 
league at seven boards per game. 
He creates a strong inside pres-
ence as a 6-foot-10 forward/cen-
ter, averaging 12 points per game 
and scoring all but one of his bas-
kets from inside the perimeter.
Nesmith pulled valuable min-
utes off the bench before crack-
ing the starting lineup. He has 
reached double-digit scoring 
(10.3) this season, has a 42.3 field-
goal percentage and is second in 
rebounds (127) for Vanderbilt.
Lee continues to be a tough 
player to cover. He leads the team 
in scoring since guard Darius Gar-
land’s meniscus injury five games 
into the season. Lee is shooting Florida looks to keep Vandy from attaining first SEC win
Chris King / Alligator Staff
Florida men's basketball coach Mike White and the Gators play Vanderbilt at 9 p.m. on Wednesday at 
the O'Connell Center. The Commodores are looking to pick up their first SEC win of the season.
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15
Kyler Murray’s announcement on 
Monday was a mere formality.
The former Oklahoma quar-
terback revealed via Twitter his 
intention to forgo a career in the 
MLB and fully commit to the NFL.
But it was clear he’d made that choice 
two months ago when Murray gripped that 
bronze Heisman trophy in his hands.
And he made the right decision. 
Despite the doubts, Murray’s athleti-
cism, accuracy and field vision will allow him to thrive 
in the NFL.
Since he declared for the draft in January, ana-
lysts and draft experts have squinted at his 5-foot-10, 
195-pound stature.
The argument is that his size will limit his ability to 
be effective in the pocket and make the same throws 
downfield that he did in college when he faces the 
NFL’s defensive linemen, who are 6-foot-3 on aver-
age. And the Von Millers and Khalil Macks of the NFL 
world will feast on his small frame.
That could all be true, and he’ll certainly face much better defenses than he did in the Big 12. 
But his size won’t be the ultimate determi-
nant of his success at the next level. His 
talent will. 
Murray is elusive. He’s an elite passer. 
He’s a playmaker. And he was lethal in 
Lincoln Riley’s run-pass option system this 
past season. He threw for over 4,300 yards 
and 42 touchdowns. And he rushed for an-
other 1,000 yards.
When has there ever been a better time 
for undersized quarterbacks in the NFL?
The league has been trending in a direction that 
makes it easier for quarterbacks who don’t fit the pro-
totypical mold to rise to elite levels purely with their 
athleticism. 
The quarterback’s role in the run game is more im-
portant now than it used to be, and so is the need for 
QBs to make plays outside the pocket. “Small” quar-
terbacks like Drew Brees, Russell Wilson and Baker 
Mayfield have done that.
Size was a dominant storyline for both Wilson and Now is the best time to be an undersized 
NFL quarterback. Kyler Murray will prove it.The Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
Alanis Thames
Twitter: @alanisthames 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
It wasn’t about the score 
as much as it was about the 
occasion.
A total of 1,782 fans filled 
the stands and lined the out-
field wall at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium on Tuesday 
night for the first time since 
the home of Florida Gators 
softball underwent renova-
tions. 
The 2019 home opener 
featured a ribbon-cutting 
ceremony with UF Athletic 
Director Scott Stricklin, a 
ceremonial first pitch by for-mer-Athletic Director Jeremy 
Foley and an exhibition game 
between the Japan National 
Team and the Gators.
Florida fell to the older, 
more experienced Japan side 
8-0. It wasn’t the result that 
UF wanted to usher in its new 
home digs, but pitcher Kelly 
Barnhill said she valued the 
experience to play against one 
of the world’s best teams. 
“I think that it was abso-
lutely amazing that we had 
this opportunity,” Barnhill 
said. “When you play the best 
in general, you start to be-UF opens newly 
renovated stadium 
with exhibition loss
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
47.7 percent from the field this season, 
including 36.4 percent from beyond the 
arc.
“They’re very well coached. They 
play hard,” guard Jalen Hudson said. 
“They execute, so regardless of their 
record, it’s the SEC so it’s gonna be a 
tough game.”
To an extent, White is right. Vander-
bilt has all the talent on paper to be bet-
ter than an 0-10 SEC team. 
But it isn’t, and it is still looking to pick up that first conference win. As his-
tory has shown, it could very well be 
against the Gators.
White knows that is something going 
through Vanderbilt’s players’ minds, so 
he knows his team has to be ready to 
play come Wednesday night.
“I’m sure they’re sitting there think-
ing, ‘We’ve got a chance to win a bunch 
of the remaining games on our schedule 
as well,’” he said. “We’ve got to play 
well. We’ve got to get better.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Vanderbilt is 0-10 in the SECMayfield when they entered the league. 
Wilson, who the NFL lists at 5-foot-
11, slipped to the third round of the 2012 
draft partly because of his size. 
But Mayfield was drafted first overall 
by the Cleveland Browns in 2018. 
Granted, that was partially because of 
their desperate need for a quarterback, 
but the Browns’ willingness to take a 
chance on Mayfield (6-foot-1) that high 
in the draft shows that the league is 
changing.
And look how it turned out for Cleve-
land.
Mayfield threw for 3,700 yards and 27 
touchdowns and led the Browns to their 
highest win total (seven) since the 2014 
season. He only played in 14 games this season, starting 13 of them.
For teams whose prime need is at 
the quarterback position, why not take 
a chance on another Heisman trophy-
winning Oklahoma quarterback?
Opinions about Murray’s size have 
complicated something that’s actually 
very simple.
Downfield accuracy. Ability to ex-
tend plays. Pocket awareness. If he has 
at least one of those qualities, chances 
are he’ll be at minimum a decent NFL 
quarterback. 
And if that’s all Kyler Murray needs 
to be successful at the next level, just 
crown him Rookie of the Year now.
Alanis Thames is the online sports 
editor of the Alligator. Follow her on 
Twitter @alanisthames and contact her 
at athames@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White is 1-6 against Vanderbilt in his three seasons as the 
coach of the Gators.
come better and better each time… I think 
we learned a lot of stuff about ourselves 
through this game.”
The Japanese team defeated South Flori-
da 10-2 in Tampa on Monday night with 11 
players from its roster that placed second 
at the Women’s Softball World Champion-
ship in August. Team Japan also saved its 
best pitcher, Yamoto Fujita, for Florida, and 
the home side only mustered two hits, both 
singles.
Barnhill got the start in the circle for the 
Gators. The senior and two-time All-Ameri-
can gave up just six hits and two runs in 19 
innings of action last weekend in Tampa, 
but in three innings of work against Japan, 
Barnhill gave up four hits and a run. 
Japan opened the scoring in the top of 
the second.
A single through the left side by the 
28-year-old Fujita started the inning, and 
she eventually circled the bases to score. 
The Japan pitcher touched home on an RBI 
sacrifice fly by left fielder Nadoka Harada to 
put the first run on the board. 
“Nobody knows who Fujita is,” UF coach 
Tim Walton said. “That’s one of the best 
players in the entire world with a bat, with 
a glove, and oh, in the circle too."
Team Japan extended its lead two in-
nings later. Walton took Barnhill out after 
three innings and handed the ball to fresh-
man Danni Farley to start the fourth. 
After a leadoff single by Fujita, Farley 
was able to retire the next two batters. 
However, Harada powered an offering over the wall in left field to extend Japan’s lead 
to 3-0.  
A close play at the plate in the top of 
the fifth gave the visitors a 4-0 advantage, 
and the Japanese squad pulled away in the 
seventh. 
Sophomore Natalie Lugo entered the cir-
cle for UF with one out left in the top of the 
sixth before giving up four runs in the top 
of the seventh. An RBI sacrifice fly, an RBI 
single and a two-RBI double made up the 
scoring in the final inning. 
Florida struggled offensively against the 
experienced pitching of Japan. Fujita start-
ed in the world championship final against 
Team USA that went into extra innings. She 
hurled four innings on Tuesday and struck 
out five batters without relinquishing a hit. 
The star of the game for Florida was 
shortstop Sophia Reynoso, who impressed 
with her defensive play. The junior turned 
a double play to end the top of the first by 
fielding the ball, stepping on second and 
throwing to first. She also made a diving 
over-the-shoulder catch on a blooper into 
shallow right field during the top of the 
sixth.
Walton said he liked the defensive play 
from his team, but wanted a better perfor-
mance overall.
“We’re on the right track, but for me, 
being a competitor, I wanted to give them 
a little bit more of a fight than what we 
showed tonight,” he said.  “Defensively 
there was some good talk, good communi-
cation.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Japan allowed only 2 hits to UF
Mark Stine / Alligator Staff
UF softball coach Tim Walton and Athletic Director Scott Stricklin cut the ribbon 
at the unveiling of the newly renovated Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium before the 
Gators faced the Japan National T eam in an exhibition Tuesday night.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueRooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!Rooftop Food Truck 
Opening Soon!
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSLACROSSE Meme of the week by River Wells
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer
Seniors on the Florida lacrosse 
team have played Maryland three 
times throughout their collegiate ca-
reers.
They have never won.
The Gators will have the op-
portunity to change that when No. 
4 Florida hosts No. 2 Maryland 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium on 
Thursday night at 7.
The games between the two 
women’s lacrosse powerhouses in 
2016 and 2017 were not close, with 
the Gators losing 14-4 and 18-8, re-
spectively.
In 2018, UF went goal-for-goal 
with the then-top-ranked Terrapins. 
Although it lost 16-14, the juniors 
on the team made their presence 
felt. 
Midfielder Sydney Pirreca led 
Florida with six goals and two as-
sists that day. Her eight points were 
the most in a game by a Gator since 
Shannon Gilroy did it twice in 2015.
Attacker Lindsey Ronbeck scored 
a hat trick, and goalkeeper Haley 
Hicklen posted 14 saves, tying her 
career-high for saves in a single 
game.
Pirreca, Ronbeck and Hicklen, now seniors, will need to 
perform at that same level on Thursday to finally defeat the 
Terps.
Maryland is coming off a 16-5 win against George Mason 
on Saturday behind five goals and one assist from senior 
midfielder Jen Giles. The 2018 IWLCA First Team All-Ameri-
can was a perfect 4-for-4 on free-position attempts.
Senior attacker Caroline Steele and junior attacker Kali 
Hartshorn chipped in with hat tricks of their own. Graduate 
student Erica Evans, who transferred from Canisius College, 
had two goals and two assists in her first game as a Terrapin.
The high-powered offense of the Terps will be a tough test for Florida’s defense, which has not allowed more than 10 
goals  per game since its inaugural season in 2010.
Coach Amanda O’Leary turned to seniors Caroline May 
and Caroline Benitez to fill the void left by former defend-
er Aniya Flanagan, inserting them into the starting lineup 
against Colorado on Saturday.
O’Leary will rely on May, Benitez and the rest of her se-
nior class to defeat Maryland in Thursday’s home opener, 
and she knows that they have the ability to perform.
“That entire class — from top to bottom — has provided 
us with tremendous leadership, on and off the field,” O’Leary 
said. “That’s what you want from your seniors.”
@bmatamoros_
bmatamoros@alligator.org Seniors gets one last shot at Maryland
Alligator File Photo
Florida midﬁ  elder Sydney Pirreca scored six goals against Maryland last season. 
The Gators play the T errapins on Thursday at 7 p.m.
