We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
New SG party announced at last Senate
The Progressive Party is the second new party this Fall in SG,
pg 4
Students create app for campus event
The app was released in early November,  pg 4SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperBassett overcomes late start
Basketball forward Dontay Bassett didn’t 
start playing until 10th grade. Now, he’s a 
key player in Florida’s rotation,  pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 42
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
LIGHTING OF THE STATUE
SURVEY WAS DISPERSED 
IN SPRING, ANNOUNCED 
THIS FALL
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College received the 
results of a racial equity survey 
this Fall. Overall, the college 
earned a three out of four.
The National Assessment 
of Collegiate Campus Climate 
(NACCC) is an anonymous sur-
vey that was emailed to Santa Fe 
students in Spring.  It was devel-
oped by the University of South-
ern California’s Race and Equity 
Center, said Cheryl Calhoun, the 
dean of access and inclusion at 
Santa Fe. 
Nine percent of students re-
sponded to the survey, of which 
61 percent were white, 22 per-
cent were Hispanic or Latinx, 16 
percent were black and 7 percent 
were Asian. 
Santa Fe received four of four 
ribbons for appraisals of institu-tional commitment, two of four 
for racial learning and literacy 
and three out of four ribbons for 
the other categories.
“We want to close the inequi-
table gap that occurs for students 
of color as compared to white stu-
dents in their success rates in col-
lege and their access of college,” 
Calhoun said.
More than 67 percent of stu-
dents at Santa Fe are white. Sev-
enteen percent are black, 6 per-
cent are Hispanic or Latinx and 
the rest are Asian, Hawaiian and 
Native American.
USC’s Race and Equity Center 
also rated UF last Fall, and gave 
the university an F in racial eq-
uity. 
UF is also a predominantly 
white institution, with 52 percent 
of students being white. Nineteen 
percent of students are Hispanic 
and Latinx, 7 percent are Asian 
and 6 percent are black.
Calhoun said that Santa Fe’s 
faculty are looking at the aca-
UPDATE MAY HELP PREVENT 
TRANSGENDER STUDENTS FROM 
BEING MISGENDERED
By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
Transgender students who do not use 
their legal names will be able to change the 
way it appears on Canvas this Spring.
Next semester, changing display names 
on Canvas will be easier for students, teach-
ing assistants and faculty who use a name different than their deadname, which is a 
person’s birth name that a transgender per-
son may no longer use. 
Canvas will uniformly display chosen dis-
play names for students, teaching assistants 
and faculty who are in the One.UF system 
beginning Spring 2020, said Tammy Aagard, 
associate vice president for enrollment man-
agement at UF, in an email.
Students can change their display name 
by logging onto One.UF and selecting the di-
rectory proﬁ  le option from the upper right 
icon. Under the name section, students can 
select the display name to edit it, she said. Although this has been available for years, 
the online systems will now be uniform.  
“Your name is who you are, and it mat-
ters deeply to all of us, so we’ve made the 
process more transparent and easy to use,” 
Aagard wrote. 
For students like Julien Habif, a 23-year-
old UF biomedical doctoral student who is 
transgender, being able to change the dis-
play name is a step in the right direction 
and could help prevent students from being 
misgendered. However, the change is not 
enough if students are not able to change 
their GatorLink username as well, he wrote in an email.
He was able to change his display name 
on his UF email, which gave him a sense of 
validation, but was told that he would not 
be able to change his GatorLink username, 
which was also his email, until he legally 
changed his name.
“My display name or even how I signed 
my emails made little difference when the 
receiver of my emails was seeing a femi-
nine name,” Habif wrote. “This prevented 
me from emailing those that I wasn’t out to, 
HE HAS BEEN MISSING 
SINCE NOV . 5
By Alex DeLuca
Alligator Staff Writer
As the clock strikes 6 p.m., Betty Jen-
ner almost expects to hear the familiar rat-
tling of the cage of her emotional support 
parrot, Koa, or the piercing sound of him 
squawking “Ma!” from across the room.Jenner, who struggles with post-trau-
matic stress disorder, said Koa has been 
her “driving force in life” for the last ﬁ  ve 
years. But ever since he went missing, the 
69-year-old said she’s had to force herself 
to go on. 
“People look at him and they see a bird, 
but they didn’t see the heart that I saw,” 
Jenner said. “He’s the love of my life.”
Koa, a 5-year-old Solomon Island eclec-
tus parrot, has been missing from Jenner’s Columbia County home since Nov. 5. Jen-
ner believes he ﬂ  ew out her front screen 
door while she was distracted with ﬁ  xing 
her heater that day. 
In the weeks since, Jenner said she’s 
contacted several groups including Florida 
Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commis-
sion, the local sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce and ﬁ  re de-
partment who’ve helped hand out ﬂ  yers 
and search for her parrot. 
Jenner said she even tried recruiting lo-cal Boy Scouts to go door 
to door around the neigh-
borhood with ﬂ  yers. 
“It would be easier 
for me to tell you what 
I haven’t done than it 
would be to tell you what 
I have done,” Jenner said. 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time SFC scores on racial equity
UF students can change display name on Canvas in Spring
Lake City woman asks public to help ﬁ  nd emotional support bird SEE SFC,  PAGE 5
SEE NAME,  PAGE 5
SEE BIRD,  PAGE 5Koa
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Keith Curry-Pochy, a 27-year-old Butterﬂ  y Rainforest production assistant at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, and his 3-year-old son, Cypress, look at the new alligator sculpture Tuesday evening in 
front of University Auditorium during the Lighting of the Gator. Curry-Pochy said Cypress really likes 
alligators and Christmas lights so the event was very fun for him. T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  65° LOW  38°2  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.WHAT'S HAPPENING
Youth Climate Strike 
Gainesville
When: Friday, Noon to 3 p.m.
Where: UF Tigert Hall
What: A list of demands for the 
University of Florida will be read, along with a general kickoff of 
the event. From there, the march 
will proceed to City Hall where a 
rally with speakers, performances 
and chants will occur. This march 
between the two significant 
buildings is intended to symbolize 
the connection between UF and 
the Gainesville city government.Little Run on the Prairie 5K
When: Saturday, 7 a.m. to Noon
Where: Alachua County 4-H, 
2800 NE 39th Ave.
What: The Little Run on the 
Prairie 5K is a trail run through 
Paynes Prairie. The money raised 
through the event goes towards 
4-H summer camp scholarships 
for special interest, residential 
and county day camps. Dogs on a 
leash are also welcome.VOLUME 114 ISSUE 42
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana Meyers, Karina ElwoodADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy EditorsCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeChloe Greenberg, Lonnie Numa, Danny Khor, 
Manny Rea, Allessandra Inzinna, Rachel Kelsey, 
Samia Lagmis, Ashlyn JonesMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgZora Viel, opinions@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
BellyDance
352-384-9200
www.ethnicdanceexpressions.com
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3
UF now ranked #7
among public universities
 – U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2020
UFL.EDU
THANK YOU   faculty, staff 
and students. It is because of you 
we can celebrate this success. 
As the flagship university in the nation’s number one state for 
higher education, the Unversity 
of Florida’s momentum is on an 
unstoppable trajectory.
INVESTING IN OURSELVES. 
INVESTING IN WHAT’S NEXT.4  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
GUIDE
Contact Alligator Advertising to see your business featured here: 352-376-4482to Dining Out in Gainesville
BREAKFAST/COFFEE
WORLDORGANIC RAMEN
Daily Green: Fresh, unique, 
organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade 
sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7 , sun brunch 10-3.  
dailygreendowntown.orgBagels & Noodles:   Serving breakfast and 
fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11am - 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave.
Civilization:    Ride the rail trail to its Northern 
end and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso 
drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and sustainable 
wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open 
for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.comElectric Ramen
Tasty Ramen at great prices!
Weekly Specials
Vegan and Gluten Free Options
Open Wednesday to Monday: 11am — 9pm 
Happy Hour (1/2 Price Ramen) 3-6 pm daily!
SENATE DIDN’T ACCOMPLISH 
MANY TASKS FROM PARTY 
PLATFORMS 
By Emma McAvoy 
Alligator Staff Writer 
On the night of the last Senate meeting of 
the semester, UF students announced a new 
Student Government party called the Progres-
sive Party.  
In the past semester, four Senate meet-
ings were canceled, barely any legislation was 
passed, the Student Body president faced an 
impeachment inquiry and two new parties 
formed. 
UF student Alfredo Ortiz said at the meeting 
that there is an intention to start a third party 
in the Spring and named it as the Progressive 
Party after the meeting. The party can’t ofﬁ  cial-
ly register until the active campaigning cycle 
begins, Ortiz said.
Progressive will join Inspire Party and Gator 
Party. No senators ran under Impact Party this 
semester, but the Student Body president, vice 
president and treasurer are afﬁ  liated with it. 
Ortiz and Mark Merwitzer, another found-
ing member, both ran as independent senators 
in September. They said their goals are to in-
troduce a multi-partisan ideological debate in 
the Senate chamber versus a system debate 
between the two current Senate parties.  
After seeing a semester of gridlock, the duo 
said they want to introduce tangible issues and 
bring in ideas from organizations who they be-
lieve haven’t been represented at UF such as 
the National Women’s Liberation chapter, the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition and the UF 
chapter of the NAACP. 
“I dream of a multipartisan Senate,” Or-
tiz said. “It’s the idea that every community 
doesn’t have to depend on a political party. 
That’s the idea of what the ideal democracy 
should look like.”
Although Senate meetings throughout the 
semester caused public uproar, no tangible 
resolutions were passed. 
Here are the big issues that SG has to yet to 
address head-on: 
Murphy’s impeachment inquiry
In the past month, two Senate meetings were canceled while eyes were on Student 
Body President Michael Murphy. SG garnered 
national attention after emails were released 
on Oct. 30 showing an exchange between him 
and the ﬁ  nancial consultant for president Don-
ald Trump’s reelection campaign. This led to 
students demanding his resignation at a Senate 
meeting one week later and Senators handing 
him a physical copy of a resolution for his im-
peachment a week after that.
Ortiz also created a Facebook event on Nov. 
22 for students to sign a petition in support of 
Murphy’s removal from ofﬁ  ce.
Ortiz said the petition has 250 to 300 sig-
natures as of Tuesday, and his goal is to get 
more than 500 by January so the 60-day recall 
process can begin. The process would consist 
of the Supreme Court, which was appointed by 
Murphy, voting whether to validate the peti-
tion. Senators can vote to validate the petition 
for Murphy’s removal, but a vote isn’t required 
for Murphy’s removal, Ortiz said. 
No legislation
In four months, Senate spent more time 
verifying the Fall SG election results than ac-
complishing timely tasks such as passing 
timely legislation or furthering the progress on 
funding student organizations. 
After Inspire won the majority of Senate 
seats in the Fall 2019 SG elections for the ﬁ  rst 
time since its initiation, all of its seats were up 
for debate for two weeks in the Senate. 
Funding  
Student organizations’ budgets decreased 
after SG reallocated its funding when Young 
Americans for Freedom ﬁ  led a $66,000 lawsuit 
against UF over Summer.
Eliana Guerrero, the president of the Asian 
American Student Union, said she and the 
other leaders of the “Big Nine” organizations 
spoke with Cooper Brown, the SG budget and 
appropriations chair, but found no solutions to 
solve the funding problem. 
“I wish we could go back to the old sys-
tem,” Guerrero said. “I think most people do. 
We can’t obviously ﬁ  x everything within one 
year with the whole system being completely 
broken.”
@EmmaMcAvoy1
emcavoy@alligator.org GRAPEVINE CREATED FOR UF 
AND SANTA FE STUDENTS 
By Priya Dames
Alligator Staff Writer
Discovering a new club or event at the 
end of the semester can be bittersweet.
UF students Nigel Davis, Deion Franklin 
and Derrick Kerr hope to change this with 
Grapevine: an app they released in early No-
vember that manages campus events for UF 
and Santa Fe students.
The trio co-founded Grapevine in May af-
ter thinking about the idea of an event man-
agement app separately for years, Franklin 
said. 
“One of the biggest issues with people 
leaving schools is because they don’t feel 
like they’re able to create that home,” Frank-
lin said. “My biggest goal for Grapevine is 
to help connect students with that student 
organization that is going to help create that 
home.”
Franklin, 22-year-old UF information sys-
tems and operations management graduate 
student, managed the business aspects of 
starting the app. 
He cites studies showing that students 
involved in extracurriculars tend to have 
higher GPAs and stay in school longer.Nigel Davis, 23-year-old UF computer sci-
ence ﬁ  fth-year, worked on the software de-
velopment of the app. 
The app will also make promoting events 
more efﬁ  cient for organizations, Davis said.
“From an organization perspective, you 
can get your message out to the broad audi-
ence of your entire school rather than just 
the people who already know you exist,” 
Davis said. 
Students with Apple devices can down-
load the app from the App Store. After cre-
ating an account, users are able to follow 
campus organizations to stay up-to-date on 
events they’re interested in, ﬁ  lter their event 
feed by date and sync the app with their Ap-
ple Calendar, Davis said.
Students can also follow their friends on 
the app to see what events they are attend-
ing, he said.  
Tiffany Scott, a 21-year-old UF computer 
science junior, joined the project in Septem-
ber as a software engineer. Scott says she 
hopes Grapevine will be as common as Rider 
or TapRide. 
“I don’t know how people rode a bus be-
fore Rider,” Scott said. “I want them to say: 
‘How did you ﬁ  nd an event before Grape-
vine?’”
@priya_dames
pdames@alligator.orgNew SG party announced
UF students create events appSam Thomas / Alligator Staff
Latwanee Garland, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering sophomore, plays his 
guitar Sunday afternoon on the boardwalk at Paynes Prairie. Garland said he has been 
playing since January, preferring to practice outdoors because he likes being outside 
and meeting new people.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5 
demic curriculum to ensure 
that students learn about racial 
inequity. She said the college 
plans to participate in the sur-
vey every two years to see if 
changes implemented benefit 
students.“Our goal is to make sure 
that all of our students succeed 
and that all of our students 
feel they belong,” Calhoun 
said. “What we learned from 
the survey will help us look at 
our programs and services and 
look at the way we’re interact-
ing with our students.”  
Steve Alcime, a 23-year-old Santa Fe organizational man-
agement senior, said he partici-
pated in the survey because it 
was important for him to give 
the college his opinion, as he is 
a student and an employee for 
the college.
Alcime is Hatian and said 
the racial climate at Santa Fe is 
on the positive side.“I feel like Santa Fe College 
does a great job of letting their 
students know that they’re all 
cared for,” he said. “I love the 
college.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.org
even potential employers and collabora-
tors I met at national conferences.”
On July 9, Habif legally changed 
his name. UF accepted his legal name 
change, but UF IT has not changed his 
email. He is thankful for the support he 
has gotten at UF, including from Trans 
at UF, a discussion and social group, but 
he is frustrated by the policies and how they are enacted. 
“All in all, the University of Florida 
giving us the ability to change our dis-
play name without being able to change 
your GatorLink is useless and could even 
be dangerous if it outs a trans student,” 
he said. 
@tientle11
tle@alligator.org
Koa has gone missing. About 
three years ago, Jenner said he 
flew out of her home and was 
found in the woods by a neighbor 
the next day. She says he’s “liter-
ally a Houdini.”
Karen Parker, a Florida Fish 
and Wildlife Conservation Com-
mission Public Info Coordinator, said Jenner reached out for help 
in finding her parrot. 
However, because FWC 
doesn’t typically provide animal 
trapping services, they put Jenner 
in touch with wildlife trappers in 
the area, who went to her home 
to help search for Koa. 
Jenner said that eclectus par-
rots are a highly intelligent breed. 
Koa, she said, would constantly imitate sounds around him, such 
as the morning roosters or charac-
ters on TV. 
When Koa began echoing 
curse words he heard on TV, Jen-
ner revoked his television privi-
leges and instead had him watch 
Curious George DVDs. She said 
he would listen to the show’s 
theme song and chant, “George! 
George!” Jenner said her small camper 
home has been awfully quiet 
since Koa left. 
“I need my heart back,” Jen-
ner said. 
Anyone with information 
about Koa’s whereabouts is en-
couraged to text Jenner at 386-
406-1273. 
She also said she prefers tex-
ting to calling, as she is hard of hearing. Koa can also be taken to 
Gateway Animal Hospital at 291 
NW Main Blvd. in Lake City. 
@alexldeluca
adeluca@alligator.orgSFC,  from pg. 1
NAME,  from pg. 1
BIRD,  from pg. 1Santa Fe College plans to participate in survey every two years
‘Your name is who you are.’
Owner suffers from PTSD, has owned bird for five yearsBID TICKETS COST $25
By Hope Dean
Alligator Staff Writer
“The Book of Mormon” is coming to 
Gainesville this January, and a lucky few have 
the chance to win cheaper tickets in a lottery.
The award-winning musical comedy will 
be in town from Jan. 14 to Jan. 19 for eight 
showings. Twenty tickets in the first two rows 
will be offered at random to those who paid a 
$25 bid at the Curtis M. Phillips Center’s box 
office. Bids will be accepted 2.5 hours before 
each show’s opening and the winners will be 
announced 30 minutes later, said UF Perform-
ing Arts marketing director Brandon Nappy.
This is the only Broadway musical in UF’s 
2019-2020 season with a ticket lottery, UF Per-
forming Arts director Brian Jose wrote in an 
email. 
“While common on Broadway, they [ticket lotteries] are more rare for touring Broadway 
productions, which makes this lottery that 
much more exciting for us,” Jose wrote. 
Student tickets cost $30 and sold out in 
eight hours, Jose stated in an email. A few 
hundred general public tickets priced at $49 
to $119 are still available on UF’s performing 
arts website. 
Gainesville is the fourth stop on the show’s 
2019-2020 national tour. The musical comedy, 
which follows two Mormons preaching to a 
Ugandan village, received nine Tony awards 
in 2011.  
“This is the first time we’ve been lucky 
enough to bring “The Book of Mormon” to 
UF,” Jose wrote. “It’s something we’ve been 
trying to coordinate for quite some time, and 
finally the stars have aligned.” 
@hope_m_dean
hdean@alligator.org‘The Book of Mormon’ to debutSanta Fe student demographics: 
White: 67 percent 
Black: 17 percent 
Hipsanic/Latinx: 6 percent 
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander: 4 percent
Asian: 4 percent 
Native American: less than 1 percent 
How to change the display name in One.UF:
Log on to https://One.UF.edu/
Click the icon on the right corner and choose 
directory profile from the drop down menu
Edit desired name in name section
Name will update within 48 hoursWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinions
Goodbye Column
I can ﬁ  nally catch my breath
I      have dreaded this exact moment: My 
acrylic nails echoing against my phone 
at 3:41 a.m. as I type into the notes app.
What am I going to say? How am I go-
ing to leave this newspaper, which has 
become synonymous with my journalism 
career? Ironically, I’ve thought about what 
I would write for my goodbye column 
since I became an Alligator staff writer as 
a sophomore. Now, I’m a senior who is 
graduating from UF in a semester.
I decided to tell you a story.
In the span of two years, a kid from Miami Beach has: grov-
eled as a contributing writer, panicked as a general assignment 
reporter, hustled as a crime reporter, panicked again as a desk 
editor, somehow written 2,000-word stories as a managing editor 
and interned at her hometown newspaper. She then became the 
editor-in-chief of the largest student-run independent newspaper 
in the United States.
Are you out of breath? Because I am.
Was I the best editor-in-chief this paper has ever seen? Ab-
solutely not. Did I go a whole semester without some kind of 
controversy? No, but that’s life. Did I please everyone? Nah. Did 
I want to? No! I’m a reporter, for the love of God.
But, I care. A lot. No matter how blunt, sarcastic and ﬂ  ippant 
I am, I care. I care so much that I feel it in the morning ﬁ  rst — in 
my shoulders, then in my spine. It weighs down on my neck. 
While I was busy this semester, my body forgot how to get rid of 
a cough, so it lasted for a month straight. As I type this sentence, 
my back aches.
I care so much it hurts, but it’s not that I care about what other 
people think of me (that ship sailed years ago). It doesn’t make 
sense to care about what is out of my control. What matters to me 
is if I did the best with the control I have.
When you become Alligator editor-in-chief, you’re shared on 
a Google document of tips and instructions. But let’s be real — 
there is no preparing for what comes next. Nobody teaches you 
how to manage classes, a newspaper and anxiety. Nobody holds 
your hand to get through it all. The semester is a boxer and you 
just have to keep your hands up.
But, I’m lucky. I made my closest friends at The Alligator. 
When I look at this stack of ﬂ  imsy pieces of recycled paper, 
my heart feels full. I’m so grateful. I’ve never been happier. 
Gainesville, thanks for everything.
If you need me, I shouldn’t be hard to ﬁ  nd. I am facey, 
after all.
Amanda Rosa was the Editor-in-Chief.Goodbye Column
Wow, I’m ﬁ  nally leaving the godfor-
saken basement ofﬁ  ce that is The 
Alligator. Despite my cries to never 
come back at the end of every se-
mester, it is a year and a half later 
and I’ve ﬁ  nally reached the point where I truly 
can’t come back. As a Leo sun and Virgo rising, 
I’m deeply unemotional, so I don’t know how to 
be sentimental. Instead, I’m just going to spew 
a bunch of words and stop when I feel like I’ve 
run out of things to say as a true ﬁ  re sign with a Gemini 
moon. 
To the editors that made me and others feel like we 
shouldn’t be journalists: thank you for helping me tap into 
my psychological awareness. I’m now an empath because 
I realized I can recognize when people are emotionally 
compromised, and I know that news isn’t do or die. Some-
times the best things you can learn aren’t about being a 
better journalist but a better human.
To all the people who edited my work and taught me 
how to improve without making me want to quit: I ap-
preciate you. I thought about changing my major about a million times while being here, but I didn’t 
because people like you saw my potential. Then 
I somehow made it to Big 3 to try and inspire 
other writers in the same way: a true Disney 
miracle. 
To everyone I leave behind who will at some 
point ﬁ  nd themselves back in this overgrown 
closet: remember mindfulness. While it sounds 
cheesy, the biggest lesson I took away from my 
time in the J-school and in this ofﬁ  ce is being 
mindful of others and myself. Mental health should never 
be compromised to get the scoop. Check in with yourself. 
If you can’t communicate how you’re feeling, how will 
you be able to properly communicate someone else’s sto-
ry? Yes, journalism runs on coffee, but it does not function 
on mental breakdowns. Please check in with the people 
around you because a healthy newsroom is far more suc-
cessful than one with sleep deprivation. 
Speaking of health, remember your vitamin C and 
someone please take care of the ﬂ  ies in that bathroom! 
Tranelle Maner was the Engagement Managing editor.Your health should always come before a story
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITORIt’s done, here it is. Maybe I put this off be-
cause I was genuinely busy, or maybe I was 
trying to ﬁ  nd an excuse to be busy. Any-
way, here it goes. 
When I ﬁ  rst walked out of The Alligator 
ofﬁ  ce as an inexperienced sophomore two years 
ago, I planned on never walking back in. I had 
ﬁ  nished my ﬁ  rst story ever, picked up from the 
contributing writers list, and it was torn apart, 
ripped into shreds and spit back out. What was 
printed in the paper did not feel like my work. 
It was alien to me. 
I vowed never to return. I was upset, not fully under-
standing the process of editing, news or really anything 
yet. About a year later, I decided to give it another try. 
I don’t know why, if it was the reporting extra credit or 
maybe I felt more conﬁ  dent in my writing, but I picked 
up a story again. 
This time, it wasn’t so bad. 
My story was still heavily edited, not even mirror-
ing the original, but I understood why. So, I continued picking up stories, gaining momentum with 
reporting each time. 
And before I knew it, I went from a re-
porter to a managing editor at The Alligator 
in a year, and this paper has changed my 
life.
Sometimes, people ask why I started at 
The Alligator so late as a junior, and I don’t 
always have an answer. But I know I did the 
right thing.
When I started in Spring, I was ready. 
Eager to report. Excited to write. 
But the best thing about The Alligator, 
aside from the clips and the nights spent 
breaking news, is the people. 
I’ve met some of my best friends at this 
paper — friends that help you grow and support you. 
These friends have introduced me to myself. I’ve 
learned from them not only as a reporter, but as a per-
son struggling to be conﬁ  dent in myself. So to them, 
thank you. 
Not walking back into the dimly-lit, carded side door 
known so well at the paper would have been the biggest 
mistake of my life.
Kelly Hayes was the Digital Managing Editor.To The Alligator: ThanksGoodbye Column
Kelly Hayes
@kellyrhayes
Tranelle Maner
@manertt
Amanda Rosa
@AmandaNicRosaWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
1. Credit approval required and initial $50 opening deposit required. Offer is for new checking accounts only. Offer subject to change without notice. Member must elect to receive eDocuments within the first 90 days, deposit over $200 per month for the first 3 months. If the 
requirements are met and the account remains open after 90 days, the $150 bonus will be made available to the member. $150 is considered interest and will be reported on IRS Form 1099-INT. 2. Credit approval and initial $50 opening deposit required. Member must elect to 
receive eDocuments. 3. Credit approval and initial deposit of $5 is required. Federally insured by the NCUA.CONVENIENTCHECKING
Visit campuscu.com for a complete list of our convenient locations!
FREE 
CAMPUS
and Publix 
Presto! 
ATMsCAMPUS
Online and
Mobile  
Banking
and Mobile 
DepositInstant-
issue 
debit cards
Receive same day 
– at convenient 
service centersNo minimum 
balance 
requirement2No 
monthly 
fee$150  Cash 
Bonus1
when you open a 
FREE Checking 
Account2
Membership is open to students, 
faculty and staff of the University of 
Florida, UF Health, and all residents 
of Alachua County!3Plenty of Perks!
VISIT OUR THREE  LOCATIONS CLOSE TO CAMPUS:
1200 SW 5th Ave. 1900 SW 34th St. UF Health, Room H1$ $ $
  Call 335-9090  and press 5     Visit any CAMPUS Service Center            Open an account today at campuscu.comTHE MOVIE JORDAN 
PEELE’S “US” 
WISHES IT WAS
By Christopher S. Cann
Avenue Staff Writer
“Parasite” is a masterclass exam-
ple of what quality cinema can do 
for a viewer. It can entertain while 
inﬁ  ltrating the deepest crevasses of 
their thoughts on the human condi-
tion and the world at large. 
Director Bong Joon-ho has an 
impeccable track record with great 
works such as “Okja,” “Snowpierc-
er” and “Memories of Murder,” but 
he elevates his ﬁ  lmography to the 
level of De Palma or Scorsese with 
“Parasite.”
The Palme d’Or, the top prize 
at the Cannes Film Festival, was 
awarded to “Parasite,” making 
Bong the ﬁ  rst Korean director to 
win the festival’s top prize while 
beating out opponents like Quentin 
Tarantino and Terrence Malick. 
Kim Ki-woo, played by Woo-sik 
Choi, lives with his family on the 
edge of poverty. They fold pizza boxes for a delivery company to 
make some cash, steal Wi-Fi from 
the coffee shop nearby and leave 
the windows open when the neigh-
borhood is being fumigated to deal 
with their own infestation. Kim Ki-
woo’s life changes when a friend 
offers to recommend him as an Eng-
lish tutor for a well-off girl he’s been 
working with. 
The young man changes his 
name to Kevin and begins tutoring 
Park Da-hye, played by Jung Ziso, 
who immediately falls for him, 
of course. But, Kevin has a much 
deeper plan. He’s going to get his 
whole family into this house. He 
quickly convinces his mother Yeon-
kyo, played by the excellent Yeo-
jeong Jo, that the son of the house 
needs an art tutor, which allows 
Kevin’s sister, Jessica, played by 
So-dam Park, to enter the picture. 
Before long, his mom and dad are 
in the Park house too, and it seems 
like everything is going perfectly 
for the Kim family. The Parks seem 
to be happy too. Then everything 
changes. 
Bong has previously directed ﬁ  lms about class struggle, but “Par-
asite” is his magnum opus examina-
tion of the structural inequity that 
has come to deﬁ  ne the world. It is 
a tonal juggling act that ﬁ  rst feels 
like a satire — a comedy of man-
ners that bounces a group of lovable 
con artists off a very wealthy fam-
ily of awkward eccentricities. And 
then Bong takes a hard right turn 
that asks us what we’re watching 
and sends us hurtling toward blood-
shed. 
This is a foreign ﬁ  lm, but the 
story could have easily taken place 
in New York or Los Angeles. The 
direction is tightly woven and 
the chances of falling through the 
seams due to a language barrier are 
slim to none. 
The social commentary in “Para-
site” leads to chaos, but it never 
feels like a didactic message movie. 
It is somehow both joyous and de-
pressing at the same time. “Para-
site” is so perfectly calibrated that 
there’s joy to be had in just expe-
riencing every conﬁ  dent frame of 
it. But that’s tempered by thinking 
about what Bong is unpacking and saying about society, especially 
with the perfect, absolutely haunt-
ing ﬁ  nal scenes.
It’s a conversation starter in 
ways moviegoers only experience a 
few times a year and a further re-
minder that Bong Joon-ho is one of 
the best ﬁ  lmmakers working today. 
The “M-word” (masterpiece) is 
thrown around too often, making it 
difﬁ  cult, as a reviewer, to describe those rare ﬁ  lms that truly earn the 
title. Nevertheless, “Parasite” is a 
masterpiece that has the power to 
inspire a new generation of ﬁ  lm-
makers.
Score: 10/10
ccann@alligator.org
@chrstophercannRate and Review: ‘Parasite’
Movies
Courtesy of NEON + CJ Entertainment
A masterpiece of sudden and serial surprises from Korean 
ﬁ  lmmaker Bong Joon-Ho.
8  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
THE SONG COMES IN 
ANTICIPATION OF THEIR 
UPCOMING EP
By Marlena Carrillo
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville’s favorite band ﬂ  ip-
turn is back with another new 
single.
The band’s new song “Darling” 
dropped last Friday, nearly three 
months after the release of their 
previous single “Eleanor.” The two 
songs are out in anticipation of the 
band’s upcoming EP, which will be 
released sometime in the spring.“Darling” is a song the band 
has had up their sleeve for a long 
time, according to Dillon Basse, 
ﬂ  ipturn’s lead vocalist. Basse said 
they’ve been working on the single 
for over a year.
The new single takes listeners 
on a ride as it explores the depths 
of some heavy emotions, including 
insecurity and self-doubt.
“There’s this kind of mindset 
that we’ve always had of, like, 
we’re taking a risk. A lot of us 
dropped out of school to go pur-
sue this career in music,” Basse 
said. “Lyrically the feeling came 
from, like, if we take this jump and 
we take this risk and we fail, will the loved ones in our lives still be 
there?”
The song paints a dream-like 
landscape from the beginning, 
starting with its soft harmony and 
Basse’s haunting voice asking the 
question, “Will you love me...
when I fall, dear?”
“Darling” follows this hypnotic 
beginning with the sturdy combi-
nation of guitar and Basse’s power-
ful vocals, jolting the audience as 
it consistently shifts between quiet 
longing and pleading desperation. 
This rhythmic in-and-out makes 
the listener feel as if they’ve been 
awoken from a dream, just as ﬂ  ip-
turn intended.“I think we wanted to capture 
that feeling of being in a dream 
state and the falling you might feel, 
when you’re dreaming and wak-
ing up,” Basse said. “If we wake 
up from this dream, will there be 
somebody beside us?”
Though “Darling” begs the 
question of whether we can be 
good enough for those closest to 
us, even in our lowest moments, 
Basse said the band wants their 
audience to never feel like they are 
alone.
“I want [our fans] to always 
feel like they’re good enough for 
somebody,” Basse said. “To never 
feel like they won’t have anybody there, or that they won’t be good 
enough for somebody or some-
thing.”
While ﬂ  ipturn has spent the 
past few months touring and per-
forming fall shows, the band is 
back in Florida and expects to 
spend the next few months in the 
studio. Basse said they have about 
four songs done, and they project 
the EP release will be around Feb-
ruary.
“Darling” is available to stream 
on Spotify now.
@marcar313
mcarrillo@alligator.orgflipturn drops dream-like new single ‘Darling’
MUSIC
WHAT YOU SHOULD HAVE BEEN 
WATCHING AND LISTENING TO
By Avenue Staff
Only three things are certain in life: 
death, taxes and end-of-the-year “best of” 
lists. 
The Avenue staff decided to continue 
this time-honored tradition because we be-
lieve nothing is more important than shar-
ing curated lists about good entertainment. 
So, here are a bunch of college students’ 
thoughts on the best movies, TV shows, al-
bums, fashion trends and, of course, memes 
from the last 10 years. 
Movie: 
Cassandra — “Baby Driver” 
There are plenty of movies where good-
looking guys drive fast cars, but few have 
as much charisma and star power as Edgar 
Wright’s “Baby Driver.” Starring Ansel El-
gort as a young music-loving getaway driver 
emboldened to escape a life of crime after 
meeting the girl of his dreams, this ﬂ  ick has 
it all: witty dialogue, dynamic editing and a 
killer soundtrack.
Christopher — “Moonlight”
Movies, at their best, can show the view-
er the world through the eyes of another 
human being, no matter how different that 
person’s circumstances might be from their 
own. Barry Jenkins’ “Moonlight” does just 
that, sketching a sensual roadmap to the 
soul of a South Florida native as he grows 
from a neglected child into a misunderstood 
man. It dissects homosexuality, racial ten-
sions, class separation and growing up in 
the digital age all in one ﬁ  lm.
TV Show:
Cassidy — “Game of Thrones”
There’s a reason why this is considered 
one of the biggest shows of all time— it’s 
just that good. “Game of Thrones” is based 
on the book series, “A Song of Ice and Fire,” 
and follows powerful families competing for 
the “Iron Throne.” The show kept tens of 
millions of viewers coming back every week 
for the gripping storyline and attachment to 
the characters, even if a few beloved char-
acters were lost along the way.Nick — “The Leftovers”
It’s not too often a TV show can com-
pletely subvert your expectations as “The 
Leftovers” does. It was created by Damon 
Lindelof, co-creator of the TV drama series 
“Lost.” “The Leftovers” revolves around the 
aftermath of, “The Sudden Departure,” a 
mysterious event where 140 million people 
vanished into thin air with no explanation. 
Lindelof constructed a world paralyzed by 
grief and struggling with characters who are 
trying, and often failing, to cope with the 
unexplainable. Throughout the 28-episode 
journey, you are fully on Lindelof’s roller-
coaster. The story is in his complete con-
trol, full of so many crazy twists and turns 
that you stop trying to guess what’s going to 
happen next. With “The Leftovers,” Linde-
lof pushes the limits of television as an art 
form, and in the process, has created what I 
believe is the best TV show of all time.
Christopher — “Breaking Bad”
Though Vince Gilligan’s drama “Break-
ing Bad” thrived on ambiguity, moral and 
otherwise, there’s no questioning its great-
ness. The show’s reach is long, including 
a stellar spin-off for one breakout character 
and a meditative epilogue for another. More 
than six years after it wrapped, Bryan Cran-
ston’s portrayal of Walter White’s descent 
into underworld boss still haunts the con-
versations of TV buffs and even casual fans. 
Album:
Cassandra — Lorde - “Melodrama”
No one does teenage angst quite like 
Lorde. Heartbreakingly authentic and mas-
terfully cohesive, Lorde’s second studio al-
bum, “Melodrama,” is a huge leap forward 
from an already stellar debut, making her 
an indie-pop virtuoso for years to come. 
Christopher — Kendrick Lamar - “To 
Pimp a Butterﬂ  y” 
When Kendrick Lamar released his third 
studio album, “To Pimp a Butterﬂ  y,” he 
spoke about the title’s contrast between a 
butterﬂ  y — delicate, bright and free — and 
a “pimp” — often thought of as aggressive, 
deviant and exploitative. The album itself 
is a dance between this dichotomy, one 
that black Americans know all too well: be-
tween pain and beauty and what happens 
when one is informed by the other. With 
his sharp and empathetic lyrics, he gives us the playfulness and joy of “King Kunta,” the 
frustration and didacticism of “The Blacker 
The Berry,” and the plain hope of “Alright.” 
The album discusses police brutality, facing 
your own mortality, alcoholism, religion, 
hope and hopelessness. 
Cassidy — The 1975 - “The 1975”
The self-titled studio debut album by The 
1975 sparked my love for the band. The al-
bum touches a variety of genres from rock, 
indie and pop, making their sound unlike 
anything I heard before them. It also didn’t 
hurt that 14-year-old me had a major crush 
on lead singer Matthew Healy.
Fashion:
Samantha — Bucket hats
The return of the bucket hat trend in this 
past decade has made a great addition to 
fashion. They are ﬁ  tting for all kinds of set-
tings ranging from a Saturday football tail-
gate to a day at the beach.
Cassidy — High-waisted pants
High waisted pants are a trend that 
will always come and go. Their popularity 
surged in the ‘80s and again in this decade. 
They are way more ﬂ  attering than the low 
cut style popular in the early 2000s, plus 
they help add the illusion of height on short 
people. Meme:
Cassandra — “This Is Fine” 
This two-pane image of a smiling dog 
seated at a dinner table, reassuring himself 
that everything is ﬁ  ne despite the rest of the 
room being doused in ﬂ  ames, procures one 
common response in college students far 
and wide: “mood.” Taken from KC Green’s 
webcomic “Gunshow” and popularized in 
2016, the “This Is Fine” meme has with-
stood the test of time and is especially rel-
evant in this time of ﬁ  nals.
Christopher — Kermit the Frog sipping 
tea — “But that’s none of my business”
In the olden days, passive aggression was 
a craft that had to be practiced and honed 
through years of precisely arched eyebrows 
and glances. We, as a society, needed a new 
way to brutally undercut someone while 
still maintaining an air of detached superi-
ority. Enter the Kermit-sipping-tea meme. 
It is perfect for the detached humor that 
is in every popular show, from “Arrested 
Development” to “The Ofﬁ  ce” and “Parks 
and Recreation.” We live irony. “What’s the 
tea?” and “Spill the tea,” are all extreme-
ly popular phrases that have outlived the 
meme but carry on the passive-aggressive 
torch. 
@theFloridaAveAvenue Picks: Best of the Decade
SPECIAL
A VENUE PLA YLIST OF THE 2010’S
SONG ARTIST
Kendrick Lamar
Tyler, The Creator
FKA Twigs
Cage the Elephant
A$AP Rocky
The 1975
Best Coast
Streetlight Manifesto
Jeff Rosenstock
Dollar SignsAlright
Boredom
cellophane
Cigarette Daydreams
Everyday
The Sound
Boyfriend
The Hands that Thieve 
Festival Song
The Devil Wears FlannelBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
★ ★ ★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★ ★ ★
Native Southern Red Cedar & Arizona 
Cypress. Table-top to 30 gal/10' tall. Open 
Nov 29, wkends thru Dec 22. 10am - 6pm. 
Kettle Corn popped on site for sale. Free 
pecans & sugarcane w/purchase 20926 NW 
75th St. Alachua 386-462-2060 or 352-474-
1885 www.bkcedars.com     12-4-6-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-
FIND or place your ad online at  
www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Five Star Pizza is now hiring delivery drivers. 
Come join one of Gainesvilles busiest deliv -
ery businesses and earn great pay. We're 
hiring for day shift or nightshift, part time or 
full time. A reliable vehicle is a must. Pay is 
$8.46/hour plus tips. Apply in person or at 
fivestarpizza.com.    1-15-19-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
1-27-19-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15DHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love. 
20 Events/Notices
Is your business, club or organization having 
an event? Do you have a special a nnounce-
ment? Place your ad here and get it noticed!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: December 16, 2019 at 5:00 
p.m.
PLACE: John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our web-
site at www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.          
12-4-1-20Learn how to make an
extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student!
Go to: www.collegeopportunity.site
12-4-2-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the 
classifieds to find trip arrangements or show 
off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your roommate...
pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet prod-
ucts here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished9 Bicycles 13 Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for 
more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida’s 2019-20 men’s basket-
ball team is stacked with talent at 
every position. Gifted, high-ﬂ  ying 
playmakers who make the game 
look effortless at times.
Not every player gets to this 
brand of basketball based on talent 
alone, though. Some have to scrap 
and claw their way to the top.
That’s what UF veteran big man 
Dontay Bassett has done ever since 
he stepped foot in a gymnasium.
“I used to tell him growing up, 
‘Are you the lion or the deer?’” Don-
ald Bassett, Dontay’s father, said. 
“‘Which one do you want to be?’”
“I’m a lion, dad.”
Dontay had to be a lion. He had 
no choice.
Growing up in a family with 
young parents and four siblings in 
the Bay Area of California wasn’t 
always easy. Living in three differ-
ent states and moving four separate 
times before the age of 18 was chal-
lenging, too. But that will and deter-
mination he had growing up turned 
a kid who didn’t start playing com-
petitive basketball until high school 
into a high-class talent, garnering 
offers from Division I schools two 
years later.
At Florida, adversity has followed 
in the form of injury and time off the 
court, but he never once thought of 
dodging tribulations for better oppor-
tunities elsewhere, like many players 
do in this era.
Now, Dontay, a redshirt junior, 
ﬁ  nds himself in a leadership role, 
among a team ﬂ  ooded with fresh-
men and sophomores.
“I feel like I put myself and my 
family in a good position (coming to 
Florida),” Dontay said. “To become 
the ﬁ  rst person in my family to grad-
uate college was my main goal, and 
once I set a hard goal for myself, I 
make sure to follow through with it.”  Basketball has always been fun 
for Dontay, but growing up that’s re-
ally all he viewed it as.
“I used to always play with my 
dad and brother at the park and in 
P.E. at school… nothing too seri-
ous,” he said. “My 10th grade year 
was my ﬁ  rst time being on a legiti-
mate team. That’s when my love for 
basketball really grew.”
Donald was surprised Dontay de-
cided to play competitively.
“We’d always play at the park, 
and he was good in school, but he 
started (playing competitively) so 
late,” he said. “He’d always throw 
on his Vans and go to the skate park 
growing up. Basketball was just 
something fun we’d do on the week-
ends, but I guess after a while, he 
just gravitated to it.”
Dontay started playing at San 
Lorenzo High School the summer 
before his sophomore year and later 
earned an opportunity playing AAU 
ball with the Oakland Rebels and 
coach Raymond Young.
A talented yet inexperienced 
player, Dontay came to him by 
chance early in his career and made 
the most of the opportunity.
“One of my coaches brought 
him to a practice, and I immediately 
thought he could help us,” Young 
said. “He just really rebounded the 
hell out of the ball.”
Young always considered himself 
to be a close mentor to Dontay.
“He’s like a son to me,” Young 
said. “We’ve always had a good rela-
tionship to where we can talk about 
stuff not related to basketball.”
As their bond grew, so did Don-
tay’s skillset on the court.
While he played for the Rebels, 
Dontay’s prowess on the defensive 
side of the ball was formidable.
“He was a competitor, and more 
than anything, he wanted the pro-
gram to succeed,” Young said.
Dontay’s game continued to im-
prove as his AAU career went on. 
He was known as that prototypical 
“glue guy” that kept the team togeth-er when it mattered the most.
At one point during the season, 
Dontay was having a breakout game 
— as Young described it — but an 
injury kept him off the court for the 
rest of the tournament. That’s when 
he knew how vital Dontay really 
was.
“I don’t know if we were the 
same after we lost him,” he said. “At 
that point, I realized just how valu-
able he was to our team.”
As Dontay grew as a player, so 
did his opportunities.
Before his junior year, Dontay’s 
AAU play drew attention from pres-
tigious high schools.
Oldsmar Christian, a small pri-
vate school near Tampa, was a pow-
erhouse built by a young head coach 
in Jordan Fair.
Fair played at Oldsmar in the 
late 2000s and brought a struggling 
program back to relevance with an 
inﬂ  ux of Division I talent, including 
Dontay.
“I’d say I grew the most in high 
school at Oldsmar,” Dontay said. “I 
was playing against top-tier talent 
night in and night out. A lot of those 
guys are playing at the highest level 
of Division I or are in the NBA right 
now.”
Some of those players included 
Tennessee guard Lamonte Turner, 
Kansas center Udoka Azubuike and 
former Michigan State standout 
Miles Bridges.
“I remember one time in the SIAA 
Final Four, Dontay got a bounce pass 
inside and dunked it over Udoka 
(Azubuike) really hard,” Fair said. 
“That dunk kind of sealed the game 
up for us at the end.”
Playing stout competition during 
his ﬁ  nal two years of high school 
allowed him to go from a mostly 
unknown player to a three-star pros-
pect with multiple Division I offers.
“He really reﬁ  ned his skillset, learned the game and became a 
cerebral player while he played for 
me,” Fair said. “Dontay lined up 
with some of the best players in the 
world, let alone the country, and that 
certainly seasoned him and prepared 
him for the next level.”
In the two years he was at Olds-
mar, Dontay was a part of two state-
ranked top-10 teams that ﬁ  nished 
SIAA state runner-ups in back-to-
back years.
His senior year, he averaged a 
double-double, scoring 13 points and 
collecting 10 rebounds per game.
“We were the ﬁ  rst team in Tampa 
history to be ranked top 10 two years 
in a row,” Fair said. “Dontay was a 
big part of that.”
Despite Dontay’s late start, his 
progression while at Oldsmar helped some notable Division I programs 
take notice of him.
His list was narrowed down to 
Nebraska, Oregon State, Arkansas, 
Colorado and Florida, with the Buf-
faloes and Gators being the two that 
he wavered between the most.
“I was looking for a coaching 
staff that could understand me as 
a person and a player… Looking at 
the energy from the team, as well as 
the culture of the program,” Dontay 
said. “What place kind of felt like 
home most. So I chose Florida, and I 
feel like it was a great decision.”
Dontay chose sunshine over 
snow, and although some of the peo-
ple close to him might’ve hoped he’d 
head back to the west coast, UF was 
a place that was tough to turn down.
Read the rest online at 
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida linebacker Jonathan 
Greenard earned SEC weekly 
honors for the fourth time this 
season.Gators football team rises to No. 9 in CFP rankings
UF is the third-highest ranked SEC team and is ahead of Alabama for the 
ﬁ  rst time this season. This is Florida's ﬁ  rst time ranked in the top 10 since 
debuting in the 10th spot in Week 11, the ﬁ  rst week of the CFP rankings.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
Samantha Harrison / Alligator Staff
Gators forward Dontay Bassett started playing competitive 
basketball his sophomore year of high school.
FEATURE
Lionhearted: Bassett’s journey from pick-up ball to Division I
Sheesh, this was a little abrupt.
I’ve spent one semester at The Alligator, and I’m already writing a good-
bye column.
There’s only one other place of employment I’ve worked at that I’ve felt 
sad to leave. Usually, my parting feelings are somewhere between relief or 
indifference. This time around, I am genuinely sad. It’s a bittersweet sentiment to ac-
knowledge, but it reminds me that frantically submitting my application one minute 
before the deadline back in September was completely worth it.
I can tell you about semesters of adventures and so forth. It’d make for a sweeter 
piece, but that’s a bend on my journalistic integrity. What I can tell you about are my 
favorite nights of the week — Thursdays and Sundays, where I’d have some of the 
heartiest laughs I’ve ever felt, learn from some of the most talented people I’ve ever been around and consume an ungodly amount of 
calories while copy editing my night away. 
Sprots, you took away my Latin Nights, sure, 
but in exchange, you gave me a front seat to picks 
column roasts and people that better talk to me after I graduate because FOMO is 
so real.
Also, shoutout to everyone who brought me to the Final Four in this semester’s 
AP Poll bracket. Y’all the realest.
On that note, thanks to Tyler and Mari for hiring me, and thanks to everyone I’ve 
had the pleasure of working with. I’ve learned quite a lot and was thankfully able to 
talk about golf with people who cared a little more than the average. It’s been real.
Mad love, forever and always.
 Jordan Perez was a sports writer at The Alligator. 
Follow her on Twitter @Jrdnprz.I love you, Independent Florida Alligator. I’ll miss ya.The Associated Perez
Jordan Perez
Twitter: @jrdnprz
jperez@alligator.org•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019   ALLIGATOR   11
It was January of 2017 in my freshman year at UF when I got the call. 
The measly ﬁ  rst-year student I was had some free time on her hands and 
decided to spend the weekend at Universal Studios and Islands of Adventure 
with some friends.
I was getting my dose of Harry Potter’s Forbidden Journey when my phone 
started vibrating. I didn’t recognize the number, so I let it go to voicemail and got 
back to my ride thrills. I would call them back if it was important.
Turns out, it was one of the most important calls of my collegiate journalism 
career at Florida.
I got off the ride and found a quiet place nearby to listen to the voicemail left from 
an unknown number. It was then-Sports Editor Ethan Bauer reaching out with an 
offer for a copy editing position at The Alligator. 
My heart started pounding out of my chest. 
The pay wasn’t great — I think it was around $17 every two weeks for 24 hours worth of work 
at the time — but the people were, and he promised the experience would be worth it. 
In 2017, the paper was printed ﬁ  ve times a week. Issues were 20 pages deep. Sprots (yes, 
sprots) copy editors were expected to be there two nights/week. And the ofﬁ  ce had just relocated 
from an old frat house on University Avenue to a room inside of The Gainesville Sun. 
I’m one of the few people currently on staff from that era. And y i k e s, I’m old.
I accepted Ethan’s offer, having little to no knowledge about what I was getting myself into, 
and I was expected to start that Wednesday night. 
And as I look back 1,051 days (or 2 years, 10 months and 17 days) later, I realize it has been 
nothing but a whirlwind since. 
I went from a copy editor, to the men’s and women’s tennis beat writer, to a Gainesville Sun 
news intern, to a volleyball beat writer, to the Tampa Bay Times sports intern, to assistant sports 
editor and volleyball beat writer (again) with a Times freelancing gig. 
Wow, that’s a mouthful.
But here’s the thing, it all started with a bunch of crazy kids who happened to have a love for 
reporting. A love for journalism and storytelling.
You don’t know until you know. And the highs certainly come with the lows. 
My ﬁ  rst story for The Alligator was printed on the front page as a contributing writer in August 
2016. I wrote about Library West dedicating an alligator statue for students to tap as they walked 
in to study — similar to Bull Gator featured outside of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. It was printed next to a photo of a girl wearing bungee cords as a bra. And boy, 
was that a fun one to explain to the grandparents back home.
When I graduated to a tennis beat writer (after my semester of copy editing), I 
couldn’t spell anyone’s names write (get it?). Their names were right in front of my 
face and someway, somehow there’d be a typo in my rough draft. I’d get a text from 
my editor, apologize to him profusely and then stress about getting it right on my 
next story. 
My spelling woes and lack of writing experience got me down on the occasion. 
And that wasn’t the only hiccup either.
Here my friends were off trying to become engineers and doctors while I was just 
trying to ﬁ  nd the right words to put down on paper (well, a Microsoft Word docu-
ment). 
Was I doing the right thing? Investing so much time into a “dying” industry with crappy pay, 
few beneﬁ  ts and zero job security? Was it worth foregoing nights out with my friends and instead 
spending late nights inside the Sun’s ofﬁ  ce? 
The short answer is yes. Every moment spent inside that ofﬁ  ce was absolutely worth it. 
I remember my freshman year reading everyone’s goodbye columns on the last print night of 
the semester and wondering if I’d be one of those people. One of those people who’d say they 
didn’t go to school at UF, they went to school at The Alligator. And it turns out, they were right.
Now, every time I have a moment of doubt, I get a spark of inspiration from someone I inter-
view or a story I read scrolling through my Twitter feed. Somehow I muddle through the “what 
ifs” to get to the “buts,” and I try not to look back. 
My “thank you” list is endless, but it starts with Ethan and the people on that Spring 2017 staff 
that became my ﬁ  rst friends at this wonderful paper, some of whom I still talk to today.
It continues through the journalists and mentors I’ve worked with (past and present) and onto 
the people I work with today. The ones who turn a dull day into a much more entertaining one, 
and the ones that remind me in the end it’s all worth it.
The cringe-worthy ﬁ  rst drafts, the angry reader emails, the cyclical disrespect from a society-
perspective. 
What we’re doing matters. And it all starts with us. So keep ﬁ  ghting the good ﬁ  ght, because 
if we don’t, who else will? 
Mari Faiello was a writer and assistant sports editor for the Alligator. 
Follow her on Twitter @faiello_mari. Keep fighting the good fight. It will all be worth it in the end.The More the Mari-er
Mari Faiello
Twitter: @faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgThis may come 
as a surprise to 
some, but I’m 
not the senti-
mental type. 
I’ve always felt 
that emotional good-
byes should be saved 
for permanent ones, 
and not, “Goodbye for 
now.”
But I have to admit, 
I ﬁ  nd myself a little sad.
I’m not sure why. I deﬁ  nitely 
won’t miss the pressed deadlines 
or the 1 a.m. ﬂ  at checks. The per-
petually late staff meetings or the 
constant argument of where to get 
food. So why do I still feel down?
Probably because of the people. 
The people who I worked with and 
came to know in my two years 
with the paper. Even someone as 
cynical as me ﬁ  nds it hard to say a 
single bad thing about any of them. 
There are good people writing in 
this newspaper. Good people that 
I hope go very far in this line of 
work.
Dylan Dixon: Thank you for hir-
ing me even though I had no idea 
what I was doing when I was ﬁ  rst 
starting out. Thanks for taking a 
chance on me with that men’s ten-
nis beat. I don’t think I learned 
more from any single person more 
than I did from you in my ﬁ  rst se-
mester with you as my editor. 
River Wells: Thanks for being 
easily the funniest person on staff. 
As I sit here writing this, I can’t 
think of a single interaction with 
you where it didn’t end with me 
laughing hysterically. Please keep 
adding that color of your personali-
ty into your writing, and please, for 
the love of God, stop being a Bucs 
fan before it’s too late. Trust me. 
Brendan Farrell: Thanks for talking hockey with 
me and sharing my 
dark humor as well as 
our mutual Eric Clap-
ton fanship. You’re 
a damn good writer 
who uses stats well, 
but please, just once, 
remember to include 
the game that literally 
just happened when 
talking about winning 
streaks. 
Alanis Thames: Thanks for be-
ing one of my closest friends on 
staff. Our days of carpooling with 
you laughing at my life was fun… 
I guess… for you. Still a little mad 
that you left for Los Angeles even 
though the summer shift with us 
was clearly the more appealing 
choice, but whatever. 
Tyler Nettuno: One of the best 
editors I’ve had. A natural leader 
and a super funny guy (Quote Bag 
King?). Thanks for letting me tag 
along for the football beat. Easily 
the most fun I’ve had since I got 
here, and I learned a ton.
Even when it was really hard, 
the people at The Alligator always 
made it better. For them, and ev-
eryone else at the paper, good luck. 
The Alligator helped me so much 
more than any class ever could, 
and I promise you it’s worth it. Just 
keep working.
I hope you all have incredible 
careers. When things get hard, just 
stay calm, don’t panic and remem-
ber that when it feels like the be-
ginning of the end, it’s usually just 
the end of the beginning. 
Thanks for all the memories. 
Goodbye for now.
Dylan Rudolph was a sports writer 
at The Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @Dyrudolph.I still have Ian Cohen’s Alligator Good-
bye Column bookmarked on my lap-
top.
Cohen was one of four seniors — 
along with Ethan Bauer, Matt Brannon 
and Dylan Dixon — who, as a freshman, I 
considered to be Alligator royalty. I could 
talk about those four all day, but it sufﬁ  ces 
to say they each taught me invaluable les-
sons and made me a stronger writer in my 
ﬁ  rst two semesters working for this incred-
ible newspaper. Unsurprisingly, they each 
wrote incredibly eloquent Goodbye Columns. 
There was one line in Ian’s column, though, that 
really struck me: “Sometimes I feel like I didn’t go to 
college at Florida, but that I went to college at The Al-
ligator.”
Two years later, I ﬁ  nally get what Ian meant.
When I look back at my college years, this news-
paper is the ﬁ  rst thing I’ll think about. It’s not just the 
number of hours (a lot) that I devoted to the paper; it’s 
the people I met, including most of my best friends. 
It’s what I learned, one constant from my days as a 
copy editor through my days as sports editor. It’s the 
memories I made, which I’ll get to later. Working for 
The Alligator has been the highlight of my college ca-
reer, which makes this column the most difﬁ  cult I’ve 
ever had to write.
After Florida plays in its bowl game, I’ll be moving 
on to new challenges. I’ve given everything I possibly 
can to this paper, and it’s time for a new hire to make 
some memories of his or her own here as I did.
And what incredible memories they were. Inter-
viewing Pete Alonso and Abby Wambach were two of 
the coolest things I’ve ever done. Covering football and 
road-tripping to all the games with some of my best 
friends is something I’ll never forget. I’ll also always 
remember the long nights spent in the ofﬁ  ce with some 
of the funniest, hardest-working people I’ll ever meet.
About those people: I’m not a journalism major, and 
at times (especially early in my tenure, when I wasn’t 
sure if I was wasting my time or not) they were what 
kept me coming back.
Thank you to Matt Brannon for giving an 18-year-
old kid whose only experience in journalism was at his 
high school paper a shot. I still have my original appli-
cation. It’s hilariously bad. To this day I’m not sure why 
you hired me, but I’m so glad you did.
Thank you to River Wells for being my best friend at this newspaper and a lifesaver as my as-
sistant sports editor. I couldn’t have done 
it without you. By the way, if there are 
any music executives reading this, sign 
him.
Thank you to Tyler Nettuno, Dylan Ru-
dolph and Kyle Wood for just being awe-
some. There’s no other group with which 
I would rather trek down the shoulder of 
a rainy, muddy Bluff Road in Columbia, 
South Carolina.
Thank you to my amazing coworkers, 
who are even better friends than they are writers: Jake 
Dreilinger (promoted me to sports editor), Bryan Mat-
amoros (coy), Dylan O’Shea (go Mets), Chris O’Brien 
(dumbass), Morgan McMullen (geezer), Mari Faiello 
(fellow Wolf Tracks alum), Mark Stine (maestro), Ala-
nis Thames (GOAT), Joseph Salvador (most dedicated 
guy I know), Evan Lepak (did everything over the sum-
mer), the seniors I mentioned earlier and so many more.
Thank you to my mom, who convinced me to pur-
sue journalism in high school and let me know The 
Alligator was looking for sports writers. I wouldn’t be 
here if it wasn’t for her insistence on getting involved. 
Thank you to the rest of my family, as well, for being 
so supportive.
Also, a special shoutout to all the UF student-ath-
letes and UAA employees I worked with. Most of them 
probably don’t remember me, but none of my work 
would’ve been possible without them. I always tell 
people that covering small sports like soccer was just 
as much fun as covering football, and a lot of that had 
to do with the people afﬁ  liated with the programs. In 
particular, thank you to Funda Nakkasoglu and Sam 
Stolte for being so accommodating.
Finally, thank you to you, the reader. I’m so grateful 
to the people that support our work. I appreciate every 
person who has picked up a copy of the paper, read 
an article of mine, sent me an email or replied to me 
on Twitter. Even you, guy who told me to “go play in 
trafﬁ  c.”
I guess you (sort of) got your wish. I’m gone. You 
won’t have to read another column from me compar-
ing Kyle Trask and Emory Jones. Not in these pages, at 
least. I’m leaving The Alligator, but The Alligator will 
never leave me.
Sam Campisano was a sports editor and writer at 
The Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @Scampisano.It was the people here Thanks for the memoriesHeroes and Dylans Green Eggs and Sam
Dylan Rudolph
Twitter: @dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org
Sam Campisano
Twitter: @scampisano
scampisano@alligator.org12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2019
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS 
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$5 Craft 
Drafts
$5 Slider
Baskets
(beef, chicken, 
or pork)$5 Liquor
Pitchers
$5 Yuengling
Pitchers 
@10 PM
7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1 
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1 
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1
Top Shelf 
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia @ 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses 
of Wine
LIVE DJ
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Wells
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon 
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or 
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules
(Moscow & Specialty)
Buzz’d 
Spelling Bee 7:30 pm NIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail 
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp 
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$3 Green Tea 
Shots
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
NIGHTSPITCHER PERFECT
WEDNESDAYS
ON THE ROOF
2-4-1
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
COLLEGE NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
MAC & MULES
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
Door @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pmROOFTOP 
FOOD TRUCK
Open 
WED - SAT
Evenings