We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Helping dogs with heart problems
UF veterinarians can now perform open heart surgery on dogs,
pg. 5
A UF satellite is above us
A satellite made by UF students is up in space, pg. 9Gators win on last-second basket
Guard Delicia Washington lifted the UF women’s basket-
ball team to victory over Missouri with a game-winning 
layup, pg. 15.
MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 46
GYMNASTICS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The Florida gymnastics team is ranked No. 
3 in the nation, and last Friday night, it showed 
why.
The team defeated the No. 11 Missouri Ti-
gers 197.300-196.450, an opponent that bested it last year. It was a showing that wasn’t as 
close as the score would indicate. 
That was without last year’s superstar  
Alyssa Baumann or rotation regular Jazmyn 
Foberg.
Friday’s event at the O’Connell Center pre-
sented a few questions surrounding their new 
squad in 2019 and, perhaps, answered a ques-tion about one of the team’s returning mem-
bers.
Freshmen Jitters
As the Gators headed into the O’Connell 
Center for the team’s ﬁ  rst meet — a meet that 
just under 8,500 fans attended — their unusu-
ally large freshman class of six gymnasts got its ﬁ  rst taste of competition at the NCAA level, 
and it handled the bright lights well.
Freshman Trinity Thomas served as one of 
the Gators’ three all-arounders for the night, 
and she performed admirably in the role. She 
posted a relatively lower score of 9.775 on the 
vault, but she redeemed herself with a 9.950 Gators show depth in decisive victory over Missouri 
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 14
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Hillary Buscovick, a 31-year-old professional roller derby skater, works with Lizz Zieschang, 
28, to demonstrate blocking techniques at a workshop for local skaters at the Alachua County 
Fairgrounds on Saturday. “I want every skater and athlete to be the best they can be, ” Buscovick 
said. Buscovick, who goes by Scald Eagle when playing, has played competitively since 2011 and 
currently plays for the Denver Roller Derby Mile High Club team. Read the story on page 8.
By T aylor Girtman
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gainesville City Commis-
sion is on a tight deadline to select 
an interim city manager. 
Thursday is the selection dead-
line as City Manager Anthony Ly-
ons’ resignation becomes effective 
at 5 p.m., Commissioner David 
Arreola said. If no decision is made, 
the commission will appoint some-
one as acting manager instead. 
Lyons had sent in his letter of res-
ignation on Dec. 11 after citizen 
complaints during a city commis-
sion meeting. 
Deborah Bowie, Michelle Park 
and Steve Varvel are the candidates 
for the position, Arreola said. All 
three candidates are current city 
employees.
On Dec. 18, the position opened 
to city employees for ﬁ  ve days, said 
Lisa Jefferson, the city’s director of 
human resources, at the Jan. 3 City Commission meeting. Bowie, 48, 
and Varvel, 55, applied.
At that commission meeting, 
commissioners voiced concern for 
the short application period. After 
a 7-0 vote, they chose to extend the 
period for ﬁ  ve days, which is when 
Park applied.
“For the interim manager, I want 
someone that’s going to be a steady 
hand on the wheel of the ship,” 
Arreola said.
In 2013, Bowie moved to 
Gainesville from Georgia in search 
of a better education for her son, 
she said. In May, she became the 
chief of staff for the city manag-
er. In Georgia and Alabama, she 
worked in high-level city positions.
Bowie said the interim city man-
ager should focus on government 
operations and empowering people 
rather than focusing on personal 
priorities. 
“Sometimes when people Interim city manager to 
be decided Thursday
Three candidates applied for the position.
THE GROUP ENCOURAGES 
MEN TO FEEL COMFORT-
ABLE SEEKING MENTAL 
HEALTH TREATMENT.
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF therapy group exclusive-
ly for men of color is looking to 
challenge how mental illness is stigmatized in African American 
communities. 
Addressing mental health can 
be a difﬁ  cult topic for college stu-
dents, but seeking treatment for 
anxiety and depression is espe-
cially difﬁ  cult for men of color, 
said Jennifer Martin, the group 
coordinator at the UF Counseling 
& Wellness Center. 
“Social stigmas and ﬁ  nancial 
barriers often prevent minority men from getting the help they 
need to improve their mental 
state,” Martin said. 
The center is starting “Men 
of Color at UF,” its ﬁ  rst therapy 
group targeted toward men of 
color, this semester on Tuesdays 
from 3-4:30 p.m. at the center, 
Martin said. There is no sched-
uled starting date until spots ﬁ  ll 
up.
The center is encouraging stu-dents to sign up to ﬁ  ll about 10 
spots. It is part of the “Under-
standing Self and Others” project, 
an initiative created by the cen-
ter that promotes group therapy 
sessions for struggling students, 
Martin said.
Topics to discuss at the ses-
sions will be centered around the 
individual needs of the students, 
Martin said. 
“Meeting in groups to discuss mental health provides students 
with support from others expe-
riencing the same problems,” 
Martin said. “This gives them a 
base that is not only helpful but 
comfortable to talk about their 
concerns.”
Jennifer Stuart, a counselor at 
the center, said one of the great-
est beneﬁ  ts of the “Men of Color 
at UF” group is how often mem-UF’s CWC introduces therapy group for men of color SEE CITY MANAGER,  PAGE 4
SEE CWC,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Commissioner Gail Johnson’s 
Community Conversation: 
Part 2
Gainesville Commissioner Gail 
Johnson will host a forum at 5:30-
7:30 p.m. at Gainesville Regional 
Utilities, at 301 SE Fourth Ave., 
to talk with community organi-
zations. The organizations will 
talk about last year’s accomplish-
ments, inform the audience about 
what these same organizations 
want to accomplish in 2019 and 
share how the community can 
help the organization succeed. 
Johnson will begin the forum 
with an overview of 2018, what 
she hopes to accomplish in 2019 
and tell the audience how to ad-
vocate for their interests in the 
City Commission. Free pizza and 
an activity table for children will 
be provided. For organizations 
interested in participating, they 
may RSVP at bit.ly/2RHSQn7.
 
TUESDAY
Wikipedia Day 2019
To celebrate Wikipedia’s 18th 
anniversary, a free meet-and-
greet will be hosted at 4-7 p.m. 
at Marston Science Library, 
room L136, in the basement. 
People can meet members of the 
Wikipedia movement and learn 
how to improve content related 
to Gainesville and UF. Bring a 
laptop or tablet if you would like 
to participate in the events’ mini-
editathon.
WEDNESDAY
 
Puerto Rico: Resilience After 
the Storm
UF emerged as a leader in re-
search and scholarship to help re-
build Puerto Rico after Hurricane 
Maria. At 6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall 
Ocora, UF architecture professors 
Martha Kohen and Nancy Clark 
will discuss the university's work 
aimed at helping the island imag-
ine a more resilient future. THURSDAY
Black Identity and Continuing 
Black Movement Activism 
in Brazil
The guest lecture from 7:10-
8:30 p.m. in the UF Center for 
Latin American Studies will be 
provided by Gladys L. Mitchell-
Walthour, a University of 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee associate 
professor of public policy and 
political economy. She will dis-
cuss the increasing importance 
of a black racial identity in Brazil 
and how black activists have or-
ganized around their identities. 
She will also talk about how or-
ganizing has been challenged and 
will continue under a repressive 
government. 
FRIDAY
Consciousness in Science 
Symposium
Scientists and scholars will get 
together for a conference from 
6:30-9 p.m. at the Harn Museum 
of Art, at 3259 Hull Road. The 
event is free and open to the pub-
lic. Light refreshments will be 
provided at a reception starting 
at 6:30 p.m. Keynote addresses 
will take place at 7 p.m. in the 
auditorium. The keynote speak-
ers include Stuart Hameroff, an 
anesthesiologist and University 
of Arizona professor who helped 
develop a quantum theory of con-
sciousness, and Brenda Dunne 
of the Princeton Environmental 
Engineering Anomalies, who will 
speak about the subject and ob-
jective aspects of consciousness.   
MORE
New exhibit at Florida Museum 
offers look at killer whales
Visitors can learn more about the 
Lummi People, who are the origi-
nal inhabitants of Washington’s 
northernmost coast and south-
ern British Columbia, and their 
beliefs that killer whales are 
their kin in the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, at 3215 Hull 
Road. The exhibit is open until May 5. Exhibit features include 
a more than 4,000 pound, 16-
foot, hand-carved whale totem 
of a human riding a whale by 
the House of Tears Carvers of the 
Lummi Nation; five historical to-
tem poles; two carved pipes that 
depict killer whales, eagles, bears 
and humans; and five carved 
platters with images of killer 
whales, humans, fish and ravens 
from other museum collections.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  65° LOW  42°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
Engagement Managing Editor Christina Morales,
engagement@alligator.orgEditor Paige Fry, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Amanda Rosa, digital@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Michaela Mulligan, opinions@alligator.org
Devoun Cetoute, dcetoute@alligator.org
University Editor
Digital News Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports EditorJake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports EditorMark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Alanis Thames, athames@alligator.org
Editorial Board Paige Fry,  Christina Morales, 
Amanda Rosa, Michaela Mulligan
Multimedia Editor Aaron Ritter, aritter@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Lindsey Breneman, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Metro Editor
Alexandria Ng, ang@alligator.org
Dana Cassidy, dcassidy@alligator.org
Angela DiMichele, adimichele@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Alejandro D'Agostino, Mark Fiol
Luke Motta, Emily Perpich, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Sara RodriguesMayla Garcia Herrera, 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Lourdes Hernandez, Ashlyn Jones
Blake TrauschkeMadison Forbis, April Rubin, 
Marlowe Starling 
Corrections:  In an article titled 
“UF holds two weeks of MLK 
events” in Friday's paper, the 
Black Identity and Continuing 
Black Movement Activism in 
Brazil in an Era of Repression 
event will take place at 7:10 p.m. 
Thursday in Grinter 376. The Al-
ligator had reported differently. 
In an article titled “Government 
shutdown shows effects on UF, 
Santa Fe” in Friday's paper, 
1,075 awards were affected by 
the government shutdown. The 
Alligator had reported differently.
The Alligator strives to be accu-
rate and clear in its news reports 
and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.   Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to cmorales@alligator.org. 
T o request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear 
in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 46MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
From Monster Energy to Archer Farms coffee,  
shop and save close to campus.
Your Campus T arget
Just north of campus on
University and /one.lf /three.lfth StNon-stop
study sesh?
Aced.
© 2019 T arget Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and T arget are registered trademarks of T arget Brands, Inc. C-000807-03-011
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
THE FOUR MEN WERE 
ACCUSED OF RAPING A 
17-YEAR-OLD GIRL IN 1949. 
By Katherine Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Four black men were pardoned Friday 
after 70 years of being accused of raping a 
white 17-year-old girl in Groveland, Florida. 
In 1949, Charles Greenlee, Ernest Thom-
as, Samuel Shepherd and Walter Irvin — the 
Groveland Four — were accused of raping 
Norma Padgett. 
On Friday, the Florida Board of Execu-
tive Clemency met and voted to pardon the 
Groveland Four in Tallahassee, said Kelly 
Corder, a Florida Commission on Offender 
Review spokesperson.
“While this act cannot right the wrongs 
done to them many years ago, I hope that it 
will bring peace to their families and to their 
communities,” said Florida Gov. Ron DeSan-
tis during the meeting.
Not everyone in attendance wanted to see 
the men pardoned. Padgett, who attended 
with her family, told the board she still be-
lieved the four men raped her.
“I’m begging y’all not to grant them par-
don because they done it,” Padgett said to 
the board.
None of the Groveland Four were alive to 
know they were pardoned.
Thomas was shot hundreds of times by 
a mob before the trials. After he was found 
guilty by an all-white jury, Irvin and Shep-
herd were sentenced to the electric chair. 
In 1951 before a retrial, Sheriff Willis V. 
McCall shot them. Shepherd was killed, but 
Irvin survived and was found guilty at the trial, according to the Associated Press. He 
was paroled in 1968 and found dead in his 
car in 1969. 
Greenlee was sentenced to life in prison 
but served about 10 years before he was pa-
roled in 1960, the AP said. Greenlee died in 
2012. 
Carol Greenlee, 69, Greenlee’s daughter 
who was in attendance with Shepherd’s fam-
ily, said as a child she felt her dignity was 
taken away because her father was in jail.  
“I felt like a wrecking ball was lifted off 
of me,” Greenlee told The Alligator. “I felt 
like the jail doors swung open for me and 
my family.”
In 2015, Josh Venkataraman, then a 21-year-old UF telecommunication junior, 
started an online petition to exonerate the 
four. He amassed 9,760 signatures over 
about four years. Although the men haven’t 
been exonerated, he says he is happy to see 
them pardoned.
“It was just surreal,” Venkataraman said. 
“Within the near future, it sounds like an ex-
oneration is possible.”
In December, former Florida Attorney 
General Pam Bondi asked the Florida Depart-
ment of Law Enforcement to review the case 
for exoneration, said FDLE spokesperson 
Gretl Plessinger. 
The department of law enforcement will 
determine the facts and then a court will de-cide whether to wipe the charges from the 
four’s records, Plessinger said.  
“My emotions ran through the whole 
course of it yesterday, so it’s hard to even 
fathom how an exoneration would be like, ” 
Venkataraman said. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgThe Groveland Four pardoned after 70 years, their deaths
Associated Press
Lake County Sheriff Willis V. McCall, far left, and an unidentiﬁ  ed man stand next to 
Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Charles Greenlee, from left, in Florida. The three 
men along with a fourth were charged with rape in 1949. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis 
and a Cabinet granted posthumous pardons on Friday to Shepherd, Irvin, Greenlee 
and Ernest Thomas, the four were charged with rape in 1949.
By Katherine 
Wallace-Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A woman died from her inju-
ries Saturday after being hit by a 
car.
At about 9 p.m., Roberson 
Louis, 34, from Gainesville, was 
driving on Southwest 13th Street 
when he hit Sally Offen, 63, said 
Gainesville Police Sgt. Lisa Scott.
Offen, from Atlantic Beach, 
Florida, was crossing the bicycle 
lane headed to Home2 Suites by 
Hilton, at 2115 SW 13th St., Scott 
said. 
She died from her injuries at 
UF Health Shands Hospital, Scott 
said. Her family has been notified 
and the crash is being investigated 
as a traffic homicide. 
“She suffered traumatic inju-
ries,” said Gainesville Police Lt. 
Steve Bradford. “She took a pretty 
big hit.” Four to five pedestrians are 
killed by cars in Gainesville every 
year, Bradford said. On Southwest 
13th Street, on average, one pe-
destrian is killed every year. 
“It’s more than we would like,” 
Bradford said. 
Two pedestrians were hit last 
year while crossing the road in 
Gainesville. A woman crossing 
Northwest 13th Street was hit by 
two cars in October and a man 
was hit by a car on Northwest 
39th Avenue in July. 
Pedestrians should use cross-
walks when walking across the 
street, Bradford said. If there are 
no crosswalks, they should cross 
quickly and use medians. 
“Don’t assume that people see 
you,” Bradford said. 
@katwf98
kwallace-fernandez@alligator.orgPedestrian hit by car on 
Southwest 13th StreetGROVELAND FOUR TIMELINE:
1949: Charles Greenlee, Earnest Thomas, 
Samuel Shepherd and Walter Irvin 
were accused of raping a 17-year-old 
girl. Before the trial, Thomas was shot 
by a mob. Greenlee faced life in prison. 
Shepherd and Irvin were sentenced to 
the electric chair. 
1951: Shepherd and Irvin were both shot 
by Lake County Sheriff Willis V. McCall 
before a retrial. McCall said they were 
trying to escape. Irvin survived the 
shooting and faced life in prison.
1960: Greenlee was paroled.
1968: Irvin was paroled.
1969: Irvin was found dead in his car.
2012: Greenlee died. 
2015: UF alumnus Josh Venkataraman 
reached out to Carol Greenlee, Green-
lee’s daughter, to start an online peti-
tion to exonerate the four. 
2017: Florida formally apologized to the 
Groveland Four.
2019: The Groveland Four was pardoned 
by the Florida Board of Executive 
Clemency. Venkataraman’s petition 
closed and received 9,760 signatures. 
Information gathered from 
the Associated Press.
haven’t lived in other places 
they don’t realize that the is-
sues facing their community 
aren’t unique,” Bowie said. 
Park, the assistant director 
of Parks, Recreation and Cul-
tural Affairs, has spent about 
10 years working for the city. 
She has more than 40 years 
of public parks and recreation 
experience, previously in Palm 
Beach County, Ohio and Mary-
land, according to the city of Gainesville. Park was unavail-
able for comment.
Varvel, 55, has worked for 
the city for 29 years across 
multiple positions, Varvel said. 
Since 1998, he has been the risk 
management director. 
Varvel said because of his 
experience he would not need 
to establish new relationships 
as interim city manager. He 
went on to say that receiving 
the position would be like giv-
ing back to the city that has 
presented him with many op-
portunities.“I feel like I owe them for in-
vesting in me. That’s really the 
main motivation for even show-
ing interest in this,” Varvel 
said.
Bowie and Varvel said they 
would not be interested in the 
permanent manager position.
Lyons will remain an advi-
sor to the interim manager until 
Feb. 14. Selection for a perma-
nent manager is expected in six 
to eight months, Arreola said.
@taylorgirtman
tgirtman@alligator.orgCITY MANAGER,  from pg. 1The application period was extended.
bers will meet to discuss wheth-
er they are improving mentally 
from participating in the pro-
gram.
Although the center will 
continue to accept students 
throughout the semester, it is 
best for them to join early so 
they can fully beneﬁ  t from the 
group session, Stuart said.
“We like to keep the groups small and the members close 
to each other,” Stuart said. “It 
allows each student to beneﬁ  t 
from the treatment as best as 
they can.”
Those interested in joining 
the group therapy session can 
reach out to the counselors at 
the center to sign up, Stuart 
said. More information on the 
program and other therapy ses-
sions can be found on the cen-
ter’s website.
Nathan Athouriste, an Afri-can American 19-year-old UF 
marketing sophomore, said he 
believes the therapy group will 
be helpful to men of color on 
campus.
“I feel like mental health 
isn’t talked about enough in the 
black community,” Athouriste 
said. “Hopefully, this will kick-
start the conversation.”
@taylor__roth
troth@alligator.orgCWC,  from pg. 1There are 10 spots available for the group.The women sustained 
fatal injuries.MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
ALL INTERNET USERS WILL BE ON 
THE NETWORK BY SPRING.
By Mikayla Carroll
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students and faculty will soon be able 
to access the internet from almost anywhere 
in the world. 
Eduroam ﬁ  rst became available to UF stu-
dents in March 2014. By the end of Spring, 
all internet users will be on the Eduroam net-work. 
Eduroam, an international roaming ser-
vice network, allows UF students, faculty 
and staff with active GatorLink credentials to 
access a secure internet connection in more 
than 6,000 locations. This is 1,000 more than 
were available in 2014, said Tracy Gale, the 
communications manager for UF Informa-
tion Technology. 
Whether UF community members travel 
to study abroad or take internships else-
where, Eduroam will give accessibility to the internet across different universities and 
other facilities around the globe, Gale said.
“Since UF became a member of the Edu-
roam network, our people see this network 
option on their laptop or other mobile device 
and know they have a secure WiFi connec-
tion,” Gale said. “When you travel or visit 
another institution without Eduroam, this 
isn’t always the case.”
The project was split into three phases, 
over 18 months, UFIT and the Division of 
Student Affairs are expecting the switch to be completed by the summer. The project is 
in its ﬁ  nal phase.
“Phasing out the UF Network option im-
proves the experience for our students, fac-
ulty and staff who travel,” said Saira Has-
nain, the associate CIO and senior director of 
UFIT. “It’s the one wireless network for all 
Gators whether they are here in Gainesville 
or studying abroad.” 
@mikaylacarro11
mcarroll@alligator.orgUF WiFi to complete switch to Eduroam network this Spring
THE PROCEDURE
 MAY COST UPWARD
 OF $50,000.
By Kelly Hayes
Staff Writer
UF veterinarians will be the 
ﬁ  rst in the country to perform a 
lifesaving procedure on dogs.
The UF College of Veterinary 
Medicine will become the only 
facility in the U.S. to offer an 
open heart surgery program on 
dogs this April, said Simon Swift, 
a clinical associate professor and 
service chief of cardiology at UF’s 
Small Animal Hospital. 
The program will offer repairs 
of the mitral valve, an integral 
part of the heart that supports 
blood ﬂ  ow, Swift said. UF’s loca-
tion will be the only veterinary 
clinic in the country to offer the 
complex procedure.
When the mitral valve starts 
to degenerate it can lead to heart 
failure and death, Swift said. As 
the most common heart disease in dogs, it can be treated with 
medication, slowing the disease 
progression for nine months to a 
year.
While the drugs treat the 
symptoms, surgery would repair 
the damaged heart, he said.
“If you or I had this disease, 
we wouldn’t be treated medically, 
we’d go and see a surgeon,” Swift 
said. “And that’s what we’re do-
ing in dogs.”
While this surgery is regularly 
completed in Japan, the U.S. has 
not been able to offer it with a 
high success rate, he said. Due to 
this, the program will be a collab-
orative effort with Japanese vet-
erinarians led by veterinary car-
diologist Masami Uechi, who has 
mastered the procedure. 
The entire program will cost 
between $750,000 to $1 million 
in its ﬁ  rst three years and will be 
funded by UF, a benefactor and 
a fundraiser that’s already raised 
over $50,000, Swift said.
The investment in equipment 
and staff is the most costly part of the program, with the bypass 
machine for the operation cost-
ing between $50,000 to $100,000, Swift said. Each surgery, while 
$17,000 in Japan, could cost be-
tween $40,000 to $50,000 in the U.S., due to the help from Uechi’s 
team.
“This is a program that has 
been needed for years in the 
United States,” Swift said. “Uechi 
has shown us the way, we hope 
to learn from him how to do this 
surgery effectively.”
UF’s ﬁ  rst procedure is ex-
pected to take place in April with 
Uechi and his team, who will be 
bringing equipment and complet-
ing the surgeries with UF veteri-
narians for the next three to ﬁ  ve 
years. By then, the clinic should 
be able to operate independently, 
he said. 
Corrine Conste, an 18-year-old 
UF biology freshman, is interest-
ed to see how this procedure will 
develop by the time she applies to 
veterinary school.
“New technology that can im-
prove our technique is a great 
idea,” Conste said. “Animals de-
serve the best care that they can 
get.”
@kellyrhayes
khayes@alligator.org First open-heart program in the country for dogs to launch at UF  
Courtesy to The Alligator
Simon Swift, the medical director of the UF Small Animal Hospital,  
examines Zoey, a 12-year-old Maltese, who underwent the mitral 
valve repair procedure in France last year.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsFlorida and how 2019 is 
righting wrongs
Every state and its government have issues that need 
to be addressed, and Florida is no exception. Florida 
has made a number of mistakes over its entire 173 
years of existence as a part of the U.S., many of them 
concerning racism.
The new year marked the first time that Floridians con-
victed of felonies will have the ability to vote in an upcom-
ing election. This change in law came after Amendment 4 
was passed in the most recent Florida election. Amendment 
4 allowed nearly 1.5 million Floridians, about 10 percent of 
Florida’s adult population, to regain their right to vote.  
Many have seen the restrictions against formerly incar-
cerated Floridians as an attack on minority voting in the 
state. More than 20 percent of otherwise eligible African 
Americans 18 and over were previously not allowed to vote, 
according to NPR. This new bill has the possibility to alter 
outcomes of entire Florida elections, a swing state that in 
recent elections has een red.
We see barring formerly incarcerated Floridians from 
voting as an obstruction of justice, but the new law is a 
bright spot for the state in 2019. It marks a change in the 
right direction and begins to make amends for injustice.
This year has also seen the pardoning of the Grove-
land Four, a group of black men: Charles Greenlee, Ernest 
Thomas, Walter Irvin and Samuel Shepherd. They all were 
accused of raping a white girl close to Groveland, Florida, 
in 1949. The four men did not live to see their pardoning. 
Thomas was shot and killed when he was tracked down 
after the alleged rape. Shepherd and Irvin were both shot 
by Lake County Sheriff Willis V. McCall on the way to a 
trial appearance, after the Supreme Court had called for a 
retrial in 1951. McCall said it was out of self-defense. Irvin 
survived, but Shepherd did not.
After Irvin survived, he and Greenlee were retried by an 
all-white jury for the second time and found guilty. They 
both spent more than a decade in prison before being re-
leased on parole. Irvin died a year after being released on 
parole and Greenlee died in 2012. The Pulitzer Prize win-
ning book “Devil in the Grove” popularized and told the 
story of the Groveland Four and the injustices involved.  
In 2017, the state of Florida formally apologized to the 
families of the Groveland Four. On Friday, state officials 
voted in favor of pardoning the men, allowing for further 
justice for the families and men involved. This case is an 
example of another wrong Florida committed. It was clearly 
a result of a racist and Jim Crow Law era, which culminated 
in ruining four men and their families’ lives.
These two changes in Florida’s history, the reinstatement 
of the rights of formerly incarcerated Floridians and the par-
doning of the Groveland Four, are an acknowledgment of 
mistakes made by Florida’s legislature and judicial systems 
over the years.
It’s important that these changes are being made early in 
the year because they set an example for the rest of 2019. 
We have the responsibility to hold our state and ourselves 
accountable for unjust actions that have been committed in 
the past and that will inevitably be committed in the future. 
Let 2019 be a year of righting wrongs and a year of learning 
from past mistakes.
Column
“When they go low, we go high.” 
These words, spoken at the 2016 
Democratic National Convention 
by Michelle Obama, were a re-
minder to her fellow Democrats 
to act with a manner of class and poise, especially 
at times when their Republican counterparts fail 
to do so. It is barely three years later and the party 
that once vowed to “go high” has stooped to the 
level of cursing in Congress. 
I would not be devastated if President Donald 
Trump were to be impeached before the end of his 
first term. I also do not have an issue with most curse words, 
providing they are not insults toward groups of people. I do, 
however, think it is inappropriate to say, “We’re going to go 
in there, and we’re going to impeach the mother…,” on the 
floor of Congress upon being sworn in as a Michigan rep-
resentative. Democratic Rep. Rashida Tlaib’s remarks only 
succeed in furthering the divide between the two primary 
parties, a chasm beyond repair.
A New York Times opinion columnist Michelle Gold-
berg recently published an article asserting the uproar sur-
rounding Tlaib’s comments, in which she called for Trump’s 
impeachment, while referring to him by an expletive, was 
“monumentally stupid.” To an extent, I agree. There is noth-
ing morally wrong with what Tlaib said, and thanks to the 
First Amendment, she has the right to express herself; a right 
I would die to protect. 
However, those profane words should not have been 
used in Congress — a place work. Our representatives are ex-
pected to work in the best interest of the nation, this means 
acting civilly. Goldberg used examples of Dick Cheney curs-
ing on the Senate floor and Trump bragging about sexual 
assault as reasons why Tlaib’s comments are to be excused. 
The columnist defended Tlaib on the basis that her op-
position was “misogynistic” and “racist.” On the surface, 
this argument holds. Sure, these men have said awful things, 
with one especially being far worse than the freshman rep-
resentative’s statement. Why should a woman be penalized 
for similar, and, dare I say, milder, behavior? However, this argument fails to go deeper than the surface. I sug-
gest the uproar over Tlaib’s expletive statement 
has little to do with the fact that she is a woman, 
and everything to do with the fact that she was 
stooping to the level of “Trumpian”, brash and 
crude language.
What Tlaib said was far less problematic than 
Trump’s arrogant remarks, however we should 
not condone this manner of unprofessionalism 
across the board. Trump is notorious for his Twit-
ter rants in which he throws ad hominem attacks 
at those with whom he disagrees. Calling Hillary 
Clinton a “nasty woman” or former White House aide Oma-
rosa Manigault Newman a “dog” are heinous, sexist attacks. 
Coming from the White House, this is an embarrassment.
Citizens from both political parties can usually agree upon 
the immaturity of these middle school-esque insults. In or-
der to be consistent, we must also hold Tlaib accountable 
for her offensive statement. I cannot, in good faith, criticize 
Trump for using foul, degrading language, while simultane-
ously condoning Tlaib’s profane remarks. This country lacks 
civility and humanity. Slinging insults is easy, but being kind 
to those who have done nothing but tear us down is much 
harder.
In times such as these, it is important to remember Mi-
chelle Obama’s advice: “When they go low, we go high.” 
Trump has gone low too many times to count. Cheney went 
low. Tlaib went low. But we can do better. It is not too late 
to set a better example. 
Young girls across the nation have heard Trump’s dispar-
aging words. It is time for a new example. The new members 
of Congress have an opportunity to be that example with the 
record-breaking amount of women and minorities elected to 
the House of Representatives in 2019. We have to hold them 
accountable to be that example. When they go low, we still 
go high.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Rep. Rashida Tlaib’s remarks can not be condoned 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Michaela
Mulligan
OPINIONS
EDITORAmanda
Rosa
MANAGING
EDITORChristina
Morales
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
EDITOR
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019    ALLIGATOR   7
An estimated 160 million Americans are 
either overweight or obese, according 
to a study published in 2014 by The In-
stitute for Health Metrics and Evalua-
tion. This number accounts for roughly 
two-thirds of all adults and close to 30 percent 
of all children in the U.S. To make matters 
worse, the incidence of obese and overweight 
Americans has been on a massive upswing in 
recent years. The nation’s obesity rate is expect-
ed to soon approach 40 percent.
Although harrowing, this data does not come as a 
shock. American obesity is often the butt of jokes in the 
media and it is a common notion that the U.S. is one of 
the world’s fattest countries. But why is this?
I argue that the culture around food in the U.S. is 
largely to blame. American food culture values instant 
gratiﬁ  cation and convenience. Americans have also come 
not only to accept gargantuan portion sizes, but to expect 
them. The culture also creates a stigma around healthy 
foods in the minds of young Americans and produces 
a mental barrier that stops them from regularly eating 
healthier foods.
Americans don’t eat unhealthy foods because of their 
ignorance. Many Americans are aware of what food is 
healthy and understand the repercussions of eating junk 
food. They recognize that if they rely on McDonald’s to 
supply all of their meals, Chicken McNuggets and Sau-
sage, Egg & Cheese McGriddles will eventually clog their 
arteries. They know that eating one too many pints of 
Chunky Monkey will leave them, too, as a chunky mon-
key. Despite this awareness, however, Americans con-
tinue to sacriﬁ  ce their health for the instant gratiﬁ  cation 
they ﬁ  nd in a cheeseburger. Why? It’s easy and it’s what 
Americans have always done.
As a culture, Americans don’t typically value the art 
of cooking. They glorify the on-demand nature of fast food restaurants and casual dining. This habit 
of valuing convenience is passed down through 
generations. When children grow up and watch 
their parents herald the ease and convenience 
of a KFC meal, they learn to do the same. The 
danger in this practice lies in the fact that these 
meals are usually high in calories, but not nu-
trients, and are supplied in huge portion sizes.
Beyond the culture of convenience, embed-
ded within our culture is a stigma that sur-
rounds healthy food. Even when Americans know what is 
good for them, they still choose the worst options. Many 
Americans want to eat healthy but they don’t want to 
sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  avor, nor do they want to subject themselves to 
eating the dreaded “health foods.”
This mindset often starts at a young age when chil-
dren are led to believe that fruits, vegetables and anything 
green is gross. This idea is perpetuated as these children 
grow up and absorb the idea that healthy foods are only 
for gym buffs or people who “have their life together.” 
This leaves many Americans turned off by the idea of 
choosing a salad over mac and cheese, ultimately mak-
ing them give up healthy eating before they even start. 
All of this is due to the arbitrary lifestyle associated with 
“health foods.”
This culture that exalts unhealthy habits is the big-
gest danger to American well-being. If we want to see a 
healthier America, we need a culture shift. There is no 
reason all Americans must fall victim to this toxic idea 
that healthy foods are only for health enthusiasts. We 
have to spend more time combatting this issue that has a 
huge impact on America's health. It’s time that individu-
als challenge these norms and recognize their own free 
will to live a healthy life. 
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Millions of Americans need to change their food habits  Column
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
The Spring semester's ﬁ  rst week has now passed. 
By now you’ve all attended your ﬁ  rst lectures of 
the semester or completed your ﬁ  rst assignments. 
If so, hopefully you did well and managed to ﬁ  nd 
a routine that works best for you. If you did, con-
gratulations! But if you didn’t and you’re struggling to get 
back in the groove of things after break, here are some 
tips to put you back on track.
A regular and consistent sleep schedule: We all 
know the stereotype of sleep-deprived students going 
through their days like zombies, but it doesn’t have to 
be that way. Sleep is crucial to a student’s success. While 
some people can get by with less sleep, you should ideally 
aim for seven or more hours of sleep every night. How 
you get there is up to you: going to bed early, not taking 
early classes or rearranging your sleep schedule. Above 
all, get enough sleep and get it consistently. Pulling all-
nighters during the week and then sleeping all day on the 
weekend isn’t a healthy alternative.
Find the study habits that work for you: I hope 
you’ll agree studying is one of the most important aspects 
of college. Whether it’s studying for a pop quiz, a big mid-
term or just making sure you’re caught up on the material, 
studying is essential. There is no one right way to study, 
so experiment to see what works best for you. Whether it 
is ﬂ  ashcards, study groups, practice quizzes or just read-
ing the textbook. As long as your study habits are helping 
you pass and don’t violate any laws or UF rules, go for it.
Get involved early: Let’s face it, college can be drain-
ing. It involves long hours and difﬁ  cult work. It’s even 
more draining if you’re alone and isolated. But you don’t 
have to do it alone. UF has a great community that will 
support you in the hardest times. You should get involved 
on-campus early on. Being involved can take many forms, 
from such as volunteering for a cause like Habitat for Hu-
manity or participating in Greek life. When you begin to 
join extracurricular activities, you’ll ﬁ  nd UF has some-
thing for everyone. Whatever you end up doing, you’ll 
form a network of people who will make you feel like 
you’re not alone in your struggles. Difﬁ  cult work can start 
as early as the ﬁ  rst week, so you should get involved as 
soon as possible to allow yourself to adjust to your new 
schedule. 
Set aside time for leisure and relaxation: Working 
all the time isn’t good for anyone. You may feel more pro-
ductive if you work nonstop, but eventually you’ll start 
to get tired and your work will suffer. So, every once in a 
while, you should stop working and relax a bit. Everyone 
has different ways to relax, for some it might be medi-
tation and scented candles, while for others it might be 
funny YouTube videos and junk food. Either way, don’t 
be afraid to rest. How much and how long you rest de-
pends on your personal preferences and how much work 
you have to do. You can try 30-minute breaks every few 
hours during an intensive day of work or you could take a 
whole day off to recover after an exhausting week. Work 
and leisure time need to be balanced, and it’s all about 
ﬁ  guring out what works best for you. 
If your ﬁ  rst week didn’t go so well, or if you feel things 
could have gone better, hopefully these semester tips will 
help turn things around for you.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.It’s not too late to put 
yourself back on track 
this Spring semesterColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Good morning, Gators! If that greet-
ing is even remotely accurate to you, 
give yourself a pat on the back and 
keep up that persistence. For the rest 
of you who, like myself, struggle 
with getting out of bed and maintaining a 
routine, I’m here to offer you some words of 
advice. Become someone who can be produc-
tive before a 9:35 a.m. class. You’ll become a 
part of a class so elite that even AirPod users 
won’t be able to compare to your power.
Let me paint a picture of the sort of morning we all 
strive for. You wake up without hitting snooze, open the 
blinds of your bedside window letting in sunny rays, ﬁ  ll-
ing your room with a calming and stimulating natural 
light. You drink a glass of cold water and get dressed, 
take a couple of minutes to meditate because you’re a col-
lege student and you’re into that sort of new-agey thing. 
Fifteen minutes after you’ve woken up, you’re on the RTS 
taking you directly to Southwest Recreation Center, where 
you wave to the regulars (of whom you are one) and 
rouse your senses with an intense, but gratifying work-
out. A little over an hour later, you get back to your dorm 
or apartment and straight into perfecting your culinary 
skills, practicing the easy-to-learn but hard-to-master art 
of scrambled eggs, crispy bacon and perfectly brewed cof-
fee. After breakfast, before you leave, you shower and get 
dressed, checking yourself out in the mirror with a new 
self-conﬁ  dence inspired by the amount you’ve accom-
plished in a little over two hours before your ﬁ  rst class.
This, my friends, is what we all stand to gain if we 
embrace a little discipline; however, this picturesque 
morning is often sabotaged by the vices of the traditional 
Gainesville experience. The main obstacle in the way of 
good morning habits are bad sleeping habits. Getting to 
sleep late is an almost sure-ﬁ  re way to have difﬁ  culty waking up early, which is why the kids who 
go to Midtown on a Monday night usually 
miss their Tuesday morning classes or show 
up looking like Nicholas Cage in Leaving Las 
Vegas. Fear not, though, because you aren’t 
alone in your nightly habits. Partying ruins 
sleep schedules, but so does social media, 
poor planning and plain old hanging out.
Scrolling through Snapchat stories (which 
nobody really does anymore) for an hour be-
fore bed not only waste time you could have spent sleep-
ing, but it also tricks your brain into thinking it’s closer 
to daytime than it really is. Cramming that chemistry 
worksheet at midnight might seem like a good idea in 
class that morning, but after eight more hours of taxing 
UF life, your work is going to be of a diminished quality 
and you’ll feel as though you need a full day of sleep to 
recover from studying into the night.
As it stands for most of us, all of the upsides of a re-
warding morning routine are within our grasp. Life is 
stressful, but there are ways to relieve some of this stress. 
However difﬁ  cult the college experience can be and how-
ever many difﬁ  cult decisions we encounter each day, it is 
entirely possible to navigate young adulthood in a respon-
sible and fulﬁ  lling way.
The path is different for each of us, depending on how 
much sleep we need or how much we value our produc-
tivity against our social lives. How we start our mornings 
has the power to control how the rest of the day will be. 
Our job is to make that routine and follow it the best we 
can. Creating and sticking to a morning routine is all we 
really need to set ourselves up for consistent mornings 
full of bench presses and bacon.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English freshman. His column 
appears on Mondays.Wake up and get that bread, you’ll thank yourself laterColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
Caroline Keefe / Alligator Staff 
Elyssa Jerome, a 21-year-old UF digital arts and sciences junior, peruses 
through a clothing vendor’s selection Saturday at the Florida Vintage Market 
at the High Dive. Jerome went to the event with her friends. “We’re just here 
to browse cool stuff, ” Jerome said.
Hidden Treasures 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Anissa Flowers, a 21-year-old UF biology junior, looks at a vendor’s jewelry Saturday during 
the Florida Vintage Market at the High Dive. The event hosted more than 20 vendors who 
sold an assortment of artisan products.
THE WORKSHOP HOSTED 
ABOUT 60 PEOPLE.
By Karina Elwood 
Alligator Staff Writer
About 40 people put on their 
helmets, strapped on their knee 
pads and laced up their skates 
Saturday.
They dashed, clashed and 
smashed into each other as their 
heroes taught them. 
International roller derby leg-
ends Hillary “Scald Eagle” Busco-
vick and Samara “Lady Trample” 
Pepperell held a training work-
shop for roller derby players and 
enthusiasts. The Gainesville Roller Rebels 
hosted the workshop for about 
40 skaters and 20 spectators 
from across the state at the Ala-
chua County Fairgrounds, said 
Chelsea Tobias, the 30-year-old 
Gainesville Roller Rebels presi-
dent. 
The workshop cost about $400 
to host, Tobias said. Skaters had 
to register for $35 and spectators 
had to pay $5. The event sold out 
in about 45 minutes.
Tobias, or “Queen Slayer” 
when she plays for the team, said 
she organized the event to bring 
world-class players to share their 
skills with the community.
“I was really excited to have our derby heroes here,” she said. 
“It was really cool to see them in 
person.”
Buscovick, 31, and Pepperell, 
27, are on the Denver Roller Der-
by League, which is ranked fourth 
in the Women’s Flat Track Derby 
Association, Buscovick said. Pep-
perell recently transferred from 
the Victorian Roller Derby League 
in Australia, which is ranked first 
in the association.
Gainesville was the third of 
nine stops on the duo’s Florida 
tour to teach fundamentals and 
share their personal experiences 
and signature moves, Pepperell 
said. The next workshop will be 
held in DeLand, Florida. “One of the things that hap-
pens when you’ve been playing 
for as long as we have at the 
level we have, is we get the op-
portunities to come and share our 
experiences and knowledge with 
the community, which is a huge 
privilege,” Pepperell said. 
Rachele “Harley Quinn” Huels-
man, a 39-year-old player on 
Miami’s Vice City Roller team, 
traveled more than 300 miles to 
attend the three-hour session. 
“Scald Eagle is legendary so, of 
course, if you get an opportunity 
to train with an athlete that amaz-
ing, you take it,” she said. 
Vinessa “Poise N’Control” Far-
low, the captain of Ocala Canni-bals Roller Derby, didn’t register 
in time to skate, but still came out 
to spectate and learn. 
Farlow, 38, said she’s has been 
playing roller derby for about 12 
years and loves it because she 
found a community that gave her 
everything she was looking for. 
“You’re going to sweat, you’re 
going to cry, you’re going to vom-
it, you’re going to piss yourself 
and it’s going to be great because 
you’re going to get encouraged 
the whole way,” Farlow said. 
@karina_elwood
kelwood@alligator.org Roller Derby legends visit Gainesville to teach movesTHERE WILL BE A DISCUSSION 
ABOUT MAKING GAINESVILLE 
USE 100 PERCENT 
RENEWABLE ENERGY.
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents are looking at how 
they will use their energy 26 years in the 
future.
At 7 p.m. tonight, the Suwannee-St.
Johns Group Sierra Club, a nonprofit en-
vironmental organization, will kick off its 2019 Clean Energy Campaign at the Civic 
Media Center, at 433 S Main St., said Ro-
berta Gastmeyer, the club’s treasurer.
The resolution, titled “Ready for 100,” 
was unanimously passed in October and 
aims to have Gainesville running on 100 
percent renewable energy by 2045, Gast-
meyer said. 
The Sierra Club has been working with 
groups such as the local chapters of the 
NAACP, Citizens’ Climate Lobby and the 
Women’s March, a social organization, 
to help make this resolution a reality, she 
said. 
Thirty to 50 people are expected to at-tend. Gastmeyer said she is hoping UF and 
Santa Fe College students will attend.
About 100 U.S. cities have committed 
to using 100 percent renewable energy in 
the future, Gastmeyer said. Gainesville city 
commissioners, such as Adrian Hayes-San-
tos, have been vocal about the “Ready for 
100 resolution.
“He has been instrumental in getting it 
passed and making sure the city follows 
through,” Gastmeyer said.
Besides the long term 2045 goal, Hayes-
Santos said he is working on short-term 
goals such as a two-year city pilot program 
that utilizes electric cars.“You can’t just do it overnight,” Hayes-
Santos said. “You have to continually 
make progress.”
As part of the event, a video shot by 
Patrick Gilmartin, a 19-year-old UF finance 
sophomore and member of the Sierra Club, 
will explain the resolution and will be fol-
lowed by an open discussion.
“I wanted to make a call to action to the 
regular citizens of Gainesville,” he said.
@kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org2019 Clean Energy Campaign to launch tonightTHE SATELLITE IS VALUED
AT $1 MILLION.
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tyler Ritz doesn’t just want to be an as-
tronaut. He also wants to leave a piece of his 
work in space.
Ritz, a 24-year-old UF aerospace engineer-
ing doctoral student, was one of more than two 
dozen UF students who, over five-and-a-half 
years, built the smallest satellite able to operate 
an atomic clock, which uses the most accurate 
time and frequency standards. The satellite 
made its way to space on Dec. 16. 
“It’s kind of bittersweet,” Ritz said. “You sit 
there with it 24/7, and it’s weird because that’s 
the last time anyone would ever get to see this 
thing because it’s getting launched 500 km in 
the air.”
Rocket Lab launched the UF-built satel-
lite and 12 other research cube satellites — a 
small standard-shaped satellite that does one 
job — as part of NASA’s Educational Launch of 
Nanosatellites, an initiative that was created to 
attract and retain students in science, technol-
ogy, engineering and mathematics, Ritz said. 
The UF satellite will work to provide more ac-
curate location and timing for GPS services.  
NASA, the Air Force Research Lab and the 
Florida Stanford Research Institute collectively 
awarded about $500,000 to pay for the creation 
of the satellite, which completed is valued at 
$1 million, Ritz said.
Most GPS satellites are the size of a school 
bus and use about 2,000 watts of power, but 
this UF satellite is about the size of a shoe-
box and only takes about five watts of pow-er, Ritz said.
The satellite completes one orbit around the 
Earth about every hour and a half, said John 
Conklin, a UF mechanical and aerospace engi-
neering professor.The satellite’s increased accuracy could 
also reduce and eliminate the wait time for re-
routing on GPS devices, Conklin said.
The success of the satellite has shown the 
quality and depth of work that can be done at UF, Conklin said.  
“Every now and then I take a step back and 
realize how amazing it is,” he said.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   9 
Will Run for Beer
Photos by Samuel Thomas | Alligator Staff
James Thompson, 6, Phil Mackie, 23, and Hunter Ives, 9, approach the finish 
line Saturday during the First Magnitude Brewing Company’s Springs Run 7.2K. 
Thompson and Ives participated in the 1-mile run. John Sansalone, 23, Justin Keefe, 24, and Ben Wise, 40, begin the First Magnitude 
Brewing Company’s Springs Run 7.2K. Although the athletes kept a close race, Keefe 
won first place after he ran 7.2 kilometers in 23 minutes and 21 seconds.
Courtesy to The Alligator 
The UF CubeSat Handling Of Multisystem Precision Time Transfer satellite is the size of a shoebox and can work off of five 
watts of power. In comparison, most GPS satellites are about the size of a school bus and use about 2,000 watts of power. 
UF collaborates with NASA to launch small GPS satellite10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mitch Gulkis attended UF to 
study biochemistry, not to sing. 
That was until the president of 
the UF Ukulele Club convinced him 
to audition for an a cappella group. 
A year and a half later, Gulkis, 
a 19-year-old UF chemistry sopho-
more, became the music director for 
the UF a cappella group Tone Def 
and is now hooked on music. Its 
members will record their first stu-
dio album this Spring. 
“One of our big goals this year 
was to record an album and pro-
duce something that we’d all be 
proud of,” Gulkis said. 
The group hopes to reach its goal 
of raising $10,000 on its GoFundMe 
page to pay for recording, mixing, 
mastering and distributing before 
UF’s Spring Break, Gulkis said. As 
of Sunday, the group raised $1,040 
from 20 people within a month. 
In September 2018, Tone Def contacted Plaid Productions, a pro-
duction company that members had 
met with at a 2017 a cappella festi-
val in Miami. The group scheduled 
a recording session without audition 
or a waitlist, Gulkis said.
Two members of Plaid Produc-tions will travel to Gainesville in 
March to record the group, said 
Claudia Del Pozo, the president of 
Tone Def. It’ll take about three to 
four days to record the album. 
The group will record in Del 
Pozo’s apartment living room be-cause Plaid Productions travels to 
clients’ locations for all recordings. 
The company will provide equip-
ment and record each person’s part 
individually.  
“Music is a pretty important 
thing to me. It’s been a major im-
pact on my life,” said Del Pozo, a 
22-year-old UF political science and international studies senior. “It’s 
taught me so many leadership skills. 
Outside of that, I’ve made awesome 
friends.”
Jenine Marquez, the group’s 
public relations manager and singer, 
said she is looking forward to learn-
ing more about recording an album. 
“Getting the chance to do this 
one last thing with the group be-
fore I leave UF is really important 
to me,” said Marquez, a 19-year-
old UF advertising senior who will 
graduate in May. 
The album will consist of six cov-
er songs, Del Pozo said. Although 
the 16-member group is not sure of 
the set list yet, genres may include 
pop, classic rock and rhythm and 
blues.  
By Fall, the group hopes to re-
lease the album for free on services 
like Spotify and Apple Music, Gulkis 
said.
“Being in the group has given me 
a creative outlet to perform and sing 
with a bunch of other people who 
appreciate music as much as I do,” 
Marquez said. “We all love each 
other. It’s like a second family.”UF a cappella group plans to record first studio album  
Courtesy to The Alligator
The a cappella group T one Def performs at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella in 
2018. The group plans to release its first recorded album in Fall 2019. 
COPPER MONKEY CLOSED, 
NAGA TEA AND POKÉBOWL 
STATION OPENED AND 
HOOTERS IS COMING SOON.
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents will be seeing an in-
flux of chicken wings and Asian cuisine this 
year while they say their second goodbye to 
another local burger joint. As classes begin 
and vacations conclude, find out which res-
taurants have recently opened or shut their 
doors.
Naga Tea
Naga Tea manager Spencer Yang, 28, is 
hopeful that the company’s third location 
will thrive in Gainesville. 
The cafe, located at 21 SW Second St., 
opened Wednesday and offers a menu con-
sisting of fruit- and milk-based tea drinks 
ranging from $4-6.
Naga Tea has a flagship store in Tampa 
and a second one in Jacksonville, Yang said. 
Due to its popularity among college-aged 
customers, the tea stop decided to open a 
location in Gainesville, Yang said. 
The store is offering 20 percent off all 
drinks until Thursday, Yang said. When the 
promotion ends, the cafe will hold a “buy-
one-get-one tea” for three days starting 
Thursday.
“We use traditional Taiwanese tech-
niques and fresh fruit for our teas,” Yang 
said. “It’s what sets us apart from the other 
places around here.” 
PokéBowl Station 
UF biology freshman Parmida Shojaee 
found it refreshing to eat fish that did not 
leave her ill with regret.
“I’ve been to poke places that had bad 
fish, and it was a traumatizing experience,” 
the 19-year-old said. 
On Jan. 7, PokéBowl Station opened its 
first Florida location at 1800 W. University Ave., said Tony Chen, the restaurant’s man-
ager.
With three locations in New York, the 
company thought cold poke bowls, a rice-
based dish with raw fish and vegetables, 
would be ideal in a warmer, southern cli-
mate, the 28-year-old said. 
Poke bowls are priced from $10-14, Chen 
said. Teas are priced at $4-6.
“It’s kind of like a salad bar,” he said. 
“We have a lot to offer, and I hope the stu-
dents like it.”
Hooters 
Hooters will be making a comeback in 
Gainesville in March. 
The restaurant will be taking over Square 
1’s previous spot at 3105 SW 34th St., ac-
cording to the Florida Department of Busi-
ness and Professional Regulation records. 
They have already applied for permits for 
interior redesign and signs.
Hooters was previously located at 3265 
SW 34th St. in 2011 and closed due to unmet 
licensing agreements. 
Al Mayor, a 21-year-old UF psychology 
senior, said he won’t be eating at Hooters 
because he disagrees with the required uni-
forms and lack of respect toward the wait-
resses there.
“I don’t think it would have great suc-
cess with some of the student population,” 
he said. “I just want to eat and not have to 
stare at girls.”
Copper Monkey 
Nine months after reopening, the Cop-
per Monkey restaurant has closed a second 
time.
Its second location, at 3501 SW Second 
Ave., displayed signs on the doors saying 
the location was “closed temporarily for re-
organization.” 
The business ran for 37 years before tak-
ing a break in 2017, and it reopened last 
April. Owners Rob and Ashlea Zeller could 
not be reached for comment.
@JoFuller24
jfuller@alligator.orgWhat’s happening with 
Gainesville restaurantsProduction will cost $10,000. 
Restaurant Roundup
THE CONSTITUTIONAL 
REVISION COMMISSION IS 
REVIVED EVERY 10 YEARS. 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Holes in the UF Student Body constitution 
were discovered at the first Senate Judiciary 
Committee meeting of 2019. Every decade, a 
commission meets to fill them. 
Judiciary Committee
A piece of legislation to determine the future 
of online voting was declared unconstitutional 
at a Student Government Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee meeting. 
On Sunday, SG Judiciary Committee mem-
ber Branden Pearson (Impact, Jennings) re-
iterated a Dec. 21, 2006 SG Supreme Court 
decision, which declared online voting uncon-
stitutional because of the invasion of privacy 
upon students and possible coercive tactics.
The topic was brought up again in 2017 
when it was an amendment on the Spring SG 
election ballot. Twenty-seven percent of stu-
dents voted in favor of online voting and 12 per-
cent voted against it. Because abstained votes 
count as “nays,” online voting failed to pass. 
Pearson also cited a SG Supreme Court rul-
ing from June 25, 2016, that counts the absence 
of a vote on a student ballot — called an absten-
tion — as a vote for no.
“While I personally support online voting, 
this committee is responsible for determin-
ing constitutionality of code revisions and, in 
this case, this directly contradicts the Supreme 
Court decision that states online voting is un-
constitutional,” Pearson said.
Pearson said the only way online voting will 
be brought to UF is through a constitutional re-
vision. Because of the Constitutional Revision 
Commission’s work this upcoming year, online 
voting could be added in 2020. 
Online voting was on the Inspire Party’s Fall 
platform. 
William Zelin (Inspire, District D), who was 
a co-author of the online voting revision, said it 
was not unconstitutional because it established 
a framework for the hopeful addition of online voting to the constitution. 
The Senate Judiciary Committee, which has 
eight members, seven of whom are in the Im-
pact Party, reviewed four proposals that were 
co-authored by Inspire Party senators. 
The committee also passed legislation to of-
ficially update the language for the existence 
of off-campus senators in the Constitution and 
eventually change the SG elections schedule to 
conduct the general election two weeks before 
Spring Break.
“How long have we gone with this consti-
tutional language? How long have we had for 
problems to arise in the meantime?” said Al-
fredo Ortiz, a 19-year-old UF philosophy fresh-
man and co-author of two of the Inspire Party’s 
proposals. 
Constitutional Revision Commission
The last time the Student Body constitution 
was updated was in 2010. The SG Constitution-
al Revision Commission is bringing in a fresh 
set of eyes to the document. 
This commission is revived every 10 years, 
according to the Student Body constitution. 
Student Body President Ian Green appointed 
Danielle Grosse to be the chairperson for the 
20-person commission. The SG Senate presi-
dent, Chief Justice and Supervisor of Elections 
will appoint the remaining members to the 
commission.
Grosse, a 21-year-old UF industrial and sys-
tems engineering senior, has served in SG since 
the Summer after her freshman year when she 
was a replacement senator for Murphree Area.
Following that, she served as a District 
A Senator, Information and Communication 
chairperson and SG Senate president. She will 
also serve as the Florida SG Institute chairper-
son to help plan the upcoming conference for 
SG members in Florida, Grosse said. 
Grosse said she is waiting on the rest of the 
appointments to be made to start creating a 
timeline. Commission meetings will be public.
“Anything that’s in the constitution will ul-
timately affect the entire student body,” Grosse 
said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgFirst Senate Judiciary meeting 
rejects online voting BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-24-19-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-109-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-24-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-24-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-24-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                4-24-43-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                    4-24-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-4-19-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who re -
sponds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or 
investing money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 9 Bicycles 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-24-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-24-19-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-19-109-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
1-30-19-63-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-24-19-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-24-
19-43-15
Trust your New Hampshire commercial, 
residential, multi-family rental property's to a 
company looking out for the owner. Rent col -
lection, tenant screening, maintenance, bug 
removal. Cannon Real Estate Company Inc. 
603-668-6200 All of NH and Northern Mass.        
2-13-19-15-15
16 Health Services
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    2-1-19-20-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Part-time office help wanted for CPA office. 
Must be organized, able to use a scanner, 
and have great phone skills. Proficiency in 
Word and Excel is must, and Quickbooks 
knowledge is a plus. If this sounds great, 
please email us at job2018@cpa.vg    1-25-
19-7-14
★★★★★ Five Star Pizza ★★★★★
on Tower Road is now hiring Delivery 
Drivers, Pizza Makers and Phone Personnel. 
Full Time and Part Time positions available. 
Apply in person at 600 NW 75th St.    1-18-
19-5-14
Biologist Wanted for Part-Time Employment: 
Run a 3D Digital PCR
Biologist with extensive digital PCR experi -
ence wanted. Envision one to two days a 
week running non-diagnostic blood samples 
for local non-profit research organization. 
Co-authorship on papers possible. Contact 
jclement@betterhumans.org      1-23-19-5-
14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
AUTISM.
We are planning to enroll children
with autism in a learning program
designed by MD 
Call 352 275 8171
2-18-15-16New Acupuncture Patients Welcome
Interested in experiencing the physical, men -
tal and emotional benefits of Acupuncture?  
Clinic Intern, in final school year of Masters 
Program, accepting new patients starting Jan 
2019.  Appointments will take place at the 
school's clinic in downtown, Gainesville, FL.  
Appointment times:  Monday mornings and 
Tuesday afternoons. Cost:  1st appointment 
$45 and follow up appointments $35 Serious 
inquiries only: 302colette@gmail.com      1-18-
19-3-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get 13000 cable TV channels of streaming 
videos. $49.95 / mo. Be a customer or make 
money with our lucribive comp plan. Biz opp 
website www.myoptimumcable.com. Call Dixie 
214-735-3727    2-11-19-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-109-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By C.C. Burnikel
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/14/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/14/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, January 14, 2019
ACROSS
1 Parks who 
wouldn’t give up 
her bus seat
5 Jewel box item
10 Colored eye part
14 Cartel acronym
15 Prizefight venue
16 Brit’s “Later!”
17 Version to debug
18 Recall ability
20 Blew like Etna
22 Black as night, 
e.g.
23 Well-groomed 
guy
26 __ XING: 
crosswalk sign
27 Noteworthy 
period
28 Removes, as a 
cork
30 Nowhere close
33 Places to swim
36 Geek’s cousin
37 Fodder storage 
site
38 Hauls with effort
40 Japanese warrior
42 “Right back __!”: 
“Me, too!”
43 Flashy promotion
45 Turn topsy-turvy
46 Water-testing 
digit
47 “__ With the 
Wind”
48 Map app path: 
Abbr.
49 Cantina 
condiment
51 One making 
a living in 
government, 
briefly
56 Small piano
59 Motivate
60 Knockout drink, 
in old gangster 
movies
63 Puma rival
64 Australian gem
65 So last year
66 Cafeteria staffer
67 Heredity carrier
68 “Some __ time”: 
“Not now”
69 RR stops: Abbr.
DOWN
1 Dressed like a 
judge
2 Mozart work
3 Arrange in 
advance
4 Like singing sans 
instruments5 GoPro product
6 “Judge __”: 
Stallone film
7 Sleep acronym
8 Lennon’s love
9 Red planet
10 “Who’s there?” 
reply
11 In quick 
succession
12 Emphatic type: 
Abbr.
13 Fit to be tried
19 Puppy’s barks
21 Succinct
24 Orangutan, e.g.
25 Swedes’ 
neighbors
29 Kissing at the 
mall, for short
31 Actor Cumming
32 __ rage: 
bodybuilder’s 
concern
33 H.S. junior’s 
exam
34 Numerical prefix 
with -pus
35 Self-affirming 
retort
36 “Bye Bye Bye” 
band
37 Large political 
spending gps.
39 Rice noodle 
soup41 Trumpet 
mufflers
44 Veggie in a pod
47 Sheer joy
48 Jeremy of “The 
Avengers”
50 Often-twisted 
joint
52 Washer cycle
53 Whirl on one foot
54 Hunter 
constellation
55 Plumbers’ 
problems56 Air quality 
concern
57 Frosty’s corncob 
accessory
58 Autocorrect target
61 Budgetary 
excess
62 “Give or take” 
suffix ... that 
can be added to 
the end of 18-, 
23-, 51- and 
60-Across to form 
a sort of set
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/12/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/12/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, January 12, 2019
ACROSS
1 Likelihood of 
success
10 __ change
15 Ritz offering
16 Award, say
17 Confides in
18 Invest, as with a 
quality
19 Word reportedly 
coined in Seuss’ 
“If I Ran the Zoo”
20 Glimpse
21 Ideal places
22 Puts on the right 
track
24 Trade talk 
subjects
26 Qtr. components
27 1991 political 
thriller with 
eight Oscar 
nominations
28 It may be flat
29 Latin 101 word
31 Sensitive 
subjects
34 It doesn’t 
require a long 
answer
36 One may 
include three 
kings
37 Official records
38 Chinese zodiac 
critter
39 Hit in a box
40 Cartoonist 
Browne
41 Flies
44 Party store 
stock
48 British bishop’s 
topper
49 Hustles
51 Essence
52 Conservatory 
exercise
53 Strength, in a 
“1984” slogan
55 Gas that 
glows when 
condensed
56 Connected on 
LinkedIn, say
57 Clairvoyants
58 Family guysDOWN
1 Player of 
singles
2 Rodeo 
competitor
3 “Scary Movie” 
actress Cheri
4 Correspond, in 
a way
5 TY may follow  
it
6 Goes off
7 Manages
8 Lug
9 Like many 
American 
workplaces
10 Pet store  
sound
11 1953 John 
Wayne film
12 In the way
13 The Italians  
call it 
Mongibello
14 Pushes (for)
23 Top-__
25 Classic sports 
cars
27 Tilter’s milieu29 Eau de vie 
counterpart
30 Legion
31 Suppressing
32 Soil
33 Magician’s 
directive
35 Asian beef 
source
36 Constitution 
bigwigs
40 Repudiate42 Passion
43 Some Gen 
Z-ers
44 Prefix with gram
45 Maker of the 
Mighty Dump
46 Curving
47 Cluster of 
sunflowers
50 Disney CEO 
since 2005
54 Angling need
1.  Uprising
1.  Money back5.  Model wood
2.  Electrical measure6.  ____ investigator 
3.  Go-between 7.  ____ court
4.  GratitudeOLRTVE
AEEBRTSAABL
SNARO
GVOELAT
IAONSILSITNEN
HNSTKAANSWERS: 1A-Revolt  5A-Balsa  6A-Arson  7A-Tennis
1D-Rebate  2D-Voltage  3D-Liaison  4D-Thanks  B-Bavaria1-14-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is Germany’s second-
most-populous state. 
BONUS1. Which teams hold the major-
league record for most hits in a 
nine-inning game?
2. When was the last time before 
2017 that the Houston Astros won a 
division championship?
3. Dallas’ Dak Prescott set a rookie 
NFL record in 2016 for highest com-
pletion rate (67.8 percent). Who had 
held the rookie mark?
4. Which original member of the 
ACC has never won the conference’s 
men’s basketball tournament?
5. John Bucyk (545 goals) and Phil 
Esposito are the top career goal scor -
ers in Boston Bruins history. Who is 
No. 3?
6. Which is the only host country to 
be eliminated from the Group Stage in 
men’s World Cup soccer history? 
7. When was the last time before 
2017 that Maryland won the NCAA 
men’s lacrosse championship?
Answers
1. The 1901 New York Giants and 
the 1992 Milwaukee Brewers, with 31 
hits each.
2. The Astros won the N.L. Central 
in 2001.
3. Pittsburgh’s Ben Roethlisberger, 
who had a 66.4 percent completion 
rate in 2004.
4. Clemson.
5. Rick Middleton, with 402 goals.
6. South Africa, in 2010.
7. It was 1975.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 14, 2019King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFlorida cornerback Marco Wilson 
posted a video on his Instagram 
story of him running on the sidelines 
of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. He tore 
his ACL on Sept. 8 against Kentucky.Two Gators sports start back up Friday
The women’s tennis team begins spring play at the UNLV Freeman Memorial 
in Las Vegas, while the track and field teams compete at both the Clemson 
Invitational and Hokie Invitational (Virgina T ech). Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
on the uneven bars and a 9.900 on her floor 
routine.
There were other freshmen, though, who 
raised some concern. Savannah Schoenherr 
stumbled significantly on her landing dur-
ing her vault routine, and she received a 
9.450 in response. There wasn’t a score in 
any other event the entire night that dipped 
below a 9.725.
While four other Gators gymnasts land-
ing below the 9.8 mark on vault didn’t help 
their score, Schoenherr’s 9.450 and other 
disappoining scores allowed Missouri to 
hold the lead after one rotation Friday night.
The other freshmen performances 
showed they still need some work. While 
Nya Reed’s stellar floor routine matched 
senior Alicia Boren’s for a night-best 9.925, 
freshman Sydney Johnson-Scharpf was an 
obvious outlier in that same event with a 
9.750. 
 
Baumann’s Return
Sophomore Alyssa Baumann, who has 
earned two All-America honors and an All-
SEC nod among other accolades last season, was out of the lineup for the season opener 
after she reportedly fell off the uneven bars 
in practice. According to coach Jenny Row-
land, her absence led to some last-minute 
lineup changes before the meet.
“It changed (the lineup) on two or three 
events, for sure,” Rowland said. “It gave an 
opportunity for some new freshmen to step 
up and step in, and they gained a lot of great 
experience tonight.”
After the meet, Rowland explained that 
Baumann’s sternum is sore, but her admit-
tance to Shands Hospital was merely pre-
cautionary and her absence could be short 
lived. 
“Everything is clear,” Rowland said after 
the meet. “You saw her tonight, she’s mov-
ing around… it’s really gonna be a little bit 
of time before she’s back in no time. I know 
she’s itching to get back in the lineups.”
The Gators showed the team’s depth on 
Friday with their victory over Mizzou, and 
should Baumann return to rotations sooner 
than later, she will greatly help a team that 
is already succeeding.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 1Reed, Boren each scored meet-high 9.925 on floor routine
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Alicia Boren led the way for the Gators during their season-opening win 
against Missouri, winning the all-around with a score of 39.575.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Florida basketball coach Mike White had 
a rough week.
His team blew a double-digit second-half 
lead against South Carolina on Jan. 5 before 
nearly doing it again at Arkansas. The Gators 
bounced back offensively early against No. 
3 Tennessee on Saturday, but disastrous 
shooting in the second half dropped them 
below .500 in conference play.
White looked utterly defeated at his press 
conference following the game.
What ultimately doomed the team 
against Tennessee wasn’t poor scheming 
or scouting. It wasn’t lack of preparation or 
defensive adjustments from the Volunteers. 
White was critical of the effort he saw from 
his team, especially in the rebounding de-
partment. He said there needs to be a five-
man effort on the boards.
“Sometimes we’ve got guards just watch-
ing the fight,” he said. “If you don’t have 
five in the fight, you’re not going to come up 
with a really big win.”
Florida struggled to secure defensive 
rebounds, allowing Tennessee to recover three offensive boards in a single possession 
in the second half.
White also lamented Florida’s lack of of-
fensive aggressiveness. The Gators showed 
intensity in the first half before things 
slowed down in the second. Without an of-
fensively imposing big man, Florida tends 
to resort to jump shooting. White said he 
would like to see the team perform better 
in the paint.
“We’ve got to make layups,” he said. 
“Even when we get fouled at the rim. Good 
teams finish at the rim through contact.”
Florida’s offensive problems were exacer-
bated by the fact that it couldn’t buy a shot 
in the second half. UF only shot 28 percent 
in the final 20 minutes, and for a team that 
doesn’t have much offensive variability, 
that wasn’t enough. White was visibly frus-
trated with Florida’s failure to find the bot-
tom of the net. The Gators have struggled to 
get consistent open looks all year, but they 
did against Tennessee. Failing to capitalize 
on those opportunities cost UF dearly.
“We did a pretty good job executing, got 
some good looks,” White said. “We didn’t 
make enough of them.”White searching for answers as 
Florida falls to 1-2 in the SECThe Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
Now might be a good time 
to pose the question.
Has all hope been lost for 
the Gators men’s basketball 
team’s season?
Maybe, maybe not. It de-
pends on who you ask. 
Ask coach Mike White, and 
he’ll likely dismiss the notion. 
No coach or player would 
ever admit it — nor should they — if 
their season is virtually over.
Bring up that same question to a dis-
gruntled member of the Florida faithful, 
and they’ll spew some lines from their 
dissertation of expert analysis on this 
season’s woes. “Throw the season away, 
and throw Mike White away with it!!!” 
they’ll probably say. 
Going as far as calling for the firing 
of a coach with a 69-37 record and two 
consecutive NCAA Tournament appear-
ances is an extreme reach. But wonder-
ing what UF’s men’s basketball team is 
even playing for at this point most defi-
nitely is not.
Florida had a handful of dismal per-
formances early in the season during non-conference play.
OK, fine. It’s early, and 
there’s still time to fix those 
mistakes. No need to panic. 
The Gators did play one of 
the toughest non-conference 
schedules of any SEC team.
But opening league play by 
blowing a 14-point lead to 7-7 
South Carolina? Nearly losing 
to Arkansas in the same way? 
Then, in a game in which almost ev-
eryone counted it out against No. 3 Ten-
nessee, Florida stayed within reach of 
the upset until the last minutes and just 
unraveled when it counted. 
The Gators’ poured a lot of energy 
into that game. And they were at their 
best when they found ways to execute 
on top of all that energy. Then, in the 
second half, when they couldn’t sustain 
that same toughness, they were inef-
ficient and eventually fell apart. That’s 
what’s hurt them this season.
Florida has too many variables work-
ing against each other, too many aspects 
of the team’s game that it can’t figure Gators need to play with more 
purpose to salvage the season
Alanis Thames
Twitter: @alanisthames
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE MEN’S BASKETBALL,  PAGE  16MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
Delicia Washington had the ball in her 
hands with 15 seconds left and the game tied 
at 56. She calmly dribbled to the top of the key 
with the crowd buzzing over Florida’s late run 
and sized up Missouri guard Amber Smith. 
A hesitation move and a dash to her right 
allowed her to blow by the defender. She 
reached the rim and leaped as three Missouri 
Tigers jumped along with her to try and swat 
the ball away. She double-clutched and banked 
the shot off the glass and in with 2.2 seconds 
left to give Florida its first lead since 8:14 in the 
first quarter.
The crowd at the O’Connell Center explod-
ed as soon as the ball fell through the netting, 
while Washington turned from cool and calm 
to wildly jumping and pumping her fists into 
the air. 
“Anybody could have been in that spot,” 
Washington said after the game. “I believe any 
one of my teammates could have been able to 
finish that layup with that many seconds on 
the clock. …But I guess it was just my turn to 
step up to get to the rim and put that score on 
that board.”
Florida’s 10-0 run in the final 2:47 minutes 
of play propelled the Gators past Missouri for 
the first time in program history. The 58-56 vic-
tory on Sunday also marked the first SEC win 
of the season and fifth win at home. 
It seemed like it wouldn’t happen early on. 
Florida (5-12, 1-3 SEC) had trouble get-
ting anything going in the first half. It seemed 
whenever the Gators got any momentum, Mis-
souri (14-4, 3-1 SEC) immediately stole it back. In the second quarter, Washington darted 
past her defender and dished it to Zada Wil-
liams for an easy layup to draw within two 
points. With the crowd still cheering from 
the play, Missouri guard Haley Troup made a 
three-pointer that spawned a 7-0 run to deflate UF’s momentum. 
The Gators’ full-court press, which tempo-
rarily hindered the Tigers’ offense, began to 
break down at the end of the half as Missouri 
made five of its last six shots and went into 
halftime with a nine-point lead.The Tigers began the third quarter making 
three of their first four three-pointers and, at 
one point, led by as many as 14 points. But 
guard Danielle Rainey’s career day from be-
yond the arc kept the Gators in the game. 
“My teammates made the screens and a lot 
of extra passes,” Rainey said. “Without those 
little things, I wouldn’t have had (this perfor-
mance).”
The redshirt sophomore finished with a ca-
reer-high 16 points off five three-pointers, and 
her teammates began to follow suit. 
UF became much more aggressive in the 
fourth quarter, turning turnovers at one end 
into points at the other. With 1:29 left in the 
contest, guard Ariel Johnson made a clutch 
steal and launched a full-court pass to Wash-
ington for the easy layup to make it a two-point 
game. Then, guard Kiara Smith drew a foul on 
the next possession and made both free throws 
to tie the game at 56. 
Washington followed her layup to take the 
lead with a diving steal on Missouri’s inbound 
pass as time expired. 
When the clock hit zeroes, the Florida play-
ers celebrated with each other at center court 
to cap off their team win. Four Gators finished 
with 10 or more points and outrebounded the 
Tigers 32-30 to cap off a victory that will pro-
vide some much-needed confidence.
“We’ve had some tough losses,” Williams 
said, “but playing hard and fighting until the 
very end is going to help propel us for the 
games in the future.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgWashington’s game-winner nets first win against Mizzou
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Victor Prieto
Sports Writer
 
The UF women’s tennis team enters 
the 2019 spring season with unfinished 
business after being knocked out by 
Florida State in the 2018 NCAA Tourna-
ment last season. 
It was a campaign in which four se-
niors led the way while true freshmen 
Victoria Emma, McCartney Kessler and 
Katie Kubicz provided strong play as 
first-year starters. But heartbreaking 
losses in the NCAA and SEC Tourna-
ments against FSU and Vanderbilt, re-
spectively, ended the season on a nega-
tive note.
Florida enters the 2019 spring season 
ranked No. 11 in the Oracle/ITA Divi-
sion I Preseason Rankings and hopes 
to return to national prominence under 
head coach Roland Thornqvist. Howev-
er, a tough task lies ahead for the vet-
eran coach with just one upperclassman 
on the roster this season. Junior transfer 
Tsveta Dimitrova stands as the lone up-
perclassman for the Gators, yet it’s her 
first season in Gainesville after arriving 
from the University of Houston.
Though Florida lacks a veteran pres-
ence with the loss of Brooke Austin, 
Anna Danilina, Josie Kuhlman and 
Peggy Porter, it reloads the roster with 
three incoming freshmen in Sydney Ber-
lin, Anastasia Kharitonova and Marlee 
Zein. 
Georgia Tech sophomore transfer Ida Jarlskog also joined the Florida lineup.
Zein has already proven she can com-
pete after securing a third-place finish at 
the Seminole All-Conference Showdown 
to close out the fall season, while Jarl-
skog held her own last season with the 
Jackets holding a 28-8 singles record.
Jarlskog finished her first fall stint at 
Florida with an 11-3 record.
Thornqvist will look to his quartet 
of young sophomores to lead the team 
with McCartney Kessler at its center. 
After finishing with First-Team All-SEC 
Honors as a freshman along with a 20-8 
overall singles record, Thornqvist hopes 
Kessler can be a more vocal leader for 
the young team.
“She has the unique ability to make 
friends with everybody on the team,” 
Thornqvist said in a video posted to the 
team’s Twitter account. “She’s a great 
asset in the locker room in that she can 
reach everyone.”
Kessler closed out her fall season 
competing in doubles with fellow soph-
omore Victoria Emma, losing in the 
consolation round of the Oracle ITA 
National Fall Championships. The two 
finished with a 6-2 record in the 2018 
fall campaign.
The Gators are ready for the 2019 
spring season when they take on UNLV 
in Las Vegas, Nevada, in the Freeman 
Memorial Championships this weekend.
@victorprieto_11 
vprieto@alligator.org.Young Gators squad ready for statement spring campaignChristopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Delicia Washington’s game-winning layup helped the Gators beat 
Missouri 58-56, their first win against the Tigers in program history.
Alligator File Photo
Florida coach Roland Thornqvist and the Gators are ranked No. 11 heading into the spring 
despite being mostly composed of freshmen and sophomores.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2019
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday, 
Jan. 21 due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
DISPLAY: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463
In Honor Of The 
Man And His Dream
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertisingThe DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 23 is 
Friday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m.Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
White was quick to bring up negatives from the game. 
When asked if he had any positive takeaways, however, he 
had to stop for several seconds to think. 
It’s been that kind of week.
The team fared better defensively, but still found itself 
out of position on key shots down the stretch. 
“We allowed a couple open ones in the last 10 minutes 
of the game off of lack of rotations, lack of communica-
tion,” White said.
UF gave up 18 points to UT star forward Grant Williams. 
It might have been worse for Florida if it didn’t use a zone 
defense. White said Williams could have scored 60 points if 
the Gators had played man-to-man.
“We might have all fouled out, including me,” he said.
Florida travels to Starkville, Mississippi, on Tuesday 
night to take on Mississippi State. The 12-3 Bulldogs have 
lost two straight to begin SEC play. A loss in that game 
could send UF into a downward spiral.
It certainly isn’t panic time for Florida. The Gators have 
several good losses and have plenty more opportunities to 
prove themselves in an uncharacteristically deep SEC. 
White is worried about his team, though. That much is 
clear. Based on his comments Saturday night, it’s nothing 
new.
“I was concerned after game one,” White said.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgMEN’S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14UT forward Grant Williams scored 18 points on Saturday
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White said Volunteers forward Grant Williams could have scored 60 points against the Gators on 
Saturday if they had played man-to-man. “We might have all fouled out, including me, ” he said.
out how to make coexist.
Intensity and execution can’t be mutu-
ally exclusive. Inconsistency and undisci-
plined play are not options at this point.  
“I don’t enjoy saying the same thing 
every day,” White said on Saturday. “ … 
Fouling jump-shooters? Are you kidding 
me? We’re in the middle of January and we’re fouling jump-shooters?  Guards re-
bounding down to help our bigs … We 
caught a couple plays there in the second 
half where we needed big plays, and we 
got one guy going the wrong direction. It’s 
gotta be more important to us.”
White has repeatedly confessed that his 
team hasn’t been good enough, or poised 
enough, to close out games.
“This can’t be a moral victory. We’re 
the University of Florida,” he said after the Gators’ loss to the Volunteers, “and we did 
not do our jobs down the stretch.”
But there’s only so much the coach can 
do. He can’t teach effort. He can’t teach ag-
gressiveness. And he doesn’t suit up come 
game time. That’s all up to the ﬁ  ve guys 
on the court.
Is all hope for the season lost? No, it 
isn’t. 
The Gators can still string together some 
quality wins at Tennessee, Mississippi State and against Kentucky. 
But they have to ﬁ  gure out what they’re 
playing for and actually go play for it. And 
they’ve got to do it quickly. 
Alanis Thames is the Online Sports Edi-
tor of the Alligator. Follow her on Twitter @
alanisthames and contact her at athames@
alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg 14White: ‘This can’t be a moral victory. W e’re the University of Florida.’