We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperClass on paranormal oﬀ  ered in Spring
The three credit class will cover ghosts, ghouls and more, pg 4
Changes coming to RecSports for non-students
The rule to start in Spring will place limits on who can play, pg 5Gators key players back v. UGA
Florida is ﬁ  nally getting healthy ahead of po-
tential division-deciding Georgia game, pg 10
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019 VOLUME 114 ISSUE 29
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaper
PRIDE
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
One person died after a tanker 
truck carrying 6,800 gallons of fuel 
crashed and burst into ﬂ  ames early 
Sunday morning.
Just before 2 a.m., the truck 
was northbound on the 2000 block 
of Northwest 43rd Street when it 
made a U-turn and crashed into a 
car, according to a Gainesville Fire 
Rescue press release. 
Law enforcement did not re-
lease the name of the person who 
died or the type of car involved.
The crash left Northwest 43rd 
Street, from Northwest 23rd Ave-
nue and Northwest 16th Boulevard 
to Northwest 18th Place, closed 
while crews cleaned up. The roads 
were still closed as of Sunday af-
ternoon, but Northwest 43rd was 
open, except for its northbound curbed lane that needed repairing.
Gainesville Fire Rescue, 
Gainesville Regional Utilities, Ala-
chua County Fire Rescue and Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce were 
at the scene and extinguished the 
ﬁ  re. The crash ruptured two of the 
ﬁ  ve fuel compartments that caused 
a ﬁ  re to soar hundreds of feet in the 
air, according to the release.
“The call was very challenging 
and required power and public 
safety crews to work quickly and 
in coordination to mitigate the haz-
ard,” the GFR incident commander, 
Assistant Chief Joseph Hillhouse, 
wrote in the release.
Ofﬁ  cials were able to control 
the runoff from the ﬁ  re to prevent 
contamination to local waterways, 
according to the release.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgOne dead after Sunday 
morning tanker truck crash 
THE CRASH LEFT MULTIPLE ROADS
 CLOSED FOR HOURS
Allison Veliz / Alligator Staff
Jackie Korpela, otherwise known as Haley’s Vomit, a member of the roller derby team Gainesville 
Roller Rebels, skates Saturday in the Gainesville Pride Parade that marched down University 
Avenue, ending at Bo Diddley Plaza. Read the story on page 8.
UF engineering team wins $2 million but might not keep prize money 
2018 POLICY CHANGE GIVES UF 
POSSESSION OF PRIZE MONEY
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF engineering team won $2 million as 
a contest prize last week, but won’t know 
until December if it will receive the money 
or if UF will keep it.  
GatorWings, UF’s electrical and computer 
engineering team, competed at the Spectrum 
Collaboration Challenge for the third time on 
Wednesday and won ﬁ  rst place. The compe-
tition was hosted by the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency, which develops 
technology for national security.In September 2018, UF changed its prac-
tice regarding prize money from allowing 
faculty and students to keep it to having the 
university take it instead. Two months later, 
GatorWings won $750,000 for a preliminary 
event that was part of the Spectrum Collabo-
ration Challenge. UF kept the $750,000.
The Defense Advanced Research Projects 
Agency still hasn’t released the $2 million, 
said Eric Lindstrom, an attorney with the 
United Faculty of Florida, which represents 
the faculty and graduate assistants at UF and 
other public universities. 
The team was threatened with disciplin-
ary or legal action if it did not give the money 
to the university, Lindstrom said. 
As of Sunday night, UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando could not provide details on the prize money policy but conﬁ  rmed that 
it exists. 
John Shea, an electrical and computer en-
gineering professor who participated in the 
event, said a university administrator told 
him on Thursday the prize money would go 
to the university. Typically, the professors 
would decide how to split the prize money 
among team members. 
“It’s just really disappointing because our 
students and ourselves have worked really 
hard,” Shea said. “DARPA told us that the 
money goes to the team.”
In response, UF’s faculty union ﬁ  led an 
Unfair Labor Practice charge for changing 
established practice without bargaining with 
the faculty’s union. The union is asking for 
the university to rescind the change in policy and to return the prize money.
Lindstrom said it is a violation of a state 
statute known as the Public Employees Re-
lations Act for UF to change policy without 
ﬁ  rst notifying the faculty union. The univer-
sity has to notify employees of a change in 
policy and bargain to work out a new policy 
before it is changed, Lindstrom said. Shea 
said UF did not do this. 
The Public Employees Relations Com-
mission, which hears cases ﬁ  led under the 
Public Employees Relations Act, has a hear-
ing for the ﬁ  rst of two Unfair Labor Practice 
charges scheduled for Dec. 4, but the team 
hopes to have the cases consolidated so they 
can be heard together, Lindstrom said.
SEE ENGINEERING,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 
SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be 
placed at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, except for holidays. 
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved. No 
portion of The Alligator may be reproduced in 
any means without the written consent of an 
ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator is published Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday mornings, except 
during holidays and exam periods. During 
UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the alligator’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  72°2  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
    Got something going on? Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to tmaner@alligator.org. T o request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Zora Viel, opinions@alligator.org
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Ghouls Night Out! Halloween 
Dance and Costume Party 
When: Thursday, 8 p.m. to 2 
a.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 
Second Ave.
What: Hosted by Lady Grinning 
Soul, the High Dive is hosting 
a Halloween costume party and 
costume contest. The contest will 
have three prizes: first prize wins 
$100, second prize gets their bar 
tab covered and third prize will 
win two free tickets to any High 
Dive show. Tickets are available 
online at the Hear Again Records 
website with a $1 fee and at the 
High Dive box office with no fee. 
Prices are $5 in advance and $7 
the day of the show for those 21 
or older. All guests under 21 will 
have a $3 additional charge. 
UF Libraries Fall Festival
When: Thursday, 10 a.m. to 2
p.m.Where: Reitz Union North Lawn
What: The UF Libraries are 
bringing the best of what they 
have to offer to the Reitz Lawn. 
There will be free T-shirts, 
snacks and games. Join them 
for demonstrations of resources, 
crafts, therapy dogs, music and 
the opportunity to learn more 
about how the libraries can help 
you succeed at UF. For more 
information, contact Barbara 
Hood at bhood@ufl.edu.
Día de Los Muertos
When: Nov. 1, 8 p.m. to 
midnight
Where: Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom
What: Join the Mexican 
American Student Association, 
UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs and 
GatorNights for the Day of The 
Dead Festival. The festival will 
have stations for craft making, 
face painting, live performances, 
great food and more. They will 
be celebrating the living and 
dead, celebrating their lives and legacies and honoring them 
on an altar to remember loved 
ones. If you’d like to bring a 
photograph of a loved one, feel 
free to bring one or email the 
picture to: bquinones@ufsa.ufl.
edu in order to have it printed.
Chris Kattan & Friends at High 
Dive 
When: Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: High Dive, 210 SW 2nd 
Ave.
What: The Saturday Night Live 
veteran, stand up comic, actor 
and author comes to Gainesville 
for the first time for an 
unforgettable night at High Dive. 
Tickets are available online at 
Hear Again Records with a $1 fee 
and at the High Dive box office 
with no fee. General admission 
seating is $25 in advance and 
$28 the day of the show.
SGP Presents: Quinn XCII ft. 
Hippie Sabotage
When: Nov.15, 7 p.m.
Where: Flavet Field
What: Student Government 
Productions announced the 
Fall concert will have headliner 
Quinn XCII and an opening 
performance by Hippie Sabotage. 
This concert is free and open to 
the public. No ticket is required 
and gates will open at 6 p.m. VOLUME 114 ISSUE 29
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Engagement Managing EditorEditor
Digital Managing Editor
Opinions Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales Representatives
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Editorial Production Staff Dana MeyersADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGengagement@alligator.org
Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Alejandro D'Agostino, Marc Fiol,
Emily Perpich, Bismarie PlasenciaPhotographersCopy Desk Chiefs
Caroline KeefeMeagan DiPolo , mdipolo@alligator.org
Samantha HarrisonEllen Bausback, evausback@alligator.orgNick Hudson, nhudson@alligator.orgSam Thomas, sthomas@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, Zora VielTyler Nettuno, tnettuno@alligator.org
Mari Faiello, mfaiello@alligator.org
Amanda Rosa,  Tranelle Maner, April Rubin, arubin@alligator.orgAshley Lazarski, alazarski@alligator.orgKelly Hayes, digital@alligator.orgTranelle Maner,Amanda Rosa, editor@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Chasity Maynard, cmaynard@alligator.org
Aleesha Qureshi, Isabella Nino
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   3 
NOW OPEN COME IN AND LEARN MORE318 NW 13TH ST, GAINESVILLE
Must have a Medical Marijuana Use Registry Identification Card to purchase Medical Marijuana.EXPERT ADVICE AND CANNABIS
PRODUCTS YOU CAN TRUSTPHARMACEUTICAL-QUALITY
CANNABIS
M002194  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
The team expects to get back 
all of its prize money after the 
hearing, Lindstrom said.
“It’s crazy for the university to 
come in to change the established 
practice without going through 
the required process and without 
letting anybody know in advance 
and just act like this money is 
theirs,” Lindstrom said.GatorWings, a team of two 
professors, three doctoral stu-
dents and one undergraduate 
student, won the competition for 
proposing a solution to the mis-
allocation of space on the radio 
spectrum, which is used in tele-
communication. 
Tan Wong, a UF professor of 
electrical and computer engineer-
ing, said the team won because of 
its strong professors and students. He said it is fair for students to be 
paid for their hard work.
“We have a team of very, very 
dedicated students,” Wong said. 
“We have to treat the students 
fairly.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgEVERY WEEKDAY, 
HUNDREDS OF STUDENTS 
EAT KRISHNA LUNCH
By Marlowe Starling 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Century Tower chimes a famil-
iar tune signaling noon. So do the 
rumbles produced by Lylia Jiang’s 
empty stomach. 
It’s Thursday, which means 
Krishna Lunch is serving lentils 
with Thai curry. Jiang, a 20-year-
old UF applied physiology and ki-
nesiology junior, said it’s her favor-
ite Krishna meal of the week. She 
meets with fellow members of Wa-
hines of the Waves, a UF girls water 
sports club, for a quick picnic.
However, when they go to throw 
out their plates and cups, they 
won’t contribute to landﬁ  ll waste. 
All of the materials — plates, forks, 
napkins and cups — are 100 per-
cent compostable. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely spreading a re-
ally good message,” Jiang said. 
“The fact that they are very con-scious about things like that makes 
people more attracted to coming to 
Krishna.”
This semester, Krishna began 
using BPI-certiﬁ  ed plastic Green-
ware cups, which are made from 
plants and decompose in the sun 
because the previously used paper 
compostable cups have been out of 
stock since the Summer, said Nan-
da Dasi, Krishna lunch manager.
Anywhere from 900 to 1,300 
students come to the Plaza of the 
Americas every weekday around 
noon for a $5 vegan or vegetarian 
meal, Dasi said. An average of 15 
UF-provided compost trash bags 
are ﬁ  lled after a Krishna lunch ses-
sion. 
Another change to Krishna ma-
terials came last Spring — new are-
ca palm leaf plates imported from 
India that are sturdier than the pre-
vious plates, which often got soggy 
and caved in, Dasi said.
“We feel like what we practice is 
universally beneﬁ  cial, so we don’t 
want to just keep it to ourselves,” 
Dasi said. Krishna lunch transitions to 
new compostable materials
ENGINEERING,  from pg. 1‘W e have to treat the students fairly.’By Tien Le
Alligator Staff Writer
They are known as “ghost pas-
sengers.”
After the 2011 Japanese tsuna-
mi, cab drivers reported picking up 
seemingly normal passengers who 
would disappear before getting to 
their destination. 
This paranormal instance is one 
of many that UF students will explore 
in Erin Prophet’s class, “Religion and 
the Paranormal,” which will be of-
fered for the ﬁ  rst time in the Spring. 
The class will look at different 
perspectives about paranormal expe-
riences, including ghosts, UFOs and 
hauntings, both historically and in 
modern-day society, said Prophet, a 
UF religion visiting assistant profes-
sor. The class will be three credit 
hours.
“This class can be helpful to help 
people contextualize their own ex-
periences,” she said. “Many people 
have had some type of unusual expe-
rience or know someone who has.”
There are two course codes for 
the class, REL2930 and REL3938, but 
both will meet at the same time. The 
3000-level course is being offered for 
students who need to fulﬁ  ll a writing 
requirement, Prophet said.
Students will read and compare 
paranormal accounts and look at the 
perspectives of historians, anthro-
pologists, sociologists and psycholo-
gists. Students will also read and 
discuss research done by Princeton 
University and Duke University and 
study government UFO and psychic-ability research programs.
“We will not be conducting sé-
ances,” Prophet said while laughing. 
Prophet said she has not experi-
enced any skepticism from the reli-
gion department about her paranor-
mal class. 
“It’s our job to look at the strange 
and unusual activity,” she said. 
As for students who might be 
skeptical, Prophet said to come with 
an open mind as college is the per-
fect time for students to expand their 
horizons. 
“You will not have any particular 
point of view pushed upon you,” she 
said. “I’m simply trying to expose 
people to the range of phenomena 
and explanations.”
Stevens Borowsky, a 34-year-old 
UF philosophy and religion senior, 
took Prophet’s class “Cults and New 
Religious Movements” last Spring. 
While he can’t take her upcoming 
class, he said students of all academ-
ic backgrounds should sign up. 
He said that studying religion and 
the paranormal teaches people about 
perspectives that differ from their 
own. 
“Regardless if you’re in business 
or economics or politics, at the most 
basic level, you’re operating around 
people’s beliefs relative to your 
own,” he said. “Things that seem 
completely psychotic to you might 
be normal to someone else.”
@tientle11
tle@alligator.orgClass on ghosts, ghouls
to be oﬀ  ered in Spring
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Kyerika Miles, 7, takes aim for a carnival shooting game Sunday night as her mother T okkarrian, 
father Keith and sister Kemani watch. The two sisters said their favorite part of the fair is the rides 
and the food.
‘RELIGION AND THE PARANORMAL ’ WILL BE TAUGHT 
FOR THE FIRST TIME
Sam Thomas / Alligator Staff 
Afsana Noor, 32, and her spouse Mahbubul Alam, a 34-year-old UF public health transfer student, ride 
the Scrambler, a spinning carnival ride Sunday night at the Greater Alachua County Fair. Noor said this 
was the couple’s ﬁ  rst time going to a fair in Gainesville, but it reminds her of the carnivals she went to in 
Bangladesh where the two are originally from.
Fall’s Fair in Love and WarMONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   5
$7,270$8,715
Associated Press
GREENVILLE, Texas (AP) — A gunman 
opened ﬁ  re at an off-campus college party in 
Texas, leaving two people dead and 12 oth-
ers injured before he escaped in the ensuing 
chaos, authorities said Sunday.
Authorities believe the shooter may have 
been targeting just one person at the party 
of about 750 people outside Greenville, 15 
miles southwest of a satellite campus of the 
Texas A&M University System, and that oth-
ers may have been shot at random, Hunt 
County Sheriff Randy Meeks said. Authori-
ties were still looking for the suspect, Meeks 
said, and had not yet identiﬁ  ed him.
The shooting took place around mid-
night Saturday at what Meeks described 
as a Halloween and homecoming party for Texas A&M University-Commerce, though 
ofﬁ  cials have said it was not a school-sanc-
tioned event. Authorities believe there was 
one male shooter who entered the venue 
through the back door and began ﬁ  ring with 
a handgun, Meeks said.
Meeks described “complete chaos” after 
the shots rang out, with hundreds of people 
ﬂ  eeing, including the gunman. Authorities 
initially said 14 people were injured, but 
they later revised that ﬁ  gure.
The two people killed were both males, 
Meeks said, but he did not know if they 
were A&M-Commerce students. He said 
he believed four or ﬁ  ve students may have 
been among those injured and estimated 
that most of the people at the party were 
in their late teens and early 20s. Some were 
wearing costumes, he said.Two dead, 12 injured in shooting 
at college party in TexasNEW RULE WILL START 
IN SPRING
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
A new rule is intended 
to even the playing ﬁ  eld 
between students and non-
students competing in Rec-
Sports. But some students 
don’t see the point.
The new rule, which was 
supposed to start this Fall 
semester, presents three op-
tions for teams in any sport 
with more than three non-
student members, meaning 
UF faculty, staff and alumni.
Teams can drop the num-
ber of non-students to three 
or fewer before the playoffs 
to comply. If enough teams 
have more than three non-
students, then a separate 
championship bracket will 
be made for them to com-
pete in, said Jonathan Bros-
ka, the UF associate director 
for sports programs. Teams 
that don’t meet the limit 
can’t take part in the play-
offs.
He said student teams are 
tired of losing to non-student 
teams.
In the past ﬁ  ve to 10 
years, about 50 percent of championships in major 
sports were won by teams 
dominated by non-students, 
while students, includ-
ing graduate students, ac-
counted for 95 percent of the 
population of the leagues, 
Broska said.
Broska said he doesn’t 
know how many teams the 
new rule will affect because 
participation of students and 
non-students ﬂ  uctuates each 
semester. Of the 10,700 par-
ticipants who play at least 
one intramural sport per 
year on average, about 500 
are non-students.
“You get the students 
coming up that lose to what 
they perceive is a bunch 
of adults playing against 
them,” he said. “And they 
say things like, ‘Why did we 
just lose 62-0 to a bunch of 
40-year-olds? This isn’t fun 
for me, why do I want to 
come back and play?’” 
The change was de-
layed because non-students 
purchased memberships 
to compete in intramural 
leagues before the new pol-
icy was announced, Broska 
said. Pushing it back allows 
players to consider their op-
tions with knowledge of the 
new rule. “We had been working 
on ﬁ  guring out a way to 
maintain the balance of al-
lowing non-students to play, 
because we believe in the 
connection to our faculty 
and staff and our alumni,” 
Broska said. 
Jorge Mañach, a 19-year-
old UF wildlife ecology and 
conservation sophomore, 
said he does not see a need 
for change.
“I’ve always played with 
students my age, and hon-
estly don’t recall any time 
I’ve played against a team 
where I could tell the ath-
letes were non-students,” he 
said.
Mañach said he has 
played intramural beach 
volleyball, indoor volleyball 
and ﬂ  ag football.
“If the reasoning for the 
rule change is because old-
er, non-student participants 
are too good or something, 
it just doesn’t seem right,” 
he said. “If they’re afﬁ  liated 
with the university and want 
to play, then they should be 
allowed to.”
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgRecSports to limit non-students on intramural teams
• Goalball
• Three-on-three wheel-
chair basketball
• Cricket
• Billiards
• Pick-up ﬂ  ag football
• Three-on-three basketball
• Four person golf scramble• Bowling
• Cornhole
• Flag football
• Indoor soccer
• Indoor volleyball
• Kickball
• Singles/doubles racquetball
• Softball• Spikeball
• T eam tennis
• Ultimate frisbee
• Whifﬂ  e ball
*Information from UF’s page 
on imleagues.com UF FALL INTRAMURAL SPORTS:EditorialMONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/opinionsColumn
On Oct. 11, we celebrated National 
Coming Out Day. Oh, how happy 
I am to live in a time and place 
where coming out as LGBTQ+ is 
not only tolerated, but something 
to be proud of. 
However, I wonder what it would be 
like if we were to exist in a society in 
which coming out was a thing of the past. 
What would it be like if we were no longer 
defined by our sexuality and rather labeled based 
on our values and intrinsic qualities as human be-
ings? Our worth as a person should never be based 
on our sexual preferences. Is it possible to create a 
world in which we can love whoever we love with-
out being interrogated about our labels? Can we 
undermine the emphasis placed on sexuality and 
accept one another for who they are without caring 
about who they choose to love? I long for a world 
in which this becomes the norm. 
We should aim to move toward a society in 
which labels no longer exist. We could begin by 
eradicating the emphasis placed on specific labels 
and focusing on ourselves as people. It seems coun-
terintuitive to force everyone to label themselves 
upon discovering their sexuality. That is something 
that takes time and effort and is solely the business 
of the person to whom it applies. Examining your 
innermost feelings to determine whether or not 
you’re bisexual, gay, straight, queer or anything 
else is something that can be quite stressful and is no one else’s business than your own. 
It is also important to keep in mind 
that no two people are the same. While 
one person may decide that their sexual-
ity does not define them and choose not 
to label themselves while still embracing 
their sexuality, others may find their sexu-
al orientation to be an integral part of their 
identity and decide to come out publicly. 
Neither of these decisions are incorrect 
in any way. Rather, it is a matter of per-
sonal preference, and we should respect 
the choices of others - especially regarding 
something so intimate. 
On National Coming Out Day, Lin-Manuel Mi-
randa tweeted: “At your pace, on your terms. Your 
happiness and safety are paramount. Sending end-
less love and courage your way.” The “Hamilton” 
playwright wanted to emphasize the importance of 
being safe and to not put yourself at risk to come 
out on a specific holiday. Make sure you are in a 
position in which you will be safe and supported 
before doing so, but you should not lie to yourself 
and others about who you are. You deserve happi-
ness, regardless of what others may think of your 
sexual orientation. They are not you, and no one 
has the right to wield that level of power. 
Someday, in the not too distant future, I believe 
that labels will be a thing of the past. That people 
will be accepted as they are, and that we won’t 
insist that they share every intimate detail of their 
lives, unless, of course, they choose to. 
Happy belated National Coming Out Day. I love 
you all. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English junior.All about coming out
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Photojournalism’s future 
is uncertain in the digital age
Professional photography isn’t dead, it’s just becoming 
less appreciated. Newsrooms across the nation are let-
ting go of their professional photographers in favor of 
less expensive freelancers and amateur photographers. 
Jobs in photography are decreasing, and photojournal-
ists could be replaced by pretty much anyone with a smart-
phone. 
However, it seems like the rest of the news industry isn’t 
doing so great either. 
Newsrooms are simply cutting jobs overall. From 2008 to 
2018, jobs within the news industry were reduced by 25 percent. 
Most of these jobs come from the newspaper sector, and the ma-
jority of them are in the photojournalism department. It makes 
sense with the growing digital age. People don’t really need to 
support print when everything is online. The lack of revenue 
is even affecting things close to home. The Tampa Bay Times 
recently laid off seven of its journalists, one of them being an 
award-winning sports columnist. 
It’s scary to think that no matter how good you are at your job, 
you could still lose it if you don’t get enough shares on Facebook. 
Not to hate on social media, but the increased amount of photo-
sharing apps alongside smartphone upgrades can undermine the 
tools professional photographers use to take great photos.
Today, it seems like anyone can be a photojournalist because 
of rapid advancements in technology. New smartphones with 
“professional” cameras keep popping up on the market, and 
companies only continue to reiterate how progressive they are. 
Take Apple for example. When the iPhone 11 was released, the 
first thing the company mentioned was the new camera. What’s 
one of the biggest differences between the regular 11 and the 
Pro? An extra camera. Companies like Apple make it easy to take 
a decent-looking picture that probably didn’t take much effort to 
capture.
But, this isn’t entirely a bad thing. 
Cameras and editing apps have become more accessible. 
People who would otherwise be unable to record high-resolution 
videos and images are now able to do so with their phones. Les-
lye Davis, a photographer and video journalist for the New York 
Times, is optimistic, believing there are more opportunities avail-
able for photojournalists — especially for women and minorities. 
Although fewer journalists are being sent to photograph 
abroad, more local journalists have been able to tell their own 
stories. Instead of an outside perspective, the internet has al-
lowed us to see through the eyes of the community, and get a 
better understanding of what local people are going through.
If we had to worry about anything, it would have to be the 
quality of photos that are published. According to the American 
Press Institute, around 45 percent of photos published at the 
(Middletown) New York Times Herald were non-professional. 
Professional photographers tend to take more graphically ap-
pealing, intimate and emotional photos, which they are trained to 
do. The American Press also reported the photos captured by pro-
fessionals were more likely to be featured in better places within 
the newspaper. 
People seem to enjoy professional photojournalism, but the 
new way of reporting news doesn’t have much room for it any-
more.
It’s impossible to tell where professional photography will go 
from here, and there is no point in trying to do so. Media is con-
stantly evolving, and photography is no exception. As technology 
progresses, news media evolves with it, but that doesn’t make 
the news any less compelling.
Photojournalism is being passed on to a new generation: ev-
eryday people with a drive to tell stories. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Kelly
Hayes
MANAGING
EDITORTranelle
Maner
MANAGING
EDITORAmanda 
Rosa
EDITORZora
Viel
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Hannah 
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019   ALLIGATOR   7
&
Announces the opening of the following positions
for the SPRING semester:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the Editorial Division and as an unpaid 
member of the Board of Directors
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
&
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors
The applications for these positions are available at the 
Alligator office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday 
through Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until 
Friday, November 1st. L o o k  f o r  t h e  A l l i g a t o r  s i g n  l o c a t e d  i n  
the lobby. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator 
by Tuesday, November 5th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE 
DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors 
will be held via video conference on Friday, November 15th
at 11 a.m. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or 
university students. Preference will be given to those who 
have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator .
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerThe Board of Directors of 
Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:Earlier this month, a controversy started 
brewing over whether Sen. Elizabeth 
Warren lied about being ﬁ  red for be-
ing pregnant. But, does this discussion 
miss the point?
Multiple times on the campaign trail, War-
ren mentioned a personal story where she 
was ﬁ  red from her speech pathologist job 
by the Riverdale Board of Education of New 
Jersey in 1971 because she was pregnant. 
However, on Oct. 7, 2019, the conservative 
Washington Free Beacon published a story alleging that 
Warren’s account was contradicted by minutes from a 
Riverdale Board of Education meeting. According to the 
minutes, on April 21, 1971, the Board voted to extend 
Warren’s teaching contract, and two months later, War-
ren’s resignation was “accepted with regret.” In addi-
tion, a 2007 interview with Warren surfaced in which 
she says she resigned from her job to pursue graduate 
education. In response, Warren and her campaign stood 
by her account, with Warren saying of the 2007 inter-
view that she “opened up more about different pieces in 
my life” after becoming a public ﬁ  gure.
So the obvious question is: Is the Free Beacon right to 
suggest Warren changed her story? Not necessarily. As 
Vox pointed out, when Warren’s contract was extended 
in April, she was only four months along and thus likely 
not visibly pregnant. However, when she was ﬁ  red or 
resigned in June, she would have been visibly pregnant. 
In addition, claiming that she is more comfortable open-
ing up now but not in 2007 seems plausible. In 2007 
she was still working as a professor at Harvard, and she 
may have felt rocking the boat on pregnancy discrimina-
tion would diminish her future job opportunities. Most 
importantly, the minutes presented by the Free Beacon 
were not given context, so it’s hard to know what to make of them without more information.
However, the broader topic I want to dis-
cuss is that the debate over whether War-
ren lied misses the point. Whether she was 
personally a victim of it or not, pregnancy 
discrimination in the workplace is a real phe-
nomenon, and it’s one we need to address. 
According to a New York Times investigation, 
“many of the country’s largest and most pres-
tigious companies still systematically sideline 
pregnant women.” The number of cases ﬁ  led 
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
(EEOC) for pregnancy discrimination is close to an all-
time high, and a study by the University of Massachu-
setts Amherst estimates each child reduces a woman’s 
wages by 4 percent. By contrast, men’s wages go up by 
6 percent after they become a father.
There are valuable discussions to be had about dis-
crimination and societal bias against mothers in the 
workplace, and this is what Warren hoped to stimulate 
by telling her story. But when we make the conversation 
about whether or not Warren was telling the exact truth, 
we lose that purpose and make it into a backdrop for 
partisan bickering. Regardless of the accuracy of War-
ren’s story, we need to combat pregnancy discrimina-
tion. While the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 
does ban this practice, that does not mean it goes away. 
Women who think they are being discriminated against 
based on pregnancy need to ﬁ  le with the EEOC if the law 
is to be enforced. Rigorous enforcement and a national 
conversation on how society views working mothers are 
what we need to solve this problem. 
Debating a presidential candidate’s discrimination 
story accomplishes nothing.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history senior.Pregnancy discrimination is the real issueColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
By Alex DeLuca 
Alligator Staff Writer
A drag queen wearing a rain-
bow-feathered headpiece and 
matching wings walked down Uni-
versity Avenue on stilts, towering 
over spectators and tossing out 
candy.
Residents dressed in T-shirts 
that read, “Y’all means all” danced 
down the street to “Love Shack” by 
The B-52’s alongside Mayor Lauren 
Poe.
The Pride Community Center 
of North Central Florida and its 
co-sponsor, the City of Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Af-
fairs Department, brought more 
than 100 vendors and attracted 
more than a thousand people to its 
Gainesville Pride celebration Satur-day, said Terry Fleming, the Pride 
Community Center co-president. 
Fleming said Gaineville has held 
Pride celebrations since 1992, and 
the Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida has hosted 
the majority of them. 
This year’s turnout was the larg-
est ever, he said. 
Once the parade finished at 
about 12:30 p.m., people gathered 
around the heart of downtown for 
the music and food-filled festival. 
Mayor Poe took the stage on 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza and 
greeted the crowd:
“Good afternoon,
 Gay-nesville!” 
Flags doubled as picnic blan-
kets for people seated around the 
plaza. Lines wrapped around ven-dor’s tents with attendees waiting 
to purchase frozen piña coladas. 
Children played tag and tossed a 
football around on artificial turf. 
Local music acts entertained 
the crowds throughout the day, in-
cluding a soulful performance from 
wife/wife duo, Baer and the Lady. 
Bruno Kirby, a 16-year-old stu-
dent at Gainesville High School 
who is transgender, said to him, 
Pride not only means loving and 
accepting each other, but also ac-
cepting yourself. 
“Before I was on testosterone, 
I came here, and a lot of people 
thought I was a girl,” Kirby said. 
Now that Kirby is on testoster-
one, he feels even more comfort-
able among the Gainesville’s crowd 
of other LGBTQ+ residents and 
their allies.Most of all, he said he wants 
other transgender men to know 
they don’t need to be afraid of who 
they are and that it’s all right.
Though the majority of Gaines-
ville’s Pride culminated this week-
end, the city has been showing 
support for the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity for weeks. On National Com-
ing Out Day, the Gainesville Public 
Works Department debuted three 
rainbow crosswalks, which later 
served as a fun photo-op for Pride 
festival-goers this year. 
Chuck Field, a 60-year-old 
Gainesville resident, came out 
as bisexual last year on National 
Coming Out Day after questioning 
his sexuality for a long time. 
Before he came out, he previ-
ously volunteered at a LGBTQ+ 
prom as a supportive ally. How-ever, Saturday was his first “real” 
Pride event. He said that during 
his coming out journey, he’s come 
to appreciate both his newfound 
community and the allies in his life 
who’ve helped him along the way.
“It’s really important to me is 
that the people who are allies make 
it known they’re allies,” Field said. 
For him, Pride means being 
unafraid to be yourself in front of 
other people. 
He said that while his own com-
ing out story involved little conflict 
because of his accepting family and 
job, he’s come to realize that some 
others aren’t as lucky as him. 
“I remember telling my nephew 
[I am bisexual] and he’s like, ‘Well, 
that’s cool Uncle Chuck,’” Field 
said.
adeluca@alligator.org
@alexldelucaThousands filled the streets in downtown Gainesville for Pride 
The festival included a parade, vendors and musical performances 
Laura San Juan / Contributor 
Mert Koka participates in the Gainesville Pride Parade and Festival at 
Bo Diddley Plaza Saturday. Koka, who works at UF, said this was his 
first pride festival because he comes from a conservative family and 
only recently came out. “I would not have imagined myself doing this 
two years ago, ” Koka said. “Now I am so comfortable and proud. ” 
Allison Veliz / Alligator Staff
Children from the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Gainesville hold a banner while marching in 
the parade on Saturday afternoon.
Allison Veliz / Alligator Staff
Phoenix Midnight, a Burlesque performer, marches in the Pride parade Saturday afternoon on 
University Avenue with the troupe of Dr. Sinn’s Freak Island Musical Sideshow. SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-6-43-1D
Available Immediately. Blocks away from UF 
& shopping. 2BR unit. Rent includes utilities 
& wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call Brenda 
352-672-8657    10-28-19-5-1
Friends don’t let friends be 
driven home by drunk drivers
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $455/mo
Small pet ok. 352-213-3901       1--6-19-43-
2D
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         1-6-19-109-2D
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
1-6-19-43-5D
Gorgeous Lake House. Fish, swim & ski. 
beautful Lake Winnott (near Melrose, FL). 
3br/2ba cement block built in '03. Split floorplan 
w/approx 12'x 42' glassed-in FL room w/heat & 
air Concrete drive, boat ramp, fenced yd.18x31 
enclosed RV/boat barn. Poss owner financing. 
Call for photo & addl info 352-278-4644 Agents 
welcome. 4% commission.11-1-19-6-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
1-6-109-6D
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-19-18-24-10D
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-19-24-10D
Is your professor putting you to sleep? Read 
the Alligator instead!
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.
org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-6-43-12D
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
11-25-19-12-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
1-6-40-13D
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 12 AutosBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
solution  on pg. 10
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gives in to gravity
5 Annoying little 
kids
9 Hunter’s plastic 
duck, e.g.
14 Clear off the road, 
as snow
15 Actress Gilbert of 
“The Conners”
16 Make amends
17 What “Ten-hut!” 
is short for
19 Income __
20 *Do business 
shrewdly
22 Tidy up
23 “__ you kidding?”
24 Off-the-wall
27 Walmart 
warehouse club
28 *Murmur lovingly
32 Muslim mystic
33 Lake near Carson 
City
34 *Basic 
experimentation 
method
39 Sea item sold by 
39-Down, in a 
tongue-twister
40 Say no to
41 *Like a typical 
walking stride
44 Bygone 
Japanese audio 
brand
48 Conclusion
49 Boardroom VIP
50 The Lone __
52 Compromising 
standpoint ... and 
what the answers 
to starred clues 
contain?
55 Deck alternative
58 Belittle
59 17-syllable 
Japanese poem
60 Suffix with major
61 Auth. unknown
62 Desert retreats
63 Monica’s brother 
on “Friends”
64 German thinker 
Immanuel
DOWN
1 Reproduces like 
salmon
2 __ Gibson, first 
African-American 
to win a Grand 
Slam tennis title3 Pep rally cheer
4 Candy and  
such
5 Turkey’s largest 
city
6 Principal
7 Spur to action
8 Beach footwear
9 Job of typing in 
facts and figures
10 List-shortening 
abbr.
11 Courteney who 
played Monica 
on “Friends”
12 Single
13 “By all means!”
18 Phillies’ div.
21 Significant 
stretch of time
24 Twice cuatro
25 Way in
26 Forest female
29 “__ tree falls in 
the forest ... ”
30 High-end 
chocolatier
31 __ es Salaam
32 Lustful
34 At that time
35 Oboe or clarinet
36 Not feeling well
37 __ volente: God 
willing38 Vigorous 
qualities to  
put into  
one’s work
39 See 39-Across
42 Nancy Drew’s 
beau
43 Walk feebly
44 Arctic jacket
45 Exotic lizard kept 
as a pet
46 Was happening
47 Passionate51 Buenos Aires’ 
country: Abbr.
52 Karaoke prop that 
often ends in “c” 
nowadays
53 Jared of “Dallas 
Buyers Club”
54 Tolkien creatures
55 Vietnamese  
soup
56 Small battery
57 “__ the  
season ... ”
By Craig Stowe
©2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/28/19Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/28/19ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 28, 2019
ACROSS
1 Gives in to gravity
5 Annoying little 
kids
9 Hunter’s plastic 
duck, e.g.
14 Clear off the road, 
as snow
15 Actress Gilbert of 
“The Conners”
16 Make amends
17 What “Ten-hut!” 
is short for
19 Income __
20 *Do business 
shrewdly
22 Tidy up
23 “__ you kidding?”
24 Off-the-wall
27 Walmart 
warehouse club
28 *Murmur lovingly
32 Muslim mystic
33 Lake near Carson 
City
34 *Basic 
experimentation 
method
39 Sea item sold by 
39-Down, in a 
tongue-twister
40 Say no to
41 *Like a typical 
walking stride
44 Bygone 
Japanese audio 
brand
48 Conclusion
49 Boardroom VIP
50 The Lone __
52 Compromising 
standpoint ... and 
what the answers 
to starred clues 
contain?
55 Deck alternative
58 Belittle
59 17-syllable 
Japanese poem
60 Suffix with major
61 Auth. unknown
62 Desert retreats
63 Monica’s brother 
on “Friends”
64 German thinker 
Immanuel
DOWN
1 Reproduces like 
salmon
2 __ Gibson, first 
African-American 
to win a Grand 
Slam tennis title3 Pep rally cheer
4 Candy and  
such
5 Turkey’s largest 
city
6 Principal
7 Spur to action
8 Beach footwear
9 Job of typing in 
facts and figures
10 List-shortening 
abbr.
11 Courteney who 
played Monica 
on “Friends”
12 Single
13 “By all means!”
18 Phillies’ div.
21 Significant 
stretch of time
24 Twice cuatro
25 Way in
26 Forest female
29 “__ tree falls in 
the forest ... ”
30 High-end 
chocolatier
31 __ es Salaam
32 Lustful
34 At that time
35 Oboe or clarinet
36 Not feeling well
37 __ volente: God 
willing38 Vigorous 
qualities to  
put into  
one’s work
39 See 39-Across
42 Nancy Drew’s 
beau
43 Walk feebly
44 Arctic jacket
45 Exotic lizard kept 
as a pet
46 Was happening
47 Passionate51 Buenos Aires’ 
country: Abbr.
52 Karaoke prop that 
often ends in “c” 
nowadays
53 Jared of “Dallas 
Buyers Club”
54 Tolkien creatures
55 Vietnamese  
soup
56 Small battery
57 “__ the  
season ... ”
10/26/1910   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity 
of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or in-
vesting money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  1-6-19-43-14D
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-6-19-43-14D
 Drivers needed
for taxi company. 
Contact us at (352)777-9488.       10-28-19-
8-14
Learn tax prep with the experienced team at 
Jackson Hewitt. FREE Online and in-class 
training available now! Hiring in MacClenny, 
Starke, Gainesville, Lake City, and surround -
ing areas! Call us at 904-299-3059 for more 
information.    11-1-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Now Hiring Gymnastics Coaches. 
Awesome kids. Fun, friendly atmosphere. 
Apply now suncountrysports.com/jobs
12-2-19-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-6-
19-43-15D
Losing your rental, pet, or application fee? 
Treated unfairly in your contract? Longtime 
Alachua County business will fight to get 
your deposit back. FREE CONSULTATION. 
Only $99 for action on your claim. Call 305-
850-9959    11-18-30-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-7-19-111-16D
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your 
true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
1-6-109-21D
Check out DR. CHALMERS' OFFICE - 
the new short story by Terry Hensley - on 
Amazon. A surreal comedy (with just a touch 
of spookiness for Halloween). Original mu-
sic too ("Terry Hensley - topic"). Interview on 
CollegeUndergroundRadio.com.    11-4-19-
5-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 18 Personals
1. Alex Rodriguez and Ken Griffey 
Jr., both drafted by the Seattle Mari-
ners, combined to hit 1,326 major-
league home runs. How many of them 
came as a member of the Mariners?
2. Entering 2019, the New York Yan-
kees held the record for most World 
Series games won (139). Which team 
was second?
3. When was the last time before 
2018 that the Kentucky Wildcats foot-
ball team was ranked in The Associat-
ed Press Top 25 Poll?
4. The Orlando Magic have had the 
No. 1 overall pick in the NBA Draft 
three times. Name the players they 
drafted.
5. In 2019, Jeff Blashill became the 
winningest U.S. coach in the history 
of the top division of the Ice Hockey 
World Championship (19 wins). Who 
had held the mark?
6. Driver Lewis Hamilton set a 
record in 2019 by winning his sixth 
British Grand Prix. Name either driv-
er who is second with five wins.
7. How many times have tennis stars 
Serena Williams and Maria Sharapo-
va met in a Grand Slam final?
Answers
1. Rodriguez (189 home runs) and 
Griffey Jr. (417) combined to hit 606 
homers for the Mariners.
2. The St. Louis Cardinals, with 58.
3. It was 2007.
4. Shaquille O’Neal (1992), Chris 
Webber (1993) and Dwight Howard 
(2004).
5. Tim Taylor (1989-1993) had 17 
victories in the top division.
6. Alain Prost and Jim Clark.
7. Four times, with Serena Williams 
winning three of them.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
October 28, 2019King Features Weekly Service
answers below1. Alex Rodriguez and Ken Griffey 
Jr., both drafted by the Seattle Mari-
ners, combined to hit 1,326 major-
league home runs. How many of them 
came as a member of the Mariners?
2. Entering 2019, the New York Yan-
kees held the record for most World 
Series games won (139). Which team 
was second?
3. When was the last time before 
2018 that the Kentucky Wildcats foot-
ball team was ranked in The Associat-
ed Press Top 25 Poll?
4. The Orlando Magic have had the 
No. 1 overall pick in the NBA Draft 
three times. Name the players they 
drafted.
5. In 2019, Jeff Blashill became the 
winningest U.S. coach in the history 
of the top division of the Ice Hockey 
World Championship (19 wins). Who 
had held the mark?
6. Driver Lewis Hamilton set a 
record in 2019 by winning his sixth 
British Grand Prix. Name either driv-
er who is second with five wins.
7. How many times have tennis stars 
Serena Williams and Maria Sharapo-
va met in a Grand Slam final?
Answers
1. Rodriguez (189 home runs) and 
Griffey Jr. (417) combined to hit 606 
homers for the Mariners.
2. The St. Louis Cardinals, with 58.
3. It was 2007.
4. Shaquille O’Neal (1992), Chris 
Webber (1993) and Dwight Howard 
(2004).
5. Tim Taylor (1989-1993) had 17 
victories in the top division.
6. Alain Prost and Jim Clark.
7. Four times, with Serena Williams 
winning three of them.
© 2019 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
October 28, 2019King Features Weekly ServiceSPORTS QUIZ answers
1.  Balanced
1.  Step-____5.  Barn bedding
2.  Delta or United6.  Mad
3.  Valley, basin7.  Seller
4.  Pop upBEASTL
SETSRIWASRT
AREIT
INEILAR
ADLLWONDRONEV
REAPAPANSWERS: 1A-Stable  5A-Straw  6A-Irate  7A-Vendor
1D-Sister  2D-Airline  3D-Lowland  4D-Appear  B-Ottawa10-28-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All R ights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This city’s name comes from the 
Algonquin word for “trade.”
BONUSanswers below answers1.  Balanced
1.  Step-____5.  Barn bedding
2.  Delta or United6.  Ma d
3.  Valley, basin7.  Seller
4.  Pop upBEASTL
SETSRIWASRT
AREIT
INEILAR
ADLLWONDRONEV
REAPAPANSWERS: 1A-Stable  5A-Straw  6A-Irate  7A-Vendor
1D-Sister  2D-Airline  3D-Lowland  4D-Appear  B-Ottawa10-28-19
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All R ights Reserved.2019 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoyt@HoytInteractiveMedia.comJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This city’s name comes from the 
Algonquin word for “trade.”
BONUS
JUMBLE answers
CryptoQuote solution
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
www.alligator.org/sports
SEC Nation heading to Jacksonville
The SEC Network's Saturday-morning college football show will be at the 
annual Florida-Georgia football game in Jacksonville this weekend. More 
details about the event will be released this week. It will mark UF's 17th ap-
pearance on the show.Golfer Lauren Waidner tied for 
ﬁ  fth competing as an individual 
at the Pat Bradley Invitational 
last week, her best collegiate 
performance. She was 3 under 
in her ﬁ  rst outing of the season.
FOOTBALL
VOLLEYBALL
Florida's depth shines in win
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer 
Last week, it was LSU’s Taylor Bannister 
who had her way against Florida’s defense. 
On Sunday, it was Tennessee's Tessa 
Grubbs who took over the game. 
Both times, UF had enough depth to coun-
ter only one strong player.
Four Gators had double-digit kills in the 
victory (25-18, 25-20, 20-25, 25-17) over the 
Volunteers, despite Grubbs’ 22 kills. 
“Every team has a go-to player, and the 
best teams in the league have multiple go-to 
players,” coach Mary Wise said on Thursday. 
“There will be nights where we feel we may 
not be able to contain this talent because she’s 
going to get hers, but can we keep her team-
mates from having career nights?”
The Volunteers only had 34 kills on 113 
swings with 14 errors (.177 hitting percent-
age) aside from Grubbs. 
It was also Florida’s sixth-straight win and 
15th in its last 16. 
Outside hitter Paige Hammons led the way 
offensively with 15 kills. Setter Marlie Mon-
serez amassed 42 assists and tied libero Allie 
Gregory for the team high in digs (18). 
“It makes my job easier because everyone 
just wants the ball, everyone wants to put it 
down,” Monserez said. “I just have faith (in) 
everyone on the court that no matter who I 
give it to, they can put the ball down.”
Sunday’s ﬁ  rst set resembled a Big 12 foot-
ball game more than an SEC volleyball match. 
The defenses were mostly absent, and both 
offenses took turns scoring. The Gators (17-3, 
8-1 SEC) registered kills on over half of their 
swings in the opening set for the second-
straight match. It was a back-and-forth set until a kill from 
Florida middle blocker Rachael Kramer gave 
the Gators a 15-13 lead. UF proceeded to out-
score the Volunteers 10-5 to win the set 25-18, 
despite Tennessee (9-11, 3-7 SEC) hitting .294 
in the frame. 
Florida’s offense fell back down to earth in 
the second set. Both teams registered the same 
number of kills (13), but Florida’s offense was 
more efﬁ  cient. Kramer and Hammons com-
bined for eight kills in the second set to lift 
Florida over the Volunteers in the frame. 
The Gators were a mess defensively in 
the third set, and Tennessee took advantage. 
The Vols took ﬁ  ve of the ﬁ  rst six points of the 
set, and Florida never recovered from it. The 
Gators attempted to make a comeback bid and 
reduced the lead to three, but it wasn’t enough 
to prevent the Volunteers from taking the set. 
Eight of Grubbs’ kills in the match came 
in the third set, and the Gators couldn’t keep 
up, snapping a 12-set win streak with the 25-
20 loss. 
UF rebounded in the fourth set and jumped 
out to a 7-0 lead. Tennessee never came close 
to staging a comeback in the 25-17 victory. 
Grubbs still scored six kills, but the rest of the 
team had one more kill (ﬁ  ve) than it did attack 
errors (four) on 27 swings. 
There will be little rest for the Gators, 
as they travel to face No. 25 Missouri on 
Wednesday.
“With so much volleyball still left ahead, 
what hasn’t changed, no matter the record is, 
we’re just trying to be better from the match 
before,” Wise said. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgChris King / Alligator Staff
Defensive tackle Jabari Zuniga (92) is expected to return from injury this week.
Journalism is crying out for help
 I’ve always wondered what 
it would be like for the av-
erage citizen if they didn't 
know the news of the day.
What would happen 
if journalists across the globe 
stopped their work for a full 
24-hour cycle?
Would people ﬁ  nally get it? 
Would they ﬁ  nally understand 
why a free press isn’t and 
shouldn’t be free? Would people ﬁ  nally 
hear the resounding click of their inner 
light bulb?
It’s the same thought I had Thursday 
afternoon, casually scrolling through 
Twitter and ﬁ  nding out my hometown 
newspaper, The Tampa Bay Times, went 
through another round of layoffs, losing 
seven more dedicated staff members after 
going through a round of layoffs in August 
of 2018, losing 50 employees company 
wide, according to a story by the Poynter 
Institute.
Just a few weeks ago, the beloved-by-
many Sports Illustrated laid off 35 to 40 
percent of its editorial staff, according to a 
story by The Washington Post.
And they’re not the only publications 
going through the hardships of this indus-
try we love so much.
One by one, reputable media outlets 
across our country are losing quality jour-
nalists for the sake of meeting the bottom 
line, a means to a necessary end. 
Advertisers aren’t as interested in 
shelling out hundreds — sometimes thou-sands — of dollars for an ad 
in print papers because they 
know a portion of their audi-
ence doesn’t pay attention to 
newspaper boxes anymore.
Avid readers got used to 
the free work that many pub-
lications gave away for too 
long before the sites started 
using paywalls to help sub-
sidize the quality stories they 
were putting out. Even now, it’s hard to 
get people to spend the bare minimum 
(maybe a couple of drinks from Starbucks’ 
worth) for that quality work.
My Twitter feed is ﬂ  ooded with jour-
nalists asking their followers to subscribe 
to local publications. The same publica-
tions that pay attention to the little de-
tails in their communities that syndicated 
newspapers like The New York Times and 
The Washington Post can’t. A small rural 
town in the middle of nowhere or a larger 
metropolitan area on the rise are not nec-
essarily points of national interest.
These publications need our support 
now more than ever. And we can’t afford 
for this to happen much longer.
Everyone likes to call themselves a 
journalist nowadays, but the fact of the 
matter is that it’s hard to replicate what 
my colleagues and I do on a daily basis.
So here’s our cry for help, for support. 
Our cry to continue the storytelling that 
we love most and carry it on for you, the 
reader. The people we have wanted to 
serve all along.The More the Mari-er
Mari Faiello
Twitter: @faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgBy Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer 
Dramatic endings, top-
10 upsets and championship 
dreams busted. All Florida 
had to do was sit and watch.
The Week 9 bye came at 
the perfect time for the No. 6 
Gators. After two top-10 op-
ponents in Auburn and LSU 
and a road conference game 
against South Carolina, UF 
has had some time to rest and 
recuperate in preparation for 
the ﬁ  nal four games of the 
regular season.
Its ﬁ  rst opponent: No. 8 
Georgia for the annual rivalry 
bout in Jacksonville. A big 
game that may decide who 
will represent the East in the SEC Championship in Atlan-
ta, one that Florida should be 
near full strength for.
Coach Dan Mullen an-
nounced earlier in the week 
that edge rusher Jonathan 
Greenard and defensive tack-
le Jabari Zuniga will be ready 
to go for game time against 
the Bulldogs after missing the 
past two games with injuries. 
With their return, Florida re-
stores 39 tackles, seven sacks 
and an interception to the de-
fense.
The run game will espe-
cially beneﬁ  t from the duo’s 
return. In its absence, the 
defense conceded 435 total 
yards on the ground and ﬁ  ve 
touchdowns.
Greenard and Zuniga will also be a welcomed replenish-
ment to the pass rush against 
possibly the best offensive 
line in the country.
The UGA offensive line 
has allowed just four sacks on 
200 dropbacks, tied for ﬁ  rst 
in the country, and its push 
at the line of scrimmage is a 
big reason for Georgia’s con-
ference-leading 236.9 rushing 
yards per game.
“When you look at them, 
they’re really big, really phys-
ical, they can push the pile, 
they can move the point of at-
tack, they play with a little bit 
of attitude,” Defensive Coor-
dinator Todd Grantham said.
The Great Wall of Athens The Gators are getting healthy at the right time 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1212  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019
Pain removal at once.
40% off. Opening Promotion
(352)283-3637  |  oneacu.comBack, Neck, Shoulders, Knees, etc.
Q Acupuncture & Herb Clinic
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
SOCCER
By Bryan Matamoros
Sports Writer 
Julia Lester has been a mainstay 
in Florida’s defense over the past 
four years. Her fearlessness and ag-
gressiveness have made the senior 
indispensable to the team’s back 
line.
But it was Lester’s offensive tal-
ent that was on display against No. 
8 South Carolina on Senior Day. The 
5-foot-4 defender, who hadn’t regis-
tered a point since her sophomore 
season, provided forward Deanne 
Rose an assist in the 69th minute to 
help secure a 1-1 draw for the No. 
20 Gators on Sunday afternoon.
“Honestly, it was surreal to have 
everyone run up to me. I wasn’t 
expecting it because usually we al-
ways run to the person that scored,” 
Lester said. “For it to be Senior Day, 
and to get that, it felt like something 
I really can’t explain.”
Florida (10-6-1, 6-2-1 SEC) came 
close to scoring in the second min-
ute, as forwards Madison Alexan-
der and Kouri Peace weaved their 
way around South Carolina’s (12-
1-3, 6-0-3 SEC) defense. Alexander 
placed a through ball for Peace, who was met by Gamecocks goalie 
Mikayla Krzeczowski inside the 18-
yard box. Both Peace and Krzec-
zowski collided with one another, 
causing the ball to ricochet and 
slowly roll toward the net before a 
South Carolina defender cleared the 
danger.
The bang-bang play, however, 
came at a cost for the Gamecocks.
Krzeczowski stayed on the 
ground for several minutes after the 
clash with Peace, as the two-time 
All-SEC First Team goalie writhed in 
pain with trainers hovering around 
her. She remained in the game but 
was hindered by a limp.
Peace and Krzeczowski met 
again in the 46th minute. This time, 
Krzeczowski made an acrobatic 
save on Peace’s shot, tapping the 
ball over the crossbar with her right 
hand to keep the contest at a stale-
mate.
The Gators ﬁ  nally got the best of 
South Carolina’s all-time leader in 
shutouts with a strike from Rose in 
the 69th minute for her ﬁ  fth goal of 
the season and ﬁ  rst since Sept. 26, 
when UF defeated Missouri 3-2.
Florida maintained the lead for 
just 14 minutes, until the Game-cocks responded with a goal from 
forward Riley Tanner in the 83rd 
minute that grazed the ﬁ  ngertips of 
Gators goalie Susi Espinoza.
With the game tied at the end 
of regulation, the conference battle 
went into extra time.
UF and South Carolina had two 
10-minute halves to score the game-
winning goal, but Espinoza and 
Krzeczowski made one and three 
saves, respectively, to preserve the 
draw for their teams.
Coach Becky Burleigh men-
tioned that her team was not con-
tent with the tie despite salvaging a 
point against one of the best teams 
in the nation.
“Eventually we have to move 
on, but I think it is a good thing,” 
she said. “The mentality that our 
team had to just go after it...and 
not be satisﬁ  ed with the tie, I think 
that’s something that we’ll carry 
with us as we go through the rest of 
the season.”
@bryan_2712
bmatamoros@alligator.orgFlorida ties South Carolina in Senior Day conference battle
Margaret Dotson / Alligator Staff
Senior defender Julia Lester — who hadn't recorded a point since 
her sophomore year — earned the assist on UF's only goal of the tie.
is anchored by junior left tackle Andrew Thomas. The 
320-pound lineman is considered a premier left tackle and 
touted as a sure-ﬁ  re ﬁ  rst-round pick in the 2020 NFL Draft. 
He’s started all seven games this season and was named 
to the midseason All-America team by Sporting News on 
Oct. 16. His combination of size, strength, athleticism and 
technique make him a nightmare for any edge rusher to 
deal with.
But, like Florida, the Bulldogs have also seen their fair 
share of injury problems. Starting tackle Isaiah Wilson, 
who plays opposite Thomas, has been battling a leg injury 
for most of the season, forcing sophomore Cade Mays to shift between right guard and tackle all year. With Green-
ard and Zuniga back, UF needs to take advantage of any 
mismatches on the line.
“I think any time you get guys that are playmakers 
and guys that affect the game, both the run and the pass, 
that can win one-on-one blocks, it’s going to excite you,” 
Grantham said.
Florida will also get a much-needed boost on offense; 
Mullen said that speedy wide receiver Kadarius Toney 
will make his return this week. Toney went down with 
a shoulder injury in the home opener against UT-Martin.
Florida should beneﬁ  t from his big-play ability, seen in 
the ﬁ  rst game of the season against Miami, when he took 
a screen 66 yards for a touchdown.Though Week 9 saw three top-10 teams lose, UF still 
needs to win out if it hopes to have a shot at the College 
Football Playoff, and getting healthy before possibly the 
biggest game of the year is a good ﬁ  rst step.
“It’s really exciting. I think that’s what you come here 
to Florida for,” safety Donovan Stiner said. “We’ve been 
having a lot of big games, so it’s another one coming up, 
and it’s everything for the East.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 11Toney, Zuniga, Greenard all expected to return vs. Bulldogs